[Music] Hey. Hey. [Music] Hey. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. Heat. [Music] Good evening, good day everybody. And uh I hope everybody is doing well. I hope wherever you are you're doing great and we have a lot to discuss today, don't we? Uh so I'm going to take questions from the live chat today. So much has changed and so much is changing and it's happening so fast that there's no point me taking questions from the comments. I'm going to take it all live today like yesterday. Now before I do that, let me see who all is there very briefly. I can see Rahul, Axhat, Draj, Wamshi, Vinup, um Rigindorj, Shivakumar, um who else do we have? Prat Vindar Menis Rajir Parush Paroo Gupta Anand Chandak Manugawa Nishant Joun Ma Vines Venu Gopal VR Mah Babu Mahtra Abishek Kapoor nearby Takar Siddik Shhati online Shik Vikram Chandra Abin Aurora Arin Patel Sid Tjas Arindam Das health lifestyle knowledge Ashwarya Gautami Ashwaryia is disappointed reef dragon slayer I understand why Priyanku arav chasia navin kumar jay dikshit nakul dakshwara rashmi dungar singh jawan shiva rajutar kalpuri and so many other people I will not be able to greet you all vidi is there lost child and everybody else all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right let's get into the questions I know what questions could be there and maybe there'll be something that something that will surprise us but let's see okay so what's happened before I take the questions what has happened war was going on Pakistan was on its knees Pakistan was devastated we had completely suppressed the air defenses of Pakistan suppression of enemy air defenses se A we had achieved it we were hitting we were striking them at will wherever we We had gouged out gigantic craters on their air force and um the runways. We were hitting them where wherever we wanted them, right? And they were begging for mercy, the Pakistanis. And then what happens? There's a tweet by Donald J. Trump saying that now there's a full and whatever ceasefire. And then Dr. J. Shanker tweets that we have agreed to a what cessation of of activity or something. What? Okay. whatever it is it it is that he said. So that sort of thing. So he did not use the term ceasefire Dr. J. Shankar which is an interesting nuance when it comes to uh when it comes to diplomacy. So he says that India and okay let me put that on the screen so that everybody can see this is Dr. SJ Shankr. Uh you can see my actual Twitter account here. So Dr. ization. India and Pakistan have today worked out an understanding on stoppage of firing and military action. India has consistently maintained a firm and uncompromising stand all that stuff that that we know. We will continue to do that. So we have today worked out an understanding on stoppage of firing and military action right and you can see people are not happy about this and what have I said. So this is the tweet by Donald Trump. After a long night of talks mediated by the United States, I am pleased to announce that India and Pakistan have agreed to a full and immediate ceasefire. Congratulations to both countries on using common sense and great intelligence. Thank you for your attention to this matter. very dismissive, very brusk and and and and and it kind of hyphenates once again India and Pakistan and he's trying to portray himself present himself as the great hero of the matter and we India and Pakistan are like errant school boys who are fighting and Trump the headmaster has come in and he has stopped the fight right so what did I tweet in response I I said what are the ceasefire terms for a viable peace Pakistan must first of all verifiably destroy its terror infrastructure and eliminate all terrorists within or outside the ISI military complex within a set time frame which we should decide. Second, they should hand over all wanted terrorists to India immediately. Third, US and its vasals must demonstraably stop funding Pakistani terrorists immediately, terrorism immediately. Fourth, hand over Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Fifth, free Baljasthan Sindu, hand over Kaibar Paktunwa to Afghanistan. that we can we can use that these terms as a starting point for a ceasefire uh clearly that's not going to be the terms right and uh apparently firing is going on in Akno and other places now if firing is going on where's the ceasefire is my question right and that's that's where we are right now so that is the situation now we're going to discuss that we're going to discuss uh what happens going forward so let me take questions and I'm sure everything will be covered during that. So now Suraj Kumar Suraj says uh why does this orange opportunist full of hypocrisy want to portray himself as the ultimate negotiator and mediator of peace? Because he is Trump. He is Donald J. Trump and we know how he is. is the this big egoistic guy with a huge ego and he is the head of the most powerful nation in the known universe unfortunately right so we have been shown the mirror right now we as in India you're powerful yeah good job you brought Pakistan to its knees you shocked the world with the incredible performance of your air defenses Incredible. I was shocked. Okay, I am not easy to impress me. I was shocked at the e efficacy of our air defenses. Hats off to our engineers, scientists and RB people who are the operators. So, we shocked the world with the efficacy of our air defenses. How we were able to bring everything down and so on. And yet, we've been able to do all this. But Mr. Trump comes in. So we the the power disparity between India and Pakistan is glaringly obvious. We could hit them at will. They could not hit us no matter what they tried. Yeah, they hit a few civilian areas and all but uh and that's what happens in war. People please understand this. There is no war in which you don't take any absorb any hits. You have to be prepared as a nation if you want to be great and if you want to win wars, you have to be prepared to absorb some pain and losses. But you have to the objective is to of of war is to achieve your political objectives your geopolitical objectives. And the question obviously is we're going to discuss is have we achieved our objectives? We're going to discuss this today. So why did Trump come in? Because he is this great great man apparently according to himself full of himself huge ego. He thinks he's the greatest negotiator, best negotiator in the world and he has the might of the US uh empire behind him. So the power differential between India and Pakistan is glaring, obvious, huge. We could have finished them if you wanted the next 48 hours. But Trump comes in the way. And what does it tell you my Indian friends, all my friends? It tells you there is a gigantic power differential between the US and US. So let's not get emotional. First of all, I don't think the story is over. Okay, please understand the story is not over. But I would recommend to all of you is I would recommend that please analyze what's happening dispassionately without resorting to emotional to emotions. Emotions are there. Set them aside and think about what's happened. We have to accept the reality first of all that we are nothing compared to the US in terms of power. If the US arm twists us, we're going to have to do what they say. What leverage does the US have over us? What leverage does US have over us? Right now, we are uh negotiating a trade and and tariffs and all that agreement with the Americans. The negotiations are in progress right now. They're in process right now. Okay. Trump had imposed big big tariffs on us including and not just on us and on the whole world. And then he gave us 90 days to negotiate. And we said we want to negotiate. Let's let's find a you know a mutually beneficial way uh mutually beneficial solution or agreement to this trade and tariff matter. So we are negotiating that. So look one leverage they have over us is this. If you don't agree to a ceasefire immediately I'm going to impose 145% tariffs on you immediately. What could we do about that? That will destroy our economy. Right? We want to be the next China. We want all the Chinese manufacturing to move to India. So we have to give Mr. Trump his win. Okay sir, you want this? Here you have it. We will we will agree to your ceasefire. The question is how long will the ceasefire last? Do you think the Pakistanis are capable of uh honoring a ceasefire? You think they won't be firing across the border? Mhm. And we have made one extremely important doctrinal modification, doctrinal change today and the Americans have accepted this and the change is this that going forward from today onwards from today onwards any act of terror will be treated as an act of war by us. So if there is any terror strike anywhere in India, we going to treat it as a declaration of war by Pakistan and then we're back to square one. And if there's any ceasefire violation by Pakistan, the so-called ceile that's that's in force now. If there's a single bullet that comes across the border, it's back to square one. So please understand folks, I understand the the sense of disappointment, but let's let's wait and watch. Let's wait and watch. So Trump of course look it's not easy to be hypocrite. You have to be powerful to be hypocrite. You have to earn being a hypocrite. So only powerful nations uh have the right and privilege of being hypocrites. So don't be upset about this hypocrisy. Obviously it's hypocrisy. Don't be upset. Learn. We want to in the future be in a position where we can display similar hypocrisy to them. Double standards. What applies to me doesn't apply to you. I will hold you to different standards than me. I'll do this but you can't do that. That's where that's when you can do that. That's where you're really powerful. That that shows that you've arrived. So um that's the deal. So that's the thing about Trump. Now let's see some more questions. Abage says is this Chanakini or Prataj syndrome? Why did why did he not stop the Russia Ukraine war? Look, yeah. Yeah. Good question. Good questions. Trump had promised, didn't didn't he didn't he promised this? That the moment I come to power as the US president, within 24 hours, I'm going to end the Russia Ukraine war. He had promised that. Has he succeeded? Trump has failed miserably at this because Russia is a whole different beast and he can't arm twist Putin. He has no leverage over Putin. Now please understand folks, we are not Russia. They have a lot of leverage over us. So is this Chanakiriti or Pritaj syndrome that we have this enemy on his knees but we let him go. We haven't let him go yet. Understand? So this is being pragmatic. This is like you know okay let's not let's let's give them let's give Trump a win for now for the next 24 to 48 hours maybe 72 hours. maybe one week the damage we have caused to Pakistan's military infrastructure terror infrastructure the Pakistanis can they can repair that right they can rebuild the terror factories they will hide the terrorists whoever is whoever are alive still obviously most of them are alive um they will repair their runways they will repair their airports they will get new air defense systems from from the US perhaps from China perhaps probably not the US otherwise it will not work for the in India but maybe they'll get something from China maybe something from Turkey the Turk the Turks have been flying planes full of drones to Pakistan the last 2 three days huh they have been replenishing Pakistan's drone supplies the Turks when there were earthquakes in Turkey we we sent free medical assistance and we sent personnel to help people to help pull people out of rubble right and what did have the Turks given us in return a betrayal remember these people don't forget Forget Indians love forgetting things. Indians have a very short memory. Indians don't have any sense of history. Unfortunately, today you know what the west says Indians don't have a sense of history. It's true today. It wasn't true in the past. It's true today because of the education system. So we don't go into that. Don't forget the matter of Turkey. Now is this Pritiad syndrome? Pritiad syndrome would would be in would be the case if there was no uh US factor in this ceasefire. If we had unilaterally given up at this point without any pressure from the US then it would be prit prir syndrome because prituj let the terrorists go once or twice on his own without anybody pressurizing him that is pritu syndrome this is not prati syndrome this is a much more powerful nation the world's most powerful nation pressurizing us not Pakistan they're pressurizing us so this is being practical and pragmatic and taking a step back for now I would say it is more chanaki niti than pira syndrome but it will it will be right to call it chanakiti in retrospect given what happens over the next two weeks if the ceasefire actually holds the next two weeks then Pakistan will be able to bounce back then it is well then it is not chanakini chanakini means sometimes you make compromises take a step back give the big guy a win and then you go back that sort of thing so Trump could not stop the Russia Ukraine war because He has no leverage over Putin but over us he can arm twist us. So we have stepped back for now. For now. All right. Uh let's see some other questions. Uh what do we have? Um Aritra says park we want to stop India. Donald Heisen say my name. Yeah I know I know I know I know right. So now Alicia Alisha says IMF has given money to Pakistan. Why if they have already washed their off their hands from Pakistan? Well, this is a good question here. Good question here. So, the IMF has announced some kind of aid package to Pakistan some some yeah some bailout for them. I don't know how many billion dollars maybe one or two or three billion dollars. Not a lot of money but yeah it will keep Pakistan afloat. Now who runs the IMF? It's the West that runs the IMF. What's the bigger biggest power behind the IMF? It's the United States, right? It's the United States. So if the United States wants wants India on its side when it comes to the China matter, they are trying to isolate China. Then why are they doing this? Because they want to have some leverage over India. As long as Pakistan keeps on existing and being an absolute nuisance to deal with for India, as long as that situation exists, Pakist Pakistan breaks up tomorrow, then the US then those countries that emerge out of the disintegration of Pakistan which is Balojasthan, Sindluesh, Khibar, Paktunwa and so on P which comes back then India will have leverage over that region. They won't have any leverage over us or the region and they won't have any leverage over us and even the Chinese leverage over P etc will disappear that will be a huge win for India that will make India much more confident and stronger the US doesn't want that the US wants India where it is right now understand this okay so they are okay with us humiliating Pakistan but not too far not too much they don't want us to completely defeat you know the final defeat to Pakistan So that's why they have come in the way the Americans and you have to understand the American track record. Please do not forget America's track record. Indians and the rest of the world should also know this. I'm sure there are people from outside outside of India who are watching. What's the American track record? Let me give you a brief history lesson. Let's go back to 1947. In 1947, Pakistan was cut out of Indian territory. carved out of Indian territory by the British with the involvement of our so-called freedom fighters some of some our so-called leaders who were all British stooges okay the partition of India was not done democratically there was no referendum the people of India were not asked to choose whether we want to give away our territory or not it was done completely undemocratically and illegitimately so it was done the partition of India and the creation of Pakistan was done to serve British geopolitical interests in the Indian subcontinent region and the in the larger geographical region especially the Persian Gulf and so on. So the British did that to serve their interests not to help us. Then in 1956 the UK became a second rate or third rate world power after the the their humiliation in the Suez crisis. Then the Americans took over the Baton passed this the the center of power moved from London UK to Washington DC. It actually more or less started the process started in 1944 455 but by 56 it was a feta complete it was done. So the US becomes the becomes you know it it takes over the reigns of the superpower in the entire structure and then in 1979 the USSR invades Afghanistan and then Pakistan offers its services to the US that we'll be your vasal give us your dollars we give us your dollars and teach us how to fight. So the Americans teach Pakistan new things. What do they teach Pakistan? What did the US teach Pakistan? They taught Pakistan what they had been implementing in South America etc. What the CIA had been implementing there? Reign of terror over the people. Terrorism tactics, how to use non-state actors with plausible deni deniability to further your state agenda. So they used the mujahedin to fight the USSR and the USSR was already crumbling in a in some way and by the end of the 1980s the USSR withdrew. So while this was happening in 1979 onwards Pakistan was a wash in US dollars. The Americans gave them whatever they wanted arms, ammunition, greenbacks, US dollars and complete blanch to do whatever you want. will not will not bother. You want to do human rights violations, you want to do anything, we don't care. Just as long as you do what we say in Afghanistan, elsewhere, it works. So then the Pakistanis obviously the Pakistani establishment sees India as the great enemy. They want to destroy India. That's that's the great dream, right? So they started funneling all that terror infrastructure and machinery and the sharp edge of that into first Punjab, then Kashmir. By 1989, hundreds of thousands of Kashmir Hindus were were evicted. Many of them were killed. Right? All of this was done with US financing and funding. And the US knew exactly what the Pakistanis were doing and they were okay with that. In the 1990s when I was a kid, India used to complain to the US. You know, we used to go with representations to the US and say that see Pakistan is doing terrorism against us. And the Americans would say what are you talking about? This is a law and order issue and you are not able to handle law and order issues in your country. Shame on you. And they knew exactly what the Pakistanis were doing because they had taught the Pakistanis how to create terror networks and unleash that on on other countries. And they were funding and financing all of this and they were giving all the arms and ammunition. They were okay with terrorism against India. This continued until at least 2008 with the Mumbai attacks. Things may have changed to a certain extent. And who was the mastermind of the Mumbai attacks? Who was it? It was an American citizen. Not a Pakistani. It was a US citizen. David Coleman Headley, he's in prison in the US, right? India and the US have an extradition treaty and he this guy, this terrorist, this American citizen is wanted, this American terrorist is wanted by India but they refuse to hand him over despite having an extradition treaty because they have something to hide. So the Americans are not our friends. Okay, this is um whatever arrangement or relationship we have with them, it is it is not a long-lasting thing. It is something that is u that has come out of uh mutual convenience. It's because we have a mutual enemy. They have no love for India. They have bled India in the past and they have more love for Pakistan than than for India because Pakistan is culturally more like them a monotheistic culture people of the book we are polytheists we are heathens we are pagans in in their terminology so please understand Pakistan is still valuable to the US India is more valuable but they don't want Pakistan to completely completely disintegrate that is the deal we understand this if there is any friend that we have geopolitically in the world Today the closest we have to a friend today is Russia. Okay. But it we want to be we want to have good relations with everybody. We want to work with everyone. We are we as a nation for whatever reason because of of the two and a half centuries of British occupation we are very comfortable with western culture with Anglo-Saxon culture. So we know how to deal with them. We know better how to deal with them today than 20 years ago. So we are dealing with everybody and this is the process. But when it comes to this ceasefire matter, I say let's wait and watch. Let's wait and watch. Um, Shah says historic blunder. We disagree with Modi government decision. Please, please be a little patient. If the ceasefire holds and Pakistan gets to bounce back, then it's a disaster. It's not a victory for India. And already I I'll tell you if you go to Twitter, if you go to the western media, they will already be hard at work trying to paint this as a Pakistani victory that India was made India was forced to back off by Pakistan and India was not strong enough to defeat Pakistan and finish Pakistan and Pakistan has been able to withstand the Indian assault and Pakistan is resilient and next time we will defeat India. That's the narrative that will be spun immediately. That process has already started. So if the ceasefire holds and in the next one or two weeks to one or two months to 3 months or 6 months if Pakistan is able to bounce back, rebuild its infrastructure and all that then essentially what we have done in the past 72 hours this incredible military uh performance it's going to count for nothing. So let's wait and watch what happens next next few days next I think 24 to 48 to 78 hours I think 72 hours I think things will change things are very likely to change says has India lost the golden opportunity not yet not yet I think we still have one week in which to in which to make further progress on the matter we still it's it's not gone the opportunity is not gone we have 7 to 10 days. If if nothing happens militarily in the next 7 to 10 days, then we are losing the opportunity. Right now we have a golden opportunity. An opportunity that comes once in 80 years. The opportunity to end this threat once and for all. What's you know what's the objective of war? The objective of war is to do what you can't do diplomatically. It's to achieve your the the achieve what is required in the in in in the pursuit of your national interests through non-diplomatic means. So it's it's about national interest. It's about achieving your objectives and goals and it's about removing threats. We have been saddled with this permanent cancer, this permanent threat Pakistan on our western border. And as long as it exists, it's going to be a threat for us. If we let it go now, in 6 months they'll be back. Then they'll be claiming victory from today onwards that we won. We we stopped India from defeating us. We have been resilient. And then in 6 months, 1 year, whenever, whatever, they make emerge even stronger with Chinese help or whatever. This is the opportunity that we have today. Today we have got them exactly where we want them. They are on their knees. Their air defenses have been wiped out. Their airports are inoperational. Their F-16s can't take off or land. They are humiliated. The people of Pakistan have seen the importance of the Pakistan military. Sinduh can rise. Balojasthan is already trying to rise. Taliban will be waiting and watching. Give us an opportunity. We'll take back Kyber Pakula. So we have this opportunity once in 80 years. I have said this many times. I think Prime Minister Modi is probably the greatest prime minister we've ever ever had. And Mr. Modi obviously to be to be a great leader, you must be an ambitious leader. And you must have ambitions for the greatness of your country. not personal ambitions but ambitions for the greatness and progress of your country. And Mr. Modi has the opportunity that no prime minister has had since 1971 of finishing Pakistan once and for all. If he achieves that, he will be remembered by Indians for centuries as a Mahapurush. This is his opportunity. And do you think he doesn't know that? I think he knows that. Do you think he'll give it up that easily? Let's wait and watch. I don't think so. Not yet gone. The opportunity is not yet gone. Now let's take some other questions. Uh geopolitical dub says will it affect Prime Minister Modi's image? Right now there's a big sense of disappointment in the country. We had Pakistan on their knees. They are still on their knees. It'll take them one or two weeks to even start standing up again. Right? If we let them go away, then it will affect Prime Minister Modi's image. It will. But we have time. So let's see what Mr. Modi is able to accomplish. Right now Trump has come in the way. This is not a friendly action by Trump. Okay. He is he is trying to deny us the military victory that we essentially have already won that we have already earned. We have not won it yet. We have not achieved it yet. But we are on the verge of achieving it. We have shown the entire world the hollowess of Pakistan's nuclear blackmail. Hm. They used to keep threatening us in the world entire world that if India crosses even 1 cm into Pakistani held territory then we will unleash the Islamic bomb the nuclear bomb. What happened to that? We have destroyed their blackmail that nuclear blackmail. We have hit them at the heart of the military Pakistani military ISI terrorism complex. We've hit them everywhere we wanted. We have hit them at will. We've destroyed their infrastructure. First terrorist infrastructure then military infrastructure. The air defense is wiped out. We have done all this, right? Their ammunition is running out. They're running out of ammunition. But you know the west is saying this was just a skirmish. Apparently there were air battles about like in the A.M. today early morning. Apparently we have brought down Pakistani fighter planes. The government hasn't said that so I'll not go further into it. But we have achieved a lot and we are on the verge of achieving something bigger. See this will be if if the ceasefire holds this whatever happened the past 72 hours will be termed by the west as a skirmish or a small conflict. This what happened in the past 48 hours is way bigger than the cargill war. The cargill war was localized. This was all over the place. We've hit Pakistan everywhere. But the west will portray this as nothing but a skirmish. And they'll say, "What happened? There's no territorial change. Nothing has changed. So if you want to to to seal the victory, the lines on the map must change. See today what's the situation? Pakistan's air defenses are destroyed. They are helpless. We can send a drone, a helicopter, slowmoving thing into Pakistan. It'll be hard for them to bring it down. So, their air defenses are gone. Their fighter planes can't take off or land on all those destroyed airports and the cratered runways. What's the next thing we should have done? A pulse pause war. Take back P. That could have happened tonight or tomorrow. If that doesn't happen, if no territory change happens, then you can't say you've won the war. You can't even say it was a war. They'll just say it was a series of strikes against each other. So if the ceasefire holds and Pakistan goes back to what it was doing, then it will affect Prime Minister Modi's image. No question about it. Um Niraj Kant says Pakistan being Pakistan, we all know that this day will come back again terrorism in four to five years. How can India grow ourselves militarily and economically so pressure from the US can be ignored? Yeah, great question. Uh today the US can arm twist us right they have done it today but we are not the same beast we were in 2019. In 2019 the Pakistanis they were they were much more confident and we were not able to do what we have done in the last 72 hours in 2019 the Bala court uh thing and all that right and before that we did surgical strikes very very quietly we had did not have the confidence to launch air strikes like Balakot. So every few years we're getting more and more powerful, more more and more confident, right? So what needs to happen is we have to grow economically. With economic growth comes material growth, material prosperity, better living standards, more confidence in the people and with milit with with that comes military growth and your military strength becomes more powerful. Right? So right now we are a 4.5 roughly trillion dollar economy. Maybe in 5 years hopefully we are a 10 trillion dollar economy. That needs to happen as soon as possible. It's just an arbitrary number 10 trillion. I don't care if it's 9 trillion. I don't care if it's 12 trillion. Should be in the vicinity of 10 trillion. Then we'll be twice as powerful as what we are today. Right? And then even China will treat us in a different will will regard us differently. The Chinese have been saying since 2018 or so that India has a much higher capacity to take risks and see what we did in the past 72 hours. That's called risk risk takingaking. So Pakistan being Pakistan if we allow them to escape from the situation they are in right now then they are going to come back stronger. The problem has to be solved once and for all. If you have cancer you don't keep it in your body. You have to excise it and remove it and destroy it. So um we have to solve this problem. It has it has to happen soon and we will never have as great an opportunity as we have right now today at whatever time it is. See to go to war you need a just cause for war. You have to show to the world that we are the victim and we have a just cause and right now we have all of that. Um so let's see let's see what happens in next 24 to 48 hours. Let's see. They just says what about the Indust water treaty and PK? Are we to do nothing about against Pakistan and wait for the next terror attack? If Trump succeeds in imposing this ceasefire, then yeah, we are essentially in a situation when we where we are waiting for the next terror attack. Uh some changes have happened. The doctrinal changes happened. We have made it very clear to everybody that any future terror attack against us will be treated as a declaration of war. So which which means that we can go back to war. But then if you wait for 6 months for the next terror attack, it will obviously happen. and the Pakistanis are a terrorist nation. You wait for 6 months, they will have repaired everything. They would have rebuilt their infrastructure and then we would start from zero again. We have already gone 70% of the way to destroying Pakistan today. So it doesn't make sense to wait. So we have to find a way to continue this war in our favor and and take it to the logical conclusion. Now let's say the the ceasefire lasts unfortunately h what happens to P? Nothing happens to P. Pakistan continues holding PK and they can keep saying that the Kashmir matter is a disputed territory. Kashmir is a disputed territory and we and Kashmir matter is an international matter. They can keep on saying it. We have the opportunity to end this so-called dispute today. Today if Mr. Modi gives the order by tomorrow morning we will have P. I promise you we we are in that situation right now. Okay. So if the ceasefire holds then forget about P. It won't come back. This is the golden opportunity. This is the golden opportunity. Indust treaty is gone. Forget about it. Even if the ceasefire holds, we're not going to honor the Indust treaty. Uh so yeah, the Americans are okay with that, I suppose. Yeah. All right. What other questions do we have? We're going to have a lot a lot of questions. Um okay. Pratam says, "What could happen in the next 24 to 48 hours? Ceasefire violation by Pakistan. That's what could happen. or a terror attack somewhere maybe in Jammu and Kashmir maybe somewhere else now we don't want terror attacks because it hurts our civilians our our innocent men women and children but Pakistan is a terrorist nation and sooner or later there will be more terrorist attacks if we let them go scot-free today if we let them go today if Mr. Trump succeeds then Pakistan remains a terrorist nation a terror entity that is financed by the west by the IMF and so on and then we have failed and there was no point doing what we have done the past 72 hours it's it's like what happened in the past many times so what could happen in the next 24 to 40 years 48 hours um ceasefire violations across the border the LOC or wherever I I hear it's happening right now so um let's see let's If nothing happens, if the Pakistanis remain disciplined and then don't fire any bullets across the border, then the ceasefire holds because we are supposed to revisit the the situation on the 12th of May. Today is the 10th of May. So 48 hours we revisit the situation and then we can decide what to do. Um I think we have gone way past the the the situation where we used to give evidence to the world that Pakistan is a terrorist nation. We don't have to give any more evidence. So that has changed. But in the next 24 to 48 hours, it's possible. It's actually quite likely that the Pakistanis will try will try some mischief. If they fire a single bullet across the border, international border or the line of control, then I think we should take the opportunity to finish them off. Enough is enough. All right. Somia Sat says, "What is this 12th of May meeting all about? Will India be deciding ceasefire conditions? I think it's too early for me to say what's going to happen on on on the 12th of May. I mean, I just heard before I came into the live stream that Mr. Trump has imposed a ceasefire and we have accepted that. So, um, Mr. Dr. J. Shankar tweeted just now that we will what what did he say? We are going to No, he did not tweet about that as far as I know, but maybe something else has happened. So, I'm not going to monitor it in in real time right now. But uh on the so the ceasefire is going to be reviewed I suppose on the 12th of May. I don't think India and Pakistan will send people who will you know officials who will meet each other or something. Uh but let's wait and watch. I'm not sure what has been announced. I am sure the government must have done some kind of uh briefing media briefing or something in which we must have explained what the terms of the ceasefire etc. are. We'll have to see but u so we we'll see. I don't know who is deciding the ceasefire conditions, what the ceasefire conditions are. Once again, let me tell you according to me what the ceasefire conditions, the terms of the ceasefire conditions should be. Let me put that once again on the screen. This is my perspective. It may or may not be the government's perspective. This is my perspective. What are the ceasefire terms? I'm asking over here and then I'm saying that for a viable peace, Pakistan must agree to these terms. First of all, Pakistan must verifiably destroy its terror infrastructure and eliminate all terrorists within and outside of the ISI military uh complex and this has to happen within a set time frame not not someday in the future. No, you have let's say 7 days to do it or something that sort of thing. Second, they have to hand over all wanted terrorists to India immediately. In third, US and its was demonstrably stop funding Pakistani terrorism fourthwidth immediately because Pakistani terrorism happens because the west has been funding it. The US has been funding it. So that condition has to apply to the US not to Pakistan. Fourth, they have to hand over P if they want a ceasefire. And fifth, free Bljasthan, Sindu and so on. That are that to me seems like a reasonable set of conditions and terms for accepting a ceasefire with Pakistan. The US obviously will not accept those terms. Right? So the US has come in the way of India. Yes. Our great friend the US our great friend Mr. Trump has come in the way. Blood bonger says what's going to happen with the allegedly captured Pakistan pilot. Look, the past 3 days um reports have come out um pretty credible reports that multiple Pakistani fighter planes have been brought down within Indian territory. I'll not give the number because it is not confirmed and the government of India has not made any statements to this effect. The government of India has not said anything about any Pakistani planes being brought down anywhere within India or outside of India. But I have heard credible reports the past 2 three days. I've been seeing social media monitoring what's happening. I have seen credible reports pretty credible reports okay from very credible journalists and people on the ground that multiple Pakistani planes have been shot down by India. Okay. And then they they went quiet after reporting that even DD news apparently reported something like that. So that's pretty credible. DD News is part of the government. But then they went quiet about this. So let us consider a scenario a hypothetical scenario in which we have brought down a certain number of Pakistani fighter planes within our territory. On the other side of on the Pakistani side I promise you Pakistani planes have gone down. I promise you. But they will not they will not admit that on our side it's quite likely planes have come down and uh when plane when when a fighter plane comes down it's shot down and the process of shooting it down it involves certain kinds of munitions. It's you know you have fragmentation proximity fuses with fragmentation warheads which uh release shrapnel and riddle the plane with holes which is why it stops functioning and goes down. And when you riddle an aircraft with holes, you can also riddle the pilots with holes. So often times the pilots die in the process. And that's yeah, that's part of the game. Sometimes the pilots survive. Maybe it's a 50/50 thing. So let's say let's say hypothetically, just for the sake of argument, two planes were come, two PR planes were brought down. It's probable that at least one pilot would have survived, would have ejected and would have parachuted down into Indian territory. In that case, that pilot would have been recovered alive. So in case such a thing has happened in this completely hypothetical scenario then those pilots Pakistani pilots would be in Indian custody and they would be enjoying Indian hospitality and we would be interrogating them and extracting whatever intelligence information etc we need to extract from them. Now if you announce to the world officially that we have recovered X number of pilots then people like Trump etc can apply pressure on you to to repatriate them. They can say the Pakistanis gave back aan so you need to give back these pilots. So that's why in this hypothetical scenario that we have captured someone multiple people possibly we stay quiet about that. So that's the deal and that person if we don't acknowledge the existence of the person that person remains in our custody indefinitely maybe whatever whatever period of time all right okay what next do we have okay I was trying to okay let's take this one sky fragrances end game cannot be achieved without crossing the nuclear threshold what's your view that's an interesting question and it has to be taken seriously it has to be taken seriously At the end of the day, if Pakistan is going to let's say hypothetically in the future, maybe in the next one or two weeks be in a situation where it's going to break up completely and the Pakistan military loses all control of the country, they will be very tempted possibly to use nukes. Now what happens? Good question. What happens? How does it happen? So let's say they want to fire nukes in India. What delivery mechanisms do they have to send nukes to whatever destination in India? H they have missiles. They either have cruise missiles or or or or ballistic missiles. Those those ghastly names Gori Gaznavi etc. those things. Now in the past 72 hours we have seen the capabilities of our air defense systems. We brought everything down. Yes. Last night they fired a long range missile at Delhi. It was aimed at Delhi. It was on its way to Delhi and we brought it down over SRSA in Hana. Okay. Now I don't know which component of our air defense system was used to bring it down to shoot this missile down there. It's it's all over the news. Okay. It's all over social media. The incredibly loud bang with this huge flash which is captured by CCTV cameras. So, so they have this longrange missile with possibly a 400 km range which we brought it which we brought down. We may have used maybe an S400 system perhaps. I'm just speculating. I don't have information. I'm not giving any actual intelligence to anyone. I'm just speculating. It could be an S400 system which everybody knows we have. We also have a Barak system. Barak 8. Everybody knows it's been known for the past 15 years. We have it. And then there's the Akash SAM which is an absolutely superstar system which has been proven in the last 72 hours. So even that is a possibility. So one of these three things possibly brought down the long range missile that the Pakistanis had fired at Delhi. Now what was the warhead? Was it a conventional warhead? Was it a nuclear warhead? Because when you fire when you fire a long-range missile then the recipient has no way of knowing what's coming towards him. The warhead could be a conventional explosive warhead. It could be a nuclear explosive warhead. So when somebody fires a long-range missile at you, that itself is a red line. And we we were mature enough to not respond to that. We've responded by destroying their airports. Sure. And by setting their their skyline on on fire last night. So we have very potent air defenses. And I assure you, I don't have actual knowledge. I am just telling you that it makes sense that we have done this that every major city of India has its own highquality air defense system. I don't know what air defense system it could be. It could be multiple layers of air defenses like we have at the border. It could be S400. It could be Akash SAMS. It could be Barack. It could be pad defense pritu air defense system and so on. So even if Pakistan fires ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads on us, it is most likely that they will fail to hit any target. H So let's say we use the Priti air defense system to take out an incoming ballistic missile. How does a ballistic missile work? It has a parabolic trajectory, not hyperbolic, parabolic trajectory. You'll learn this in high school, parabolic motion and physics anyway. So it has a parabolic trajectory. The ballistic missile will first exit the atmosphere. The atmosphere limit is is said to be the the 100 km mark above the surface. So it'll go above the atmosphere like this like this and then it re-enters the atmosphere and it goes towards the target. So the prefer defense system has two components. There is one missile that is an exo atmospheric interceptor which will take out the incoming missile that we've already detected by radar. It will take it out outside of the atmosphere before it re-enters. Now in case let's say it fails then we have a second missile that goes out with the prefer defense which will intercept the incoming missile at about 40 or 50 km above the earth which is endoatmospheric and these are extremely accurate missiles. We also have an ASAT capability, anti-satellite capability, which is a a kill vehicle, which is obviously launched by a rocket, a missile, which can take out satellites at an altitude of up to about 1,000 km above the Earth's surface. We can take out a satellite with pinpoint accuracy. And the intercept is done with an object, a satellite that's moving at at least 10 kilometers per second. That's faster than a bullet. And we can take it out with pinpoint precision. And I promise you this system, this ASAT system can also be used to take out incoming ballistic missiles. My point is if Pakistan even tries to hit us nuclear with with nuclear weapons, it is most likely they will fail. Most likely. But let us consider a different scenario. Let's say hypothetically and unfortunately they succeed in detonating a nuke over an Indian population center. H what happens then they're finished. It's not mutually assured destruction. The if they fire 20 or 50 they may be able to hit us once perhaps. Okay. Hypothetically if that happens they have no air defense left today. If they detonate a new code any Indian civilian center it is bye-bye for them and our missiles are going to hit. They have no air defenses. So you understand it is suicide for Pakistan to try something like this. What if they use a battlefield tactical nuke? A tactical nuke is a low yield nuclear weapon. Hiroshima scale 10 20 kilot tons of equivalent of TNT let's say let's say we are making a move on P and these people see that you know we're going to lose P what if the detonate a battlefield nuke nuclear weapon on the battlefield well that's something we will have to consider the government of India will have to have its own calculations obviously it has and that doctrine and that escalation ladder is not available for public consumption It should not be but we have to trust the government that we have everything in place. So all these calculations all this war gaming is done during peace time. It's like this. Let's say you want to win you want to win a gold medal med medal at the Olympics at the 100 m race the sprint. You don't put all of your energy and effort during the final race. All your energy all the sweat all the tears they are spent during training. The easiest part of winning the gold medal is the last race. The worst part, the most difficult and painful part is that four years of training that comes before that. Similarly, if you want to prepare for a war, you have to prepare during peace time. You have to sweat and bleed during peace time so that you can win the war easily. So, I promise you that's been done. All the war gaming has been done. All the scenarios have been gamed out and the doctrine is in place. What if the Pakistanis detonate a battlefield nuke? What if they detonate try to detonate and you over a population center what if they succeed and so on. So we have all the scenarios gamed out. Um so in case the nuclear threshold is is crossed I think we have it very well covered. Look in war if you want to achieve your objectives sometimes often times most times you have to absorb some losses and when you're dealing with an entity like Pakistan um achieving the ultimate objective may cost us a little bit it's it's if we don't have the stomach for it we should not aim to be like everybody wants to be a super superpower right to be a superpower to to even think of being a superpower to cross the hurdle of eliminating Pakistan, you have to pay some price for it. It's only through through such by paying the right price that you go towards greatness. So I am not an advocate of nuclear war. I I have said this so many times. That's the last thing any civilized person should should envisage, you know, using nuclear weapons. But they exist and they can be used. So we have to be prepared for it. That's my point. All right. Matrix says, "Why can't why can't India despite having 1.5 billion people reject the US like Israel, Ukraine, and Iran? At the end, the US also needs India to counter China." Look, it's a process. We can't we can't say no to the US. You can't say no to no to Trump because he he will impose some immediate pain on you and he if you say no to him, he will publicly humiliate you. You don't we don't want to go down that ladder. We play a different game. I'm I'm pretty sure that this is you know what's happened right now. The Okay, breaking news. Ceasefire violations at Aknore and Mandar ceasefire violations like they say in Hindi. What's the what do they say? Picture of Bbaki. Wait and watch. Okay. Right now BSF is countering the violations. I have a TV on the other side of the screen like yesterday of the of the lens. Uh yeah, ceasefire violations. So what happened to Mr. Trump's ceasefire? Are we supposed to tolerate this? My point is wait and watch. Wait and watch. He the US does need us. So once the Pakistanis do cease his fire violations and then we go back to the situation. Then Trump can't say that we we did not pay heed to him. We go to Trump and say look you wanted a ceasefire. We agreed. We put it on the record. Mr. Dr. Jashankar put it on the record that we have agreed to a ceasefire or a sessation of law. firing or military activities. We accepted it but then the Pakistanis force overhand now you can't blame us now you would blame Pakistan I think that's the direction in which this is going to go there are ceasefire violations happening right now right now multiple locations across the LOC by park army this is unacceptable this is unacceptable they need to finish Pakistan I think this is the opportunity Mr. Modi needs. Mr. Modi, this is the opportunity he needs. The Pakistanis are handing it on a plate, on a platter. So, let's let's wait and watch. This is not over by by a long distance. This is not over. This is not over. Um, listen, I don't I I understand the sentiments. I understand the emotions. I understand the disappointment but I would urge my dear viewers I would urge you to not give in to negativity. The moment something goes wrong you don't say start crying and saying that we have lost. Please I implore you all be more resilient be more positive. Life is a long game. Life is a long game. This war is a long game. We haven't lost. We have encountered a setback in the form and shape in the shape and form of Mr. Donald Trump. We have to find the right way to negotiate that and overcome the hurdle. And listen, we will say this. We agreed to your ceasefire. Now look at what's happening. It's the the border is live now. I can see flashes on the sky. We haven't lost my friends. Please please don't be negative like this. Please don't be negative like this. Uh, ceasefire is broken. There we have it. There we have it. Ceasefire violations. There we have it. Okay. Shria says, I have zero questions or doubt on my army and my nation. As you are right, and you're right to have no doubt, the army has proven itself. What they have achieved in the past 72 72 hours is nothing short of a complete humiliation of the Pakistani military. Anyhow, so there's no doubt about the army and the nation in the nation. We are a great nation. We are a great nation and we got to go back to where we were. Now IMF has approved a 1.8 billion uh you know waiver loan or or thing to Pakistan arms while pressing for deescalation. Your comments on the matter how do we tackle? We have to remember at all times the west is not our enemy. uh is not our friend. It's not our friend. It's not our enemy. They don't have anything personal against India except for us being polytheists. Okay? But they want a certain balance of power everywhere in the world and they want the situation to persist. Now if they see everywhere you look on the map, there's a certain geopolitical calculation. You can put a number on each country which is the the hard power score of the country and then you can have a balance in each region. So in what they call South Asia, which I call the Indians incontinent, they want a certain balance of power. In Central Asia, they want a certain balance of power and they want various coalitions and blocks to work in different ways. In the the 2000s, they completely upended the balance of power in West Asia by by eliminating Iraq as an entity, right? So they are capable of doing that. So my point is the the West, the US is not our friend. They don't they will want to work with us as long as China is a threat and then they will look at us as a threat. Remember this remember this if in the next 10 20 years India starts rising like China they will look at us also as a threat and they will treat us exactly the way they are treating China today. Remember this remember that we have no friends geopolitically. The only nation that we don't have any issues with actually is Russia and Russia itself is in a certain situation right now that they have to align align not ally but align with China. So my comments are that the west is playing this game and it's no surprise they're playing this game. They have always played this game. It's nothing new that they will play India and Pakistan against each other. They'll play India against China and they will use they will want to use India as a pawn on geopolitical chessboard against China and just to keep India in line and keep India behaving as they want they will use Pakistan as a counter as as a pressure point. So if India is on the verge of destroying Pakistan it's a loss for the west and they understand Pakistan very well and they want it to continue to exist. So that's why they are propping up the terror machine. The west has a long track record of supporting funding and financing terrorism especially Pakistani terrorism. Okay. They they try to portray themsel to put themselves on a pedestal and to to moralize and and to show that you know we are morally superior to you but they have been funding Pakistani terrorism for decades. Okay. What is next? What is next? So once again I'm getting this ceasefire is violating again is being is being vi is is violated again. Okay let's take this question. Roshan Rahman says America doesn't want its asset to be destroyed so that they can keep the keep up the pressure on India. Will Trump give India some concessions in the upcoming trade deal if India follows the ceasefire? That must have been the promise. Look they will not put this out in the public that in exchange for accepting the ceasefire we have promised these these these things to India. No, this is all done behind closed doors. So you are absolutely right Roshan that some such promises would have been made behind closed doors. Diplomacy has two facets. One facet is the public facet in which you are very well well behaved, very polite and you yeah you yeah there's a certain etiquette certain way of behaving in public when it comes to diplomacy and when it comes to diplomats. They're very swave people, very polished people. They speak very well. they all always under great control and so on. One of the great diplomats is Mr. Lavrov, Sergey Lavrov. I mean a legend. Another is Dr. Jashankar and so on. So that's the public face of diplomacy. All smiles or if not smile, if you're not smiling, if you're with the enemies, you're very polite. But there's a private aspect to diplomacy which happens behind closed doors. What happens behind closed doors is often nothing short of bullying and threatening. Outright naked threats are issued behind closed doors. Arm twisting in every possible way. Physical threats to the diplomats. Everything is is okay behind closed doors. And when you are a way more powerful nation, you do that to everybody including your allies if if required. H so I am sure that it did not go to that extent in the you know uh talks between India and the US for achieving the ceasefire. The US must have said you guys need to cease fire now. So the Indians would have said our people would have said okay you want a ceasefire we'll give it to you. We'll give we we will give Donald Trump that win. What do you give us in return? This is what we need. This this this this and these are our conditions that if Pakistan does terrorism again, we're going to treat it as a declaration of war. If they break the ceasefire on their side, then we're going to go back to war and so on. So certain conditions would have been accepted and yes, some concessions must have been promised to India in the upcoming trade deal. So all of that is part of the negotiations and then what when all of that is finalized, the the announcement is made. That's how it works in diplomacy. Very interesting question and very good question. Now, um Adita says, "I agree that Pakistan is going to do ceasefire violations and the agreement with Trump will become null and void." And that's happening right now. Blackout in Patan Court. Blackout in Patan Court. Here we go again. So, uh you see Pakistan is a very reliable nation. You see this Pakistan is a super blast heard across Sinagar. Drone sightings in parts of Jammu and Kashmir. Here we go my friends. Here we go my friends. We are back to square one. Mr. Donald Trump please do not now pressurize India. You pressurize Pakistan. Pressurize Pakistan. We agreed to the ceasefire and I promise you we have a professional army who will do what they they're told to do by the government. That is part of the honor code of the army. They are disciplined. So here we have it. Simei also says ceasefire is violated. Well now you don't let Pakistan off the hook. You don't let Pakistan off the hook. I had made this tweet. I'll show you one second. Give me a second. I had made this tweet. Where was it? Where was it? Let me give me a second. Yeah, this is the this is the tweet I made after that first live stream two or three days ago. This is the tweet I made. I made this on the 8th of May, 11:15 p.m. right after I ended that live stream on that day, the e emergency episode. I said, "We are at war, friends." And I said I put my neck out and I said within the next 2 to 14 days India will inflict a comprehensive military defeat on Pakistan and the borders will change permanently. And I made this tweet on the 8th of May. So if you add 14 to that it's May 22. You see, so I I may still be vindicated by the 22nd of May now that these terrorists have violated the ceasefire. You don't let them go now. This is the opportunity for us to go forward and this is the opportunity for us to tell Donald Trump, Mr. Trump, Mr. President, we tried. We did what you said. Now we are not to blame. You deal with Pakistan now. We will not go back to a ceasefire now. Enough is enough. So here we have it. Now it it depends how far this goes. Blasts here heard across Trinagar. Oh my goodness. I can see flares and lights in the sky. Here we have it. Here we have it. Okay. Let's let's see how this how this develops. Mythical Sati says now I understand why the government did this. Look, the government acted logically. You can't say no to Mr. Trump. You can't say no to him. You we need Mr. Trump on our side. He doesn't have any enmity or hatred towards India. He sees all the nations as various kinds of assets and he actually likes India to a certain extent, maybe to a good extent, but he wants us to tow the line and he's super powerful. So, we have to give him that respect that he actually deserves. What deserves respect in geopolitics? only one thing power only one thing and he is the most powerful person in the world right now you have to give him the difference and the respect and we did that and now the Pakistanis have broken the ceasefire now we blame them because they are to blame not us all right Mlevin is asking interesting questions kind of off topic but not quite off topic not quite off topic so I'll take it good question the US army has been spotted setting up camp in Bangladesh I it's good to know that people know about this Now you might you think they might escalate the war into Manipur. Do you think they're trying to make a deal cookie line in exchange of Pakistan? I don't know. I can't speculate. I will not speculate on air in public. But I have my suspicions. But it's a good question you asked. I'm sorry I can't answer this because it's an evolving ongoing situation which is very very u um you know it's it's crucial to our national security. So it doesn't it's not a good practice for me to say anything about this right now. But you are asking good questions and I appreciate that and it's good that you are aware of what's happening. Yes, free hand has been given to the BSF. I think soon enough it'll go beyond the BSF. So it has to once again follow a certain pattern of escalation. We start with the BSF, right? Capilh Gujarati says, "Is this an act of war? I see no other way of looking at it." Yes, it's a good question and you are right. I I think it's an act of war. A ceasefire has to be honored by both sides. Once you agree to a ceasefire, not a single bullet must come across the border. Otherwise, it's end of now. Now, what do we do? Because you are using small arms fire. So, we only use small arms fire. No, you violated the agreement. You violated the trust and you have to be punished to the fullest extent. Now, end of story. Akur. Oh man. Drone sightings in Jammu and Kashmir. Here we have it. Omar Abdullah has tweeted that Shinagar Yeah. Shinag blasts in Shinagar. Janil says after the ceasefire violation now is there a possibility of a ground incursion now and change the borders. You see my friends that is the next logical step. Pakistan has proven, it's proving right now in real time that it is not an honorable country and it cannot be trusted. They were begging for a ceasefire and now they have broken the ceasefire. They cannot be trusted. So they so what needs to be done? They have to be punished. And now that they have violated the ceasefire, we have to permanently end their capacity and capability for violating more ceasefires. Now that they have not honored their agreement, we going to end we have to end their ability to dishonor agreements in the past in in the in the future. How do you do that? By dismantling Pakistan entirely and by defanging the Pakistan military completely. And at the least we do a pulse pause war lightning lightning fast non-b blitz creek warfare frontal warfare wide essentially essentially what it means is you take back P. Now you have suppressed their their air defenses. Now you suppress their ground capabilities by by nice means. They have those nice means. Then you make a march. By morning it should be in Muzafarabad and wherever else needs to happen. Facts on the ground need to change by morning. That's what I would say. Let's see. This is going to be another big night. I didn't sleep last night. I slept a few hours in the daytime today. Looks like it's going to be another one of those nights. Pakistan is back to its dirty dirty tricks. Here we have it. See, I told you. I told you within minutes of what I said we are witnessing what's happening here. Uh Luna is very upset and I understand ma'am why you're upset all Indian politicians are coward. Please don't I don't think all Indian politicians are coward. We have some good good politicians. Please don't be negative. I know it hurts that we were forced to accept a ceasefire but the ceasefire the Pakistanis have given us a great gift. They violated it. End of story, bro. Freezing hawk says drones in Gujarat too. Look at that. Look at that. These people cannot be trusted. These people cannot be trusted. You have to end their capacity for doing such things in the future ever. Ever. Now Deep Patel says what about China's infrastructure in Paka Pakistan occupied Kashmir. If India gets back the territory, chances of maj major escalation. Hey, China, you want to play? Really? It It's entirely up to China. Okay. Once we take back Pok, let's say by tomorrow morning, the ball is in China's court. You want to what's the polite word? What's the polite word? You want to play? You want to play that game, do you? You want to make a move? Well, bring it on. See China's infrastructure in P doesn't belong to China. P is Indian territory. And if they have any infrastructure in in the territory, it is illegitimate. They have not taken our permission to build it. The moment we take back, we retake the territory. Everything on the territory is ours and China better stay out of it. Otherwise, China will face issues. We have seen the quality of their of their weapons systems, of their air defense systems, of their radars, of their missiles. What next? What's the quality of your aircraft? What's the quality of your soldiers? We'll see. It's not that easy. The territory, the terrain in the region, the P region is so difficult. It is so rugged, mountainous. It's not easy for China to just walk in. They'll be wiped out. So, it's not that easy for China to do something. So uh yeah I don't think there's a chance of major escalation as long as we make our move fast. If we take 7 days 10 days to take P then the Chinese can make a move and do things and come in the way. But if we are in PK by tomorrow morning or in the next 72 hours that the Chinese simply don't have the time to do anything. So yeah there we go. There we there we have it. There we have it. So once more uh Nikil is saying Pakistan is violating the ceasefire. Blackout at Vishno Dvi, Shinagar, blackout in Virospur and Patan court. They're targeting temples. There are blasts heard in Shinagar. Okay, let's revisit this question. VP says GD Vance said yesterday that it's none of US's business. It's none of America's business this fight between India and Pakistan and now the US claims efforts behind the ceasefire. Why this 180°ree turn? It's because the US is the most powerful country in the world and they can do whatever they want. It this is what many people would call hypocrisy. Yesterday you said this, today you've done a 180°ree turn. That's what comes with power. The ability ability to change your trajectory based on your whims and fancies and based on whatever is convenient to you at any given point in time. Right? So it should not be surprising and you should not feel upset about it. Don't take it personally. That's what powerful nations do. And you should aspire to make India a nation that can also play that game. Okay. So that that's how it is. I I I don't feel betrayed by the US. No, they'll do that. They'll do whatever suits them best as they should and we should be in a position to do whatever suits us best. So we need to be more powerful. We have to all work together in that direction. That's what needs to happen. Sergeant Skylands says, "Why does Pakistan want to escalate? They can't hold out for a week. It beats me what goes on in those minds. What goes on in these minds? They had the the the most golden of opportunities 1 hour ago, 2 hours ago once Donald Trump made the announcement. What they should have done is they should have they should have religiously observed the ceasefire for the next 3 to 6 months. And in the meanwhile, they should have built everything back. Their airports which were destroyed, they should have built them back. Their runways which were riddled with craters and holes, they should have repaired those runways. Whatever fighter planes they had lost, they could have bought more or begged more from China, right? Whatever ammunition was depleted, they could have bought from China or Turkey or whatever. And in six months time they should have started a new thing back back to square one with India. That's what a logical person a logical terrorist nation would do. But they are an illogical terrorist nation. Clearly the ch the Pakistanis. Why are they escalating? I just don't get it. I just don't. Omar Abdullah is saying there is no ceasefire. The ceasefire is gone. It's over. Air defense is activated in Sinagar. What sort of insanity is this? The Pakistanis got their offramp, right? We gave them the offramp. Donald Trump gave them the offramp. Here's your deescalation. Go back. Go back to where you were. Take your time. Rebuild everything and start then start everything again from square one if you want in 6 months time. But no, this is madness. this sort of insanity, it's it's dangerous for the world and it's dangerous for us. Now, enough of this. We need to deal with them and and finish these these these criminals off. Oshima says, uh, such an attack just hours after the declaration of a ceasefire must mean some sort of guarantee to no consequences by a higher power, either the US or China or otherwise. This is suicide. Um, I'm not sure about that. that that is a scenario we can certainly consider and I don't think it's the case but it is certainly something that makes logical sense. I don't think the Americans would have given the Pakistanis an assurance that okay we have created a ceasefire for you but you are free to break it immediately then why then then look I'll tell you why I don't think it's the case because this makes Donald Trump look like a fool it's like a slap in the face of Donald Trump by Pakistan what's happening right now the Pakistanis were given their offramp their their chance to rebuild in 6 months time and start leading India again if they want, right? And look, they slapped Donald Trump in the face and made him look like an absolute fool. Now we have to tell Donald Trump, "Donald Trump, sir, the Pakistanis have made you look like a fool. Please, please, Donald Trump, you are the great Donald Trump, the greatest man on the world. Will you tolerate this insult? Will you tolerate this insult, Donald Trump?" That's what we need to tell him. The Pakistanis seem to have chosen suicide. I don't know what logic is behind this. I don't know if their brain actually processes things logically. But I don't know. I don't know. But Mclovin says what will be the aftermath both both globally and domestically once we are done with Pakistan? Yeah. The aftermath the Americans won't like it will be a much different India. If we break po break Pakistan just imagine the change in the confidence level of Indians they'll walk with their chests out wherever they go in the world in the world anywhere we have not had a win like this for a thousand years essentially you know a nation needs victories we Indians have not tasted victory in decades and years in centuries 1947 was not a victory we were given so-called independence on British terms. We did not win the independence. The term was that you you cut your country in half and put one piece here and put one piece there. That's a that's a loss. And we have swallowed that. We are a nation of people who made these painful compromises. This if it happens, if we break Pakistan at whatever cost and we finish this once and for all that will put India on a whole different trajectory, we will not be the same again. The world won't be able to look at us in the same way again. There'll be an element of fear about India in the future once this happens. That's why the US doesn't want this to happen. That's why the US wants a ceasefire and the Pakistanis have violated it. Here we go. India retaliates with loitering munitions to Pakistan's provocation. We are once again going up the escalation ladder. Madness. Madness. Explosions heard across Trinagar. This is insanity. In real time, we are witnessing the end of the ceasefire and the resumption of warfare. I just don't understand these people. This is this is this is suicide. Like Ashima was saying just now. Uh Luffy says when will we have a border with Iran? Sooner or later I think it'll be uh it'll take more time. Right now the ideal situation scenario for us is that by tomorrow morning we are in Tok and by the end of 10 days Pakistan is in three three four different pieces. Chasan is independent which means Balojasthan has a border with Iran. Now we don't want to occupy Balojasthan at this point in time. It's too early for that. We have to handhold them back to a proper status which may take a few decades maybe two three decades and then we can see about think about in reintegration into our territory we should not make the people of Bjasan feel like you know so we've got our independence and but we were reabsorbed by India and now India is the occupied we should not make them feel that way so the ideal scenario is the balkcanization of Pakistan now blackout in Rajasthan Jal mayor Patan quote Vishno Dvi Cargill Udampur my god my god in real time we are witnessing the unraveling of Donald Trump's ceasefire this is a major insult to Donald Trump this is a slap in the face of Donald Trump by Pakistan not by India I think Donald Trump should personally take action against Pakistan now okay um what else do we Swapnil Muanti says, "Will this victory be greater than the Bangladesh liberation?" Look, we haven't tasted victory yet. Right now, there is no victory. But if it happens, if we even if we don't break up Pakistan, even if we just take back even some portion of PK, it'll be a huge victory. And the long-term consequences of that will, I promise you, be the dismantling of Pakistan. And when that happens, it will be the biggest victory of all, much bigger than 71. So it's going to be a process. It's going to be a series of steps. The Pakistanis have dragged us back into war. My goodness, I cannot understand the mentality of these people. I just don't understand these people. They had the most golden of chances. Within hours, they have destroyed it. Nilles says, "I was I had lost hope and I was sad, but your talk brought up my hopes and ceasefire violated." Look, I I appreciate that what you're saying. What has brought up the hopes is that the Pakistanis violated the ceasefire and I thought it would happen and that's why I I said those things. So there you have it. It's it's done. Um so my point is my friends, please don't be negative. Please don't be pessimistic. Always be optimistic in life. Always be optimistic and please remember what we are capable of. what our potential is and now we are turning that potential energy into kinetic energy. It's happening. Please be positive. Always be positive. [Music] Uh okay. Saraj says, "Are we losing the information warfare dimension? Are we are we losing that? How was Pakistan able to post pro park articles in major media platforms?" Yeah, because that's a good question. If you see the western media h whether it's BBC, whether it's the New York Times, whether it's the Washington Post, whether it is US vasals and their media outlets like Luffy of France, whether it is the Chavel, whether it is in the eastern world, Japanese or other publications, you will see they consistently have this virulent anti-India stance. Whenever they publish something about India, it's going to be a negative publication. It's going to be it's going to the the approach towards India is going to be negative, right? Why is it that especially the UK Guardian, BBC and so on, all these US vasals. Why is it like that? It's because of the legacy of the first cold war where India had chosen to be on the side of the USSR and Pakistan was on the side of the West. So from their perspective, India was their enemy. It was part of the adversaries camp and that's why they had to demonize India. That's why they were okay with funding and financing Pakistani terrorism against our citizens. So that approach that mentality that mindset that the western media has see the western media is a force amplifier. If you want to bomb a country 6 months down the line you start the negative coverage from today so that the whole public is mentally conditioned to believe that this country is is is bad. Like when the Ukraine war happened, the special military operation in February 2022, India refused to participate in Western sanctions against Russia and India doubled down on buying more Russian oil. And what was the consequence of that? every single disposable minion the West had, every so-called analyst, every single uh geopolitical analyst, every single think tank that they had, Rand Corporation, every Rand Corporation member, every publication, they all started putting out a barrage of anti-India content. Right? So if you do that for 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, then the whole western public population will be conditioned to look at India in a negative light. And they've always done that. You know, they've portrayed India as a very backward as a country with a very backward culture. We are non-western, right? We are a polytheistic culture. We are a proud polytheistic culture. The oldest culture that that exists in the world. And they hate that. They have they hate that they have not been able to break us. and they're still trying to break us, right? Uh so that coverage is always going to be negative. So that's why it's so easy for Pakistan to put its point forward in the western media. See what the west typically does when they want to write anti-India articles, whether it's the BBC, whether it's the Guardian, whether it is uh the Washington Post, they will hire Indians to write those articles. And there are lots of Indians who are willing to to sell their their motherland for a few dollars, right? So they will hire Indians to write those articles. And similarly, they will have lots of Pakistanis on their payroll. So it's a piece of cake to write anti-India and pro Pakistan articles. It's going to happen, you know, like clockwork. It's going to happen on autopilot. So that's why we end up using the losing the information warfare because the media is controlled by the west. All the social media platforms are controlled by the west. They owned by the west. We have not bothered to create anything. We don't have our version of the BBC or CNN or Al Jazzer or anything. We have not just not bothered with these things. We simply don't care. Apparently the government has all the opportunity to do that in the past 10 years. That's a failure. Past 11 years failure. But I appreciate what they've done with this war. So ceasefire violations everywhere. Okay, wonderful. Good job Pakistan. They just says they will still blame India that India did not follow the ceasefire and they'll try to paint us as the villain. So they just is very right. The Pakistanis now will claim that we have violated the ceasefire. That's what they're going to they're going to do. They're going to try and portray us as the aggressor. Trump has egg on his face is what is being said over here on on the screen. All right. All right. What next? What other things do we have? Dongarin Johan says our leaders are naive. See our leaders historically have been super naive geopolitically. No understanding of the concept of the national interest. What is India's national interest? That is the first thing you have to know to be able to navigate the geopolitical world. Let's say you are a complete novice as a leader. You have been elected from some some you know backwater but you became the prime minister hypothetically and you have no understanding of the world. You know that there's a country called the US, there's a country called this that but you don't know anything about them. But that's okay. As long as you know what your national interest is, you can navigate everything just by following the guidelines of the national interest. But we have had leaders who did not even know what the national interest was. Should I name them? We all know who I name, right? The great magnificent Mr. So and so and so on. Not not only that, Mr. So and so many others. So they were naive. Now I I'll assure you of one thing. Mr. Modi isn't naive. Mr. Modi isn't kn. So that is a caveat I'll put. Dungaran is absolutely right. Historically our leaders have been naive. And today if you look at all the political leaders I think many of them would not have a good understanding of geopolitics but I would say Mr. Modi is not naive not naive at all. Noel says ceasefire broken. Yeah it's broken. Ceasefire is broken. Uh Kiadi the Chad says if Baljasthan becomes independent can it become anti-Indian just like Bangladesh even after India is helping them in their independence. It all depends on us. In 1971, Bangladesh should have been reabsorbed into India. Okay. Let's say for whatever reason, we did not reabsorb Bangladesh into India. Then we should have had ensured that whatever Bangladesh government comes to power, it should be a pro-India government and we should protect it. But we took our hands off Bangladesh. So Bangladesh went back in the radical direction. And today they are so strongly uh indoctrinated mentally mentally the people of Bangladesh most of them against India. They're just like Pakistan. Bangladesh has become East Pakistan. It is our failure. We did not. We just let the nation go. We should have exerted complete control over the nation while allowing it to remain independent. What's wrong with that? That's what all great powers do. But we did not behave like a great power. Now in the future, if Balojasthan becomes independent, we should handhold the country. We should appoint ourselves, declare ourselves as the protector of Bangladesh. we should declare of of of Balojasthan. We should declare that Balojasthan is an Indian protectorate and we will take care of you and that's the approach we should have going forward and that approach should last the next few decades and we should guide them about everything they are supposed to do and in what way they're supposed to do without becoming overbearing and without trying to interfere too much in their their lives. That's what you do. That way it will never become anti-India. But we failed when it comes to Bangladesh. We just let it go, right? That's the failure. Okay. Okay. Good question by Rada. Now that Pakistan has violated the ceasefire, will America again try to mediate or will it just step back now? Uh, that's a good question. Will Trump again try to come in the way? I think now it's a it's it's it's gone too far. It's gone too far. Yeah. But who knows? Trump is right now essentially humiliated. He has been slapped in the face. He has egg on his face like this channel is saying. Yeah. So I don't I would recommend to Shri Donald Trump G that now stay out of it and punish Pakistan. Samat says but why did Trump stop us? I said and I've been saying the past few days that the US has given divorce papers to the temporary nation. So why did Trump save Pakistan now? Good question. The the US doesn't want to have Pakistan as their Wasar anymore, but they still want Pakistan's nuisance value visav India and they still want to be able to give Pakistan these little gifts from like IMF if no loans and so on. So that Pakistan also plays their game. So Pakistan is now definitely looking to China as their big daddy and that is very clear from the fact that they have been saying openly that they they were doing terrorism on on the US's behest. So that's divorce. But the Americans still want some control over Pakistan and as long as dollars are coming in, the Pakistanis will do what the Americans tell them as long as the dollars come in. So Trump wants Pakistan to still have some leverage value over India. It should it should still function as some form of leverage over India and that's why he's doing it. So Pakistan is now going to be a Chinese but they will still keep on fishing for American money and that way America can control Pakistan to some extent. keep on controlling unless China is able to give way more money to Pakistan than the US can. In that case, Pakistan will stop caring about the US. So it will all depend on what on the on the quantum of dollars that is flowing in to Pakistan in from which direction it is flowing in. But the US knows how to play these games. So that's why it's happening the the what's happening is happening. Okay. Rupali says something wipe out West India. I don't know. Look, you can be fatalistic, you can be negative or you can be positive. So don't cry like that. Don't be so negative. I I I don't know how to I have not read the Bhavvisha Puran and I'm not sure there is any mention of Pakistan in the Bhaves Puran. If there is then I don't know about it. But look, let's not be uh fatalistic and negative. Let us be more optimistic. Let's be positive. Look, the Pakistanis have given us this big gift today. Big gift. Let's use it. Let us use it. Amrits are good god what's happening. Ravi uh sorry Rajiv says why does India not use DD news to put forth their national interests in narrative? I I don't know why we don't do it. Diddy news is a great asset to have turned it into a global behemoth right I just I don't know looks like there is no vision big vision or big big ambition to do this it can be done says my confidence is crazy high and I haven't felt more alive than in the past 78 72 hours yeah that's what happens when your nation wins we still haven't won the victory the victory will be when we change the lines on the map but we have hit Pakistan like anything the past 72 hours we have destroyed the spectre of their nuclear blackmail we have showed that it's hollow but that's not enough but yeah nothing unifies and unites the nation better than winning and victory and the nation needs more of this so that's why I I would say that it's time to it's time to do what needs to be done with Pakistan then India will never be the same again never that inferiority complex in Indian it may disappear to some extent. Gur Gur Sebak says we we've got the world's bravest community on our side. Remember we are all brave people. I I know what he's talking about. He's talking about the sick people. Absolutely. We are proud of the sick and we are proud of everyone who fights in our armed forces. So absolutely absolutely. Uh Shir Sai Toa says news has come that Pakistan has violated the ceasefire. The Kashmir CM has confirmed it. What will be Trump's reaction now? I would recommend to Mr. Donald Trump that you should be very angry. The you gave Pakistan the ultimate gift, the gift that would ensure Pakistan's survival. And they have chosen to spit on your face. They've chosen to slap you in the face. They have insulted you, Mr. Donald Trump by by rejecting your ceasefire. They are people who cannot be trusted. They have stabbed you in the back, Mr. Donald Trump. Please either punish them yourself or leave them to our mercy and let us finish what we said. Oh my goodness. Ah, air defense systems all over the place. Here we go. Nothing has changed. Nothing has changed. Pratam says, "Can Pakistan change the narrative and make it look like India has violated the ceasefire?" I suppose that's the first thing there going to do. Pakistan has a gift for lying. They will always lie. But now we should not care anymore. Okay? See, we in India have this habit of trying to prove that we are right. We'll come up with these intelligence dosier and and and information dumps and all the proof and all the evidence and we'll try to convince the world. See, we are right because I say to hell with it. We know who's done what and that's enough. That's good enough for us. Why do we have to prove to the world and convince the world that we are right? We have to operate from a position of strength now. We gave them the chance and we we saw that they have violated the ceasefire. Now we don't have to prove anything to anyone. They have violated the ceasefire. We're going to punish them now. And that's how it should be. Please grow some confidence. Stop trying to convince the world that you are right. You should not have that need inside you that we have to demonstrate, we have to prove and we have to show the world that see we are right. Please agree with us. We should say to hell with you. We are right. We are a righteous nation. We are not a nation of terrorists. And we will do what is right. And we will punish the terrorists whether you like it or not. And you the west have been funding and financing terrorism. So this is the end of that. That's what we need to do. Um Sam Kosh says this isn't going to stop sooner. No, no, no. It's not it's not stopping now. It's it's gone back to to where it was last night. Summer says again CFBs like heavy shelling in RSpura happening again with BSF cleared to act said by CM of JNK saying that there is no ceasefire. The ceasefire is over. Blackout in Cargill, blackout in Shinagar, Patan Court, Westo Devi, Udampur, Firospur, Patan Court, Bar. India is retaliating with loitering munitions. Pakistan is back to its dirty tricks. There we have it. The ceasefire is over. CM Omar is saying what about the ceasefire? Explosions have been heard all across Trinagar. This is unforgivable. Unforgivable. Vidy Manar says, "Are we ser seriously a sovereign nation? Please answer with on point point black blank honesty. I doubt after what the US could do to us today. How is Israel sovereign then? What about our interest?" Yes, we are sovereign. That's why we were able to bring Pakistan to its knees and that's now what's going to happen. But the question you're asking is a good question. And let's understand the perspective. Sovereignty is relative. We have see first of all let's let's do it from first principles which means let's define what it means to be a sovereign nation. To be a sovereign nation you need certain conditions to be fulfilled. Firstly you need to have complete control over who enters and exits your country which we do. Second which we mostly do. Secondly, you need to have complete control over your borders. Your borders should be inviable, which we do mostly once again. Okay. Thirdly, you need to have complete control over your economy, which means you need to have your own reserve bank, central bank, and you need to have your own currency which you control that we do, right? And lastly, you need to have complete control over the policies that are implemented in your country, which once again we do. So from the definition of from this definition and these conditions we are a sovereign country. We have some issues of infiltration and all but we are entirely capable of ending that like this if you want. So we are a sovereign country but there is a power differential. The US is way more powerful than us and they can arm twist us and make us do things that are not in our interests. It doesn't mean we are not sovereign. It means we are not powerful enough to to say no to the US. It is not a violation of sovereignty. What what what would cons constitute a violation of sovereignty by the US towards India? Either taking some of our territory or forcing us to accept a US military base on our soil or um other kinds of violations like economic violations like you know uh destroying the the the the Indian currency or forcing us to adopt certain policies that are not in our interests you know changing our laws and all that that doesn't happen. So we are sovereign from that from that perspective. But we would like to be more powerful. See what you're actually asking is are we why are we not powerful enough to say no to the US like what Russia can do. So we need to work towards that. But we are definitely sovereign. We are one of the I've always said we there are four sovereign nations right the US, Russia, China, India. Four sovereign nations. Let me modify that statement. There are five sovereign nations in the world. There's one more that I have not mentioned before and I was not right to not mention it. The fifth sovereign nation is Israel. It is. Yeah, it is. And uh that's a whole different matter and that's not for today's discussion. But yeah, the ceasefire has been destroyed by Pakistan. Ceasefire broken. See, Bhavik is is confirming. Gurroit says love the brains of Pakistan. I just don't get it. Air defense guns have been activated. Complete background blackout in Pokran. Eight Pakistani drones spotted. What is wrong with these people? I just don't get it. Uh Pragal Chandelia says, "What are the possible reactions from the US to the ceasefire violation?" The most obvious reaction, logical reaction should be to throw Pakistan to the wolves and tell India do whatever you want now or otherwise they can try and rebroker the ceasefire which would be really stupid. So I think now that the ceasefire is broken if they want to rebroken the ceasefire it'll take some time for that that to happen maybe 24 to 48 hours maybe 12 to 24 hours that gives us a window of opportunity. Now it's not enough to to send missiles as guests to Pakistan to Rahul Pindi to whatever air bases they have. Now it is time to send our guests with armor into Pakistan occupied Kashmir until we have until morning I guess to do that. Enough is enough both. Aditi says if Pakistan balconizes into four, won't it be difficult to deal with it with these newborn Islamic nations? They may be thankful at the beginning but then later they'll remember that they are people of the book. Look, it all depends on how we deal with it. If we handhold these nations in a certain way and we declare these nations to be our protectorates and we give them aid, we give them guidance. We help them set up their institutions, judiciary, parliament, uh education system, this that we give them aid from our own coffers. If we do all that, then they'll be very thankful to us. So then we can guide them in the right direction. Obviously a lot of the population sadly is going to be radicalized. So we're going to have to deal with it very judiciously very properly. But it's feasible if we make the same mistakes that we made with Bangladesh that after the nation was given independence we just let it go and do whatever it wants then we will have the same situation again. Then somebody else will be able to come into the region and influence these nations more than we can influence them. So we need to have a proper clear path and plan from day zero not from day one from day zero which means right now. If we do it right then we will be the nation that will expand its influence in the subcontinent and guide these people back to mother India which needs to happen eventually. Right. Chiag says their arm is copying India to save face. If they back down, they risk they being dethroned. Isn't deescalation nearly impossible? Because because of a robust air defense, you know, that's possibly the logic behind what they're doing because they have been humiliated. The Pakistani army, the Pakistani military has been humiliated and the whole aam of Pakistan. The people of Pakistan have seen this with their own eyes. What India has done to the Pakistan military. India has not struck at Pakistan civilians. Pakistani civilians I saw they're standing and watching the missiles rain down on Pakistani air bases and they're filming it. They knew they will not be touched. You see this is the thing about India. India India has ethics. We don't touch civilians. All the explosions all the blasts were on Pakistani military ex installations and the civilians could stand and watch that and film that without being afraid. Now when it comes to Pakistani military activity against India h that they have been doing our civilians are afraid because they only target civilians. That is the difference between a civilized nation and the barbaric nation. We will only target their terrorist camps their terrorist infrastructure and then we'll target the military which is an honorable thing to do. The fight should be between two militaries. You should never target civilians and that is not in part of our culture to target civilians, men, women, children. So that's why the Pakistani civilians aren't scared. But our civilians, they are frightened when the Pakistanis start shelling or or sending drones because they are trying to hit civilian areas. Shameless people. This this bunch of criminals needs to be excised from the world. Okay. There are drones above Kutch in Gujarat. So the point is they are the military of Pakistan has been humiliated. The entire population of Pakistan has seen that that they are important. They are helpless against India. Which means that there is there is now going to be a sentiment to remove these people because they're useless and they bring nothing of value to the to the table for the people of Pakistan. So that's why the military is in a tough spot today. Even if there's a ceasefire, they they feel like they have they have been humiliated. They've lost faith and they need to do something to avenge the what India has done. So they're starting this nonsense again. They're starting this nonsense again and we have this shockingly robust air defense that they can't penetrate. So I wonder what they're going to try now. Yeah, but that's where we go. T Aaral says, "Has Pakistan violated the ceasefire?" It has. Absolutely. Absolutely it has violated ceasefire. Half of India, Western India around the border regions is blacked out right now. Shi Pratab says will Pakistan go for nukes if we take back our P or no I don't think they will dare to to escalate to nukes if we take back P what we need to do is we need to do it very rapidly before the sun comes out we should be in control of P if we do that they won't have the time to react especially if we keep them busy with air strikes with missile strikes and drone strikes at the same time and we have other weapons battlefield weapons that can sanitize a wide area before we enter it. So you know and and I don't think the Pakistanis will dare use nukes because the moment they cross that threshold there won't be any planes out of Pakist out of Lahore or Karachi or Ral Pendi to London there won't be any planes left to go anywhere they will evaporate the Pakistani military I don't think they will do that if we so it depends on the calibration of our attack of our advance if we simply take back very quickly P Okay, then they'll not be not have the time to to to react to that and then we can simply put a pause the pulse pause war and then you defend P okay from Pakistan it's no longer P okay it's now Jammu and Kashmir that's what needs to happen Amitab says is it possible that Pakistan is breaking this ceasefire on purpose as said by their previous master US to help the US form military camps to counter China and India on Pakistan insider It doesn't make a lot of sense. If they really need that sort of help, then let us take over Pakistan and we will organize the military camp. The US wants on that part of the territory. How about that? Yeah, we can offer the US a deal. Um, it doesn't really make sense. I think Pakistan is simply a the military is simply a set of criminals are simply a set of barbarians who have no value for human life who who simply don't value the lives of their people of their citizens and they use their citizens and their country as cannon foder and and and sheep to be to be exploited. It's so sad and they have brainwashed the people into believing that they are their saviors. So I don't think it's it's it's the case but it's an interesting scenario that you brought up and I'm I'm glad that people think about various scenarios in this manner. Hershit okay was it a mind game by India agreeing to ceasefire knowing that Pakistan won't follow thus gaining international support and a moral upper hand for a full-fledged war. No I think it wasn't a mind game. I think that India knew that if Donald Trump asks us for a ceasefire, we can't say no to him. Okay, we need Mr. Trump on our side. He's not a bad person. He's a good person. He overall is a friend of India as far as a friend can exist in geopolitics. And of course, we knew that Pakistan will violate the ceasefire. But will we gain international support now is the question because the western media will I promise you paint this as something that maybe we have done. Maybe Pakistan tried to do a ceasefire but India broke the ceasefire. They may put the blame on India. The media game is very dirty. So uh I don't think it's a mind game. India look we were trying to give them an offramp from day one. From day one of operation Sindur it's no longer operation sindur now it's India Pakistan war. But from day one of operation Sindor we said okay we did this now we are done. We have punished the terrorists. Now we want to stop. But the Pakistanis hit back. Then we again hit back. Then we said, "Let's stop now." Okay, you don't get to save your face, but we're willing to stop. So, we gave them an an offramp, an outlet, you know, every single time. And now, Donald Trump gave them an off-ramp. And these people have blown it. So, it's it's just madness. Madness. Um who who who says there are past records of Pakistanis using Nepal to spread terrorism and potentially setting up safe camps and secret bases there. Could such tactics be used near the end of Pakistan and how can it affect Nepal? Um it's it's happened in the past that Pakistanis have had a presence in Nepal. Maybe most likely not with the actual knowledge and all that of the Nepales government possibly. Yeah. uh and Pakistan is a threat to Nepal. In the in the Helgam attack, one Nepalese citizen very sadly was killed by the Pakistanis because he was a Hindu, right? So Nepal and India have to be united in this matter and uh um they will possibly try to use Pakistan to spread terrorism and and destabilize India. Sorry, they'll use Nepal to destabilize India and spread terror. So Nepal should not allow these terrorists to use Nepalese territory, sacred territory of the Himalayan region of of the Thai region of Nepal to be used for such disgusting nefarious anti- inhuman purposes and we should work with Nepal coord coordinate with Nepal to ensure that this doesn't happen. But yeah, if it's if it's possible for them, they would definitely try and do that. They will want to do that. Surya Pawan says if India wins the war, can Pakistan become an autonomous region within India with a separate constitution like the various republics of Russia, Saka and so on so forth with restricting people migrating from autonomous region. uh that's definitely a scenario that can be considered but I think the safest scenario is that we give independence to the various nations Balojasthan Sinduh uh Khibar Pakuma goes back to Afghanistan and PJK and Gilgit Baltistan returns to India and Punjab can remain West Punjab or whatever I think that's the best scen way of doing it and the reason for this is that the Pakistani education system and the military and all that they have radicalized their people very badly to such an extent that most Pakistani citizens despite being individually good people they all are taught to hate India and to hate Hindus and you can't have that population merging with India now if you make it an autonomous region with India but with a separate constitution but you don't allow the people to to mingle with India to migrate within India and so on it kind of defeats the purpose right then the west and the world can portray that as the occupation of those regions by India as a foreign power. They can portray it like that. We don't want that to happen. So it's an interesting um it's an interesting arrangement that you're proposing but you have to look at the pros and cons. And the biggest con is that if we do it this way then our enemies or adversaries of we don't of which we have plenty they will portray us as occupiers. they're occupying Muslim lands or something, you know, we don't want to be in that scenario, right? Push Mahan Singh says, "Can we say that our air defense system has proven to be stronger and better than the Iron Dome system?" 100%. The Iron Dome. Okay, we haven't opened the map today. Let me open the map and show you something. H Let me show you something. Let's Let's go to the map. Let's uh where is map is here. So let's look at Israel. Israel is this small country H which is defended by the Iron Dome system. Uh what's the end to end distance measurement of Israel? It's about 400 kilometers. So 400 km and this uh to this is 200. So let's say it's about 800 9 let's say a thousand square kilometers. Okay that's the patch of land Israel has to defend. Now when it comes to India we have millions of square kilometers. The entire western border with Pakistan is if you just take a straight line from here to to here let's say it's 1500 kilometers and we have to defend at least 100 km or 200 km inside. So 1,500 times 100 it's like 30 3 million. How much? What is the thing? One second. Okay. Give me a second. Um 1,500 1500 * 200 is 3 million square kilmters at least that we are defending. Hm. When we are defending this this territory from all kinds of of threats, including cruise missiles, including um including uh long range rockets, including ballistic missiles, including drones of various kinds, loitering drones, low-flying drones, all kinds of things. And we have defended this entire terrain territory spotlessly. You simply can't compare what we have achieved with what the Israelis are doing. I have the greatest of respect for Israel and the technology. But our air defense is superior to Israel. My god, can you believe it? This is a great question that pushing asked. What we have witnessed the past 3 days is the superiority of our air defense system to to Israel. There's no comparison today. There's no comparison. I'm sure if Israel is given that sort of territory 3 million square kilometers to defend in a few years they may be able to do that to develop the technology and the capacity to do that. They certainly are capable of doing that but they don't need to. So if we compare the two we are way ahead and a lot of that is atman the Akash SAM system surfaceto-air missile system is indigenous. My god what a resounding success it has been. The Barak system is also indigenous but it's Indo-Israeli. It's a joint development. And the Barak system is used to defend our warships also from threats. The Barak system is so potent it can take out the bramos. It can defend a ship from the Brahmos. So our warships have the cure as well as the threat on the same ship. We have the Brahmos and we also have the Barak. And the barak can be used on land also to defend territory. Amazing. I I I don't know, you know, I really need to express my gratitude and my pride in our engineers and scientists who have developed all these systems and also the operators that is the Indian military, the air defense uh personnel. incredible job. We We need to celebrate these heroes. You have no idea what they've achieved the past 72 hours and now they're going to do some more. Now they're going to have to do more because the Pakistanis have violated the ceasefire. So incredible performance by by India when it comes to air defense. Shivam says Omar Abdullah has tweeted that there is no ceasefire. The air defense units in the middle of Shinagar just opened up. Sirana. Yes, absolutely. It's it's time now. We got to punish them. We've got to punish them. Um Karma Dash says, "You are unaware that war has started again." So I have a TV screen behind this lens. You see this lens here? Behind the lens, I have a TV screen on the wall and I know exactly what's happening. Pakistan has violated the ceasefire. Understanding air raid sirens across Gujarat now. Yeah. Then there are blasts in Shinagar. The ceasefire is gone. The war has started again. Can't blame us anymore if it if it goes back to war. If it goes back to war. It is going back to war. Uh Bharav says from Twitter, when will the MEA do their conference? Now at an appropriate time. There is going to be no hastiness in doing the next press conference. We're going to wait for the situation to evolve and maybe in the morning or maybe afternoon tomorrow at an appropriate time. We will uh have the MEA doing its next press conference. Um okay. So I've already taken this. Eizen is asking why did the IMF agree to give this loan or whatever it is to Pakistan for the 24th time despite the situation? Because the US wants to have some leverage over Pakistan and the best leverage is money money and Donald Trump, Mr. Trump understands money, money, money. Uh what if Pakistan uses MIRV missile for nucing India? Listen, let's not discuss they possibly may have some MIRV kind of thing. The point is this very simple. If they use, if they succeed in detonating a nuclear weapon on Indian territory anywhere, it is the end of the world for Pakistan. We will in that case absorb some loss, but Pakistan will cease to exist. It's not going to be mutually assured destruction. It's going to be one-sided. We will survive. We will continue. But they will be finished. End of story for Pakistan. If they if they go down the nuclear route, let me tell Pakistan, there will be no planes out of Lahore to London. There'll be nothing out of Lahore or Islamabad or Karachi or wherever. It's over. Don't you even think about it. Don't you even think about it. Okay. Vishal says, "What if Trump and Mr. Modi are what if they're playing four-dimensional chess? both have some kind of agreement and all this is to sway other countries in support of India. Look, that's speculation. It is certainly uh possible, feasible within the realm of it. It certainly belongs in the realm of possibility, but it's speculation. So, I don't know. It's possible. Maybe there's a small possibility, small probability of this being true, but I'm not sure about that. So, yeah. Next. Sita says, "Is this a sign of a revolt in the Pakistani army with the new attacks on our LOC? Maybe the Pakistani military wants to dislodge Aim Munir from power and then they can blame this on Aim Mun. But if it ends up if it ends up causing the complete destruction of Pakistan and what's the point so I don't know it's crazy. So once again we have more confirmations that ceasefire has been violated. Rohan is thank very nicely telling us this. So thank you Rohan. They just is asking is Imran Khan dead? So I'm hearing some rumors on on social media that Imran Khan apparently is has died but we don't have confirmation of that. Yeah. So there we have it. I don't know. Simei is saying terrorist attacks are happening now. Okay. I haven't seen that on the screen. I have only one TV channel on but uh okay. So in that case it's it's very clear that the ceasefire is off and war is declared by Pakistan. Okay, let's see. Uh, yeah, ceasefire is is violated. It's done. It's finished. No more no more ceasefire. Uh, I don't know how to read this. I have never learned the serillic script. So, ceasefire is being violated constantly. Will it affect US's credibility more and China can make its propaganda more solid? Oh, this will affect the credibility of Donald J. Trump. Mr. Trump made this smug tweet. Where the tweet? Where is the tweet? Let me let me go back to Twitter. What's the tweet that he put out? Donald Trump. Here it is. Let's let's put that on the screen. Very smug tweet by the US president, Mr. Donald J. Trump. After a long night of talks mediated by the great United States and the great president, I am pleased to announce that the errant school boys India and Pakistan have agreed to a full and immediate ceasefire. Congratulations for both countries on using common sense and great intelligence. Thank you for your attention. Class dismissed. Is that so, Mr. Donald Trump? Is class dismissed? The Pakistanis have slapped you in your face, Donald Trump. You need to punish them. You need to take this personally, President Trump. We have the greatest of respect for you, but the Pakistanis have disrespected you, President Trump. You've got to make them pay for this. It otherwise it will affect your credibility. So there we have it. Okay. Priya Prianjan says ceasefire violation by Pakistan. Does it confirm that Pakistan is a Banana Republic? It confirms that Pakistan cannot be trusted. It can't be trusted by India. It can't be trusted by the United States. It can't be trusted by anybody. The Pakistanis have dug their own grave. I don't know what's actually happening on on the front lines now, but the media is reporting what it's reporting. Uh Munir openly defies Trump. Government holds Pakistan accountable. Okay, let's see about that. Air defense guns are activated. India strikes Pakistani drones over Sinagar. All right. Rahul liar says, "Will the Balojasthan independence movement at present succeed? It all depends on what happens in the next 24 to 48 to 70 72 hours." Uh, yeah, it can succeed. Now, so Goo says, "So, it's now considered to be an act of war." Yes, it is an act of war. In enough of this, Swapnil says, "Why do you call Pakistan an artificial state with no identity or culture of its own?" Good question. Let me this gives me an opportunity to explain this and and unpack this. So, I appreciate this. by swap. Why do I call Pakistan an artificial state? See, in 1947, Pakistan was created by partitioning India. If you look back at the history of India, which goes back, if you look at the archaeological record, at least 10,000 years, the oldest sites of the Sarasatu civilization of that period are 9 and a half thousand years old. And so India has existed continuously as as a continuously existing culture and civilization for about 10,000 years, right? And much of the STANU region was in what is today Pakistan. So that is our territory. That's our ancestral territory. If you are a person whose ancestry is from northern or western India whether it's Kashmir Afghanistan or whether it is Punjab whether it's Hana whether it's Rajasthan Gujarat you Maharashtra or Sind whatever you're going to have ancestors who lived in Syasindu you're going to have ancestors who live in Pakist what is now Pakistan it is our ancestor land it is a sacred land and it's been taken over by these terrorists so it was India was partitioned undemocratically The people of India from from that time our grandparents and great-grandparents were not given the opportunity to decide whether they accept the partition or not. It was imposed upon us. It was forced upon us. So an artificial nation was created. That's why I say Pakistan is an artificial nation. It was created by foreign forces. But they used proxies like Jana and Gandhi and Neu and all that who all accepted that okay the partition is okay. But were they the legitimate authorities to accept on behalf of the entire civilization? They were not. So it was created for the to serve the geopolitical interests of of Britain. And the only identity of that Pakistan has is that we are all Muslims and the only real identity they have is that we reject our ancestral culture. So we are fishing for a new culture somewhere. Oh, maybe we were Arabs. and tur. So they are looking for daddies outside of our geography when they're all our people. So it has no identity of its own. If you look at Turkey, what's their identity? We are Turks. We speak the Turkish language. Our ancestors were from Yeah, there. That's a long story. But if you here's the right way to see it. Take Turkey as an example. If you take religion out of the equation as a factor, then they still have a distinct Turkish culture and language, right? It's distinctly Turkish and the both the culture and the language. If you look at Egypt, if you take away the the religion, then they have the Arabic language, which is kind of a problem because it's not their ancestral language. And the culture is also gone. The Egyptian culture is gone. So that's problem. uh but if you look at Pakistan comparing it with Turkey if you remove the culture the religion out of Pakistan then their language is Indian and all their customs and culture also are Indian and their blood is Indian so their entire identity is in denying who they really are and they try to ape foreign cultures they try to make Turkish culture their own earlier they used to make Arabic culture their own now the Arabs don't like Pakistani so now they're trying to become Turks so that's The thing about Pakistan it's it's terrible you know Mr. ads it says 100% Turkish Turkish blood sar oh man what happened now okay I don't know about that I'm seeing it all over social media all over Indian media uh ceasefire violated I don't know where you're saying where you're seeing that I don't think the army is making any statements right now I don't think the army is going to make statements as a knee-jerk reaction government said ceasefire is over ceasefire violated my god God, what is happening? What is happening? What is happening? Pakist Pakistani media already announced this planned attack by Pakistan 3 hours ago. It was surfacing like now. It has attacked Udampur, Lal Choke and drones everywhere, blackouts everywhere. Oh man. War is back on the table. War is back on the menu. Pakistan. Pakistan. What kind of people are you? Okay. Same. Same at all. says, "I have had this question since yesterday. How will the geopolitics between countries other than other than India and Pakistan play out simultaneously? For now, from what I can see right now, it's a meta war between China and Russia or the US." Right now, everybody wants to stay out of this. Xiinping went to Moscow. He did not stay back in China when while this thing was going on. And the Chinese initially once the first strikes were done of operation by India, the Chinese kind of condemned it saying that it is regrettable or something like that. But they kind of stayed out of it and the US also said that we want to stay out of this thing and so on. So right now everybody is staying out of this and we'll have to see how it goes. So the deal is India needs to ensure that this remains regional. It should not go beyond the Indian subcontinent. As long as it doesn't go beyond the Indian subcontinent, people will stay out of it mostly. Okay. They have broken the ceasefire. Now it's it's very much very much confirmed. very much confirmed it's broken. The ceasefire is gone. Pakistan has a huge amount of debt from China. If India disintegrates Pakistan, what happens to the debt? It's gone. It's over. It's finished. Pakist China can say goodbye to that debt. All right. I am getting a tremendous number of comments right now. Um they have targeted the great temple of Matavishna Devi Dvi in Lal Chalk. AB absolutely barbaric behavior. Unacceptable. They're targeting religious places, shameless people. They need to be punished for this in a way that liberates their people from this nonsense. Okay. Sudita says there are UAVs, unmanned aerial vehicles over Matavishna Devi temple. Oh man, these people. Okay. Rashmi says is China behind this to break the ceasefire by Pakistan because China doesn't want us to win and they are the daddy of Pakistan where they are the daddy of Pakistan. I think this is not about China. I think the Pakistanis have no self-control. I don't think the Pakist even the Chinese can control the Pakistanis. I don't think the Chinese see the Americans try to control the situation. H okay. Um what is this? Okay. Vibore says in the distant future let's say India takes over Pakistan. How will the people of Pakistan emerge with our people? Is it something even we want to do? Not not right now. It should you know right now you cannot integrate the people of Pakistan with our country with our people because they are tremendously radicalized. Okay. And they and they hate us. I would say about 90% of Pakistanis want us dead. If they can kill us they'll kill us. So you cannot integrate Pakistan with India right now. If Pakistan breaks up then we can't integrate the broken up nations with with in India right now. So we have to first have a process of der radicalization several decades and so on. So there we have it that that's what needs to happen. My god the the comments are just flying flying at the speed of light. Trump must be livid by this mockery. Well if he has any sense he should punish Pakistan for what they've done now. They should he should punish Pakistan because this is unacceptable. Uh they are targeting siks and the religious places to enrage sick community against the government on purpose. You see our sick people. They are not stupid. They are not stupid. Most sick people in India are deeply patriotic. They are our people of course. So the Pakistanis have always tried to to play this divide and rule game that they've learned from the British and so on. So yeah, Amisha says Pishaw is under attack now. Well, it's high time. Okay, this unraveled this unraveled in less than an hour. Trump must be livid like like the is saying he should be he should be. We Gen X says what do you think will happen in the next 72 hours? Will Trump again try to announce his fire? Will India listen to him once more? I think it's it's a distinct possibility my friends that by the time the sun is out tomorrow morning India could be in possession of some parts of Puk. Okay. I think it's a distinct possibility. This night is going to be a long night. Forget about 72 hours. What's the time right now in India? It's 10:12. So about 8 hours to go for sunrise. Maybe 7 hours. in 7 hours. My goodness, who knows what will happen. It's it's potent. It's possible that the border will change by tomorrow morning and and I think Trump should let it let this happen. Uh Vidi says, "Will Mr. Modi undo the mistake of British agent Neu and declare Balojasthan Indian territory? If no and why we are the same civilization when Balo gets independent soon." See, we are the same people. We are the same blood. The Balo people are very similar to to the to all the other people of western India. Same blood. No question about it. But please understand this my dear Indian friends and and everybody else. Blood doesn't matter. If blood mattered my friends then Greece and Turkey would never be at war. Do you have any idea how much they fought in the past? Greece and Turkey are the same blood. The Turkish people, 99% of Turkish people are converted Greeks. If blood mattered, then the Turks would not want death to the Greeks to the Greek people today. But they want Greece to cease existing. They want Greece to Greece to stop existing. Similarly, today the people of Pakistan, they may they may be my blood, my relatives, far away, distant relatives, but they want us dead. Most of them, I'm not saying all of them want us dead. Some of them are nice people. I even have some Pakistani viewers sometimes and I I wish them well. I have nothing against them. But the truth is most of them wish us dead. Maybe 90% of Pakistan's population wants us dead. So then what do I do with the fact that they are my relatives, distant relatives in same blood. What's the point? They are not our civilization. We are not the same civilization. Civilization is based on culture. They have chosen a different culture for themselves. We don't wish anybody dead but they wish us dead. So I don't care if they are the same blood as me. I will defend myself and my people, my country. And that's what Mr. Modi is doing. So Baljasthan probably will not be declared an Indian territory once it becomes independent and once Pakistan is is broken up. It should be declared independent. It should be declared an Indian protectorate and so on. There we have it. Sorab says infiltration of terrorists in Jammu. Really? Really? Is that what what these guys want? My god. My god. It's over. It's over for Pakistan. Dharma says, "Why did the Chindu aircraft corporation stock price shoot up and the salt stock price fall in the last two days? Does it mean that we have lost a few Rafal to Chinese fighters? Is Karan Tapar right? Karan Tapar is a disgrace. Let me say that openly. Karan Tapar is a disgrace. I have no respect for that individual. Now about the Changdu I've seen I've not actually gone and seen the stock prices myself. The media is reporting this that whatever. Listen, have we do we have a single piece of evidence of a Rafal jet which was shot down or an India Indian fighter plane which was shot down? Do you think that in today's day and age where everybody has one of these things in their in their pocket? Do you think you can hide it? If an Indian fighter plane would have gone down in in in Pakistani territory, it would have been all over social media, all over the Pakistani media, all over CNN, all over everywhere else. If an Indian fighter plane went down in Indian territory, India has millions of people. They would have taken pictures. They would have come out. You can't stop that. You cannot stop that. Nothing has happened. We have lost no Rafals. Okay. So, I don't know these stock prices, they are affected by rumors. Do you understand that they are affected by rumors? Right now, I would like to see the stock prices of of the Chinese weapons manufacturers. H that the who which is the company that manufactures those Chinese radars and those Chinese air defense systems and those Chinese missiles that don't explode the Chinese they have been humiliated along with the Pakistanis right so please don't give so much credence to rumors okay it's not a it's not a good practice now okay let's see Tushar says by do you I think by providing loans to PO Pakistan by IMF they may so I've already taken this question so I'll take it now but I'm just telling you I've already answered the question like at least twice. Uh Aloo says do we have a Pakistani pilot or not? Look uh I am not the right person to answer that question. Uh we may or may not have a a Pakistani pilot or multiple Pakistani pilots. The government has not made any announcements or statements. Uh I've heard credible sources very credible sources say that multiple fighter planes of Pakistan came down in Indian territory um etc. But uh look I'll not speculate okay now what did I just see a million comments flying around so I'm not able to latch on to a comment. Okay I'll just take the latest comment whatever it is everyone. everyone. Okay, what do we have? Um, are we taking Lahore in the next 10 days? I would love to. I would love to, but I think we will focus on P actually. Uh, of course taking Lahore would be would be great. I don't have anything against that. It is one of our ancient great cities. It is especially significant when it comes to the history of the Sikh Kingdom Sik Empire. It was the capital city of Maharaja of the great Maharaja Ranjit Singh and Lahore should never have been given to Pakistan. So I would love to have Lahore again but do we want that population the radicalized population in India? That's the question my friends. So maybe it's not the best time to have Lahore but I would love to have it other anyway just for purely sentimental reasons. It's one of our great cities. Um, okay. Lalai Chuti Yash says, "Why doesn't the world end the UN especially?" Um, after why doesn't the world end the UN after the Russia Ukan war? This is off topic, but let me take it because I I my I clicked on that. Uh, okay. So, uh, because there are certain powers like the US, like China, etc., which still have some use for the UN, you know. So that's why they will not uh let it go. The UN is obsolete. The UN doesn't do any good to the for the world. The UN doesn't provide any value to the world. The UN is not in a position to stop Pakistan from doing terrorism. The UN is not in a position or it is unwilling to stop Pakistan from indulging in terrorism. The US is unwilling. The UN is unwilling to stop Pakistan from violating a ceasefire. It's absolutely useless. But the US then China and some other nations have some use for it. That's why they keep it going. Okay. Uh Shashir says the US should punish Pakistan by canceling their IMF loan. I think forget about the IMF loan and forget about the US. What we should do is we should consider what we can do to punish Pakistan to we should not depend on others to to dish out punishment to Pakistan. It is now time for us to dish out the punishment. You want that IMF loan, enjoy it. You will enjoy it without PK. you you will and you can use that that loan to rebuild to rebuild whatever we're going to destroy in the next 24 hours or or not whatever. So this is it now this has to be it. This is is disrespectful to the United States. It's disrespectful to India. It's dis disrespectful to President Trump. It's disrespectful to the people of India to Prime Minister Modi. Unacceptable. This the Pakistanis have proven within 1 hour of the ceasefire announcement that they cannot be trusted. Now they have to be eliminated eliminated. Uh hermit purple says they are so cooked. India low estimate 17 billion per day high estimate something per day. Uh okay some some statistics I'm not able to figure out what exactly it is but u okay I I'll I'll think about it later on but thank you for pointing out the statistics I really appreciate that okay Sunita says Nagotaa intense terror activities happening right now I think Pakistan has signed its death sentence let us execute that let's execute that What Adita says two beheadings in Naga. Okay, this is it. You cannot forgive these people anymore. This has to end now. My god. This has to end now. It will be a different world tomorrow morning, I think. Unacceptable. Unacceptable. This is unacceptable. I have I am usually not a very emotional person. I I know how to control my emotions, but I'm Yeah, this is unacceptable. Uh this is a historical question. We'll take it some other time. My god. So many ceasefires. My god. My god. Okay, that's enough. That's that's that's enough now. Um okay. Goyel says, "Why is the government not giving any briefings on the latest updates?" I would say that there's a good reason for that. When the situation is so fluid, when it's changing every five minutes, then the government should the government is is a responsible government. It should wait and watch and once the situation stabilizes or once we stabilize the situation, then we should have some kind of briefing to the world and to our people. So, I think u it's the right thing not to just do knee-jerk reactions, not to not to do knee-jerk reactions. Hersha says, "Please tell us what you're feeling right now. I am feeling multiple emotions. I'm first of all extremely angry. If that beheading news is true, that that that is unacceptable and there is no forgiving that. And the fact that they are launching drones again at us and siren sounding in Gujarat in Bhuj and blasts over shinagar you you can't forgive these people anymore says Jan from Nepal J Nepal also my dear friends my dear friends we are the same people and we we really appreciate Nepal also for everything and and we are very sorry about what happened in in Balgam one Nepalese citizen died. I'm very sorry about that. Terrible. And we will avenge the Nepalese citizen. We will. All right. Um Kapalin says a blast was heard in Peshawar. Okay. All right. It's it's it's it's back on. It's on. All right. Arnav says, "Uh, what's your broad vision for the future about the future of the temporary nation? Will it cease to exist by 2031? I think it's there. I think there's a 50% probability that the map will be different tomorrow morning. I think there's a 80% probability that if it is not different by tomorrow morning, it will be different by by the time 72 hours are out from today from right now. So that's it. I I don't have any broad vision for the future of the temporary nation. Done. Done. This is it. This is the end of Pakistan. This has to be the end of Pakistan. We will never get another opportunity like this. You know, you cannot just do a war when you feel like it. There have to be just causes for war. And we have been given the just cause for war. If we don't take it now, when will we take it? That's it. It's done. Uh Russia takes over Ukraine, China takes over Taiwan, India takes over PK. Is there a deal as such? Would be nice if it was so simple. It sounds very very you know like a very nice pattern very symmetrical but I don't think it's like that. I don't think it's like that. Namaste Marasha says can you please say what's the Nagot be beheading? It seems to have happened after I started the live stream and I'm not I'm not I don't know what it is. So I won't be able to tell you what's happening in real time. I'm I'm getting the news on from the live chat over here right now from what you from what you all are putting on the live chat. I'm I'm getting news from that. So, so I I don't know but let's see now. Let's see. Um Arshia Agarwal says did Pakistan break the ceasefire to provoke or because it feels backed into a corner. I think the Pakistani military is is feeling absolutely utterly humiliated by India and they feel like the people of Pakistan will think that these people are no longer legitimate rulers of Pakistan and that's why they're doing this. Uh KD says third course Bal Bhalpur being attacked by drones. Well, make them the zerooth course core. Wipe them out. Enough enough of this. Um Rahul says ceasefire has already been violated by Pakistan. They have struck multiple missiles into India. Why would they do this? What do they have to gain? I think they they have to show their people that we are capable of of hurting India otherwise we are no longer legitimate. So that's what um okay where was this uh unacceptable absolutely unacceptable I completely agree with you. Uh Abdullah says Pakistan P to take it back at the cost of any amount of pain. I would agree with my friend Abdullah over here. We have to take it back. Enough is enough. I completely agree with you. Um Chiag says, "What should the local Indian public do to actually win the narrative war internationally? Can we play a role without being at the border?" Absolutely. Look, you all have a cell phone or whatever. You all are on social media. every day spend just five minutes a day reminding the world that Pakistan is the nation that hired that that harbored Usama bin Laden. They are the nation that created the Taliban. They are the nation whose citizens flew aircraft, hijacked aircraft into World Trade Center towers. They are the nation that has bled Pak that has bled Afghanistan, that has bled India, that that has bled Iran, that bleeds everybody. They are a terrorist nation. Remind them every single day. Take five minutes a day. We have 1.4 billion people. If even if even onetenth of us, 170 million of us spend 5 minutes a day doing this every day on social media, the world won't be able to ignore it. The Pakistanis won't be able to counter us. So that's what we need to do. So be internet warriors for India. Everybody can pull their weight in this manner. All right. Um, okay. Two edited NRS says, "You answered us the other day about Pakistan's 10 days or minus 2 days of remaining munitions. Does the ceasefire advantage them and let them reload? Yes, it does. If they had taken, let's say, 5 days off before starting this nonsense again, then maybe the Turks could have supplied them with with more drones or maybe the Chinese would have supplied them with more whatever." Yeah. But it looks like no madness. Madness. Absolutely madness. Okay. Aryan Singh says, "Pakistan PM latest tweet is confusing. Please look into it." Let me see. What's his name? Shabba Sharif. Shah Baz Sharif. Let me see what this individual has tweeted. Uh, okay. Let's see. Let's put this on the tree on the screen. Let's put this on the screen. Is it confusing? Shabbaz Sharif, Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan says, "We thank President Trump for his leadership in his proactive role in for peace in the region. Pakistan's Pakistan appreciates the United States for facilitating this outcome which we have accepted in the interest of regional peace and stability. We also thank Vice President JD Vance and Secretary of State Marco Rubio for their valuable contributions for peace in South Asia. Pakistan believes that this marks a new beginning in the resolution of issues that have plagued the region and prevented its journey towards peace, prosperity and stability. That's what he has said. Now let's see what's trending here. Let's see what's trending if it loads. Breaking shooting this live drone engagement over Shiningar with my phone right now. Big Pakistan drone attack over Shinagar. It's broken. The ceasefire has been broken. Pakistan has immediately broken the ceasefire. So Vizad is saying Pakistan has launched suicide drones against targets in Jammu breaking the fresh ceasefire. So Mr. Shabbaz Sharif they have betrayed you. So the Pakistani military has betrayed their own prime minister. They have they have slapped President Donald Trump in his face. They have proven to the people of India that they cannot be trusted. Now what do you expect us to do? What do you expect our prime minister do? Do does the world expect our prime minister to just accept this? H I just don't get it. It's not going to work now. This is it. Rhythm Takur says, "How hard?" Oh, vampire. How hard would our retaliation be now? I think it will be all the way like like like Damon Salvatore or Stefan Salvatore the Ripper. It'll be all the way. It's It's over. It's over. This This can only end one way now. My god. What have the Pakistanis done? What have they done? Okay. Ata says, "What's the single most critical event post which the conflict might might go nuclear? What would induce the Pakistanis to to to breach the nuclear option?" um what would induce them to do that? I think they would be very very very very wary of breaching the nuclear option. I don't know. I don't know what goes on in their minds. Okay. I don't know. Our our army or military or government has a pretty good idea of how their mind works. I'm not quite sure what it is. uh when you do something as irrational as as as spurning this great gift that you got then I I don't know how your mind works. You can't predict you know what could they could do logically but uh we have to punish them. So if there is a situation in which our armed forces feel that you know there could be a potential possibility of Pakistan trying something like this then we have to take appropriate steps to prevent that from happening and I'm sure trust me I'm sure we have contingency measures planned which is called preemptive measures okay to take out uh a nuclear threat before it becomes active. All right, let's see. The mighty warrior says, "Could this all be a trap? Can can this be a trap? Pakistan, Bangladesh, China and their eyes on our, as they call it, landlocked states, a multiffront war. Can could the US be involved? Could Russia come against China?" Okay. Um, a multiffront war. My question is this. Let's say it's a trap. Let's say it's a trap and India gets involved in a multiffront war. What sort of multiffront war will it be? Let's say East Pakistan, West Pakistan are both involved. Is that a big threat for us? We can deal with both of them at the same time on two sides of our border. They are not threats. The only threat is if China gets involved, but it's not that easy for China to get involved because we have the Himalayas up there. It's not easy for them to make an incursion into India. And this time we are very well prepared. uh and by the time China actually tries something properly, we could have dealt with Pakistan east and west Pakistan both at the same time. And then the question arises, what does Russia do? Russia will want to stay neutral and they would want India to win for their own selfish reasons and other reasons. And the US would not want India to be weakened because they need India against China. So I don't think it's going to work that way. I don't think it's going to work that way. Chitra says, "Do do the Pakistanis have the words the the term self-control in their dictionary?" Looks like they have absolutely no self-control whatsoever and they seem to have decided that we want to dig our own grave. So, well, let them have it. Anudipa says, "Does why does Israel support India so openly and in an outright way? Do they have some interest like others or is it legit?" Look, everybody, every nation acts in its own self-interest. Whatever action a nation takes, it's going to be in the service and in the pursuit of its own national interest. And that's the way it should be. There is nothing wrong with that. And if two nations are in such a position that their national interests converge, then there is a great amount of synergy between the two nations and the nations then are essentially considered to be friends. So that's how it works in geopolitics. There is no free lunch. There is no nothing like that. Nothing like that. It's all about national self-interest and that's the way it should be. That way you can reliably predict what a nation will do and you can reliably tell whether a nation can be trusted as your friend or not. So it's fine and Israel and India have a lot of convergence of interests which is great and I really like that. Uh says, "Is all of this done to release Imran Khan early by certain people who support Imran Khan in the army?" I don't think it's that. I don't think it's that. Uh Amisha says, "Two civilians and one soldier are dead." Well, then let let the Pakistanis be punished for that. Unacceptable. Uh Vidi says, "What will happen after Pakistan loses? We will not have a threat from their elements external and internal." Once Pakistan is dealt with my friends and this is a great question Vidy Vidi has asked an important question once this military action is done and once Pakistan the threat is is is defanged neutralized then we have other problems to deal with within India within Bhat we have a 100 million illegal infiltrators inside India from various nationalities when we revoke the visas of all Pakistanis tens of thousands of Pakistan is staying illegally in India that came to light. Women from Pakistan who had married Indians and who are staying since 1960s and 1970s and have have children in India. How is this acceptable? What kind of a joke is this country? So that will have to be dealt with. Then I think 100 million possibly illegal Bangladeshes all across India in your face blatantly openly in your in your face that will have to be dealt with and then the far east of India the cookies the is this country a joke that we have so many illegal infiltrators here once we dealt once we once we deal with Pakistan we're going to have to deal with these things and it will be the right time possibly to do that after this great victory So let us have the victory first. The Pakistanis have given us Kasus bellai you know the the uh the cause the right a just cause for war. Anie Ed says now India needs to do tand and end it. What do you think? I I think you're right. India will never get another opportunity like this. This is the time. This is the time to finish Pakistan once and for all. We will never have another opportunity. Um, Sauturu Goojo, what is the most powerful missile in the world? It depends, right? U do you mean how longest range, greatest payload output and so on? The most powerful, the most dangerous missiles in the world will be missiles that have nuclear warheads and then there are multiple variations of that including missiles that have MIV capability in which case you have one missile with like 10 warheads. So those are even more dangerous and so on. So you know one of the most powerful missiles is considered to be the Russian Sarmat missile. It's called Satan or something by the west or something. So maybe that's the one. US advisory has said that we are out of this India Pakistan case. Then Trump came to launch ceasefire. Is the US secret members forces Trump for that? I look I can't I I can't speculate about that. Right. I don't know. Uh the US first said yeah like you said that they are staying out of it and then Trump comes in the way to show how great he is and now the Pakistanis insult Trump. They make him look like a fool. I didn't make him look like a fool. Our country did not do that. We respected Trump. The Pakistanis have disrespected him. He needs to take it out on Pakistan. Take it out on Pakistan. Anish Misha says Indian drones have been reportedly spotted in Pakistan. So what do the Pakistanis expect? Huh? They will violate the ceasefire and then they will not expect Indian drones in Pakistan. Are these people absolutely mad or what? Abishek says Pakistan has violated the ceasefire. Yeah. Now do you think that India will retaliate? India will be the world's stupidest country if we don't take advantage of this and finish Pakistan off. I would want to see the Indian army in PK by tomorrow morning if it's possible. I think it's possible very much possible. Shhat says China has invol has announced full support to Pakistan. What now? What now? We should say thank you to China for showing us your true face and and to help with you. Uh we should remain polite on a live stream, right? To hell with you and we're going to do what we need to do. Uh Anime says, "Is Imran Khan dead?" I don't know. I don't know. Uh there have been rumors since yesterday or day before that uh he's dead, but I don't know. So we will know eventually once the the once the dust once the dust falls once once the dust settles we'll know whether he's dead or not. I think we can go to Lahour and find out for ourselves. Right. Uh Syan say Saha says how much of our air defense resources have been exhausted over the past 4 days. I think we would have sufficient resources to last I don't know a month or two. So some of them would obviously uh have been used up but I am pretty sure we would have more than sufficient resources to to last a long war and to ensure that you know Pak Pakistan runs out of all resources. So let's not worry about that. We we are fine. We we are very much fine. Um Kashmir CM says attack happened whereas TV channels quoting army sources say no ceasefire happened. I can see ceasefire has been violated. I don't know which channels are saying what. It doesn't matter. The Kashmir CM I think he is a more credible source than some random TV channel and I can see the live coverage of the of the of the anti- aircraft firing happening and drones flying in the air and anti- all that. So it's done. It's done. Okay. Now, okay. Immune boy says, "I've been surfing through Twitter lately and I see a very manipulated image of India in the eyes of the so-called woke western dummies. Why are we so hated? Even it's clear and so on." They hate us for various reasons. Okay. One reason is that we are a polytheistic nation. It's a cultural thing. They don't like it. We have never converted like everybody else. We still are proud polytheists. We are the world's oldest civilization. They have not been able to break us. That's one thing. Another thing is that we are very we we we we were under British occupation for 250 years and we have still not died out. We have still not been destroyed and we are again rising. How dare we rise again? They hate that. You know there's this saying that you should stay don't don't get off the don't get off the reservation. Stay in your lane. All that and we are getting off the reservation. We are not staying in our lane. We are making our own lanes. They hate it. That's why. So that's why there's this this thing this image. Okay. Um Amarinda Dh says if India takes some part of Pakistan will it dilute the unity and cause chaos in the in India's terrorists will have access to all cities. We have to be very judicious about this. We have to take back only PK not the whole of Pakistan. And when we take back P, we have to quarantine the population for some time and we'll have to do it very judiciously. I'm sure all the plans are in place. So we will have to be very careful because you are right the people the the citizens of these places these regions are all radicalized and they all hate us. The overwhelming majority of these people Pakistanis hate us. You know it is it is so naive to say that we are the same people and most Pakistanis have no problem with India. It's so naive. Dear Pakistani brothers and sisters, I know most of you want us dead. 90% of you want us dead. I know that. If you get a chance, you'll kill us. So let us not delude ourselves into believing that the two nations love each other and it's only politicians who have come in the way. No, it is much deeper than that. So, we will see about that. All right. All right. All right. So, what else do we have? Uh, Deutschand Warrior 2.0 says, "How is India sovereign if India and the US have billions of illegal immigrants?" I think only Russia, China, and maybe Israel are the only three sovereign countries in the world. So, so look, India is not sovereign. I know that we have illegal immigrants. The US has illegal immigrants. Does it make the US a non-s sovereign nation? The US can deport each and every illegal immigrant if they want to. It was the Biden regime's policy to bring in illegals, to change the demographics and to have more voters, illegal voters. So that's not a loss of sovereignty. That's a state policy. Understand that? Now we also have millions of illegal immigrants. We must have the highest proportion of illegal immigrants of any nation in the world. Yes. But we still even today if tomorrow the government decides we'll throw them all out. There is nothing those 100 million can do. They can cross some low and order problems for some time but they can be dealt with by the state which means we are sovereign. It's only if we are helpless and even if we want to throw them out we can't throw them out that then it's a problem. So that's that's where we have it. Um all right what next do we have? Let's take some other questions. Um okay utkar says what about turkeys backstabbing even India helped them during the earthquake. Uh right so uh the the thing is this one second let me see something I saw something interesting. [Music] Um all right the questions are coming in just thick and fast. Anyway the question is what about Turkey? Turkey. Yeah Turkey I'm not surprised with what the Turks have done. Not surprised at all. So we helped Turkey when they were in need. They had these the series of devastating earthquakes. When was it last year or whenever it was a series of devastating earthquakes and we sent teams of Indian doctors and rescue personnel and we sent supplies to Turkey, medical supplies, other supplies and so on to the people of to help the people of Turkey unconditionally. We help them from the goodness of our heart. And what does the government of Turkey do in return? They help Pakistan. They stand with the terrorist nation. Erdogan Erdogan puts out a tweet saying that we stand with the brotherly people of Pakistan. It's because Pakistan and Turkey are essentially the same kind of people, the same kind of nation, criminal nations. Both nations lack a history. Instead of a history, both nations have a criminal record. So there we have it. So Indians, my dear friends, my dear Indian friends, brothers and sisters, please remember, don't forget the role that Turkey has played in this matter, right? They have supported our enemies. Imagine that. H um Arjun Nay says the fight that we have been fighting for so long is physical but the problem is the ideology also, right? How do we fix that? You fix that slowly. An ideological thing or a cultural thing cannot be fixed overnight. That takes time. Which is why we cannot reabsorb Balojasthan or Sindra or or anything else immediately. We're going to have to have a slow process of dradicalizing the people which has to be done by by reform by by by changing the education system and and removing the influence of certain ideologies and so on. That takes time. That takes time. The Chinese have been trying to do that to Tibet for decades. They still haven't succeeded completely. They have been doing it very forcibly with full control over Tibet. They still haven't s succeeded until now. They took Tibet in the 1950s. That's more than almost 80 years ago. They still haven't been able to sinize the Tibetan people. So, it takes time. Please understand that. All right. Let's see some more questions. Um Aditi says the terrorists came disguised as our army soldiers. Well, that's I think something they did uh during the the the Pahelgam attack as well, right? The Pahelgam massacre. They came dressed as army soldiers. Standard Pakistani practice. Standard Pakistani practice. Shameless people. Okay. Arian says Pakistani drones in Sinagar. Okay. So what happens now? Uh foreign secretary Vikram Mishi is going to put out a video message shortly. Okay. We'll see about that. We'll see about that. Deutschan Warrior says, "Why did Indian air defense system fail for not being able to take Indian territory from Pakistani attacks through Turkish drones and training missiles? What on earth are you talking about? The Indian air defense system failed? What are you talking about? I I think you're living in a in a different universe. We the air defense system has performed spectacularly. Last night they they they launched a ballistic missile at New Delhi. We took it out. We took out hundreds of drones. We took out hundreds of missiles. They have tried their best to hit more than 25 Indian cities. How many cities have been hit? What are you talking about? Okay. Um, Antari says, "If World War II begins in a few months after India, Pakistan, which countries do you think will form the teams? What will the aftermath of the war?" Complete speculation. I am sorry I can't answer that question. Um, what will the US and Donald Trump do now? I think they may try to again have another ceasefire or or or or to have ceasefire version two possibly or maybe Donald Trump gets angry and he will stop. I don't know. We'll see. We'll see about that. We'll see about that. All right. Um Okay. So many questions, man. I'm I'm not able to pick a question. It's disappearing. Okay. Look what is this. Vignesh says a Pakistan geospatial agency has partnered with a private US geospatial agency and high resolution images of Pahelgam were purchased 3 months before April 22. Uncle's handprint all over it. Check the article. Uncle as in Uncle Sam. Yeah, it's possible. You see these I I I am aware of some some such article that came out. I haven't read yet but it looks like they were doing proper background research on pahela and this was all very well planned and thought out. So yeah interesting now okay animeish says tribute to Manohar Parikar for getting us S400 in Rafal thoughts. Manohar Parikar was a great man. He did so much to bolster our defenses make us more Atman. make us more even if not at completely go in the direction and he ensure that we purchase the right weapons systems. So yes, absolutely tribute to him. Even when he was on his on his on his la in his last days when he was about I mean you know when he was terminally ill even then he was working towards this. So really great man. We should uh be grateful to this for for what he did. Okay. Now what else do we have? What is going on? uh US and China start talks on easing trade. Is there any connection? I don't know. We'll see. We'll see. It's too early to to see to think if there's a connection between the US China thing and what's happening here. Essentially, everything is interconnected. But is the latest ceasefire violation and the the the end of the ceasefire something to do with China? I'm not sure. Uh all right. Okay. Um why is Molana so obsessed with face saving? Even by defying okay Arshra Ash Dogra even by defying US's intervention I don't know it's madness madness or maybe the Chinese are asking him to do it. I don't know if if the Chinese are paying him more money then maybe he'll do what the Chinese say. Possible. Bobby Bobby good to see you again sir. Is this just a distraction for something else? It's always a possibility that this is a distraction for something else. But what it could it be a distraction for that is the question. In case this is true what you are saying. So we'll have to see. We'll have to wait and watch and as more information comes out in the public domain, we'll be able to see see whether it was a distraction for something else. All right. We'll see about that. Amisha says Ajit Dwal and Chinese foreign minister hold talks. All right. There's no harm talking to everybody. We'll see. Proud Indian says is it a Chinese strategy to strategy to make India engage in war so that foreign goods manufacturers brought back are brought back to China. It it could be see it could be that way. See the Chinese will certainly benefit if this situation drags on for months. If Pakistan becomes India's Ukraine, it will be great for China. But if this situation is over in the next 10 days and then Pakistan no longer exists, then the neighborhood becomes super stable and that's the worst possible thing for China. So the the Chinese would love to have the situation go on forever and it is in our interest to put an end to this on our own without depending on the US or somebody else. So yeah, if this continues, it's great for China and it'll be bad for India. So we have to act decisively now. That's what we need to do. Uh Hersh Johan says MEA briefing in a short time. All right, we'll see about that. We'll see about that. Then we will have some more information as to what happens. Now, now what do we have? Um okay, Sergeant Skylin says India has Russian arms. is are these Russian weapons superior to the Chinese arms that Pakistan has? I heard that Russia did not want to sell the S400 to China. Well, the Chinese also have the S400 and the Chinese would have really wanted Russia not to sell the S400 to India. But and I'm sure that privately they must have applied pressure on Russia to not sell the S400 to India. Clearly the Russians resisted the Chinese pressure and sold the S400 to India. All right. So u the S400 I think it's one of the best air defense systems in the world. And then coming to the other part of your question, India has Russian arms and the Chinese the Pakistanis have Chinese weapons. I think Russian weapons are superior to Chinese weapons. They are they're superior. So whatever weapon systems we have, we have a milange, a mix of various kinds of weapon systems. We have the French fighter plane Raval, we have the French Mirage, we have the Sukoy 30 MKI which is the Russian system. Um we have the MiG 21s which is Russian. We used to have the Mig whatever Foxbat which is now retired which is again Russian. We have the Tajas which is mostly Indian. Then we have guns bow force guns which are Swedish. We have other guns that are Indian. We have the Akash system that is Indian with the Barak which is Indo Israeli I can go on forever. So we have a milange a mix of things. Um and overall it's it's superior to what the Pakistanis have. So that's great. I think Vikram Misri our foreign secretary is now uh giving some kind of a statement. We will see. I'm sure my viewers will let me know what [Music] happened. Okay. What what what else do we have? Animeish says, "Will we have a live stream tomorrow?" Yes, we will have a live stream tomorrow. Same time, 8:00 p.m. tomorrow. I'll do that for sure. For sure. Uh, so yes, Anime, we will do a live stream tomorrow. Dave Converse says, "What are the possible ends end states of this situation?" Okay, let us consider the scenarios. What can happen? We had a ceasefire. We had agreed to the ceasefire under US pressure. Let's say now the ceasefire has been violated. The question is what happens now? One scenario is that President Trump again pressurizes us to take the ceasefire and we give into that. That is not a good option for India. Second option is we continue the war. In case we continue the war, we have to achieve our geopolitical objectives. Which means we have to take back P and we have to completely we have to inflict a permanent defeat on Pakistan. A comprehensive military and political defeat in Pakistan and that defeat should be such that it will cause the end of the Pakistani military and the dissolution of Pakistan. That is what needs to happen. So I think the best possible scenario right now in the next 72 hours is that we take back PK. The worst possible scenario is that we again agree to another another ceasefire which uh would would would be bad. Uh so we will see we will see I think Mr. Vikram Misri our our foreign secretary probably is saying is making a statement right now. Uh he says that the Indian forces have been given orders to respond strongly to Pakistani violations of the ceasefire. Apparently that's what he says and we'll see and we'll see what happens. So ceasefire violations are happening and the government seems to be holding Pakistan accountable. It's been a very brief statement. So we will see about that and uh I let's see I I'll keep an eye on this thing. Okay. Uh Anjali says is it possible that China or the US was only involved in breaking the ceasefire? is that so it's so weird that the US said it's none of their business and then they are stepping in and then the ceasefire is broken in a few hours. It's it's see the US always does this. When you are a super powerful nation, you can change your mind at a moment's notice. Others will call it hypocrisy and they'll say we we can do it. So we why do we do it? Because we can. Chinghan is to say why do I conquer? Because I can. That sort of thing. So uh it is the privilege of the powerful to be able to act in a hypoc hypocritical manner. Uh so yesterday JD van says it's none none of our business. Today Trump says I make it my business and he imposes a ceasefire on us. Um so it's not weird it's to be expected. The US will always behave like this and we are not that powerful that they can say no to them at this point in time. Uh now is the the other question is is it possible that China or the US was involved in breaking the ceasefire? Look the US wants a ceasefire. They want Pakistan to continue to exist so that they can have some leverage over India. So it is not in the US's interest for the ceasefire to be broken but maybe it's in China's interest if they they calculate that this could be become India's uh Ukraine kind of situation or something. So I think more than the US it is more likely that maybe China would have induced Pakistan to break the ceasefire possibly but we are only speculating at this point in time but it's an interesting question. Interesting question. Okay. Now, um, Luffy uh, Luffy say, "Okay, first of all, welcome to our new member. I really appreciate that, Parvakumar. I never ever ask anybody to become a member, but some people still do that. So, I really, really appreciate that. Thank you so much. Thank you so much." Now, there was this question by LA. What is Pakistani military smoking? I have no idea what they're smoking. Maybe it's very strong Afghan stuff, hashish or something. I don't know. Crazy. completely irrational behavior. Okay. Geopolitical dub says the Chinese missile will be recovered. We have recovered a Chinese missile. Yes. So do you think the CCP will be worried about it? It's obviously bad for the CCP for the Chinese Communist Party because their technology is now exposed and we will be able to study it thoroughly. Clearly, it's not great technology, but I'm sure there is something we can learn from that. Yeah. What sort of seeker do they does the missile have and and so on. So yeah, they they'll be worried and concerned. And the bigger concern is that we will now uh share that with the United States. So Omaker says, "Can Pakistan get the S400 from Turkey?" I don't think that's possible. Um I'm sure the Russians have some safeguards in the S400. I'm sure they have some safeguards. And even if the Turks sell it to Tur to to ch to Pakistan, they'll have to provide training and all that. You know the S100 is an extraordinarily complicated system. You need a certain amount of IQ to be able to operate that. It's very complex. I'm sure the Pakistanis are also as intelligent as us. It's not we're the same people genetically but um you know to impart the training and all it's very difficult. So I think it's it's unlikely that that Pakistan can get it from Turk. Now let us see let us see let us see. Mr. says they can't afford it to sell it to uh Pakistan. Maybe, maybe. Okay. I don't know. Sod Kore says, "Is Imran Khan killed? If he gets killed, will there be a civil war?" I think if Iran Khan is eliminated by the ISI or the military, then there could be a civil war in Pakistan. But is he I mean this this rumor is circulating on social media for the past 2 to three days. I am not sure if that is true, if that is the case. So, uh so I can't answer your question because I don't have the information. But yeah, it's important to keep an eye on the the Immran Khan situation. So all of us we can do that. Okay. Aditya says our minister said that that Pakistan has violated the ceasefire. Yeah, that's it. That is it. Now we do what what needs to be done. Yeah. M Mr. Msri has said that Pakistan has violated the ceasefire agreement. Um and we have given free hand to our forces to retaliate in the appropriate manner. to respond strongly. We have ordered our forces to respond strongly. Um, okay. This is completely we will not take this question right now. Uh, wait. What do we have? What else? Okay. Uh, what other questions do we have? I think we have gone way past 3 hours now. So maybe we should Okay. Samarad says India's safety and security is paramount. India's safety and security are an integral component of India's national interest and India's national interest always must be paramount for India and the only guiding factor in our actions and the choices we make should be what is the right course of action considering our national interest. Absolutely right. So there we have it. Uh Mayor says is Pakistan capable and will it try to attack central cities other than near border uh like various cities is it a concern we should be prepared for all scenarios and I promise you we are prepared for all scenarios so so don't worry too much don't worry too much gurov says if India takes back PK how will Pakistan occupied Kashmir citizens be reabsorbed are they also not radical it'll be difficult but we'll have to find some way of doing it but at least we We have to take back PK because otherwise the Pakistanis can keep claiming that the Kashmir issue exists. There there's something called the Kashmir issue. There is no Kashmir issue. This a Pakistan issue. So we have to take back P to end this nonsense of the so-called Kashmir so-called Kashmir dispute. Uh right. So now some people are saying what are they saying? One second. One second. Where is it? Where is it? Okay. Sum says it we just did an MEA conference which made us look weak. Look, look people look when the government makes statements h we have to be very careful to tell the world that you know what we are doing our best to have peace. We really really want this ceasefire. Please Pakistan please please understand we want this ceasefire. We have to say this. Please understand my dear friends that statements that are made verbally are not the same as actions on the ground and it is very important to make the right statements so that we can take certain actions. So if we tell the world that we have tried over and over and over again for a ceasefire h and then eventually we go and take P then we can tell the world we tried our best. We tried so many times but these people didn't give us the opportunity. But if we make a very strong aggressive press conference then the world can paint us as the aggressors. Please understand this. Please please have a little maturity my friends. All right. Okay. Um so please take the statements that are made diplomatically with a few grains of salt. Please understand there are multiple considerations and multiple layers here. Sangeit is very upset. Historical blunder. Wait, wait, wait. Have some patience. Let let's wait and watch. Um, Pragal says, "Is this not enough to declare war?" Yeah, we will. We will declare war when the right time is is going to come. Maybe at 2:00 a.m. in the morning or something like that. We'll see about that. We'll see about that. Um, we shot down an F-16 aircraft. Can we examine its engine? of we can examine whatever is available to at our disposal. If it's not completely damaged, we can examine the engine. We can do something about it, right? But the government hasn't officially announced that we have taken down F-16s. We don't want to um um you know, we we we want to be considerate about the feelings of our American friends and we don't want to embarrass them. So, so yeah. So, Nihar says India hasn't called off the ceasefire. You see, we should not call off the ceasefire. We should say over and over again, we are still trying for the ceasefire. We are se still fire trying for the ceasefire and so on. Okay, now where was this question? Uh this is one second. Oh, I was trying to pick something. Where is it? Okay, here. Chundra Chri says, "How can I see if my question got answered?" I asked on chat and went offline for a bit. Uh you can see it when when the when when you you see the replay of this live stream, but I'm not sure I've taken your question. So instead of asking this, you should ask the actual question. Uh okay. Anyway, you can try again because there are so many people who are asking questions. I'm getting like 100 questions a minute. So it won't be possible for me to take everyone's questions unfortunately. Um uh Aush where is it gone? Question is gone very very rapidly. It's going away. Aritra says now does taking P means clash with China as CPC and China Afghan alternate route goes through P. Uh please take my question also show on the map. Okay, let's Where's the map? Where's the map? Here is the map. Okay, now the question is P and what does China do about it? So, it will all depend on the rapidity or lack of it in which we take back P. P is these places. See, uh, Scaru, uh, Hunza, Gilgit, all of this is P. Now, that is our territory, but it's currently illegally occupied by Pakistan and it makes sense for us to take it back. So the question you're asking is what does China do about this? It all depends on how quickly we establish our hold on P. First of all, you have to enter P, defeat the the terrorists, Pakistanis who are holding it and then once they're defeated, you establish your command and presence and and hold over it. So that takes some time. The faster you do it, the less China has a chance of of stopping you. So that's how it goes. Now what else questions do we have? Okay, Chandra is back asking why all other countries intelligence agencies do not stand up to India and own up that yes we know that India hit terrorist locations only. It's because every country has its own selfinterest and they don't care about the interests of others and most countries don't want India to rise too much especially western countries because they're jealous because of the history. So you see the world we we we think that the world runs operates on the basis of satya jay it does not everybody looks out for their own self-interest nobody gives you a free lunch nobody helps you out for free if you want some help from them they expect something in exchange in return so all the country all the other countries intelligence agencies may have the information that India is the victim and Pakistan is a terrorist nation but does any country say that does any western country acknowledge the fact that the Pakistanis are terrorists? They don't because there's no need for them to do it and they don't want to help India out. They're jealous that India after all these centuries of foreign occupation is still not dying and we are actually rising now. They don't like it. The west wants to remain the number one entity in the world. They don't want any eastern nation, any polytheistic nation, a nation like India to rise. So why will they help us? They won't help us. Please understand that that's that's how the world works. The whole world will ask you for proof. Proof proof. Okay. I saw a question about Akai Chin somewhere but it disappeared because the questions are flying so fast. Okay. I'm going to take a couple more questions and then we will be done. Sedarth is super angry. Don't know what to do. How to channelize this anger on Pakistan? What can a normal citizen do? If you are super angry, you want to take it out somewhere then go on social media and put out the fact about Pakistan. do it every day. Right? Pakistan, what is its track record like? The nation that harbored Osama bin Laden. He stayed in that nation for a decade. Right? Put out all these facts. They are the nation that created the Taliban. They are the nation that sent terrorists into Mumbai 2008 and Kasab was caught alive. That's why we know it. And so on. So take it out on Pakistan on social media. There's no need to be abusive. They can there's a nice way to do it and so on. So, so let me take one more question and then we will end today's live stream because it's way past 3 hours but we will continue this tomorrow. So, right. Okay. Okay. Ah says Abhir says is Pakistan of significant interest to USA? Yeah. All that. Uh so yeah the US still sees some value in Pakistan as an as some kind of leverage over India as long as Pakistan exists and it's it's a nuisance they can always blackmail India with Pakistan or they can say say to India that you know we'll make Pakistan behave when you do this for us that sort of thing right so now okay okay okay okay all right all right what else shall I take any more questions Um Jay Dikshit. Okay, this will be the last question for today. Jikshit says after taking P back, what about Shak Gum Valley? How are we going to deal with China with that? We'll think about it when we come to that. First take P back Shakum is in Chinese hands. We'll see about that. This is not the right time to take back Shakum or or Axa Chin. Not now. That we can do in the future. right now take back PK we have to think of about this as a long process one step at a time focus on what you're doing right now when you're playing cricket you're playing one ball at a time right you should not think about next 15 overs think about the the ball that's coming to you that's how we do it and that's what we need to do all right okay apparently Shabbaz Sharif will address the nation at 11:35 p.m. SD. We'll see about that. We'll see about that. Okay. I think I can do this all night, but I need to stop at this point in time. So, I'm going to end this live stream right now. Tomorrow, 8:00 p.m. India time, I'll do another live stream. I'm sure it's going this situation is going to evolve and who knows what we're going to see tomorrow morning. So, we'll see about that. Okay. So, I'm going to end it over here now. Thank you so much for all your questions and I will see you all tomorrow. Thank you so much. Stay positive and support support your nation. Thank you so much. I'll see you tomorrow.