[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. [Music] Heat. [Music] Hello, good day and good evening everybody wherever you are in the world and welcome to the Ask a Bijit Show episode 274. I hope everybody is doing great. If you are a regular viewer, thank you so much for being a regular viewer and welcome back. If you are new, do you're welcome. You're very welcome over here. And let's see who is there on the live chat with me. I can see Monty, hello. I can see Aayush Singh. Hello Sparti Uturi. Namaste. Sumit Patari Ato Kumar. Aryan Patel. Bijesh SK Pinaka. Uh Kanesh Koshik V Ramachandran Vant Nikil Balyan Ashtoar Polar Bear Shrira from Moscow. Nanita Badas Priyanu vlog Shaker Roy Lakshai Shrihari Arun Separ Krishna Giri Akash Jayant Avin Chaitananya Manuja Dungar Singh Johan a very very old-time viewer welcome back sir Kushbu drawing and art bat first Mishra Anupad Satyam Kumar Chitan Aradya welcome back sir Ashosh Kumar Vishahal Patra namask Krish Gupta Dhuv Durya Ram Shukla from Kpur. Hello Satyam Kumar Vidhi Madar Hello Shri Hari Arun again White Joe Abhishek Shivastav Suchin Sharma Avin Dak GK Hitan Shu Meta from Gujarat hello Krishna Raunad from the Suryam Netherlands hello satellite from Goa Geopolit from Indor Pranipal from Kolkata. Who else do we have? Rakkesh Mist Mystri Mthun SP Abishek Shivasav Mani Jangir hello Makavin good evening Anurra Anir God logistical roommate Viral Patel knowledge with Malu Giga Chad is here global affairs by SK Hitanchu Prasupati Jooshi Hmed Kumar Gautami and so many other people so good evening good all of you and I'm going to take questions from that I'm going to take questions that you've asked in the comments. Before we begin, before we begin, people have been asking for a long time that is there a way to contribute to this channel without becoming a member or something. So, how about we change we change this logo to this and you can contribute if you want to. All right, why not? Let's do that. Okay, with that said, let us uh get going with the questions. A lot of questions. Let's see how many I can take in the next couple of hours. A lot happening in the world. A lot of questions about geopolitics. So let's get going. Okay, this is a question not about geopolitics but let's take it quickly. Reddi says this is by uh Tarun Reddi. Uh please take this question. You're my guru for my lifetime. Well, thank you so much. Uh one day we'll meet you and well I would be very happy to meet you sir. Um you don't know how much impact you created in my life. You literally changed my life from my mindset to how to think and how to see world. My worldview completely changed because of you. Learned everything in the past four years. 21. Well, thank you so much for the beautiful words. I really appreciate that. That's all I that's that's the only objective of this to make people see the world the way it actually is. It's not a very nice place, but the world has always been that way and hopefully I'm doing something in that direction. So, I'm very happy that it's having some impact on on people and I really appreciate your very kind words, sir. Okay. Amisha says, Amisha says Trump talks of Pakistan's massive oil reserves, but are they really there? And Trump says that Pakistan may sell oil to India. Well, I discussed this in in some detail yesterday in in yesterday's episode of geostrategy. Um geostrategy, we'll talk about that later next week. Okay. So, uh yeah, I spoke about this. Does Pakistan have massive oil reserves? Pakistan may perhaps be in the top 50 oil reserves nations in the world by all reserves. Possibly perhaps top 50 maybe slightly out of top 50. I don't remember exactly where the Pakistan's number is. You can look it up. I'm not going to I'm not going to look into that. But India has way more oil reserves than Pakistan. Right? But why does then Trump want to talk about Pakistan's allegedly massive oil reserves? Because his business empire is massively invested in Pakistan. You see Pakistan and India are very different countries. In India, if you want to invest in the oil and gas gas sector, if you're Trump or if you're any business person, if you're any corporate entity from the west or whatever, if you want to invest in India's go oil and gas sector sector, you have to play by the rules, right? The government of India will set up the rules and you do play by those rules. And if you are investing in Pakistan, well, Pakistan is ruled by the Pakistani military and essentially the nation is up for sale. As long as you will fill the pockets of the Pakistani generals, you can essentially plunder the nation's resources entirely. So who benefits? The generals and the military benefit and the foreign entity benefits. The people of Pakistan get nothing out of it. That's the deal. So there's so much more money to be made from exploiting Pakistani oil reserves even if they may be small compared to do the doing the same in India because in India you can't exploit them. You have to play by the rules and India gets the major share of the profits. So Trump is out there. That's that's the Pakistani military has obviously naturally rolled out the red carpet for for Trump. Pakistan is a land for sale. The military is very happy to sell out the country parcel by par parcel and if Trump is the buyer, well, they'll be very happy to sell it to. Why it's not just all the oil and gas gas sector in Pakistan which is quite small but if Trump gets the whole the whole pie well that's a tremendous amount of money to be made there even if it's a small oil and gas sector and Trump is also investing in uh Trump's business empire is also in investing in uh the Pakistani um rare earth's mineral sector whatever rare earths they have Trump will get that and also their so-called cryptocurrency sector which is a nassent sector So Trump he stands to make the total pie is is about is valued around around $50 trillion if it can be extracted exploited. So that's why Trump is so bullish on Pakistan. So the oil reserves are pretty small but Trump sees them as as a big jackpot for himself right then and that's why Trump is talking about that and obviously Trump is not getting what he wants from India. India is not cowtowing. India is not genulecting in front of Trump and that's why he's he's upset and that's why he's taunting India about this. All right, that's the deal. So the the oil reserves do exist. Some oil is there but it's nothing compared to what we have in India or nothing compared to what the the Gulf region has and so on. But Trump is investing in Pakistan and he's he's being given the red carpet treatment, the royal treatment and Trump loves that. Trump needs people to be super differential to him and treat him like he's the royalty to end all royalty and that's why he's so happy with Pakistan and is just so upset about India. That's the deal because India is standing up for itself. India is showing a spine. India is refusing to vasalize itself to Mr. Trump and whoever runs his actual empire. Not the business empire but the real geopolitical empire. Uh so yeah that's a real and that's why he is behaving the way he is. Okay, Ramshukla says, "What will be the effect of 25% tariffs on India imposed by the US and what could India do in retaliation?" So, India ex So, I went into this in detail. I don't remember the exact numbers, but India exports. So, this this this uh trade that happens between the two countries in the value is about 120 to1 130 billion roughly total per year annually if I recall correctly from yesterday's figures. uh you can look into yesterday's episode of geost strategy to get the exact figures but it's around 130 or so trillion billion dollars per year and there's a significant trade imbalance in favor of India um so India may be exporting about 87 around 90 billion worth of goods to the US per year okay roughly okay don't quote me on that look at if there is episode of ge strategy to get the exact details uh so if Trump imposes which he has done u 25% tariffs on Indian goods. It means that if something is worth $100, okay, if I'm selling an item worth $100, once it reaches the US, it's going to be taxed 25% extra. It's going to cost $125 in the US. So it's it it puts me at a significant disadvantage as an exporter to the US because my products will not be competitively priced and that gives the American customer consumer uh an incentive not to buy from me because my products are higher are at a higher price even if they may be perhaps better than other products. So that's going to affect India various Indian sectors. Yeah. So what could India do in retaliation and that's a great question. I mean we need to look into that. What can India do in retaliation? There's a lot India can do in retal retaliation and that that also I I went into yesterday. So first of all we have economic leverage. We control a 150 billion dollar plus services market uh to the US particularly the IT sector but and also the business process outsourcing BO sector. many huge American corporations, lots of Fortune 500 companies, most of them, Microsoft, Google and whatnot, they all depend on Indian IT talent, Indian service centers, right? So, if we disrupt that, it could immediately impact American corporation corporate operations. Um, lots of Indian lots of American companies are dependent on this. Then, um, America's the US is super dependent on India for pharmaceuticals. India supplies approximately 40% of the genetic drugs to the US market where they may be rebranded or whatever right so if we put a restriction on that that will create an immediate healthcare crisis in the US and that will create a tremendous political backlash uh on Trump right um then India could obviously impose reciprocal tariffs on American goods they could impose 25% tariffs on goods right we could uh target various sectors uh and that would be a problem for the US now The Americans they depend on Indian H1B visa talent. They always keep craving about H1B visas that Indian H1B visa holders are taking away our jobs and all but the moment we stop the H-1B visas and we say that Indians can no longer apply for H1B visas which which the government of India can do then it will the US tech sector its operations within weeks or months. If we even make a take a more drastic step and say that all H1B visa holders need to come back to India immediately we can do that. That will destroy the US tech sector. and how will they replace all that talent? It'll create a crisis in the US. Then India could withdraw from the crow quad and so many other things. If you want to see the details, look into yesterday's episode of geo strategy in which I have gone into the the specific details of what India can do. There's so much India can do. There's a lot of leverage that we have. So it's not like we are sitting ducks. This is not the India of 2020. It's not the India of 1991. It's a whole different India today. Obviously that will cause a tremendous amount of pain to us also because they also have way more leverage than us. But do we really want to play this game? You want to unleash a proper trade war, tariff war, all kind of yeah hostilities. Why what's the point? The better option is to sit down, negotiate and find a negotiated mutually acceptable, mutually beneficial uh solution. A good deal, a good deal, a good settlement is one in which there is pain on both sides. Okay? You can't have a situation where only one side only when you have two negotiating parties, only one party must bear the pain and the other guy gets everything. That's not going to happen. And when both sides of leverage, it doesn't happen. There has to be some pain on both sides. Okay? So, let's see how it goes. The Americans are are employ are adopting a maximalist stance. They're making maximalist demands. That's Trump's preferred way of negotiating, but it's not working out with India and that's why he's so upset. You see, that is the deal. Right. Pray says, "How damaging was Trump's recent outburst against India, dismissing the world's fastest growing major economy with such contempt? Has he crossed a line that could irreparably strain the personal Modi Trump? Is this just raw frustration or a desperate display of power from a presidency facing economic decline? And above all, is such rhetoric even befitting of a leader seeking global credibility? Well, it certainly is damaging. Will it irreparably strain the Modi Trump rapport, the personal rapport? Maybe not. See, Mr. Modi is a very pragmatic, very practical person. He doesn't allow personal slights, personal insults to come between him and his pursuit of the national interest. And we have seen that in the past the Democrats, the Americans, the US administration had imposed a ban on Mr. Modi visiting the US, right? This was done when he was the chief minister of Gujarat, right? But when Mr. Modi became the prime minister, uh that ban obviously was no longer valid, right? He is now a global leader. So he did not allow that incident to cause any lingering bitterness and he went ahead and embraced Mr. Obama and did whatever it took to strengthen the relationship between India and the US because it's in the interest of India. So Mr. Modi you know he doesn't allow these things to come in the way of the national interest. So in the future if there's an opportunity which there could be if there's an opportunity in the future uh to take steps and actions which will take India US relations in the in the in a forward positive direction and it'll be better for India that way then Mr. Modi will disregard what's happened thus far. Disregard everything Mr. Trump has said and he will go again and embrace Mr. Trump as if they they've always been best friends. That's what Mr. Modi does. Yeah. So I I don't think it's it's going to irreparably strain the rapport. Obviously, there's a strain right now. I'm not sure if the two leaders have spoken for a while. Maybe not since the uh operation Synindur uh the end the secession of hostilities which happened on May 10 and Trump immediately claimed that he was responsible for the alleged ceasefire. Well, I don't think the two leaders may have spoken since then. I may be wrong, of course. Uh but I don't think it's going to cause a per a permanent strain as long as Mr. Mr. Trump matters. Mr. Modi will give him due respect, due difference, due importance more than difference probably not difference but importance. And if Mr. Trump requires some difference and if it will take us forward in the right direction and and and uh help us achieve something some better outcomes for the national interest, he will even do that. So that's deal. Uh now how damaging has this outburst been? It's been pretty damaging actually. It's been pretty damaging. The whatever trust existed whatever see we have never been very trusting of the US with very good reason. Look at their actions in the past. Look at the entire pattern. And now people will say that I am being a going harking back to the cold war. You know what a nation if you want to understand its true nature its true character its true uh modus operandi you have to look at its entire history you know to see how it behaves and if you look at the US behavior since 1945 you go back you will see it's always been anti-India it's essentially taken on the mantle of the British Empire it's the the continuation of the British Empire and they they still are very strongly anti-India they see India as a problem right But we have made significant strides in the past 10 years or so in uh you know strengthening the US India relationship and we've even purchased American weapons systems and whatnot right we know that now whatever trust existed has kind of been damaged especially when it comes to comes to defense cooperation because when Trump and the US establishment once again go back and take Pakistan's side like they did in May. Well, that makes all trust evaporate. We will still continue economic cooperation wherever possible. Defense cooperation is finished. It's finished. It's that's how damaging Trump's behavior has been. And of course, we know what the Americans have been doing the past few years. They they've created a new vasal state in East Pakistan. That's an anti-India move. They created project K, Cookand for Christ. that is still ongoing. Manipur is bleeding. The the people of Manipur, you have no idea how much they're suffering right now. Half of I don't know how many foreigners are squatting on Manipur territory. That's all geopolitical actions taken by a far away force. So all of this is being done to cut India down to size. So there is no not not going to be any trust now when it comes to from India's perspective from from our perspective towards the US we don't trust them they're out to dismantle us the ideal outcome for the US long-term is the bulcanization of India trust me that's the outcome every action they take on the ground is in that direction whether it is the industrial scales Christianization of the subcontinent which they are funding with possibly trillions of dollars every year and whatever else they're doing they're out see how do you bulcanize a country like India by bringing in a subversive foreign religion and re-engineering the demographics of the country and uh look it's not me who claims this it's the Japanese and the Chinese who have claimed this that see the Japanese wrote about this in the I don't know which 17th 18th 19th century whenever they wrote about this that whenever Japanese people were converted to Christianity they somehow who spontaneously developed extr territorial ter territorial loyalties. The Japanese wrote about this. The Chinese wrote about this. So it's a pattern. This is a weapon and they're using that against India. So I think the trust is gone. There will be economic cooperation wherever required. It's going to be issue based cooperation. It's going to be tactical level cooperation. There's no strategic convergence between India and the US. That's over. Yeah. So yeah that's what I can say. Um Rakkesh Masri says what's going on in the India US relationship? Is isn't this a suicidal movement on the perspective of future strategy? US tariffs can destroy the Indian economy is India say is it a question or is it a statement? What's going on in the India US relationship? I'll tell you what's going on. See at the topmost level in the world there is competition between the US and China. The US believes it can manage China. China you the US knows all they have to wait do is wait 20 30 years. China will reach a certain peak and then it will decline. The the main reason for the decline is going to be China's in um China's upcoming demographic disaster. China's birth rates have collapsed drastically dramatically. China is aging. China's population is going to collapse eventually. It's going to happen in slow motion, but it's going to cause an irreversible decline in China. China's going to going to go down the same way as Japan. Now, they're going to use technology and robotics and AI to to bolster up national power, but the US knows they can manage China. And the US is in the lead when it comes to AI and other things. And they're trying to they're trying their best to keep China down in terms of semic semiconductor technology and all that. And they have way more nuclear weapons and so on. So, the US thinks they believe that they can manage China. They also believe that they can manage Russia, right? Russia has certain handicaps and problems that the Americans believe that they can exploit to manage Russia. They can bog Russia down in Ukraine. They can open new fronts if needed and whatever. Now, the third problem, there are other problems as well, but those are being dealt with by causing mass immigration into Europe and destabilizing the European demographics and economy and whatnot. Africa doesn't really matter because they've already ruined it in the past. What other nations exist? There's only one problem which is India right the EU can be managed NATO nations can be managed India needs to now what about India India is a nation that if left alone and allowed to grow it will naturally sp even with all the problems that you have in India it will still eventually regain its natural position India's natural position for the past 200 plus years has been the world's largest economy today's Indians will not be able to believe it because you've been you you were born in a at a time when India was at its peak at the at the not the peak the opposite the nadier of India's misery India was forcibly de-industrialized and destroyed India's economy was destroyed but India will again come back and that's a problem for the US and that's why they don't want that to happen and so that's what that that that explains everything they are doing visav India now from their perspective well maybe they are right if I were the biggest power in the some new upstart were showing signs of resuming their natural behavior. I would want to balconize and destroy them. Right? Thusidity trap. Don't even allow the the the the possibility of a future situation where you have a suicidality trap kind of scenario. Don't even allow that to happen. Nip the problem in the bud. So from their perspective, they are doing what they should do. So I nothing personally, right? But that's what the deal is. And that that's what explains what's happening. Now suicidal movement on who's whose part? our part. No, we not we we are standing up for for ourselves. We have two options. Stand up for ourselves and take some pain, maybe a lot of pain, or just become another vasal once again and go down the road which led us to the East India Company and another 250 years of slavery. So maybe those 250 years of slavery will be nice for the general public. You may have access to nice gadgets and reasonable comfort and all but your civilization will be destroyed. you will all end up your children will end up worshiping a different god and they will no longer have any connection to to our ancestors our civilization. So I don't think that's a viable option for us. Um so that is what is happening right this is India is going to have 20 years at least of pain minimum it's just beginning but listen if you want greatness in the future you've got to go through pain otherwise you choose embrace mediocrity and most Indians are happy to do that unfortunately right now but uh what's happening what what the government of India is doing is the right thing we're standing up for ourselves we are refusing to or on vizage scenario B that I spoke about Yesterday I've been speaking about four scenarios for the past month. I forecast four scenarios in the India US relationship. The trajectory I forecast four scenarios on the 1st of July. Scenario B was India becoming a reluctant vasal of the US. That's not happening. That scenario is not materializing. We are witnessing maybe a combination of scenario C and D. If you want to see the scenarios, please watch yesterday's episode of Geost Strategy in which I've laid it out. All right. Shri Ramachandraayan Namaha says if Trump receives the Nobel Peace Prize award will he become passive after that? Well, Mr. Trump greatly desires that. Mr. Trump greatly desires the Nobel Peace Prize, right? Uh he does greatly desire it, but it won't uh stop him. It won't make him passive. Look, Mr. Trump has been a driven person all his life. He's been an entrepreneur. He's been a businessman his entire life. He's been a driven man, right? He's been very driven and whatever he's achieved, he was he it has not stopped him from immediately wanting more. I achieved this now I want more. It's not going to be enough. So it he will not become passive after that. I think he will see that as a vindication that he was right all the all along and now he will redouble his his efforts to do whatever he's doing if he receives the Nobel Peace Prize. He's not the kind of person who will stop. And that's a an admirable quality, by the way. It's an admirable quality. There are lots of people who are super talented and all, but they don't have the persistence, the drive to to run through brick walls to get what they want. Mr. Trump does have it. So if he receives the Nobel Peace Prize, he will take that as the vindication as as the fact that as as the vindication that he was right all along and now that he's got this and he has been vindicated, he should redouble his efforts in whatever direction he's going. So it's not going to make him passive. It's going to make him twice as active. That's how I see it. Ulas says will the coming days be hard for India as Pakistan is having a three-way a minage atwa with China and the US as both nations have some seem to have some kind of agreement when it comes to India. So the first question basic question overall question is will the coming days be hard for India? I just said in one of the previous answers it's going to be a tough 20 years for India and India is going to be there's always going to be the temptation every single day let's just give up and become a US fasal everything will settle down everything will be solved right always there's always going to be that temptation there's always the easy way out let's say you are climbing Mount Everest you just started what do you do should you look up the moment you look up you're going to want to give up so what you do when you're climbing Mount Everest is you never look up. You just look at the next six feet. You put one hand in front of the other, one foot in front of the other, and you keep going. You keep going. You count to 10, 10 steps, then you reset to zero. Then you count to 10 and you take checkpoints and you take and then you take it one day at a time. Maybe one hour at a time, right? That's how we do it. And it gets tougher and tougher and tougher as you go on further and further and further ahead. And every single second, every single time your heart beats, there is the option that you know I don't have to go through this pain. I can always go back down and all the pain, all the misery will be immediately over. So then it all depends on what you what the stuff that you're made of. How much fortitude do you have? Do you really desire what you set out to do or was this just something that you dreamt of one day and it did not really matter for you? So the coming days will be hard for India. It's going to be a hard 20 years. But if it does if India does endure and push through the pain of the next 20 years, then we're going to be a whole different beast by that time. So the the temptation of option B a tilt to the west and U and vasage of the US that's always going to be there option B the temptation of option B right but we cannot allow that to happen now about now the other question about the three-way in Pakistan US and and and China yeah there is indeed some kind of understanding see Pakistan is a disposable asset it's a throwaway asset Pakistan is a nation with no future. I'm sorry to say that. Nothing against the people of Pakistan but Pakistan is a temporary artificial nation which was created with a singular purpose. That purpose was to serve western geopolitical interests in the India Indian subcontinent plus region which includes the Gulf region as well West Asia that whole region you need a mercenary of your own who will serve you. That's why Pakistan was created and right now it's it's got great um utility for whoever wants to use it as a counterbalance to India as a nation that can be used to on demand issue pain towards India and create problems for India. Right? And Pakistan is not run for its people. The government of Pakistan is non-existent. the the entity that actually owns Pakistan is the Pakistani military and they are a mercenary organization and they will serve whichever master gives them what they wants which is more and more cash to send to those bank accounts wherever they are in the world. Their families are will typically be living in the west. So now both the US and China agree on one thing and one thing only that India needs to be contained. Okay. So the US is happy to use India if possible as a leverage against China as a counterbalance to China but not in a way that will make India stronger. Use India in various ways which will damage India also and also damage China. And the greatest ideal situation is India and China go to war and bash each other's brains out and destroy each other which India and China are capable of doing. That's the ideal situation for the US and then they can just once India and China are done with each other and destroyed then the US can focus on the remaining adversary which is Russia. Yep. So and of course uh and and China believes that you know whatever happens they can deal with the US and they don't need India on their side. So that's the thing. So both the US and China are using Pakistan against India. The US is okay with Pakistan being used by China as long as it is something detrimental to India. The US is fine with that. Right? Uh so they have Trump has imposed 25% tariffs on India only 19% tariffs on on Pakistan despite Pakistan being halfway in bed with China. So there is an understanding there's only one thing that US and China agree on that India needs to be contained. They disagree on everything else. So it's going to be a problem for India and it's going to be a tough 20 years ahead and we will need good leaders not good leadership we'll need tremendously great leadership. If we mess up with our leadership if we in the future one of these days have a leader who is less capable than Mr. Modi, we're done. We're done. That's it. Rene Paul says, "How do you assess India's sudden halt in Russian oil purchases by state refiners? Is this a strategic recalibration or the result of mounting US pressure behind the scenes? And what does this shift signal for India's energy security and India's balancing act in great power geopolitics? oil. So this is something that I did discuss briefly yesterday in yesterday's episode of geostrategy which may be a pivotal episode in the history of geo geostrategy episodes. So yesterday the news came out indeed that India has paused its uh Indian state refiners have paused purchases of Russian oil. That's what one heard right but today it has emerged that there is no such thing. So yesterday I did say that you know we've the news has emerged that there is a pause but it seems to be driven by market demand and pressures rather than a policy move and what I said yesterday what I speculated yesterday has kind of been vindicated by the news that came out today. Let's quickly take a look at at at if possible the news. Uh India Russian oil India Russian oil purchases purchase. What's it say? India continuing to buy oil from Russia. Report rebutts Donald Trump's good steps forever. India will continue to buy oil from Russia. That's what Reuters says. Uh Trump cites some reports on India halting Russian oil imports. India to still buy oil from Russia despite Trump threats say Indian officials and yesterday there was this news that this news that Indian state refiners halted Russian oil purchases. Well, not going to happen. Sorry. India is continuing to buy Russian oil. India will continue that Indian refineries will continue to buy oil from Russia before and so on. So there we have it. So this is clearly uh not the case. Uh India is going to continue to purchase Russian oil. India's national interest comes before the national interest of other countries right and uh we have excellent relations with Russia we are getting good prices from Russia we have a relationship of trust with Russia unlike with other some other countries right uh so yeah it's it's not some sudden halt we're going to continue our oil purchases from Russia why should we not in the past the Americans did arm twist us in into stopping our oil purchases from another friend of ours, Persia, Iran. We used to buy a lot of oil from from Iran and then the Americans armed in India into stopping our oil purchases from Iran and that well that was bad for India. We could have actually gone ahead and developed the Forza B or whatever it was oil field in the Persian Gulf. That also we could not do because we stopped purchas oil purchases from Iran and then Iran said that if you're not purchasing oil from us then why should you get the right to develop our oil field? So there was a huge missed opportunity for us and it was all because of US arm twisting. It impacted our national interest. It's not going to be allowed to happen anymore. Right? So uh that is the situation. So the shift actually is that we are going to continue our oil purchases from Russia and that's a message to Trump that our national interest comes first and foremost. Your whims and fancies are are your problem, right? So yeah, I think it's a good step. It's a tough step. It's going to cause pain to us, but it's the right step. India is the one nation apart from Russia and China that's standing up the to the US. Would you believe it? Would you believe it? Here we are. Okay. Rahul Dun says, Trump says, and I'm paraphrasing, Pakistan is sitting on tons of crude oil which we could extract in Pakistan would trade it from India with India. Does the news of andammans having trillions of gallons of crude oil that could make India 20 trillion dollar economy a thing to balance Trump's nonsense? Yes. So Trump has made all these all these statements about Pakistan allegedly having tremendous oil reserves and one day maybe Pakistan will trade with India because Trump is so powerful he'll make it happen. Yeah. That's what he says. That's what he claims. Now the so then what does the and thing the this the news about and potential and demand oil reserves have? How does that factor into this? That's the question. So, we haven't had an official announcement yet of a major oil discovery in the Andaman region, right? But you know what? India is a gigantic place. Let's let's open the maps. It's been 37 minutes. I haven't opened the map yet. So, here we go. Let's look at the map. India is a gigantic region. Look at this. How large India is. I mean, Indians are used to this map and they think it's a small place. India is gigantic. It is inconceivable that India won't have huge oil reserves in multiple locations, right? It's inconceivable. Now, India is currently drilling in the Andaman Sea region and uh the minister Mr. Hadep Singh Puri I I believe recently said that it's just a matter of time before we strike strike oil and and discover a Guyana sized oil you know oil reserve in the Andermans. Well I think you know what you should say these things only when you actually discover something don't count your chickens before the hatch. So I'm not sure what the why the minister said what he said why we actually discovered something. My point is we need to redouble our efforts into in our drilling in in drilling and and prospecting for oil and we need to discover whatever oil reserves we have. We have hardly done anything in prospecting for oil. The one place west of Maharashtra in the in the Indian Ocean region it's called Bombay High or something. It's one place where we we've discovered oil and we have some some places in Assam. We have never bothered to look into how much reserves we have. If we do it properly, we'll find tremendous oil. I think it's high time we do that. India's achilles heel right now geopolitically is us uh not being self-sufficient in terms of energy. That's a huge Achilles heel. It means that we are dependent on other countries for our basic energy requirements. I think we import more than 60 70 or maybe 80% of our oil and gas from other countries. So if those countries are pressurized into not selling oil to India, we are in deep deep deep trouble. We need to we need to consider this a matter of the highest priority, highest urgency, national security, the discovery of new oil reser reserves. uh so it's I think it's very possible if we just look everywhere especially in regions where you know you would have a higher likelihood like the Andamani region right uh we need to make the discovery as soon as possible if if that happens it'll take us I would say at least 5 years to operationalize oil extraction once that happens well we will need way more naval resources to safeguard our oil reserves which means that we will need more destroyers bought submarines what not which is a good news which is great news so I think it needs to happen as soon as possible it's it's a matter of the highest priority that we discover huge oil reser reserves I mean it's inconceivable that we don't have it such a huge subcontinent no oil I mean are you kidding me so we've been super lazy our leaders in the past have been super lazy they've never bothered to do anything they just depend on imports maybe it maybe there so who knows what reasons behind that um yeah so if if slash when we make these oil discoveries well that will be a total gamecher it'll immediately transform India's GDP and all that so it needs to happen until and unless it happens there's no point talking about it says do you do you agree it's a bipolar world we living in and China and the US are leading it and we are not on either side non-alignment policy is working today or do we need to change something in our foreign policy should we align with some power Russia India, China can be a solid trio but we can't trust China. Aligning with the US will affect our relations with with Russia and weakening our local dairy and farmer industries situation is really complex. Uh are we living in a bipolar world? Well, there are two major blocks geopolitical blocks. There is the US-led block which is the US and its minions or the US and its vasals, right? That's the US plus NATO plus EU and plus the Japan and South Korea and various other nations under US occupation or under US subjugation hegemony right that's one group of nations that's the it's a huge group of nations the other group is China and Russia and North Korea and whoever else may so that's that's essentially in India Iran that's four nations now India has good relations excellent relations with with Russia We have good relations with Iran. So essentially we have two major blocks. The US and its vasals and you have China, Russia, Iran, North Korea. That's the second block. And then you have a whole bunch of nations who are called the global south and the most powerful and the largest one is India out of all these. Now India is not aligned with anybody. Uh so it's not quite a bipolar world. It's kind of a world that's drifting towards bipolarity. both China and the US would want a bipolar world right now it's a multipolar world kind of kind of multipolar right um so is now is India using a non-align alignment policy we're not we are multi-aligned this is not non-alignment uh this is multi-alignment we are aligned with multiple nations wherever wherever our national interests lie and they converge with those of other nations we are aligned with them in those things it's multi-alignment it's working fine for us and that's how the world actually should Right? Uh do we need to change something in our foreign policy? Should we align with some power? Well, if you align with a more powerful nation, you have to you have to bend to their demands. There there's a cost of alignment. There are conditions for alignment. It's not just okay we say that okay now we are aligned with you. It's not like that. It doesn't work like that. There are conditions that need to be fulfilled. There are steps you to take. For example, let me give you an example. If a nation in Europe wants to become a member of NATO, they going to what are the conditions and requirements for becoming a NATO member? Let me show you in case you are not aware. There's so much they need to change about their own internal working. For example, uh requirements or how about a EU member requirements for becoming EU member member? What am I saying ma'am? Okay. To become a member of the EU, a country must first and foremost be European. Okay. Beyond this, they must also meet the Copenhagen criteria which include having stable institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights, respect for minorities, a functioning market economy, and the ability to scope with competitive cope with competitive pressures within the EU. The complete the applicant country must align its laws with the aquis, the body of EU law and be willing to commit to the objectives of whatever political, economic and monetary union. and and there's a whole set of accession process formal application negotiations agreement and ratification conditions for membership enlargement Copenhagen criteria so once you apply for membership you have to make certain changes in your country okay um there's a whole set of things you to do which essentially change the way your country is is run and all that you have to no longer be who you are it would be you to become something else so that for becoming a member of the EU. Then there are a set of criteria for becoming a member of NATO. You're welcome to, but you have to change things. Essentially, you to place your military under a foreigner's command. A foreigner will command your military essentially. So, if you want to align yourself with the US, for example, they're going to intrude all over all they'll penetrate the whole country and all the institutions to some extent. They've already done that by the way. So, it'll be a disaster for India. We'll no longer be a sovereign entity. Alignment means losing sovereignty. Okay. So we are not aligned with any power. We should not align with any power. Um Russia India China can be a solid trio but China has always been the spoiler. China believes that it is it is way ahead of India and India is beneath aligning with India or having good relations with India is beneath China's dignity and they they think they can manage India through tremendous all kinds of pressure various pressure tactics that that used in the past so that's what China can China believes now right now they are doing some kind of there could be the potential of some kind of haphosima between India and China some kind of the taunt that's been going on for some for some time we're going to have to be very careful about China Yeah, because China's track record tells us that they cannot be trusted. I'm sorry. Nothing personal against China. The Chinese people are wonderful. We've had tremendous relations between India and China for the past 2,000 years. But since the 1950s, things have changed. And the Chinese Communist Party, its policies uh make it an untrustworthy entity from our perspective. So, RIC would be a great idea, but only if China behaves. They don't want to behave. um they they don't want allies, they don't want partners, they want vasals. They want Russia to become a vasal. Okay? And they are working assiduously in that direction, towards that direction. Uh aligning with the US means India becomes a vasal and a non-soververeign entity. Forget about the relations with with Russia. We will cease to exist as a as as a civilization to whatever extent we still to whatever extent we still do exist as a civilization. And it will weaken all our dairy, all our industries. It's going to be the East India company days all over again. We're going to be a market. We're going to be an importing market. We'll import everything from outsiders and we will export services. It's going to be game over for India. So, not a good idea. We're going to have to swallow 20 years of pain. Right. Okay. Amisha says, "If Trump had really truly offered a trade deal to India to push a ceasefire with Pakistan, he wouldn't have done this today. Done this. Done what?" Okay. Um, yeah. The 25% tariffs, I suppose. Yeah. Uh, Trump has outed himself. He's really angry, clearly angry about India. He's a liar. Should we restart Operation Zindur in full form? Um, can India retired with its own tariffs on US goods? Push to restart trade talks? What are our options? So like I said in a one of the previous answers, we do have a lot of leverage, economic leverage, strategic leverage, e geopolitical leverage. Um we can have alternative partnerships, we can have asymmetric different responses. If you want the details of all the kinds of leverage that we have, some of the leverage that we have look look at watch that section of yesterday's episode of Geost Strategy. We have leverage, but they have more leverage. Obviously, they are much more powerful nation, way more powerful nation. So if we go down that road, it's going to be like, you know, it's going to be a trade war and and it'll escalate and it's not going to be at the end of the day, we're going to come out second best. So we should obviously go for some kind of trade deal. We should and that's what we are doing. Our government has reacted very maturely. We have not thrown any tantrums. We have not used any uh Trump-like language. For example, we have said that you know what, we want very much to have a trade deal and we would like to go ahead with the trade talks and see what what's the best thing we can achieve. Um, and we have not imposed retal retaliatory tariffs thus far. So this obviously is a leverage that Trump is trying to use on us. This is not a final position that he has taken 25% tariffs. He depending on how we negotiate, he may be willing to bring it down depending on what we offer him. Obviously, he wants everything, right? So, it's like this. Here's the options Trump is giving us right now. You guys are in bed with Russia. You're buying Russian oil. So, 25% tariffs on you and I may increase it to 500%. But let's talk. And if you offer me your sovereignty and your vasalhood, I'll bring 25% down to 20%. That's it. Or 19% like Pakistan. I'll treat you just like Pakistan. So become my vasal and I will treat you like Pakistan. Otherwise tariffs, big tariffs, tremendous tariffs, big beautiful tariffs. So that's the choice we have India. Either we swallow the pain of 25% or more tariffs or we capitulate and then we get the privilege of being treated by Trump just the way he treats Pakistan. What's the right option? India what's the right option please let me know okay okay big question long questions Akash says sar western powers like the US use economic sanctions as weapons yes sir we know that much like how the east India company controlled weaker nations that's correct same modus operandi if India builds naval dominance over the Indian ocean using cheap missile boats armed with missiles I I've heard that somewhere and drones and gains control over choke points like the straight of Mala, Hormuz, Bab al-Mandde and the Muzad big channel. Can this give real can this give India a real advantage? If India ever blocks these sea lanes, global trade, especially the oil and goods would be disrupted and the world economy as well, including the US would be badly hit. Can such control help India resist sanctions and make our economy more secure? Okay, interesting question. Let's look at the map and let's look at these choke points that you are referring to. What are these choke choke choke points? Let's see here we are here is map. Yes. So one of the choke points is the straight of hormos the straight of over here and much of the energy that that the world needs flows through this choke point. Then you have the straight of Bab al-mandib which is here between jihuti and ye then you have the mozzambique channel over here. Right. That's a that's kind of a joke point. Sure. Uh then we have uh the straight of Malaa and you also have another say straight over here. Okay, this one uh what's it called? I don't remember but this is another uh choke point that is an alternative to the to the straight of Mala. So these are some of the most important most vital choke points that we can theoretically uh cut off if we have a sufficiently capable navy and a sufficiently strong willed political leadership. Right. So we could do that. Now the question is this. Question is this. Let's think of second order effects. Don't reduce yourself and don't be content with surface level analysis my friends. At least do think like a see don't you don't need to think like a grandmaster. Think like a chess player. A a decent chess player will think three four moves ahead. A grandmaster I believe thinks 15 moves ahead possibly. But a decent chess player who has some self-respect will at least think think three four moves ahead. So now let's say let's let's do some forward thinking proper analysis decently proper analysis. Let's say India develops a more powerful navy and we are able to blockade the straight of Malaka the straight of a mazda the straight of Bab al-Manddev the straight of tears the straight of the bambic channel and and the straight of Malaka. Let's say we are capable of doing that. Okay. So we now have a theoretically hypothetically a situation where India has a more powerful navy, a blue water navy and in we can choke off we can blockade multiple choke points at the same time. Okay. Then what happens? Does this does this give us tremendous leverage? No. It possibly can. But if we blockade these choke points, what could be the response of other powers? Pakistan is not another power. It can't do a thing. Fine, good. Iran, well, Iran may be upset because they are selling oil wherever and we are locatedating that. But they probably can't do much because they don't have a very powerful navy, air force, whatever. Obviously, we don't want to upset Iran. Why would we? They we're on good terms with them. But we are looking at the hypothetical scenario. So, let's say Pakistan can't do anything. Iran can't do anything. uh the Gulf nations can't do much. Okay. If we blockade Mala, what will China do? China may divert its navy towards Malaca. Then there'll be a naval showdown between India and China. China has the world's largest navy numerically. Yeah. What happens then? They have they typically have more missiles per war per per uh destroyer than India does. So that gives them a straightforward numerical advantage. Yeah. China and India if even if if if even if India doubles its naval power. I think China still comes up comes out on top. Yeah. Do we want that situation? And let's say we blockade other some whatever other strait and the US gets upset. Obviously they'll get upset because they are no longer controlling the region, right? What if there's a naval showdown between India and the US? Do we want a situation like that ever to happen? And if there's a showdown, there's a fight, who wins? The US wins. So India gets gets real leverage only if we only if we able to build a global top three navy. One of the top three navies in the world in terms of firepower, not in terms of number of ships. How do you measure the strength of a navy? Do you measure the strength of a navy by the number of ships that you have, number of assets you can deploy? No, that's not the only factor. It's a good factor. But the real measure of a navy's firepower and strength is how many missiles can you deploy at sea on any given day missiles. So that's these are the factors we need to look into. India can give can gain real leverage only if we build a top three or top two navy. Only if we can surpass either the the US or China. Not even top three but top two. Only then will we get leverage that will be tremendous leverage. That will be tremendous leverage. India already has the money and the resources to build a top two navy. India has it. Yeah. So you you don't merely need a navy that can blockade the choke points. You need a navy that can blockade and sustain the blockade and defeat anybody who challenges you. That's what you need. It's not enough to build some kind of naval dominance and say, "Oh, I can blockade this, blockade that." That is not enough. So, if you can do that, then you can negotiate anything on the table. Even with the US, you can arm twist them. If you have this because political power and negotiating power it flows out of the barrel of a gun as Maatung once said right that's what needs to happen so we need we need some ambition we need leaders with ambition we have the money but I don't know where the money is going what schemes is it going into whatever all rightanka biswas says can a genuine India China only occur if India demonstrates credible strength and strategic muscle both militarily and diplomatically to command mutual respect and engagement. See, you can't have, you're absolutely right, in in in geopolitics, in international relations, in all relations, what matters is respect. You won't treat somebody as an equal or somebody as as uh worthy of being taken seriously until you respect them. And what what is it that makes somebody respect you? Fear. In the law of the jungle, if you fear someone, you respect them, right? When I was a kid, I had a cat. I had many cats as a kid. So, I had this cat. And this cat goes out, okay? Goes out. And then I see the cat, my cat, and he's just standing there with his hair raised up. And he's being extremely differential to somebody. I go and see who it is. It's a small green snake. small green snake, little snake. And my cat was very nasty with snakes, okay? He would do bad things to snakes. But this snake was just standing there. And my cat was saying, "Please sir, please, please go ahead. Please, I will wait as long as you need to wait and please go ahead. Please go first." My cat was being super differential. Why was he being super differential? Because that was a venomous snake. That snake was capable of killing. Now, cats have faster reaction times than snakes. Even cats can even kill venomous snakes. Why take the risk? So if the guy has a weapon that can kill you, you're going to respect the guy. You're going to respect him. So that's the law of the jungle. That's the law of nature. And that is also the law of geopolitics, right? So the Chinese don't respect India right now. And would you blame them for not respecting India? What has India do done to earn their respect? The only way to earn someone's respect is by standing up for yourself and demonstrating that you can hit back as well as they can if not if not worse than they can. Right? So you got to demonstrate some spine. Right now India is actually doing that. India is standing up to the US. We are standing up to them economically and g and diplomatically not militarily. But yeah, that that will begrudgingly engender some respect in Beijing. And we and what we did in operation sindu, even if it was just a three-day war, well, that also will change some of the perceptions that other nations have towards India. Until and unless China respects India, which means fears India, uh there can no not be any genuine India China. No, they don't. India has to demonstrate credible strength, credible fortitude. India needs to stand up for itself. India needs to be able capable, willing, capable and able to take pain and still stand straight and push back. You do these things, everyone will take you seriously and you will not no longer be the pushover in the room. So India is going in that direction but India has a long way to go. So yeah, that's the only way you get Raproma with China. Only if they genuinely respect you, which means they fear you. You've got to make them fear you. Even if you have no intention of harming somebody, you've got to be dangerous. You see what's the difference? What's the difference between a harmless person and a dangerous person? A person, no. See, a weak person, a weak person who says that I'm good because I don't hurt anybody. He's not a good person. He's just weak. He's just a weak. That's just a weak person. That's not a good person. You have no choice but to not harm anyone otherwise you're going to be bashed up because you are so weak. But a strong person who is skilled in all forms of violence who still and who despite being so strong and despite being skilled in violence if that person still chooses not to hurt or harm anybody that's a good person. So that's what India has to be. Our our civilization our our cultural values are that we have to we should be nonviolent and not create any mayhem in the world. Sure, it doesn't mean that we should be weak. It means that we should be strong enough to resist anybody but still choose not to not to be a hegemonic power. That's what India needs to do. That's what needs to happen. And only then can we gain the respect of everybody else, our dance partners, whoever they are, one is China. So I think we are taking steps in that direction now by standing up to the US. That will I I promise you that will raise some eyebrows in Beijing and that will bring India a little amount of grudging respect from from the Chinese. Okay. Pray Paul says, "Was Microsoft's move to block NRA Energy's access a mere technical action or a calculated test of control by the company or its geopolitical masters? What does this reveal about digital sovereignty and the risks to India's critical infrastructure?" So Naara Energy is an Indian oil refining company. It has I think India's second largest refinery or something like that. Yeah. Uh and and this company has been sanctioned by the EU. The EU the European Union European Union has imposed sanctions on Nara Energy an Indian oil refiner. Now this company NRA Energy uh it has a certain amount of Russian ownership minority stake. Okay. Uh and it's importing Russian crude oil and refining that and I don't know where it's being exported but wherever. So the EU has sanctioned it and then we hear the news that Microsoft suddenly revoked access. So Naira is a customer of Microsoft and they have the data on Microsoft servers or whatever it is. I don't know the details but Microsoft unilaterally cut off all access and they they restricted Naira energy's access to the services they have purchased unilaterally now the sanctions were from the U not from from the EU not from the US and Microsoft is a company that's legally bound to uh provide the services that that have been paid for and that yet they unilaterally cut that off for a while and now it's been restored apparently I'm not sure so what does it mean was this mere tech technical action absolutely not this was let's say a trial run of what can be done in the future right so look we depend on on on platforms on services provided by the US that overcomes the risk that is given to us at their pleasure even if you pay for it even then they can cut it off and what what the hell can we do are you going to go to the US and fire file court cases yeah even if you do that the US government can intervene and have you kicked out and have your court what whatever they can do whatever they want. Uh so this is the risk you run when you don't have your own technological platforms and your own technological uh service providers. You don't have that you're going to depend on outsiders. You're going to depend on the superpower and then they can control everything that you do. Yeah. And you can't blame them for that. Uh so what does it reveal about the risks to India's critical infrastructure? We are at their mercy. We need to have our own operating systems. We need to have our own platforms. We need to have everything of our own. And uh we're nowhere near that. Terrible situation, right? Clearly. Okay. So Khadka says, "Is MCC the Millennium Millennium Challenge Corporation a new way of the US to vasalize countries be? Because it seems like it's getting active in Nepal. Now what are my thoughts about this Millennium Challenge Corporation? It's one of the innumerable US operations that uh seek to vasalize various countries. So you know the Roman poet Virgil he wrote this poem called the Iid. It was about the Trojan warrior inas. So Inas he was a survivor of the Trojan war. He survived the fall of Troy and he fled from Troy. He fled from Greece and he traveled westwards and he ended up in what is now called Italy. So Anaas traveled to Italy, settled down there and his descendants eventually were Remis and Rmulus and his descendants were eventually the Romans. So Anaas the Greek warrior the Trojan warrior who survived the fall of Troy he was the ancestor it is believed of the Romans. So Virgil this Roman poet about 10 20 BC or whatever he wrote this poem called the Inid which which is about in his story and in this poem Virgil wrote beware of Greeks bearing gifts. What's it mean? Beware of Greeks bearing gifts. Obviously he's referring to the horse, right? The Trojan horse. Beware of Greeks bearing gifts. Today we need to change that. Beware of Americans bearing gifts. That's all I'll say. There's no free gift in the world. The gift always has always has uh an ulterior motive. Okay? And if you are stupid enough as a country to take these gifts in, it's going to cause mayhem for you. It's going to cause mayhem. Mclivven says India did a great job in operation Sindur. We doing great in Europe selling weapons, oil, trade deals and so on. We are also handling the pressure of US tariffs so far, not sanctions, tariffs. But why can't we take care of the Manipur problem? We're doing great globally, but our internal problems are getting worse. But like I said, like I said, this is a project undertaken by the US. The US sees India. Well, if India is allowed to just grow the way it is growing naturally, leave India alone, let it grow. India in the next 20 years will become the next China. Despite all the problems India has, India has so many internal problems. Problems that are the consequences of the decisions taken by various people in in the 1940s. Those problems are legacy problems. They still plague us. India is still shackled by these colonial problems and the legacy of colonalism. The biggest problem we have is corruption. Allegedly. Allegedly. Yeah. And that there's so much inertia. There's so much entropy within India. Much of India's energy in incredible vital energy is wasted within fighting each other. Right? And despite all these problems, India is still the the largest the the fastest growing large economy. And India could still become the next China in 2030 years. And that will be that will be a problem for the US. So the US doesn't want India to ever be that son of nation that ends up becoming the next China and another headache for them in the future. So best deal with India now. And I don't blame the great power, the existing hedgeim for behaving that way. It is just the natural order of things. If you are the hedgeim, you don't want new future hedgemons to crop up. You want to nip them in the bud. That's just the way you behave. That's how it is. Vishnu Chanaka would have approved approved of that. Right? So that's how it goes. But now we are here and we are in the crosshairs. So the ideal situation, the ideal outcome for the hedgeim is the bulcanization of India. so many internal problems, so many problems internally that we can't fight outside forces and we just cave in and give up, right? And ultimately we get balconized or we we become a totally different entity culturally and religiously and and civilization no civilization left. That's the ideal outcome for them and that's why they're pouring in possibly allegedly trillions of dollars worth of funding into uh large scale conversion activities in India and other problems. So Pakistan an artificial temporary nation is has always been propped up by the US. The US funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India for decades. We know that. Now during the Biden administration there was this new project that they created new project project Kukiland for Christ to create a new artificial temporary nation east of India east of the Indian far east. And this artificial temporary nation would would be a Christian nation and it will be made created out of parts of Burma, parts of Manipur, parts of M parts of Miseram and parts of Bangladesh. And who said this? The ursw prime minister of Bangladesh said this while she was still prime minister. She made these allegations that there is a project. The US is engaging in this project and they're trying to balconize uh Bangladesh and Myanmar and take parts of Manipur and maybe the whole of Bizaram and so on to create this new artificial nation and the the purpose of this new artificial nation is to serve as an eastern Pakistan and create the same problems for India as Pakistan does on our western front. Right? And the Manipur problem is an outcome of that. So why have has the west been spending so much money Christianizing India? Why have they we have our our former leaders allowed them to Christianize much of the far east. Nagaland is completely almost completely Christianized. They have lost their their traditional ancestral culture. It's been wiped out. How horrible. They are doing the same in Arunachal. They they've done the same in Mizoram, right? And now these foreigners the cookies are being poured being pushed into India and God knows how many lakhs and half of Manipur is is overrun more than half and the problem is just persisting. Now you may have heard that the government of India is now pushing beginning to take steps to push out Bangladesh's Rohingyas to some extent. But why is that not being done in Manipur despite Manipur being right on the border with Burma? Just push the outsiders out right through the border. it it can be done in in a few days. It won't take years like the Bangladesh is doing years. Why is it not being done? Because this is a US project and uh the moment you take any action in this, they're going to start crying human rights and you know do UN resolutions and take all kinds of maybe impose sanctions on India. Huge huge pain on India if we try to solve the Manipur problem. So that's the deal. India can solve it tomorrow. one order from Delhi and in three to seven days all foreigners are out of Manipur. As simple as that. In one way or the other they can be deported on their feet or in whichever way can be done. One order from Delhi in less than 7 days the problem is solved. But why are we unable to do it? Because there is a foreign hand and that foreign hand comes from the largest power in the world and they are so powerful that we are unable to do it. We are unable to thus far solve the problem. What is the Manipur problem? There are you will have journalists telling you that the Manipur problem is there are multiple ethnicities in Manipur who can't live together. That's not the problem. The Manipur problem is illegal foreign infiltration and and and take over of Indian territory. That's the problem. The solution to the Manipur problem is to kick out all the outsiders. As simple as that. It's not about multi. It's not it's not some civil war that's happening. It's an invasion. An invasion is not a civil war. So that needs to happen whenever it happens. We'll see. See the the foreign power is just too powerful. It's so powerful China can't take back Taiwan despite Taiwan being right at China's doorstep. People underestimate how powerful the US is. Okay. China has always sought to take Taiwan back. Taiwan lies at China's doorstep and still Taiwan China can't do that. That's how powerful the superpower is. So what are we compared to even China? China is about three and a half four times more powerful than us and they still can't do it. So can we solve the problem? So these are pain points being applied to India to destabilize India and to keep India from reaching its full potential. So do you see do you see do you see these as friendly steps by a friendly division against India? No. So understand what the manipul problem really is. Yeah. Okay. Two questions about the same uh essentially the same topic. Geopolitical Dubai says uh the American president Mr. Trump has announced that he will deploy nuclear submarines near Russia or whatever appropriate regions. Yeah. Is this just a statement given out of frustration or and anger or is he seriously st taking steps? And Pra says, "What's the real significance of Trump publicly announcing this the movement of two nuclear submarines near Russia? Is this serious military signaling or reckless political theater? Do responsible nations ever declare such actions so openly uh especially amid nuclear tensions? How should the world and India in particular read this escalation as a credible shift or a dangerous breakdown of or strategic maturity? So Trump was took offense to some statements made by the former Russian president Mr. Dimitri Midwev. Mr. Dimitriv is pretty active on Twitter and he is a he's got a very sarcastic snarky tone. He's he tweets in very good English and I think that has really offended Mr. Trump. Yeah. Mr. Trump seems to have taken it very very personally and he has now publicly announced that he is sending two American nuclear submarines is deploying them to the appropriate locations in response to whatever Mr. Meduv has said. Yeah. Now understand this American nuclear submarines are on permanent deployment across the world. Let's take a look at the map. Let's take a look at the map. Okay. US nuclear submarines are they essentially uh have unlimited range because they can stay submerged for months on end. Uh their legs the length of their legs depends on how much food food they can you know uh take that uh on one mission. So typically 6 months they can stay uh submerged if they need to and they have nuclear propulsion which means they don't even have to sub to surface for air. They can recycle the air, the carbon dioxide back into oxygen and and so on and they can stay submerged for months. So their missions can take can last months if they need to. Now US nuclear submarines are typically deployed all across the world. At this point in time you will have Indian US nuclear submarines in the western Indian Ocean region the so-called Arabian Sea region. You will have nuclear submarines in the US in the so-called Bay of Bengal, the Sea of Kolinga. You will have them in the South China Sea, the the Champa Sea. Actually, you'll have them in the sea of Japan. You will have them in the sea of most likely you will have them in the bearing sea. You will have them in the Arctic Ocean region. And you will also have them in the North Atlantic and wherever else required. You will also sometimes see US nuclear submarines crossing the the the Sway canal. Okay, you'll see see them sometimes. Um so the US nuclear submarines are everywhere. They are always on patrol. and they are an integral component of the American second strike capability. So if he says that he is deploying two nuclear submarines at appropriate locations, what is he talking about? They're always deployed. US nuclear submarines are always forward deployed. They're always in contested waters, supposedly cons contested waters. That's the deal about submarines. They can be hidden and then they go places where nobody else can go. Surface vessels can't go there. So what's he talking about? So look, they they are already on deployment. They're already deployed wherever they can be deployed. And uh he's just making a statement I would say that you know he's he's kind of upset. He's taken Mr. Medvev's statements a little seriously, a little personally and uh whatever. So yeah, he does have as the president of the US authority to deploy nuclear submarines wherever he wants. You go deploy here, you go deploy there, he can do that. But they're always deployed. It's it's policy. It's policy. So what do I make of this? Is is this an escalation? It's not an escalation. Tensions are already high and whatever assets need to be deployed wherever they already deployed. You have nuclear American nuclear weapons in Turkey aimed at Russia. You have US nuclear weapons in other U European countries aimed at Russia. You have American nuclear missiles on US territory aimed at every other country major country in the world including US. you um and so on and so on so forth. So that's standard nuclear posture. Um so this is just an angry statement by Mr. Trump. He's he is uh he has taken Mr. Medv's statements a little personally. I don't see there's I don't imagine there's any new deployment. They already deployed wherever they can be deployed there. Okay. All right. Miganga, Seeker, Biswas and Prrenipal have the same question. Essentially, Lat aerospace announced the building of indigenous aircraft engines and star successfully tested a hydrogen oxygen powertrain. India is making bold steps in strides in innovation. Are these developments signals that we are witnessing the the rise of India from being a lowkilled assembler to high-end engineering and designing? And Prne says, "How do you view this bold initiative by Zumat's founder and Lat to build indigenous gas turbines, a space India has struggled to conquer? And why have IT giants like TCS Infosys despite decades of global dominance never ventured into deep tech or invested in cutting edge national R&D the way LAT now aspires to? What does this reveal about India's tech priorities and its future in strategic innovation?" Okay. So it's Deepinder Goyel the founder of Zumato who is now venturing into uh the design and development of gas turbine engines something India has never done before. India India struggled to do that. It's great. I'm so happy to hear that somebody who is who already has a successful venture like Zumato is using the proceeds and whatever the profits possibly personal from that and using that and in in channeling that into R&D engineering R&D especially in a in a sector like gas turbines which India desperately needs. I'm I'm very pleased to hear that. I think he should he needs to be applauded for that. So now and also star is apparently tested a hydrogen oxygen power train. Now somebody people will ask me what's a power train? What is a power train? Power train what is it? A powertrain is the is the mechanical apparatus that that connects the engine of let's say an automobile let's say a car to its wheels. So it transmits the revolutions of the engine and turn and and converts them into the the motion of the wheels. That's the power train essentially. It's this axle and so on. Yeah. So that's a power train. So hydrogen oxygen power train. So you're essentially using hydrogen and oxygen as the fuel instead of uh fossil fuels. Yeah. Good, good, good progress. And L aerospace is a bigger story. Uh it's not announced the building of indigenous aircraft engines. They're starting the venture. I think deepind the Mr. Goyel is looking for the right kind of engineers. Yeah. So they're right now assembling a team of engineers and I think that their their their philosophy is going to be that we will do it as fast as possible. We'll test as fast as as possible break things as if need to fail as much as we need to and then start making things happen. See how do you develop something? Let's say you want to build a new rocket new rocket engine. I promise you the first time you test something is going to explode or fail or crash. Most likely it'll crash on the launchpad itself. That's necessary. Then you take the data of what went wrong and then you improve upon that. Then it may go maybe 3 ft up and then explode. Okay, progress. It did not explode on the launch pad. It exploded 3 ft above. Then you take the new data and you understand what improvements you made worked and what did not work. You make some changes. Now that it'll go maybe 10 m up and then crash. So you keep on iteratively imp improving. Then one day you're going to have it launch into orbit. That's how we do it. You've got to break things. You've got to fail lots of times. So the the trick is to fail as quickly as possible over and over again until you start succeeding in small ways and then you make the small ways bigger. So if you want to develop something in engineering, you got to fail lots of times as fast as possible. You got to break things first. You got to break lots of things. So that's the philosophy I believe that LAT aerospace is going to employ. Right now they're looking at building a team of uh talented people and they don't care about what degrees you have. They want to see if you can actually do things which is great. That's the approach we need to have in this country if you want to make progress. So it's great. So this is a this is a something that's starting up right now. We haven't yet they haven't yet built any engines. Okay. But yeah, I I applaud the initiative. That's what needs to happen. More people who have the funds and resources need to take these risks, take these leaps of faith and try and do something different, right? It's good. It's great. So, we are witnessing some kind of rise, some kind of, you know, a different approach in India. We no longer doing the same old stuff. Now what about TCS, Infosys, whoever else you know their business model what it was the entire Indian IT sector. How many how many new products has the Indian IT sector created? Have they created anything like Facebook, like Twitter, like Instagram, like uh Google, like uh OpenAI? Has have has the Indian IT sector produced anything new? They have produced a big fat zero. The Indian IT sector they have had only one business model labor arbitrage. So we have talented IT people in this country lots and lots of computer science graduates and whatever you know. So they will take these youngsters give you know train them a little bit and then they will tell the American companies look for you in the US if you employ a programmer it's going to cost you let's say $100 an hour we're going to bill you $20 an hour for the same work so obviously the American companies will will contract these Indian IT companies and then the Indian IT companies who are being build who are billing the the customer $20 an hour. They'll pay the Indian uh programmers a fraction of that. That's called labor arbitrage. Everybody wins except the poor guy who and the poor girl who are programmers in India. Yeah. Cyber coolies. So way back I was a cyber once. So I've seen the whole thing. It's it's miserable. the the Indian IT companies have no interest in creating anything exciting or anything new. They just want to mint money and now that model is going to die. It's going to be a disaster for India. But that's what it is. They've never bothered. They've never wanted to innovate. They just being greedy about money. Show me one innovation that's come out of Indian IT companies. Nothing. It's that mindset. Very bad mindset, you know. So yeah it it tells you that we don't have any visionary leaders in the Indian IT sector. Nobody. So I'm glad that Mr. Deepinder Goyel the founder of Zumato is taking this risk and I I wish him the greatest of success. I'm very happy to see this. Geopolitical Dubai says can we consider ancient India to have been an otarchy? That's a great question. That's a great question. Ancient India. Let's talk about India from a thousand years ago. Our ancestors a thousand years ago and the the same land that we live in a thousand years ago. What was it like? What was the lifestyle like? We can't even imagine what our ancestors were like a thousand years ago, right? But forget about that the historical part. But was India at that time an utarchy? What's an otarchy? That's the question we to answer first. An utarchy is an entity. Uh a political or geopolitical entity which is a country or a kingdom or an empire. Okay? It's an entity. It's a kingdom or empire that is completely self-sufficient in all resources. All energy needs are provided from for within. All food security needs are provided for from within. All resources like metals and whatever else, minerals, everything is available in the country. You don't depend on any external provider for anything at all whatsoever. If you are in that situation, you are an otarchy. You're completely self-sufficient. You need nothing from anybody else. Today, Russia is an otarchy. The US, you can say, is an utarchy. Yes. Who else? Nobody else. So, was ancient India an utarchy? Yes, we were in otarch. See in the old days a thousand years ago there nobody used fossil fuels. It was all horsepower and uh so we we had no dependence on anybody else for energy and all the minerals everything was available in India. India is a gigantic piece of territory. we were completely self-sufficient when it comes to uh food security, agriculture, tremendous um tremendously fertile land. So India, ancient India was in absolutely no turkey. We were a net exporter of whatever everything else, everything. The Romans used to trade with us. They they used to purchase our our spices and our textile products and all that and they used to in return they used to give us gold. They used to sometimes complain about it. that India is taking all over gold because our people are are hooked are addicted to Indian spices and products and whatn not they in India most of them anyhow so ancient India was absolutely an utarchy so why are we not an autoarchy today because we lack we have we we are not self-sufficient in terms of energy first of all right u we don't have enough oil and gas resources that we know of thus far that can provide for all our energy needs that's the major Achilles heel that we face today. That's the major problem. Uh apart from that, I'm what else? Uh I think we are dependent on other countries for rare earth minerals and various other things. I think all of that can be solved. All of that can be solved. We've just our our our leaders, our governments in the past have just been too lazy to look for the resources within India. We need to prospect. Prospecting is hard work. But if we look for the resources in in the gigantic subcontinent, we'll find everything in the sub in the subcontinent. So I think it's a matter of time if we start looking for us to find everything all the resources we need. Even if it's uranium, even if it's thorium, even if it's oil, gas, whatever rare earths, lithium, everything will be available in India if we just look for it. So we can become anarchy again. But it'll it'll take some time. It'll take some effort, some resources, money, cash. So yeah, you're right, sir. In ancient India was absolutely not. Absolutely. What next? Okay. Krishna uh Krishna of Surinamese Netherlands says, "How long will it take to correct the inaccuracies and incorrect narratives in the historical chronological timelines of Parat Versa's history? Okay, India's history is a mess. Obviously, the written history today, why is it a mess? Well, if you ask the great westerners, they'll say that you your history is a mess because your ancestors never bothered to write history. You were an ahistoric people. You tended to memorize everything and whatever you memorized was was stories and myths, right? That's what they say. The truth is this. We were not an ahistoric person. Uh we were not an ah historic culture or civilization. We wrote everything. We had universities with gigantic libraries. All our history was recorded and written down. Everything was written down. And we lost our sovereignty. Foreigners came in. Turks, they destroyed our universities, raised them to the ground and burned our libraries. Our libraries burned for months. That's how big they were. And today any of the old universities if you go there they're all flattened they're all in ruins they're all burned scorch marks everywhere right? So we lost our written history we lost the records of our history that were maintained by our ancestors. So what was left? We were left with some memories and some tales and those had to be passed on orally because we could not build new libraries and new universities as long as we were under foreign occupation. They would not allow us to do that. So we were forced to pass everything on orally. And then when the foreigners, the whites, the Europeans arrived in India, they said you are a people without history. You pass on history orally. Such primitive barbarians you are. So let me do you a favor. You stupid Indians. You stupid Hindus. I will write your history for you. Okay? And then they proceeded to write our history for us. And then by 1830 they 35 or whatever that was officially made part of the Indian education system their version of our history and we still teach that today that's the problem. So now now that we understand how it happened, how long will it take to correct all this, the inaccuracies, the incorrect narratives and especially the historical chronological timelines? The chronological timelines will take time because we have records of lineages of kings. We have how many ancient uh royal lineages? 36 I believe. I believe there are there were historically 36 royal lineages that went back to the rigidic times. The royal lineages of India. Uh who was it? James Todd or somebody who who collected that data and published it. But it was known for obviously it was known to us before that. Uh the 36 royal lineages of India. And so we have recorded lineages of Indian kings and dynasties that go back thousands and thousands of years. One example is Kalhana the the Kashmiri chronicler. He wrote the Raj Tarangini in which there are records of kings that go back to the Vic times. Okay. Mostly centered around Kashmir obviously but obviously it'll have the entirety of the Indian lineages and we have other records here and there. So we have to reconcile the records and see sometimes some kings are said in the records to have lived several hundred years. What does it really mean? Maybe it means their their bunch or the lineage or the dynasty was in power for for those many years. We have to interpret it properly. So that's going to take some brain power. You're going to have to bring scholars together. One person can't do it possibly. Maybe we have to have a lot of scholars come together and have maybe our version of a solve conference for history and then you know come up you know understand what the what the and decipher what the truth really is. So this may be a long this may be long effort. So the chronology is is problematic. I'm pretty sure the chronologies are mixed up are messed up. I'm not even sure which Chundra Gupta it was that faced u that that um there have been multiple Chundra Guptas right in Indian history which Chundra Gupta came when which was the Morian Chundra Gupta which were of the Chundra Guptas there are lots of inconsistencies and there are certain anchors that have been used to to give dates to Indian history one is the uh the the the uh the attempted invasion by Alexander the Greek and so on. But there there's going to be lots of problems. We don't even know for sure what's the date of the Buddha. It is supposed to be uh maybe the fifth century BC or thereabouts. I'm not sure if that's the absolutely accurate thing. So there's a lot that needs to be looked into and that's going to take a lot of time. It's going to take a lot of brain power. You'll need really smart people to do that. But when it comes to the other inaccuracies and incorrect narratives that can be fixed, that can be solved in maybe 2, three years. So all you have to do is delegate the responsibility of this to the to the states. How many states do we have in India? 29 30 whatever the number is. So each state has its own rich history that goes back thousands of years. Right? So have let's say each state government fund let's say 20 scholars in each state. Give them 1 cr rupees a year. 20 cr rupes is nothing. It's peanuts. Give each scholar a a stipen of 1 cr rupees a year. Have them work on one aspect of the state's history and let them collaborate in whichever way they want. Get the brightest people hopefully young people and give them a period of three years let's say to do their research and compile their work. So then you have 20 volumes for each state and those that can they can there can then be combined into a proper full series uh of history books for each state and you can do it for each state in the country right that will give you a complete history of the country and each region of the country in just 3 years. Then you can digitize it and have make it available to the entire population of the country for free. Obviously you to choose the people correctly you know carefully and so it can be done obviously so these inaccuracies and all that stuff all of this can be fixed actually resolved pretty soon if there is political will for it you need good leadership for that um I'm not sure about that you know whether the motivation exists or not that's the problem rightas and Vladimir Putin says uh say now that Nisar is in orbit with dual and SAR what's a SAR synthetic synthetic aperture radar synthetic aperture radar uh offering centimeter accuracy surface mapping every 12 days what strategic value does it provide India in boosting disaster resilience and infrastructure moni monitoring and Mr. Putin Shri Putin G says what are your views on the NISAR satellite launch? How will it impact India US relations? Uh how does it impact Indian space technology? What is NISAR? It's NASA ISRO synthetic aperture radar. It's a satellite that recently was put up into space. It was launched from India. I think the Satish Davan Space Center. It was launched using a GSLV Mark III or whatever rocket rocket. And uh it's probably the most powerful um earth sensing remote sensing satellite of all time possibly uh joint mission between NASA and ISRO. Um NASA has provided what? NASA has provided one of the SS one of the synthetic aperture radars I think the Lband possibly 1 to 2 GHz frequency range and ISRO has provided the Sband synthetic aperture radar which is the 3 to 4 GHz frequency range or something like that and ISRO also provided the satellite bus and the and the and the launch vehicle which is the GSM rocket and uh yeah so that's it's a joint venture joint uh project between the two nations. Now the satellite is in orbit. It's going to take a few months to calibrate it and whatever else and then it'll start operations. Right? That's the deal. Now the question is does it provide any strategic value to India or the US or or what else? So let's take a look. Let's let's Google this, right? Let's see what NASA has to say. Let's see what ISRO has to say about this. I haven't looked into the the satellite and its uh specifications thus far. So let's discover it together. NISAR satellite. What's this NISAR satellite? Um, let's first go to NISAR on the NASA website. Uh, NASA is synthetic aperture radar designed to provide a detailed view of the Earth to observe and measure some of the planet's most complex processes. Ecosystem disturbances, ice sheet collapse, natural hazards, sea level horizons, groundwater issues. Its radar, the first of its kind in space, will systematically map Earth. Measuring changes over planet surface surface as small as a centimeter. Fantastic. So the mission partners are NASA and ISRO. Instruments are two. Yeah. LSR and SR. Yeah. Uh it's at an altitude of 747 km inclination of 98.4°. Um all of that. Fantastic. What do else do we have? The magic of SAR. How the SAR works. Okay, good. Very nice. How the synthetic aperture radar works. What data and so on. Okay, that's what NASA has to say. Not a lot actually. Now let's see what ISRO has to say about this uh mission mission MISAR NSAR designed to provide a detailed view all the same stuff. Oh, this is again NASA's website. Let's go to ISRO's website. All right, here we have it. Okay, NISAR is a first of its kind mission jointly developed by the two space agencies L and Sband global microwave imaging mission with capability to acquire full polar and interpherometric data la. Okay. So, um provides high resolution and large swath imagery uh including islands every 12 days. Primary objectives are to study land and ice deformation, land in ecosystems, oceanic regions in areas of common interest to the US and Indian space communities. Measure the woody biomass. Track changes in extent of active crops. Understand changes in wetlands extent. Map greenlands and Antactica's arch ice sheets. Dynamics of sea ice and mountain glaciers. characterize land surface deformation and seismicity volcanism landslides blah blah blah and uh all that mainframe bus imaging payload orbit suns synchronous okay uh dawn to dusk kind of orbit very nice u all of that nice mission phases launch deployment commissioning science so it's launched now it's it's being deployed commissioning first 90 days will be dedicated to commissioning in orbit checkout and all that stuff and then the science operations again. So that's about it. Two-eyed NISAR satellite, two, it's got two radars and so on. Now, so that gives me some information about what this thing is. So does it provide any strategic value? No. This is a scientific mission. It doesn't provide any strategic value as far as we know. Okay. Um so yeah, as far as we can see from whatever is being said officially in the public domain, it doesn't have any strategic purpose. It has a scientific it has a scientific mission. Um and it's about tracking natural processes uh sea ice the ice caps uh crops and wood surface you know wooded area and all that stuff. Um disaster resilience it may have some applications uh infrastructure monitoring possibly. So what a synthetic aperture radar does is that it is that it allows you to construct a two-dimensional representation of three-dimensional surfaces maybe a 3D representation because you have two radars and there's this Doppler shift effect that that uh is at the heart of the synthetic aperture radar physics. So yeah that that sort of thing. So it doesn't really provide any strategic value. This particular satellite it does not uh will it impact US India relations? It'll impact it'll it'll be good for the the uh the the the the cooperation between the two scientific communities the American scientific community and the Indian scientific community. So Indian scientists and American scientists will collaborate on various research projects and all that and share the data. It's already a cooperation between NASA and ISRO. So that's good. So overall it's good from the perspective of the two scientific communities. Um how does it impact Indian space technology? Not really. So it's a it's a successful GSV launch which comes out for a while. So that's good. Beyond that nothing nothing much. Uh and it shows that India is has got a robust uh set of technologies that u that go into satellites. You know we we have been manufacturing high quality satellites for quite some time. So that that showcases that um so it will not impact India US relations at a geopolitical level. It will be beneficial for the relations at the scientific level scientific communities level. Beyond that I don't see too much coming out of that. Okay. Sharma 108x says between the Iranian shakas excuse me Iranian shakas because the west says that that the skitians were Iranian. Okay. Between the skitans the shakas the tkarans the tushara people the koshans and the turks. The history of central Asia seems convoluted. What exactly is the history of the Indian influence in central Asia including the Tarin base in Jungaria region and how did Shinjang so-called Shinjang become a part of China. Okay, let's go to the map. Where's the map? Where's the map? Here is the map. Okay. So, here is map. Yes. And we have Central Asia all over here. So, Central Asia you could say is is east of Ukraine. Starts east of Ukraine. uh it uh in my opinion from the way I see it the ancient land called is today central Asia soya also included present day Ukraine actually but let's say it starts from east of Ukraine which means the cauasus region all the stans Kazakhstanistan turkmanistan tajakistan kystan and so on so forth it also includes present day so-called singang and all that excludes Tibet so that in my opinion from the way I see it is central Asia because that was the region once called Skitia. It was the land of the skitians, the Shaka people. Now if you ask any western or even if even if you ask Indian historians, they will say that the Skithians were an Iranian people, irranic people. Now the question you're asking is a very good question. So now that we have established the geography, let's close the map. So now that we have established the geography of Central Asia which includes present day Singinjang which includes the homeland of this of the of the Kushana people now that we understand that what's the deal pretty convoluted it's convoluted if you want to look at it see it's complex or simple depending on what lens you use to look at it if you use a short lens if you look look at the the history of the P of the region from the perspective of the last 500 years only. It's going to be super complicated. Super complicated. If you look at it from the perspective, if you examine the history from the perspective of of the last 1,000 years, it'll make a little more little more sense. If you look at the history from the perspective of the last 2,000 years, it makes even more sense. But the best way to look at it is to look at it from the perspective of the maybe the last 7 8,000 years. Then everything falls into piece into into place and everything makes sense. So if it is complicated, it means you've been using the wrong lens to look at stuff. You've been looking at only a certain time period. That is very complicated. If you look at it like that, you will you won't be able to make out what's happening. It will be super complicated. You will never get to the bottom of anything. How did it all begin? You have to look at the origins of the shakas, of the Persians, of the tusharas, everybody else. And we said the tokarans and the kushans. Same thing. Same thing. Where does it all begin, my friends? It all begins with the earliest recorded battle in human history. Earliest recorded war in human history. Earliest recorded military campaign, geopolitical campaign in human history. It's called the battle of the 10 kings. Happened God knows when. It's recorded in the oldest literature in the world, the Rigveda. So this battle happened and one it was a battle between a confederation of more than 10 kings and they were all a raid lined up against one guy King Sudas and it was an it was an rolling ongoing conflict. It eventually culminated in a battle between King Sudas and his forces and on the other other side the 10 plus kings altogether as a confederation and King Sudas won and those 10 plus kings were and their people were expelled out of India. They were ejected out of India. They where did they go? They went outwards northwest of India. Which land which region did they go into? Well, some they some of them went into what's now called skitia or central Asia. Some went eastwards. Oh, sorry, westwards. Some went further west, somewhere less, some went less less west. So, the parro people ended up populating Persia. Persia is named after the parro people, Persians. The Alina people became the Hellenic people. The helenic the helenic people are the Greeks and and so much more. Okay. So, Persia was populated from India. That's why there is so much affinity between the ancient Persians and the ancient Indians. Today, it's different because of historical reasons. But 2,000 years ago, the Persian people and Indian people were essentially the same. Very similar languages, very similar culture, everything similar. Um, so that is the Iranians, the Persians. Who are the Skithians? They were the people who lived in Central Asia, the the the descendants of the the the the people who fled, who were expelled out of India, who were exiled from India, the the end of the battle of the 10 kings. And they for for the longest time, they were very Indian. When the Skitians, when the Shakas reinvaded India about 2,100 years ago, they were able to assimilate very harmoniously with the Indian population. Why? Because they were the same people, same culture, they were sun worshippers. The language was also pretty similar after all these years. So the skitians were descendants of ancient Indians. The Tushara people, the Tokarians, well they are the eastern most skitians, they spoke the Tushara language which is supposedly a Satan language. But if you look at the Tushar Tushar language which I'll show you. Let's go to well let's let's discover it for for ourselves live live right now. Tokarian script we look at the script but it will also tell us tell us about about the language let's go to omniglo.com the Tokarian is an ancient extinct branch of etc etc jantarim basin also all that um so this is the tokaran alphabet okay now what are the concerns of the tokaran language ka cha cha jana ta da da da da da da and so on. Doesn't it sound like exactly like an Indian language? That's how it was structured. The gods they worshiped were the Indian gods and so on. Their DNA, the male DNA is mostly R1A. That's the HLO group mostly. Not R1A, R1 A1A, RM17. That's that's pure Indian. Yeah. And so much more. So the Kushans, the Tusha, the Kushans were essentially the descendants of the Tushara people. to people um and so on. So now I think the history of Central Asia makes a little more sense. Later it becomes convoluted because of the Tur Turk invasions and all the mess that that created. But for the longest time you had Indian temples all across Central Asia all across Central Asia. In uh in Armenia there were a bunch of Hindu temples that were destroyed about 2,000 years ago and churches were built on top of them. Today those churches have been destroyed by Azarbaijanis and mosques have been built on top of those. That's the long history. Even today you will see ruins all across central Asia with Indian deities. In Russia they find Vishnu Vishnu statues of Lord Vishnu even today once in a while there's Indian influence everywhere. Everywhere but obviously history won't historians won't write about that right because no we don't write about that. So yeah, so that's I'll not go into Singinjang becoming part of China and so on and so forth. It's a long long stories, but yeah, hopefully this explains about Central Asia. Um, okay. Reddi says, "My age is 25, lost three UPSC attempts, wasted four years in UPSC preparation, no job, no respect from family and society. Horrible situation every day. Feeling like feeling like a loser and lost everything. How to get give a solid comeback in life to maintain how to maintain consistency in life. I am I have goals but I'm losing motivation and consistency on a on regular intervals. How to maintain cool calm composed mindset like me and how do you how to give solid strong comeback in life. Please start raising your standard series waiting for years. Yeah, I always say raise your standards but I haven't shown you how to right. You see you I can't get you to raise your standards by giving you lectures. I can't do that. giving you a lecture will motivate you for let's say half an hour but once mot what is motivation motivation is emotion right emotion yes I'll do it but that emotion emotions are variable emotions come and go you can't rely on emotions to achieve goals I can motivate you by giving you a speech but after half an hour 1 hour that that emotion will flow away right and you'll come back face to face with the realities of life excuse me I can't motivate you or teach you how to raise your standards by giving you lectures or making videos or or yeah essentially giving you speeches and lectures. The only way I can do that is by setting an example of some kind. Yeah, that could be the raising your standard series by by setting some kind of example for you. Yeah, maybe I maybe not maybe I'm going to have to do that. So, how do you set an example of how to turn your life around? My life is decent now. I I no longer have those big problems that everybody goes through at some point in their life. My life is okay. But obviously there's so much to more to achieve, right? So the way to raise your standards is to set big humongous goals and then create systems for achieving those goals. You can't rely on emotions. You can't rely on what you call motivation. You have to rely on systems that you create. A system is is a machine that can be used repeatedly over and over again. It's it's a set of processes that you follow and you no longer have to rely on motivation if you just know what is step one, step two, step three and just do it mechanically let's say every day and it should be designed in such a way by you that it will take you every day slightly closer and closer to your goal. That's how you do it. So I can only uh help you or show you how to raise your standards by by actually creating that sort of thing and implementing it in front of you in public. Build in public like they say maybe I'll have to do that very soon. That's the way to do it. Now when it comes to uh you you're 25 years old. Yeah. You're 25. Your life is just starting. It's just the beginning of your life. When you're 25, it means you've just essentially come out of the education system after wasting I don't know how many years of your life. The real waste of your life is the education system where you learn nothing but you're tortured every day and by the time you're out you've gained no real skills. Uh anyhow you're just starting off in life. Yeah. Okay. You lost three UPSC attempts, four years you wasted in UPS preparation. Fine. What you need to do is acquire some skills and and become financially independent. That's the first step. Um, and when it comes to family and society, look, how how does society see a person's worth? How do you how does society decide how much value a person has? Well, sadly, it's all material value. They only look at how much money you have. Essentially, that's it. Or or whatever awards you may have won or whatever. So my point is if you want to gain respect from society, from your family, family is also like that. Fickle, it can be like that. Yeah. If you are not successful, family also might not treat you well. Unfortunately, that's just life. So you have to become financially self-sufficient. You to stand up your feet financially, become independent of anybody else, and then you can start building from there. How do you do that? You acquire some skills whichever way. I don't know your exact life circumstances, so I can't tell you specifically how to do it. You have to acquire some skills that are valuable in the job market. You to start with a job, any job, become financially independent and then take it from there. 25 is nothing. You're just starting off. There's a huge amount of time left for you in life. There's so much more you can do. Listen, I know it may feel terrible and so on. Yeah, you may feel very low. You may feel very demotivated and so on. But every great person has gone through exactly that sort of situation. different circumstances but the same situation being very low. I remember reading about Elon Musk. He was on the verge of bankruptcy once. He had to borrow money from his brothers, sisters and family at one point in his life which is very low right. Um so my point is don't be don't give up don't be demotivated. How to make a solid comeback? You start from the very basics. You start by first becoming financially independent by having a job. To have a job, you will need skills that are valuable in the job market. So you to first spend some time acquiring those skills. Then gain some experience. Maybe you have to gain some experience for 6 months by working for no money. Perhaps the world is harsh. Pay whatever price you have to pay. Get the experience. Start with a small job. Uh become financially independent and then work so hard that you become rich. You know, eventually you may even be able to become independent of any job or whatever. So it it depends. My main point is don't give up. Don't be demotivated. At 25, you are still very young. You're just starting off. No matter what anybody says, uh just be positive and work as hard as possible, right? All right, sir. All the best. You'll do well. Do well. Okay. Now, let us uh take some questions from the live chat. So, Aayush Singh has advice. Marry a good girl and she'll change your life. Listen Aayush uh decent advice but the point is if you are not financially self-sufficient no good girl will marry you. Okay please understand that you have to provide some value to your life partner. So they will not see the value in you until you are at least financially independent. So one step at a time. So yeah eventually once you have some money and you're financially independent and you have some prospects in life marry a good girl very important if you have the right partner well obviously your uh life will change no question right okay okay um so do ask some questions I am now in um I'm looking at the live chat do we have some interesting questions Um let us see let us see. Um anonymous scientist says you can become a very good motivational speaker. Well motivational speaker well that's not really something that really interests me too much. Mo see motivational speaking is very popular isn't it? There are some people who have made entire careers out of being motivational speakers. And I'm sure it's it's a it's a great niche on YouTube. I suppose you could make millions by being a motivational speaker, making putting some epic music behind that. Epic music and a wonderful motivating speech. But that is snake oil. It will not change anyone's life. You can't succeed by listening to motivational speeches. Sir, understand that it is it is like fooling people. I don't want to fool anybody. The only way to succeed in life is to create systems. your own systems for yourself that will allow you to to climb up the ladder towards success. A system is a set of it's it's like a ritual a set of rituals you perform every day in a certain order. Morning I do this this this then after that is done move on to stage two. I do this this this then I do that then that that. That's a system. It has to be in a certain order in a specific sequence a set of actions. Just like a set of rituals you perform and that's what takes you towards success. Sometimes those rituals are difficult, sometimes they're easy, sometimes they are mundane and boring. Sometimes they're very creative. Depends on what you are trying to achieve. So that's what you have to do. You have to create your own systems. Nobody can teach you how to create a system. I mean you I suppose you could there must be books on systems thinking and all. That's what you need to look into instead of listening to motivational speeches. So I have I I suppose I could possibly be a motivational speaker. I may be good at that. I don't want to do that. I don't want to mislead people. So, yeah, there we have it. Next, okay, let's see what else we have. Uh um Adita says if Chandra Gupta Mori were a politician today, would how would he get India to be a great country? Um if Chandra Gupta Moria well if Chandra Gupta Moria was a politician today how he would then have to be elected and the best he could do was to be the the highest achievement he could have possibly would be that he would become India's prime minister. If he was India's prime minister, democratically elected, he would not have the powers that he had when he was emperor of India, then he would be constrained by the constitution, by the laws, by federalism and all that nonsense. And it would be very hard for him to make India a great country. So no politician will succeed in making India a great country unless the system is changed. So it will take somebody of tremendous force of will and fortitude to change the system itself. The current system is is designed to to keep India mediocre. And if Chandra Gupta Maria was alive today then and if you're a politician the best he can do is be prime minister which is you know then he'll be constrained by the system and he won't be able to achieve the things he would otherwise be able to achieve. Um, okay. Commando says, "My take on extraterrestrial objects like three eye atlas, um, Mua, Borisov, Ailib's perspective." Okay. Um,u Mua is on its way out of the solar system. It has a it's an object that came very close to the sun. I think in 2018 or somewhere like 17 few years ago, it it came from outside of the solar system at a very tremendous high speed. It is on a hyperbolic path. not parabolic but hyperbolic which takes it out of the solar system. it'll go out and never come back. And it came very close to the sun and it seems to have demonstrated certain characteristics and behavior that that raise your eyebrows like outgassing and acceleration while going away from the sun and stuff like that and extremely high reflectivity almost like it's a solar sail or some kind of things like that. And so I will observe that it may have been an extraterrestrial visitor. I mean a rocket. I mean I don't know an extraterrestrial spacecraft perhaps. Now you have a new object that's coming towards the solar system. Three Atlas. It'll approach the sun closest to the sun probably around October or something like that this year. I haven't seen looking into it thus far. And even this object seems to have certain strange characteristics. And there's this paper out on the physics archive archive.com that says that this could be extraterrestrial technology. It could be an alien invasion. And if it is so then so that sort of thing. What's my take? I haven't really looked into the characteristics of this object yet. Umuama it's it's on its way out. So that really is not a matter of concern anymore from a security perspective. But 3II Atlas is coming towards the inner solar system. It's going to it's it's on a it's on a path that will take it close to Jupiter then Mars. It's like an a spacecraft on a tour of the solar system which wants to visit all the important planets. How close it is is it coming to earth. No, not sure about that. But yeah, so the they the authors, one of whom is Ailib, they have raised the concern that this could be an extraterrestrial invasion, an alien invasion and uh it could cause it could it could it could pose a security threat to us. So So what's my I think we'll have to look into it. So I think we'll know by October what the thing is. Just a few months to go. Uh Amisha says, "Do you see Raja Sultana as a strong woman like Rani Lakshmi Bay? When I was a small kid, you know, little kid, Chutabacha, little toddler, this movie came out, Hindi movie, Bollywood movie, Razy Sultan." And uh Raza Sultan was portrayed by Himalayan and she had this slave guy whose name was Yakul or something. He was portrayed by Dhinder or Dhinder, very strong apparently a African origin man. So in that movie she's portrayed as a kind of heroine kind of person very nice person very strong and unjustly oppressed and whatnot I a long time I remember the scene in the desert and this this cobra facing her or something I was a little kid and some nice songs by what's her name so that movie portrays her as some great great paragon of virtue or something but the truth is that she was an oppressor of Hindus oppressor of Indians so I don't see her as a strong woman she was a person who came and went she was never really significant but she was a female who who ruled for a while. What when did she rule? She was the daughter of Iltmish. Iltmish was the guy who hedged all the bets when Shri Chingish Khan was on the outskirts of India uh chasing Jalaluduin the coward. Shir Ching Khan about yeah the battle of Indas he destroyed Jalaludin's army on the outskirts on on the on the western bank of the Indas on the Siddhu river and Jalaludin the coward jumped into the water leaving his army behind leaving his family mother everybody behind he crossed the water and entered India and Shri Chingish Khan said to hell with you go riddance I'll not bother pursuing you because you're done and he went back he went to deal with China yeah Shir Jinghan So the king in northern India, one of the kings was Iltmish. He was a Turk. He belonged to the slave dynasty or something. The the the Mluk dynasty. So Il Tutmish when he died for a while one of his daughters called Raza was was king for a bit for a while and then she was deposed obviously and I believe her tomb is somewhere in Delhi today in some rundown part of Delhi. Was she a strong woman like Marani Lakshmi? Nothing like that. You can't compare Raza with Lakshmi. Lakshmi gave her life for our civilization. Raza was an oppressor. She had nothing to do with our civilization. She was not connected to our civilization or culture in any way whatsoever. So I I from my perspective I see no comparison, no scope for comparison whatsoever. Right. Okay. Now um let us see um what's my favorite character from Chabim? I have never had the misfortune of watching Chota Beam. Um Chabim is I'm sure lots of Indians have grown up watching it. H it's painful to watch really the quality of the animation the aesthetics everything it's terrible why can't you make it better the concept is good a character from Indian history deep Indian history beam I'm not sure what the story lines are like I don't know what it is like but the animation is so unesthetic and and I've just briefly seen some of it it's just Yeah, I I it's not for me. I've never seen it. I grew up watching better cartoons, quality cartoons. I was fortunate. Um, so yeah. No, no favorite characters. Sorry. Um, okay. Maybe I can take maybe one more question. One more question. Uh, of the modern Indian scientists, who do you think are the greatest minds? I can't think of anybody. Sorry. Um, yeah, I said one more question. I think we're done then. Are we done? Okay, we done sir. We done gentlemen, ladies, gentlemen's, everybody, all of you. Uh, so I'm going to end it over here and tomorrow we're going to have one more live stream. I will take super chats in that so everybody gets to ask questions and yeah, so I look forward to seeing you there. All right, so as always, please keep learning, keep raising your standards, keep asking questions, and I will see you tomorrow in tomorrow's live stream. same time, 8:00 p.m. Indian time, same channel. I look forward to seeing you there. Thank you so much for watching. Thank you for your viewership and take care. Bye-bye.