[Music] Heat. Heat. N. [Music] Heat. [Music] Heat. [Music] Hello and welcome to episode 267 of the Askavget show. I hope everybody is doing great. Uh this is a geopolitics episode. So I will take questions only about geopolitics. I hope that should be uh that is understood by everybody. So with that said um and and today is going to be a 2-hour episode. I will not extend it to 3 hours. Sometimes uh it gets too long. So we'll keep it two two hours which has usually been the the standard uh length of these shows. So let's see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Yan Kumar Bhujel from Bhutan. I can see Lakshmi Ka ready always ready. Goresh Balgi exgodfather X Alvin Rodriguez Mr. Jam Radhira, Agni Varna, Moonlight Sonata 123, Sunkit 9064, Shashank Koshik 6681, uh, Pranav 581, Latangi Suresh, Hitanchu Meta 26, 2066 from Gujarat, Ganesha 19, Jaganath, Shashank Koshik once again, uh, Tripi Mishra, Namaste, Heisenberg from Rajasthan, Ulas 8156, Aman Jot Singh, bin Salman, Kumar Kanesh, Kaneshk 19, Jimmy Lee, Queen Babar, Geopolitical Dub from Indor, Shri Ram Chandra, Jes Lee. Who else do we have? Sankit Amar Singh, Jotir Mai, Ashtoh Dkar, Kumar Kanesh again, Yati. Who else do we have? Maklavin 69 Ram Ram Anil Gupta Hershit Roule Sel Sharma Dungar Singh Chawan hello Bresh SK Raju Chigi Cherala TPP4739 Chavda Supremacy Aush Agni Vana Usharo Mateo uh Anthony Yadav Rajat Duhan Chandan Pande Manish Shakaro Rakav Shind Jay Kumaran Kanishes 19 Shesh Mitra Sul Sharma who else do we have uh U MK and so many other people all right so um let Jri Jesus somebody is saying Priyanka is there uh and so on so okay let's take some questions let's take some questions today I will take questions from the super chat the entire week I have taken question from the live chat. So let's take some super chat questions. Uh please ensure that you only ask geopolitics questions today. I will not be able to take questions that are not about geopolitics. I hope that is very clear from the very beginning. It's there in the title itself. So should be and it's also there in the pin ch pin uh chat. So chat message uh Kumar Karish says is it a coincidence that first we had Kalistthani issue in North America then a regime change in uh East Pakistan and now India Pakistan war happened all anti-India activity in a span of 2 years. Well uh the Kalistthan issue in North America is a very old issue. It's been around since the 1980s essentially. Okay. Uh it was Kalistthani terrorists, Canadian Kalistthani terrorists who blew up the the Air India aircraft uh the Kaneska aircraft, one of the most heinous uh terrorist attacks in history. So it's there. It's been there for a long time and typically the Kalistthani uh terrorists have been based in Canada. You had this Hard Singh Nijar fellow who was an illegal immigrant into Canada. I don't know how he acquired Canadian citizen citizenship despite lying on his visa uh uh application and whatnot and being convicted of various crimes but he became a Canadian citizen. So if you're a terrorist and if you hate India and if you're Kalistthani, you're welcome to get Canadian citizenship apparently. And then we have that the Gur Patwan Singh Panun fellow who is a who is an American Kalistthani terrorist, a US citizen. So we've had this for a long time. It's not something that's happened in the past two years. First of all, let's understand that. Okay. So look, Canada is not some active geopolitical player. Canada is a nice nice country. It's see the Canadians are the nicest North Americans you'll meet anywhere in the world. Super nice people. But the government of Canada is an extension of the US empire. In other words, what I mean to say is that Canada is the US vasal and they will do whatever the US uh instructs them to do. That's how that's what the deal is. uh so the US has always sought to uh India's rise India's growth because India has the potential of becoming a next the next China so to say if we get our things right which is a big deal which is a big if right but if we get our our things right internally we can become the next China we have all the potential and the US is cognizant of the potential and they will do all it takes everything it takes to keep us down and to ensure we don't rise beyond a certain certain level right we don't grow beyond a certain level economically and and so on and that's why the Kalistan issue exists that's why Pakistan and east and west Pakistan exists to keep India hemmed in to keep India off balance to keep India um counterbalanced and that's why the Americans are okay with China you know working with Pakistan and East Pakistan and West Pakistan both and China attemp China China attempting to encircle India in the subcontinent so so and so on the US is okay with that as long as China does something that helps the US uh so this Khalistan issue is not something new. Um regime change yes it happened in all in the past two three years. The regime change in west Pakistan happened in 2022. Imran Khan was ousted. He was very pro-China and a pro- US government came to power. Uh puppet government. Then there was regime change in East Pakistan like I predicted several months before before it happened. Um and then you had the India Pakistan war and so on. So you can see an increase in the uh in the level of activity against India in in a very coordinated manner. So you are definitely right about the pattern that you're witnessing. But please note that the Kalistthan issue in in North America is an old issue. It's been around since at least the 1980s. Uh Agni Vana, thank you very much. Uh Sankit says damnation of leadership Tibet then again v secular. I don't know what it means sir. Um, Kumar Kaneshka says, "Is the crap education system a geopolitical tool imposed by the west to keep us mediocre and stop us from learning how to think and uh all that and building technology?" This is so that the west could be the automatic land of opportunity and we can you know export our skills and talent and brains and intelligent people and best people to the west. Is it a geopolitical tool imposed by the west? Well, see the education system that we have, its roots go back to the 19th century to the infamous Lord Macaulay. So he destroyed essentially the Indian education system, the indigenous education system that we still had and then the British imposed their crap version of the education system on us and that's what we still have. It hasn't changed much. Yeah, we we it's sure we do give degrees in computer science these days. We give MBAs. There were no MBAs in the 19th century. There was no computer science in the 19th century. But the way things are taught and the way the educ education structure system is structured and the way education is imparted and all of that it is still exactly the same as it was in the 19th century. So the objective of the British imposed education system was to mentally colonized colonize Indians. It was to make English the primary dominant language in India which would have the effect of marginalizing our indigenous languages and it produces people like me who are more comfortable speaking English than their own languages. Right? At least I'm aware of it. At least I don't have an inferiority complex. But most Indians are saddled with this massive crushing inferiority complex about being brown, about being Indian. And they imagine that anybody who's non-Indian is automatically superior to them. Anybody who speaks English with a certain extent accent is superior to them and so on. So this was imposed by the British with the objective of mentally colonizing Indians and the objective was to mass-roduce clerks and peons people with good handwriting people who can take orders not people who can ask questions. So the entire education system was structured in a way that you are not allowed to ask questions. What is the correct way of learning something? It is to ask questions. That's to ask question upon question and to learn how to ask questions, how to structure the questions, how to sequence the questions. That that's how you learn. That is the correct way of learning. But you all are taught that the right way to learn is by memorizing. It is by and and the teacher is the one who asks questions and you are the one who answer. It should be the other way around. But you don't you don't understand it because you've never seen that in real life in your entire lifetimes, right? You've never seen that. So you can't imagine a world in which you can actually learn better by asking questions instead of answering questions. So the objective was to mentally colonize us. The objective was to mentally lobotomize us. It was to make sure that our intellect doesn't rise beyond a certain level. Which is why you see it all over the place today. The average intelligence of Indians. You're not born dumb. You're not born stupid. But you are made stupid. Your intellect is smashed out of you by the education system. The objective is to you know ensure there are no leaders in India. There should be no leadership potential in India by by not teaching you what leadership is by not teaching you what the national interest is. So the objective was to keep India perpetually colonized. Now the same education system today is a fantastic geopolitical tool because Indians don't understand geopolitics. Indians don't understand what the national interest is. If I ask any of you, my dear viewers who are watching right now, what's the Indian national interest? Give me the various this the main core parameters of the Indian national interest. I wonder how many of you can answer that. Your teachers won't be able to answer it. They'll answer some nonsense. Right? That's the deal. So this education system which was which was meant to colonize us forever, it is now keeping us mentally colonized. And it's a great geopolitical tool. Sure. Indeed. No question. to to keep us to keep us down because the average person doesn't know how to think. And sometimes I get really frustrated with the kind of questions I get. I've been doing this for 4 years. I've been talking about geopolitics for 4 years and yet I get these questions that are at the lowest like like the beginner level. I understand there are new people who come in but it it's sometimes you know I get frustrated because I really my objective is that you all will learn something. you all will learn how to think in a more nuanced manner. And that's see that's the that's what they've done to us. That is what they have done to us. So the objective is to keep us mediocre. That's the that's exactly see this this here to keep us mediocre. Exactly. It's to keep us mediocre. The average Indian is super mediocre. Sorry to say that. And that's that's what frustrates me. We should not be like this. We should not be like this. We all have superior intelligence but we have been programmed in such a way that the the software that runs inside is is is terrible. So we don't know how to think and if somebody says something contrary to what we've been taught you all start forming and and attacking that person. And that's how it is. And that's why the ones the people in India who have the who actually see things and who want a better life and who don't want a life of mediocrity they automatically go to the west that's how we have the brain drain so it was a colonial tool which has now been transformed into a geopolitical tool and this the solution to that is to reform the education system but it looks like our leadership is also super colonizing they don't see the need for change in the education system which is so so unfortunate I would say so well thank you for asking this question it's a very very relevant question sir thank you so much kaneshka says how can a vasal regain its sovereignty with examples with examples you want examples I well do I have examples of a vasal regaining its sovereignty uh well the when when okay I'll give you examples if you want a vasal to regain its sovereignty the vasal needs to rid itself of the overlord, right? Of the oppressor. Now, we could say that in 1947, we regained our sovereignty. Did we really regain our sovereignty? We are still, like we just discussed, mentally colonized. We are still mentally colonized. Are we really sovereign from that perspective? Are we once again a civilization or are we still a nation state? We are still a truncated entity. We are still a nation state. We are not a civilization state because of a variety of reasons. I'll not go into that. So how can a vasal regain its sovereignty? One example is the British islands under Rome, right? They were colonized by Rome. The British islands, England and Wales and Scotland, all of these regions that we call today England, Wales, Scotland, uh Ireland, all of that was overrun by the Romans for a few centuries. How did these regions regain the sovereignty? They regained the sovereignty when the Roman Empire declined and voluntarily left. Until that happens, the only way you can regain your sovereignty is by taking up arms and expelling uh the occupiers. But what if you're not occupied? What if you're not under occupation? Then and still a vasal like for example example Pakistan. Pakistan is not under occupation by the US or China but it is still their vasal. So for that to happen you have to get rid of the leadership that is serving the foreigners for which you will need maybe a revolution or maybe something else. Uh okay let me just reiterate I will not take questions that uh don't involve geopolitics. I apologize to those of you who may have put in money for this but I have very clearly said and I beg you all to pay attention. I have it's in the title only geopolitics and yet some people are asking questions that are not about geopolitics. Uh I apologize sincerely but I will not take questions that are not related to geopolitics. Sincere apologies. Uh okay Jimmy Lee says uh given our godgifted geographical location shouldn't we be a naval superpower? What is Bat's naval maritime history? Um we should be the major maritime power one of the top two or top three major maritime powers in the world. No question about it. The I mean look at the geographical locations. Indians don't understand this. You see the map and TK Chah etc and all that. But look at this from a strategic perspective. We are halfway into the Indian Ocean all the way down here. I mean there's no nation with this kind of god-gifted geographical location. We should be the dominating maritime power in the region with a maritime footprint all the way to Antarctica, all the way to well the shores of not the shores but the you know west of Australia, west of Indonesia. Uh we should have nations all of East Africa should should fall under our purview. I mean we should have a naval presence all the way there. We should, right? But we don't. Our navy is is decent. No no no question. I'm sure it's pretty useful when it comes to if we have to deal with Pakistan, even with China. I'm sure I'm sure we have very competent uh armed for naval personnel. But look, why not have double the navy? Why not have 100 submarines and and 300 warships? Why not 300 dedicated warships? Not Coast Guard vessels and all coast guard vessels. We should have a thousand. Why not invest in that? Right. But we but we haven't done that and it takes time. The Chinese in 1990 were nowhere. They were a walkover. The Americans could have defeated them in in two days or maybe over a weekend. That's how that's the kind of state the Chinese Navy was in in 1990. And today it is the numerically largest navy in the world. And the Americans, you know, they they see it as a major major threat which could then become a Pacific threat. So you have to invest in your navy. It takes time. It takes a lot of effort. It takes a lot of money. But if you want to be a big deal, if you want to the world to take yourself seriously, if you want to be counted among the greats, if you want to be genuinely sovereign, if you want to ensure that your national security is is, you know, that there are no compromises with that, then you have to invest in all the all these things. I don't know what sort of leaders we've had in the past, right? Today we we are seeing changes. I'm glad to see that. So, we should be a major naval power. I don't like to use the word superpower but I understand what you mean. What is Bat's naval maritime history? Well, the maritime history. What is the world's oldest literature? Okay, let's not I don't care what the west says. What is actually the world's oldest literary text? It is the riga, right? Must be must have been written closer to 6,000 BC uh 6 yeah 6,000 BC then to 1500 BC. Uh so in the Rigveda there are mentions of ships that sail on samudra and those ships have 100 or oes or right those oes. So this is one over this is another over and ship that large you will have 50 guys on this side 50 guys on that side all pulling the os and taking the ship forward. The Romans used to have Roman galleys warships. Okay, let me I'm sure you must have seen them if you have watched a movie like Benhur or any other Roman themed movie. Okay, let's see. Uh Roman galley uh Roman galleys. So these are Roman galleys. These were warships. Okay, this is what it looked like. Take a look. This is what it looked like. I mean, do we have a larger picture? Come on, bro. Uh let's let's embigen the picture. Senatus populus kummanus spqr. So these are Roman galleys. This is a model. So the typical large Roman galley would have a total of how many oes? 50 oes. The oes were pulled by slaves who would be below deck. They would be chained to the ship. And if the ship goes down, the slaves will go down with the ship. That's how it was among the Romans during the Roman era. So slaves would pull the oes and there will be people with lashes and whips who would ensure that the slaves will do the job. So these Roman warships had 50 oes in the rigidic times. The rigid talks about ships with a 100 oes. That tells you bat has always had a glorious maritime history. 5,000 years ago our people reached Australia. There is undeniable evidence of that. And you can't take a aircraft to Australia 5,000 years ago. you had to go by by sea by ship and uh even of in more recent times I mean let's talk about something that's essentially day before yesterday for us in our civilization context which is uh the Chola era a thousand years ago uh Rajendra and Raj Rajra Chola Rajar Chola and his son Rajendra Chola Rajendra Chola launched a maritime invasion of Shiv Vijaya for because of a geopolitical conflict and it was a successful invasion I mean how far is Shri Vijaya from here let's once again go to the map my friends right from southern India from the east coast of India the invasion was launched and it reached the shijaya so how far is that right at least 2,000 kilometers imagine taking a naval invasion fleet India can't do that today we don't have maritime co you know marine commandos we have maros yes but we don't have expeditionary forces we don't have marines like The Americans have right right Chola had that he launched a maritime invasion of Shivijaya and it was super successful so we've had a glorious maritime history but your teachers and your textbooks won't teach you that your teachers won't know about this because they generally just memorize what the textbooks tell them right um so yes we should so this is where history and geopolitics converge if you understand the the historical context then it tells why aren't we a great naval power today we should be. Abhinav says why does Azarbaijan support Pakistan? Why should a conflict in the Indian subcontinent even matter to them? Any deeper reason or just because we sell arms to Armenia? Well, there's a religious reason to it. Azarbaijan you could say is an extension of Turkey, right? Uh they speak a Turkish language, the Azeri language. Um and and Turkey and Azarbaijan essentially are working together together to wipe Armenia off the face of the earth ideally from their perspective. You know that's their great dream to create a pan corridor that connects Turkey and Aabaijan with the central Asian nations the Turk nations. Once again let's go to the map so that you get some context. I'm glad I'm able to crack out the map a lot in this episode. I enjoy that. So we're talking about this region. So we have Turkey over here. We have Armenia, this poor little nation which was once a great nation, great empire. And we have Azarbaijan here. And uh so Azarbaijan is a they are they speak a Turk language. They're kind of Turk people. Turkey has historically wanted to wipe out the Armenians. They tried multiple times in the late 19th century, early 20th century, multiple waves of Armenian genocides, which they still deny today. And the Turks want to create a pan turan corridor which connects Turkey, erases Armenia off the map, connects Turkey to Azarbaijan and connects that that region to the rest of the central Asian uh nations which are Turk speaking nations. A pan turan corridor. Uh and Turkey supports Pakistan very strongly because of the Sunni angle and because Tur Turkey has historically hated India and so on. So Armenia kind of goes along with Turkey and of course India uh is in the process of it looks like putting together an u you know an anti-Turkey coalition uh Greece, Cyprus, uh Armenia and so on. So the Turks kind of feel the heat a little bit to some extent at least right and that's why Armenia goes along with whatever Turkey tells them to do because they're an extension of Turkey. They're anal of Turkey and it also helps the US if all of this happens. Uh so it's not just because we sell arms to Armenia, it's because of cultural, religious regions reasons as well. Uh we will not take non- geopolitical questions today. Let me repeat that. Okay. I'll not take questions about India's cities and infrastructure and all that. Not today. Okay. Uh Ayat says, "Please say what the US is exactly planning against me." Well, that's for Mr. Trump to know. Mr. Trump is very unhappy with you, sir. He recently put out a very long uh post on social media saying that you better you should have actually thanked Mr. Trump. Thank you very much, Mr. Trump. But you are you are being you're not being very very you're not showing sufficient gratitude and he knew exactly where you were when the whole thing was going on. On the last day of the war, he had Israel pull back its its fighter planes which were going allegedly going to Iran and so on. That's what he says. What is Mr. Trump planning against you? I don't think Mr. Trump is planning anything against I think Mr. Netanyahu may be planning something. What what he's planning? Well, only Mr. Netanyahu can tell us. Okay. Uh Poll says, "Is Russia in the condition to continue the war as Ukraine is already running out of ammo and people in the war? What's Russia's condition?" Russia's condition is perfectly fine. Uh I recently uh read somewhere about a western assessment about Russia's condition in the war and they are perfectly hap perfectly well uh uh perfectly capable of continuing the war at least until 2027 without any issues. Russia they have activated the war machinery they have activated the military-industrial uh complex all their factories are churning out whatever needs to be churned out all arms ammunition whatnot. They have uh um supplies coming in from North Korea of various kinds. They also have shahed drones coming in from Iran and they may also have now acquired the ability to manufacture those shahed drones at home in Russia. Russia is perfectly fine. Russia is an author they need. They don't need to depart depend on anybody for imports of anything. They are perfectly fine. Ukraine it's it's look if the west hadn't helped Ukraine with arms ammunition and what not then Ukraine would have already long ago capitulated. So uh the west will keep this going as far as I can see but but Russia is fine. Okay. Uh once again let me remind you I'm going to take only geopolitics questions today. So let us not take other questions. Um, Aayush says West's bias. Gaza ignored Iran con condemned instantly. Well, that's how it goes. The West does what? It's it suit the it suits the West. Uh, so once the Iran once the Israel Iran conflict ended because of Mr. Trump, uh, Gaza has started again by the way in case you're not aware, but yeah, that'll be ignored. Um Agni Vana says why is Singapore not sovereign? Well, if you look at Singapore's history and look at the Singapore's relationship with the US and other countries, we'll understand why it's not sovereign. U and also because of the size of Singapore, there's a lot of factors that go into it. Okay, let's not take one. There are only five sovereign nations. The US, China, Russia, India, and Israel. Apart from that, no nations are fully sovereign. You have to understand the treaties the nations have with bigger powers. You need to understand the relationship the nations have with with bigger powers. If you want to understand these things, you need to take up my geopolitics course because that's where I explain in detail. Uh Abimman Gopinat says uh what's okay hypothetical question. If let I'm not sure what is. Israel maybe hypothetical. Why can't people just write the whole thing? I know it's typing or whatever. Uh if Israel and Pakistan are hypothetically neighbors and they go to war, who will win without US interference since both have a good army? Also imagining that Pakistan has its own nuclear. Okay, imagine that Pakistan has its own nuclear weapons independent of the US. Uh both have good armies and so on and both go to war. Uh who will win if Isra and Pakistan are both neighbors? Uh Pakistan is larger than Israel. No question about that. larger from a geographical perspective. Um both are dependent on other nations for fuel. So neither is u energ self-sufficient from the perspective of energy. Both have nukes. Imagining that Pakistan has its own independent nuclear arsenal. I would say Israel has a has better technology. So if we take the nuclear equation, I would say Israel would defeat Pakistan because of its superior technology because they've done that in the past. they fought all the Arab states at the same time and defeated them in the past. I would imagine that um even if the US doesn't interfere u Israel may win. Okay, as always let me remind you I will take only geopolitics questions today. Let me keep on reminding you people because Yeah. Okay. Let's take this one. Rohan says, "As you have said, France is quasi independent. Is Sweden also in the same league?" No. No. Sweden is not. Sweden is nowhere close to the quasi independent status of France. Sweden is fully vasalized. Okay. Uh they were offered the F-35. They refused to buy it. Look, they have some autonomy. That's fine. They This This is a subtle game that that is being played. You have to keep keep the illusion going that each country has its own u agency. Okay? And if the Swedish don't take the F-35, they will make made to take something else, but they will pay their dues. Don't worry. And if Sweden doesn't take the F-35, there's plenty of other F-35 clients in the EU in NATO, which is fine. So just because Sweden opted not to do something, it doesn't mean that it's independent and sovereign. Just look at the treaties that that Sweden has signed. That's all you need to do. But you have to do a little bit of digging and research to understand that. I will not take religious questions today. I will only this may be a super chat question, super super chat episode, but I will only take questions about geopolitics. I mean it is in the pinned comment. It is in the description of the video. And yet people I I don't get it. I don't get is it not clear enough that this is a geopolitics live stream? I will not take non- geopolitics questions even if you are taking a super chat. Sorry. Um Sumit says, "How does the latest US Supreme Court ruling regarding injunctions from lower courts affect Mr. Trump's agenda?" I haven't seen the sup the Supreme Court ruling recent latest I don't look at latest info latest news look when you are a news reader you want the latest Tazakar breaking breaking breaking I don't do breaking stuff I look at things from a geostrategic perspective I look at what happened let's say in the past week 10 days ideally past 3 months 6 months and of course I have a thousand year or 2,000year context window okay that informs me about everything that is relevant to a geopolitical situation and then I look into the future so I don't care about what happened in the in the latest uh injunction latest uh court ruling eventually I will come to know about it but I am not aware of it right now I'm not aware of it but if you want since you have asked this question and this is kind of related to geopolitics let us see let's try and see if I can pull something out. Latest US Supreme Supreme Court ruling Trump uh Trump what's it say? Trump victorious again. Supreme Court blocks judge's power to block Trump's order in birthright citizenship stuff. Giant win. Okay, this is like 10, 20 hours ago, 6 hours ago and so on. It's a very recent event. I haven't seen it. So, it looks like Trump wanted to block. Let's see what the Bibb has to say. Auntie Bibb uh orders nationwide. Okay, this is a domestic matter for the US. Uh Trump's order to end birthright citizenship for children of undocumented immigrants and some temporary residents and visitors and so on. So, I think it's a victory for Trump Trump of some kind. I'll not go and read the whole thing and analyze it, but it looks like it's a victory for Mr. Trump. Uh so it's it's a boost for Mr. Trump's agenda. Well, that's what I can say, right? It's it's clearly a boost uh for Mr. Trump's agenda. Now, somebody's asking about men and girls, I mean, what does it have to do with geopolitics? I'll not take that question. Sorry. Um, Sundesh says, "If at all World War II happens between the US, NATO versus Russia, China, Iran, North Korea, what's the realistic possibility of India staying neutral? If India is pulled into the war, what who would do that? And what's the post-war situation?" Let's address the last question first. World War II, postwar situation is a is a stone age, a nuclear stone age with radiation all over the place and with maybe 10,000 people surviving on the planet, humans possibly. Yeah. 10 years down the line after the war ends because World War II means a nuclear war. I can't imagine the US and NATO and all their vasals going to war versus Russia, China. Forget Iran, North Korea. Russia and China are the two two nations that matter in this grouping. So US and its minions that is NATO and Japan and South Korea also okay all of them versus Russia China they go to war. So if that happens what's the realistic possibility of India staying neutral? I think there's a strong possibility of India staying neutral. As long as China doesn't bother India in this matter and China doesn't try to uh change the status quo, India will say we are neutral. This is not our business. It's not our war and the Americans will try and pressurize India as much as possible. So that that is what the Americans will do. Uh it is advantageous for China if India stays out of it, right? Because if India gets pulled into the war, India will not be fighting with Russia and China. India will be made to fight for the US. That's what the US will want. Uh so it is advantageous for China if India is not pulled into the war. And it is advantageous for us to not being be pulled into the war. But let's say the war happens and India stays out of it. So I think there's a high probability India will no matter what happens stay out of it. Okay. Um if India is pulled into the war, the Americans would do that. They will apply some kind of pressure which may force India. Okay. But uh the highest possibility high scenario a high probability 70 80% is India stays neutral. Uh now um if World War II happens there's a very very high likelihood it goes nuclear which is the end of the world because the Americans have this doomsday scenario. Okay we know about the Israeli Samson option. If Israel is going under they will destroy the entire neighborhood. They will destroy all the Arab nations. they will not go go down alone and they have a list of targets that's already pre-programmed and as far as I know we are not part of that because why would they want to nuke us right when it comes to the Americans they have their larger version of the of the Samsung option so if America is in a position where it is going to get nuked by or or if it's in a position where it's going to be defeated then they have a doomsday contingency in which they will launch nuclear weapons at the entire world. So even if India sits out, our cities will be nuked by the Americans. You have no idea about this, right? You all live in this such a nice bubble. World is such a nice place. If the Americans go down, they will take the whole world down with them. They will nuke the entire world. They will even nuke India despite India never having raised a single weapon against the US. They will nuke everybody. So that's your post-war situation, sir. That's your postwar situation. There's no there's no future. Uh Prashant Prashant says, "What does the NPT entail? How why and how did we stay out the non-prololiferation treaty?" I am not familiar with the details of the nonprololiferation treaty but it is a discriminatory discriminator discriminatory treaty. So the NPT non-prololiferation treaty it essentially is is there to ensure I don't remember the clause and the text you can Google it that's fine but the objective of this treaty is to ensure that nuclear proliferation doesn't happen so let's say there are let's say hypothetically there are three nations until the 1950s60s how many nations had nuclear powers the US had nuclear weapons uh the Russians had it China had it France had it and the UK had uh that's about it. Uh until the 1950s and60s uh so the objective of the NPT was to ensure that other nations don't get nuclear weapons. So the signatories up to the treaty of the treaty were treaty bound to not transfer nuclear technology to other nations. Essentially that's what it was. And the treaty then also makes a difference between nations that had nuclear weapons before 1960 something and nations that acquired nuclear weapons after that date. And those nations are are kind of uh given secondass status or something. So it's a discriminatory treaty uh and it has this discriminatory uh language and clauses and and discriminatory treatment against nations that became nuclear powers later. So we became a nuclear power in 1974 which is after their arbitrary completely arbitrary cut off date. So there is discriminatory treated treat treatment against India even if we sign the treaty and that's why we have chosen to stay out of the NPT and if you wanted to look at the details you can read up the the the language and the the the actual wording of the treaty. Uh uh how geopolitically vital are you? GBR greater than you. I'm not sure what the question is but all right. Um media says geopolitical dub says media says Putin and she aren't coming for the bricks meeting. Okay. I don't know. Uh I've heard that Mr. Shei is not coming. Is Mr. Putin also not coming? Let's let's quickly find out. I haven't heard of it thus far. Okay. Bricks she is not coming. I am I have heard about that. So, bricks. Uh, she not coming. Not bricks. What on earth? Okay, it's my fault. It should be bricks. Not coming. Uh, Xinping pulls out. I'm aware of Xiinping pulling out. PM Modi invited for state dinner. PM Modi. So, this is in Brazil. So, Xiinping is most likely not coming. What about Putin? Uh, bricks. submit Putin. Putin will not go to blah blah blah. Okay, there's an ICC arrest warrant against him. Well, that's interesting. The core nations of bricks are the RAIC nations. Russia, India, China, and Russia is not coming. China is not coming. Well, okay. So be it. Mr. Mr. Putin is a valid reason because the ICC, the International Criminal Court, the Americans hate, they have put on an arrest warrant against Mr. Putin. So, it makes sense for him to not come, right? Uh Mr. Xi doesn't want to come. I don't know why, but it's well, you know, there are issues obviously um that China has with various countries. So, Mr. Xi has chosen not to come. We're not sure quite sure why, but whatever. So, it looks like only Mr. Modi will be uh attending the brick summit among the top three nations. And then you have Brazil and South Africa who will obviously be represented by their heads of state. Okay. Interesting. Okay. Once again, I will not take non- geopolitics questions. I will not take non- geopolitics questions. It looks like people simply don't follow the rules. Uh what can I say? What can I say? Okay. Ready, always ready. when India equals China and military like AI, semiconductors, jets, submarines. Um when will we have similar technological capabilities? Maybe 10, 20 years. The Chinese started investing on all this a long time ago. Before the 21st century, they were they already identified the key uh engineering sectors, the key technological areas that they needed to be uh at par with the US on and they started putting all the components in place. they started you know enhancing their education system that academic system um their academic system were they made sure it focuses very strongly on on the science uh and technology fields and they ensured that the quality of the university departments rises significantly. They made sure they attract global talent by giving them all the facilities that you would want as a researcher and all and the best possible salaries you could imagine anywhere. So they attracted the best talent and they had all the technology slowly gradually transferred to China and then they started working on the technology and enhancing the technology. So that's how they did it step by step by step by step. Today we are like we have woken up. Okay, now we need this. Well, we are what China was in the 1990s. It'll take us at least 20 years I would say, right? And we and our education system is garbage comp. It's nothing comparable to what China has. China's education system was garbage in the 1990s, similar to ours in some ways, but they invested trillions of dollars into the education system. Without reforming the education system, you will not have a top quality technological sector. You people I I think the government doesn't seem to realize that with third rate professors who don't know how to do research, who steal their students research, who force their students to put their the professor's name first in a research paper. When you have this sort of academic faculty all over the country, not all but many, well then what research output will the country have? When you have government labs where you are paid those little salaries, little salaries, but if you are good enough, you can go to the US and have a salary of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year. I mean, who will stay in India? Tell me. Well, we have these self-imposed problems. So, it's going to take us a long time to equal China. long time. Vive Singh says France didn't give us meteor. Is this a question or a statement meteor? I think we haven't I'm not aware. Not aware. Okay. Now, what is this? Joseph Chhatria says, "If Israel controls the US, then why they have F-35 instead of F-32?" F-22. Well, that's a good question. The US seems to have summer. Look, there's always the question of who is the master, who is the vasal. Some say the US is the master and Israel is the vasal. Others say that Israel is the master and the US is the vasal. Well, imagine hypothetically that that Israel is the master and the US is the vasal. Hypothetically, well, even that even in that case, it doesn't mean Israel controls every goddamn thing that happens to the US. The US will still have some autonomy, right? They're very they are the most powerful nation. So right I don't know have any opinion on the Jesuit orders and this is not a geopolitical question. Rashi Kudin says, "What are who are India's biggest non-s superpower threats and why?" Well, the superpower obviously non non-s superpower threats. Oh, it's obvious. Look at look at the map. Look at the map. I mean, let me put the map on the screen and let's let's walk walk through this. Who are our biggest non-s superpower threats? So, the obvious threats are right here on the map, aren't they? First of all, Pakistan is a threat. North of India, we have Chinese occupies Tibet. So, so China is a threat. Then you have East Pakistan which is a vasal of the US now, newly minted vasal and it's also dallying with China. That is well it's it's it's a problem. It's not really a threat but it's a problem because of the illegal infiltration issue. Then you have a civil war issue in Myanmar because of which there are millions of god knows what kind of people coming into u into India and that's messed up things. So but that is the superpower threat because the civil war is is being orchestrated by the US. So obviously the threats over here are China, Pakistan, Bangladesh is an issue, right? Apart from that we have non-s superpower threats in the in the forms of various uh embedded threats within India which are proxies of the superpower which are a variety of NOS's variety of reg religious organizations and so much more. Uh who else? Turkey is kind of an adversary of India. You have various European nations that are very very poorly inclined towards India. I'm not naming anybody here. Okay? Uh but if you look at uh because they are all extensions of the superpower uh and so on. So there are various state threats, there are various non-state threats that all go back to a particular state because they are proxies and that's the deal. Uh Chundra, thank you so much. Thank you G. Thank you. Um Ayatah Kamehamehi says, "What role can I play in India's strategy to bypass Pakistan and access Afghanistan and Central Asia through Shabbah port? Can I defeat Israel?" Uh Iran is not in a position to defeat Israel right now. I mean you can but then it'll bring out the Israeli Samson option. So I I'm pretty sure that Iran seems to, as far as I understand, seems to have more ballistic and cruise missiles than uh Israel's Iron Dome missiles, which means that eventually Israel's Iron Dome may run out. It may run out of missiles. It will have no more missiles to uh to to intercept the incoming ballistic missiles. At that point in time, it becomes a numerical certainty that Iranian ballistic missiles and crew missiles will hit the targets in Israel. So that's a problem. So yeah um that can happen but to defeat Israel you have to actually move into Israel that that's not possible right so it's not possible for Iran to actually defeat Isra is especially considering the fact that the US stands behind Israel so Iran cannot defeat Israel the only thing Iran can do is remain sovereign that's the best possible option now what role can you play in Iran's India's strategy to bypass Pakistan access Afghanistan and central Asia through Jabahar portur well the role that you're playing is the role you can play no other role. So here's the deal. Let's go to the map. Let's open the map. And so we have Chabahar port here. Okay, this is Chabahar here. Uh it's in Iran and Balojasthan. And through this port so India can can send shipments of various goods etc. from uh the west coast of India from maybe Gujarat from maybe Maharashtra etc. send consignments to Chabahar then the consignments will be taken over land into Afghanistan to supply Afghanistan with whatever Afghanistan needs because Pakistan is blocking access to Afghanistan. So we have to go through Iran. Um and similarly we can also access Central Asia through once we reach Chabahar we can go through Iran and access various parts of Central Asia. So that's what Iran is doing and one we appreciate that. So that's why Iran is is indeed important for India. Uh I will only take geopolitical questions. I think people just don't get it right. Okay. Uh no point getting frustrated. People won't change. Um now this this is the best geopolitical question today I would say. Why did the NATO chief called Trump daddy? I I don't know. I don't know. Uh okay, now this is a good question. See, this is this is a good question. I I would like to see questions at least of this this caliber. Okay, so Vadi Yan Nirby says, "Well, thank you for being a big fan. Thank you. uh how does the US vasalize other nations and why has hasn't India been vasalized by the US till now see the Americans have hidden their instruments of power they're very smart historically great empires would show off would display their means of power so everybody could see the scary stuff but today the whole world has been taken over by the Americans but you don't see what makes the Americans so dangerous and scary you don't see how they can wipe out and flatten a country at 30 minutes notice. Everything has been hidden away. Only the ones who are in power in a nation will know and understand the threat. Uh so now the question is how does the US vasel how has it historically vasalized other nations? One way of doing it is through treaties. a treaty a mutual self-defense treaty which becomes a military treaty and it has clauses that can that will make the nation the other nation dependent of the US and if you can have a clause in which you can have military bases on the on the nation that vasalizes the nation and the the language of the treaty can vasalize a nation because it it imposes certain sovereignty limitations on the nation. The NATO treaty is one such treaty which takes away uh military sovereignty from the NATO states but it offers protection. So it's like you know I'm a big gunda and you cannot have any weapons in your house but I'll protect you. You're going to pay that sort of thing. Uh then there is economic sovereignty taken away by the EU treaty. You become a member of the EU. You give away a lot of your sovereignty, decision-m power, policy phrasing power, all of that. So there are so many ways in which the US does it. So it uses treaties to a very large extent and the treaties are underwritten by the American military strength. So if you if you sign the treaty and then you don't uh when you don't obey the treaty then the Americans will they can enforce the treaty they can enforce it and they have the means to do that military means. Then you have other forms of vasalization like what you see in Japan in South Korea which is military occupation. U another way of vasalizing a country is by writing the country's so constitution and by making that the constitution very uh pacifistic and changing and and and shaping the country's education system what's been done to Japan. So older Japanese people they are they they they are super pacifistic people they hate violence which means that they hate the military. They don't want Japan to have a military. They that's been ingrained into them mentally. They've been brainwashed and so on. So there are so many ways of vasalizing a nation. It takes time and so on. JMA says prospects of AMC advanced medium combat aircraft MRFA uh compared to other fifth generation fighter planes. AMC look at the end of the day it all depends on the on the jet engine. The Achilles heel is the jet engine. As long as we depend on the US or any other nation for jet engines, h no prospects. We can design the best aircraft body and systems and everything, but if we don't own the jet engine, there's no prospects. So that is what we need to to do. Otherwise, I think that the AMCA will have its first prototype coming out in a year or two and the first test flight in in the next two or three years and it's supposed to begin uh initial production by 2030, 2031 or something like that. uh MRFA well multi-roll fighter aircraft I'm not sure what that is there are lots of MRFAS multiroll fighter aircraft aircraft but AMC I can tell you yeah Agni Varna says what are Switzerland's geopolitical concerns it's a tiny nation surrounded by so many bigger powers that's there itself is the geopolitical concern right there itself um Rishiesh says Did the Plaza Accords stagnate Japan's economy? If Japan had not signed it, would it have would they have surpassed Uncle Sam? In the 1980s, I was a little kid. And the world looked at Japan with awe. Japan, this tiny little nation, was the world's second largest economy. And it looked like it was just a matter of time before they became the largest economy. Right? And then the Plaza Accords happened. I was 85 or something. And then slowly gradually the tap got turned and Japan slowly slid into decline. So the it was the Plaza Accords that stagnated Japan's economy and the instrument that was used to do this was the Bank of Japan. And I'll not go into the details but if the Plaza Accord has not had not happened they would have surpassed Uncle Sam. But Japan had no choice sign or not sign. Who the hell were the Japanese to say no to to the nation that had more than 130 permanent U military bases on their territory? You can't say no to your occupier. So yeah, uh Rohan Suna says, "Is Ukraine being trapped into in a new version of the Lendley's act?" Okay, you're talking about the Second World War. Like in the Second World War, uh the UK and USSR got US equipment and the last repayment was made in 2006 after 61 years. Yes, Ukraine is being trapped like that. It's going to be forever indebted to Uncle Sam and to various NATO nations and maybe the EU nations. Ukraine is done. It is cooked. Yeah. They've lost the flower of their youth. They've lost all their young men. They only have old men left. Even women are being sent to the front lines to to fight. And uh their economy has been destroyed. They've they've signed this minerals deal with the US which further vasalizes Ukraine and yeah so the analogy that you have given is pretty apt. Yes. Ash Dar says what's the strategy to get aarat in a 100 years. The strategy first of all is for India to grow grow grow grow grow economically become a $30 trillion economy eventually a $50 trillion economy eventually a hundred trill trillion dollar economy if possible in a 100 years absolutely possible and the trick is to ensure we don't get embroiled in any major military conflict which is easier said than done if you do that the simple fact of India's gigantic economy with which comes a gigantic military strength it itself will ensure that the rest of the countries in Akan bharat will simply automatically come in. That's the only strategy. The larger you become economically, the more powerful you get militarily and power is like a pressure that goes outwards and once you have a gigantically powerful nation, everything just falls into place. You don't have to do a thing. So that's why India should not be hasty. Oh. Wait, relax, work, do the hard work. Now everything will come automatically. Sesh uh has a recommendation. Instead of sixth generation air superiority, we should quietly focus on space attack cost effective and future ready where the true adv war advantage lies. I think it's a good suggestion. What are my views on this? Um I am in I am very much in favor of a space force, a powerful space force. Um we have various treaties apparently that say that space should not be militarized. Well, nobody cares about treaties. Um the US already has a space force, right? Trump had created a space force during his first uh tenure as president. Uh we should definitely focus on space capabilities. We should not term them as military capabilities. we should term them as as civilian capabilities. But the very fact that you can put up rockets and satellites in space, lots of them. The very fact that you can put up space stations in space always all of these things have dual uh uses which uh dual uses in civilian and military use. Right? So we should do do that. We certainly should do that. Which is why I keep on saying that ISRO needs to be more ambitious. And what I mean byro should be more ambitious means the government should be more ambitious for ISRO. ISRO has no decision-making power. They only take orders and execute the orders. They have limited budgets and so on. So um ISRO should be unleashed. IshRO should ISRO should be allowed to uh you know design and build rockets that are like 100 times more powerful than what we have today. Our rockets are mediocre little rockets. The PSLV and the LM3 they what are they compared to the space SpaceX rockets? a fraction of of what the SpaceX rockets can do. So we should focus on all of these things for sure. At the same time we should also focus on all the other landbased technologies and sea based technologies and atmospheric air based technologies. We should not solely focus on something on one thing. We should focus on everything. But uh if we truly want to stand out among the nations and ensure that our national interests are served long term we have to become a technological superpower. No question. Um Prashant says, "Did Israel mess Trump's quest for a Nobel Prize?" Hence angry. Did Israel do that? Um so Israel has u abided by the ceasefire, hasn't it? Um Trump said that I have uh mediated uh mediated a ceasefire. The ceasefire is now in effect. And then Israel did try to breach the ceasefire. Trump was angry and he was pretty frustrated on camera. He said he used language that you a president would generally not use on camera, but he did that. He was pretty annoyed, pretty frustrated, and he singled out Israel for this, not Iran. He singled out Israel for that. even put uh these angry uh posts on truth social mentioning Israel. So Israel was trying to kind of get away with a few things but Trump was angry but the ceasefire is holding and if it holds and the war is over it means that Trump has actually succeeded in achieving peace. So he was angry at the time but now Israel seems to you know seems to be abiding by the se with by the ceasefire. So yeah, Trump may actually get Nobel Prize for this, you know. Um, how does Turkey develop? How how did Turkey develop great drones in aircraft which are fifth generation? Through research and development. So they have this drone company by Rakar or whatever it's called. They have the Kizilma drone which is a stealth capable drone. Not sure if it's a fifth generation drone or something aircraft. Okay, we're talking about drones first. So, uh the the the Baktar or whatever the company is called. It was um the guy behind it is uh is a guy who was doing an engineering degree, PhD or something in the US and then he got got the idea for this this uh drone thing and he abandoned his degree and came back to Turkey and his dad has a had a big uh operation already going some kind of industrial operation. So he tapped into that and formed this company and yeah, so that's the company that produces all these drones. I'm not sure how great the drones are because the drones came up against us during Operation Synindur and we took them all out, but it doesn't mean that Pakistan had the best drones that Turkey has to offer. Okay, so they may have high quality drones still, but the reputation has taken a big tumble. Um, so how do you do it? You do it by research and development, iterative research and development. That's how you do it. So Turkey did it. We also can do it if we create the right environment in India, right? So yeah, when's the next super chart? We'll see. Um what? Yeah, this is not a geopolitics question. Okay. I mean, this sounds like a geopolitics question, but then you're putting in Doctor Strange and Marvel, which is cinema. How is this geopolitics? Doctor Strange is fiction. It's it's fantasy. Amaya Rupal says, "Soner or later, China will get entangled in the Taiwan takeover war." Are you sure about that? How do you know that? You're assuming this to be to be a fact. How do you know that? Yes. Okay. Anyway, let's take this. So, sooner or later, China will get entangled in Taiwan take over war. That will present us with a chance for action in Axai Chin. How should India prepare for the scenario? My thoughts. My thoughts. If China goes to war with Taiwan, we should not go for a chin. Okay. We should not. not the time China is still very powerful uh of course it if if it is see it's like this if China does make a move on Taiwan if it does okay I'm not saying it is guaranteed to do it anytime soon or whatever but let's say hypothetically it does if China does that we should actually seek to ensure the safety and security of Nepal and Bhutan it doesn't mean I'm I'm not recommending we should physically take over these nations. I'm saying we should be on very high alert and ensure that Chinese China doesn't make any moves in Nepal or Bhutan. If China faces a significant defeat in Taiwan, then they will be forced to divert other forces to Taiwan, which may present us with an opportunity to take over Axachin. And then the question is if we do take over axin or take over some parts of it and then when the Taiwan war ends if what if China is still in a position to uh engage us militarily. So it's something that you know you have to be very careful about. We can discuss all these things hypothetically theoretically but in the real world there are real world consequences for actions. Uh so it so if China gets entangled in Taiwan it does not necessarily present us with a chance for action for action. What action right? So it doesn't necessarily present us with a chance for taking over excite chain. We have to be patient. Ask yourself this very simple question. Are we as big as China? Strong as China. We're not. China is about two and a half times more powerful than us. So as a weaker nation do we genuinely deserve to take back our territories that we have lost? We will deserve it when we are strong enough to take it. But right now we are weak. Please understand Indians seem to be imagining that we are one step away from being a superpower. Okay. Prrenumar says system needs to work for us in India we work for it. Okay. Okay, this is not a geopolitics question. I just don't get it. Why people? Okay. Okay. Prabhav says, "Why Russia still chooses a slow conventional war instead of a decisive one? And similarly, Israel doesn't wage a decisive war against Iran." Um, that's a good question. Why has Russia chosen I mean Russia when the the Ukraine war began? Uh it began in February 2022. A couple of a few weeks after the war began, Russia's Russian troops were on the outskirts of Kiev and then they withdrew from that and then after that they've chosen a slow conventional war. So maybe they want to not risk not take big risks because uh a very quick rapid crushing defeat of Ukraine will involve the air force. It may end up uh demonstrating its air force capabilities, Russia's air force capabilities to NATO. Um Russia has made it very made it a point to keep the air force out of action as far as possible. They have a very powerful, very big air force, but a very little of that has been used over Ukraine. Um, so I think there are considerations that they want to extend this as long as possible to deplete NATO's resources. Forget about Ukraine, but NATO's resources and and create this this fatigue in the world for the Ukraine war. The world should be fed up of the Ukraine war. and then Russia can essentially you know get what it wants to achieve without uh risking too much probably that's the cause Israel doesn't wage a decisive war against Iran do you know that there's a thousand kilometers diff you know distance there's a distance of about 1,000 km between Israel and Iran it's like imagine you want to wage a war with for example hypothetically South Korea I mean, think about it. It's far away, right? How do you do it? So, there are geographical reasons for all this, right? Okay. Jinny says, uh, do you think Russia was given Ukraine by the by us, by the US to not interfere in Iran? Russia was given Ukraine. Who has given Russia Ukraine? I'm I'm trying to understand what the question is. Do you think Russia was given Ukraine by us? Maybe you mean US. So, has Russia been given Ukraine by the US? Has it? It's not. So, I'm I'm not I'm really not sure what you're asking. What new wars do I see will start in coming years or months? Well, for that you have to look at the global flash points right now. You know where are the areas of maximum tension. One is India Pakistan. You could have a war next week. Who knows if Pakistan does some something stupid, right? We know that. So that could happen anytime depending on Pakistani activities and actions because they are a terrorist nation and you terrorists don't really think too much, right? They just do stupid things, terrible things. So if if there's a terrorist attack somewhere in India then well Pakistan will will you know it'll they'll have it coming. So that's one flash point. Another flash point is India, China. Right now we have the Kailash manser yatra going on. The Chinese pretending pretending to be very nice while imposing sanctions on India of various kinds, right? Uh fertilizer sanctions, rare earth magnets sanctions, other sanctions. Uh so India, China is always a flash point. Then there is Taiwan which is a flash point. Then obviously Ukraine is is an ongoing flash point. So I think what new wars could happen? uh there are wars happening in Africa also that nobody pays attention to. So that is already going on. So I think China Taiwan is an is is a potential flash point. India Pakistan is a potential flash point. Uh an escalation of the Ukraine war is a potential flash point. Israel Iran blowing up again is also a potential flash point. That's what I can think of. North Korea seems, you know, the West portrays North Korea as a crazy nation, but it's not really a crazy nation. is a very sane rational nation and so on. So I think that's that's an overview of what could potentially happen. Okay. Suhak Deepak says, "Thank you so much for being a big fan, sir. Uh RPM record visits to the different nations. When do you see dividends coming in in what form?" See, diplomacy is all soft and dividends can come in a variety of ways. You go and visit a nation and and two years later in a UN vote they may because you have established good relations with them they may give a vote in your favor. So in a UN vote the nation votes on in your favor that's a dividend but most people won't see it and they'll say that's what people that's how people react. The dividends come in so many different ways and means and shapes and forms. They may for example have various maybe an Indian Indian private company take over a port in their nation or maybe build infrastructure in the nation. When a company builds a port in in a different nation or builds infrastructure in a in a third nation, it's not a public facing thing. So people never come to know about this what's happening and even if somebody reports it they'll say what is that what's the point but that has geopolitical implications. So there are lots and lots of different dividends that come in a variety of shapes and forms but most people because they don't understand geopolitics geostrategy they don't see it they don't understand it. So you have to pay attention to the to the uh things that really matter. You have to pay attention to supply chains and supply chains means you have to pay attention to the hubs and spokes of supply chains uh ports, airports, railway lines, uh transport corridors, uh infrastructure building. You need to look into that. Then you you have to look at uh the voting patterns of nations in in in multilateral organizations. Those are dividends. And there are so many other dividends. Your trade agreement, people don't understand trade agreements or a trade deal. It's very complicated, so much paperwork, but that's dividends. There are so many different ways all of these things pays dividends. You may you may get oil, for example, let's say the prevailing rate is $75 per barrel. You may get it at $70 per barrel. That's a dividend. But nobody will get it, right? That okay, they reduce the for India uh $5 per barrel. So there are so many ways in which these these these visits of the prime minister across the world they pay dividends but because our education system doesn't teach us these nuances we don't get it right so I hope that that sheds some light on the matter uh K says how can India deal with a future destabilized Pakistan their population is doubling that economy is not averaging given 2% growth. Okay, that's a good question. Pakistan is an unstable nation. De destabilization is always the case with Pakistan, right? Um there are all kinds of, you know, civil war issues in Pakistan. All kinds of insurgencies, many separatist movements, you know, independence movements and uh regions and nations that want freedom from Pakistan, whether it is Kibber Pakuna, whether it is Baljustan, whoever else and so on. and a very radicalized population of very very ill-educated their education system is even worse than ours if that if that's possible. So people who can't think straight h people who lack the ability to to think critically but even worse than Indians like significantly worse than Indians and completely mentally radicalized like crazies most of them not all of them some I I know that there are some good people also in Pakistan but most of them are like this right so Pakistan if it becomes even more destabilized than it is right now then there is obviously the potential for trouble for India so how do we deal with this look very simple secure the borders That's it. Ensure nobody crosses the borders. You cross that line, you're done, bro. That should be the very clear and simple message to all Pakistanis. You guys, we gave you a nation. As long as we don't retake it, it's yours. Okay? Temporarily, it's yours. But as long as you are a separate nation and there is there are these lines on the map, you better not cross cross those lines. the moment you come on the side illegally and because we have we don't want you here it's illegal you're done that's it that's what we have to ensure uh manticor says do you think India has a large source or reserves of rare earths um that's an important question and this is geopolitical this is a g geopolitical question even though it did it's related to India's rare earth reserves but see what's happened right now is that China is imposing restrictions on rare earth exports which is directly impacting India's electric vehicles uh vehicles industry India's uh battery manufacturing industries and all and it looks like by mid July we may run out of what we need the the resources the rare earths it's which are coming from China and China has imposed sanctions on India when it comes to rare earth magnets also when it comes to uh specialty fertilizers and so much more so China is imposing sanctions on India which is why it's very important that we diversify our sources of these very vital uh resources rare earths now the question is do I think India is has a large res reserves of of rare earths as far as I know India is the third largest has the world's third largest reserves of rare earths but we have never developed the industrial capabilities to extract to a extract the rare earths and b purify and process them and that's why we are dependent on others we have everything in India we have it but we have been utterly lazy we have been caught napping even this current government has been caught napping they have been here in power for 11 years why haven't they developed the capabilities to to uh extract rare earths and then process them and purify them why hasn't it been done thus I don't get it. This is the L. Okay, you got to say it. Uh, so India, I think, has the world's third largest reserves of rare earths. I I don't know why we haven't done it. I I think only the government needs to answer the question, not me. Um, lithium in Jammu and Kashmir, that's been announced. But what's been done? It's been announced a year ago. What action has been taken to start the extraction of this lithium? We're still talking to Brazil and god knows what for lithium and whatn not. If we have discovered lithium in Jammu, Kashmir and other places, why aren't we hard at work already extracting it or setting up the infrastructure for extracting and purifying it? Why hasn't it happened? Why does everything take so long, decades in this country? Whose failure is it? Is it Manm Singh's failure? Well, Manm Singh was in power until 2014, right? I think we need to move faster. We need to move faster. This is constructive criticism really. Okay. Shubam Kumbakar says, "Given India's internal diversity and cultural links with our neighbors, why haven't we built a deep intel network to secure influence and strategic leverage? Okay. Why haven't we built this deep intel network? Well, my question to you sir is how do we know we haven't built it? When you build intelligence networks, do you think you announce them to the world? Okay. Today in Pakistan we have established three more spy operations agencies uh locations and one is in Rahul Pindi, one is in Islamabad, one is in Queta and in the next 3 months we will establish five more outposts. First out outpost will be in Guadada, second outpost will be in whatever else place and so on so do you think that's how it works? Do you think that's how we do it? If we build these deep intel networks, do you think we we we spell it out, we announce it, it's never supposed to be known. Okay. So, because this is this doesn't this doesn't come in the news, it doesn't come in government reports, doesn't mean it doesn't exist, right? So, that's that's the answer. My answer is this question that I pose to you. Okay? Yeah, I will only take geopolitics questions and um okay let's take this uh anyone loyal to Bhat was eliminated. Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shakar Razad, Subash Bose, later Hobie Baba is scientists PM Modi is still there. Okay. So if you're not dead, if you're not dead, you must have kissed the ring. Is that is that so? He has has he kissed the ring in pushing US deep state agenda GMO agriculture arms. India is refusing to allow US agricultural exports into India. That's one of the big issues when it comes to the trade talks. Trump wants India to allow the US to export their agriculture products into India, their genetically modified garbage into India, their dairy products into India. Then Indians will start becoming obese like the Americans. We are saying no. Right? The US is all powerful. See this is the problem in India. People don't understand nuance. So has Mr. I'll just answer this straight away instead of going into nuances and details and all. Has Mr. Modi kissed the ring? He has not kissed the ring. He's fighting as hard as is possible. I mean going up against Trump and telling him he's a liar on his face by putting out the statement after the G7 summit. I mean is that an example of somebody kissing the ring? I mean seriously it's not your fault Shir Patra it's the education system's fault which has not taught our people how to think in nuances think critically. You see these patterns that various great YouTubers will give you Indian YouTubers and then you say yeah this is the pattern and that means that Prime Minister Modi is working for the US. Oh, are you kidding me? Prime Minister Modi despite not having a full majority is doing all he can to keep India sovereign. He's even he has even essentially taken the step of calling Trump a liar because Trump lied. He's taking big risks and you people are saying has Mr. Modi is the are you kidding me? I just now criticized the government right about rare earths. So I am very clear that I will criticize when criticism is required. We haven't done a thing about rare earths. We announced lithium in Jammu and Kashmir more than a year ago. What happened? So I will criticize the government where it deserves to be criticized. But this is nonsense. This is nonsense. Mr. Modi is working for India. He's taking big risks for India. So okay. Uh Mantacor says, "Is it high time we make mandatory participation of IITs in I R&D projects like the US and China? Should we enforce this to strict levels to enforce compliance?" Well, that's a that's a good um that's a good uh reformative step you you're talking about. The first thing we need to do in IIT is is shut down the godamned non science and technology departments. Why do we have see these are the Indian institutes of what? what technology Indian institutes of technology right so why do you have sociology departments in IITs why do we have these nonscience non-technology departments in IIT where a significant portion of the budget of the IIT goes why do we have these things there and these are all leftist snake pits see the kind of garbage research they are peddling third rate researchers who who don't contribute a thing to the nation the leech from the nation. I mean once I get started about this I will not uh so yes the IT should they should be more research focused cut off this you know trim out all this fat get rid of all the sociology and all these humanities departments from the IITs I don't understand why they exist there are some good people also in these IITs okay in the humanities departments there are some good people no question and when this happens they'll this may end up you being bad for them. For example, Dr. Suri Prakashya, which whom I did with with whom I did a podcast on this channel. He's from IIT Mandi. He's a great guy. He's a patriot. But yeah, but most of these academics in these humanities departments, they most of them, not all of them, most of them are parasites. And all of this IIT funding, much of it is going into these departments. So that's one issue with IITs. Okay. And then of course R&D, you need more R&D. If you look at the quality of research in IIT, well, it's nothing to write home about. If you go to the average IIT, I'm not saying all I there may be some super exceptional IIT somewhere. You go to the average IIT H, you'll find if you go to the washroom, it's a milliondoll washroom. Beautiful. If you go to the presentation room, you know, um the lecture uh what is it called a room um lecture hall or whatever it it will be very well equipped and all that. But if you so if you go to the washroom it will they will have they will have spent crores on the washrooms. If you go to the presentation rooms and all that they will have spent crores on that. But if you go to the laboratories and you see the equipment there, the equipments are 20 30 years old. If you look at the professors, you'll find that most of them are utterly mediocre. And they produce lots of research papers every year. And how do they produce these research papers? They have their the students they are supervising do all the research and then they will put their name as the first author in the research paper and the students have to agree with agree to do this otherwise they will not get their PhDs or whatever. This is the deal. I'm not saying all I professors are like that but there is a big issue about all of these issues about all of these problems in IIT in the IITs. So very uh tremendous amounts of mediocrity. Okay. So a lot needs to be changed and here more R&D projects actual R&D where if you don't R&D you you it's it's sink or swim. You're thrown out otherwise and you to do it yourself. No don't have your students do everything for you. So a lot needs to be done. Mr. Adriata says do the people of Axachin still have allegiance to India? Okay, let's let's let me show you something. Okay, we'll go to the map. We will go to the map. Yes, this is something you all can also do. I mean I I encourage you all my viewers to sometimes do some research yourselves. See exactly what I'm doing. Okay, I don't need you to solve the Schinger equation. Just look at this. This is excit. Now look here. This is Ladak, Kashmir. You can see there is Kard here. There is Shagar here. There is Lei here. There's Cargill. You can see all the cities. You can see all the towns. Hund is a wonderful place. Diskit is a wonderful place. Turuk is Yeah. And there is Tang the last village and so on. You can see all the towns, villages when you look at the map. Now let's look at Axai. Show me a village here. Show me a town here. Show me the Show me. Show me. Is there any town here? Is there any village here? Show me where is it? Where is it? So you can answer your own question by just doing what I just did. The answer to your question is the people of Akaiin have no allegiance to India. Why is that? Because there are no people who live in Axachin. Okay. Ankita Krup says war and conflicts are necessary for the sustenance of the US economy and to maintain the US dollar as the international currency. Uh what's the reality of the US economy? Who is next after Iran? The reality of the US economy is that the entire US economy is a scam. It is based on a currency that has no actual value. The only value that the currency has is the might of the US global power military power production capability. Uh and that keeps this paper currency uh going on as the global reserve currency. Why do I say this currency has no value? Because a currency needs to be a substitute for something which has value. Historically currencies were in the form of coins, gold coins. So the gold itself had tremendous value, right? So that's how currencies had value. Then eventually you started issuing paper currencies. But there was a promise made on the paper currency written down that this currency is legal. It's it's legally exchangeable for so and so amount of gold and if and this is legal tender for that and if the bearer demands that amount of gold then the bank or the government has to issue that amount of gold in exchange for that piece of paper. That's how it was. So that's how you knew that this and that the government had to keep that amount of gold in reserve the amount of currency notes that it had issued. So that's how we know that the currency has some actual value or what what actual value the currency has. So historically in India our currencies were either gold or silver. Now the dollar is for some time it was linked to petroleum. It was called the petro dollar. Now it's not even that. It's simply a worthless piece of paper. But it is the the American military might is enforcing uh the continuing uh continuation of the US dollar as the global reserve currency. Uh so that's the reality of the US economy. The US economy the the US has the most debt of any nation on the planet. How is this debt? What is debt? So the US borrows dollars from other countries. Dollars that are in circulation across the world. How do they borrow the dollars? They borrow the dollars by by issuing bonds. So a bond maybe of $100. If if you buy a 100 bonds of $100 each, that's $10,000. So what the government, US government does, it issues these bonds that you can buy. So you let's say one bond hypothetically is is worth $100 and you buy a hundred of those then you have to pay $10,000 and a bond will eventually be something that matures which means that you can then give it back to the US government and the US government has to give you back the money. So the government is actually the US government is actually borrowing money from you in exchange for a piece of paper. And there are nations that buy up tremendous quantities of American uh bonds, debt bonds, sovereign bonds. So the Chinese own trillions of dollars of US debt in this ma in this manner. Uh and the and so that's that's how the US has racked up so much debt, tremendous quantities of debt. If you look at uh US debt right now, so that's one way in which the US is has racked up debt and there are other ways also. Uh US debt uh chart do we have chart? Okay. Do we have something? Let's see. As you can see how how high it's gone in the year 2000. It was what was this? How many million dollars? $5.9 million million. Now, so it's this is unsustainable. If the entire world for example does a bank run on the US and the whole whole world at the same time comes and says give us back our debt, the US will have nothing to give. So that is the reality of the US economy. It's a scam. It's an absolute scam. Who is next after Iran? I don't know whoever dares to stand up to the US. Anand Burukan thank you sir. Geopolitical dub sir thank you very much. Now what is the next question? Um what is this video says as a historian if you have been given a good position in government and government says do whatever and make India China allies in the next 5 years I will say what will be your moves I will tell the government I don't want your position because India and China will not be allies in the next 5 years okay I will say I cannot take up this position on that condition the condition is that I should make India and China allies in the next 5 years it's not possible because China sees the world in in a certain set of ways and you can't change that that's It's a fundamental worldview that they have. You cannot change that. Okay. If if I'm told that in the next 5 years you need to make India reach this level in technology or this level in education or whatever, I can do that. That's in my control. But somebody else's attitudes and perceptions are not something I can control. Right? You can influence that. You can try and shape that but there's no guaranteed outcome. But when it comes to India itself, changing the education system, reforming it or achieving something else in science or technology, all of that is entirely in your hands because you control the resources, you control the people, you control everything within the country. That's something you can definitely possibly guarantee an outcome of. But this I don't know. Okay. Kumar Kaneska says I sorry but I don't think we are fully sovereign the way we paused operation Tindu Russia never stopped Ukraine operation China if enter in military operation won't stop okay sir that's your opinion thank you warrior says how can bat project its power globally India is not in a position to power project power globally with a $4.3 trillion economy all right and of course if you want to genuinely project power globally. Forget about globally, first do it locally, right? First do it locally, how then you have to ask yourself, okay, um how does the US project power? So that's the first thing you have to learn. How does the US project power? It projects power through a multiplicity of strategies. One strategy is that you construct military bases extr territorially. You construct your military bases on the territories of other nations and to do that you have those nations sign treaties of alliance or whatever with you which will allow these these bases to be constructed and operated and that vitalizes the nation. Then you have nations form alliances like NATO and the EU and so on which you can control and so on. But if you're talking about projecting military power, you need military bases that are extr territorial in nature. So for that India would need military bases in the Indian Ocean region. That's how we do it. And for that you need the goodwill of the countries. You need the acquisance of those countries in which you want to build military bases. And that happens when you have something to offer to them. There's always a quid proquo. There's always a give and take. Does India have a lot to offer right now with a $4.3 trillion economy? So my point is right now let's not talk about flying before we can learn how to walk and run and sprint. Yes. And vasilizing nations. Let's fire in the future. Um yeah, so that's the deal. Is vaselizing a necessity for remaining a sovereign superpower? It it helps a lot. It helps a lot for sure. Genie says, "Does our air defense track the F-35 without Lmberg?" I'm not sure. I don't know. Um no, no, no. says, "Could you please summarize why and how Israel holds so much power, especially such stronghold over the US?" Well, I haven't gone into the into the details. There is a book by Professor John Mir Shimemer that that is about possibly the Israel lobby in the US or something. I am told that that's the book to read, but I haven't read it yet. So, so but it's clear that Israel has a tremendous amount of hold over the US and influence over the US. Nobody can deny that. And I think the details could be possibly in that book but which I haven't read yet so I won't be able to answer the question but u what is said is that there are lots of influential and powerful Jewish origin politicians and business people and so on in the US uh and they all work together they are very unified unlike Hindus who are who are like cats cats can't be herded right that sort of thing so that's that's how it happens allegedly um musk musk musk well thank Thank you mask maskm sir. Thank you. Okay. I will not I will only take geopolitics questions only. Geopolitics questions. Um okay. Sid Barka says, "Can the US kill a nation's AI ambitions by declining them access to Nvidia's technology who have a monopoly for now? Uh can they use Nvidia Open AI as a weapon? They certainly can do these things. They are currently pressurizing Nvidia. The US government is pressurizing Nvidia to stop sales of certain chips, very powerful chips to China and to nations that could then reroute those chips to China. So that's already happening. But when it comes to China, they are already in the process of building of of manufacturing their own highquality chips. So they may be able to surmount this problem. But when it comes to other nations where a proper semiconductor ecosystem doesn't exist, the US can completely destroy that nation's EI ambitions by simply denying access to Nvidia's technology. Absolutely. So the US can use all of these uh resources as weapons because Nvidia is an American company. All of these companies, all of these platforms are American platforms which they can deny the use of to anybody. Uh Abisheku says my friend says Russia is responsible for Ukraine China war Russia Ukraine war as they first invaded Crimea and now this thought Ukraine is easy walk but they seem that etc. Well, everybody has the right to their opinions and I respect your friend's right to their to his or her opinion. Uh Rohan Surja says, "Can Putin be really really be arrested or is it just fluff?" When you are on the territory of another nation, you are in under the control. So Putin can't be arrested when he's in Russia, nobody dares do that. But if Mr. Putin travels to a different nation or transits through a nation. For example, if you're going to nation X, but to go to nation X, you have to fly over nation Y and nation Y decides they want to arrest you. They'll send send fighter planes to escort to force your plane down and they arrest you. What can you do about it? Nothing. Of course, you can nuke them later, but that's a different story. So, yeah, it's possible, right? Why risk it? Why risk it? Shubankar say Shuhham Kumbharker says none of our neighbors are aligned with our interests mostly. Yeah, that's that's a valid observation. Musk Musk Musk. Thank you once again sir. Um is this a geopolitical question? I would say it is. It's not a dumb question. The question is why is democracy considered to be greater than dictatorship? Because that is the norm that has been created. It's what everybody has been brainwashed into into thinking and then they they give us examples of very bad dictators. So the Americans installed a whole bunch of horrible people as dictators in Africa and then they give those examples. Look at so and so dictator. For example, Idiamin. I'm not sure the Americans installed the Idiamin, but he when you destroy a continent and and ruin the place and destroy the culture, destroy the whole governance system, then only the worst people will come to power. So, I am Amin comes to power and they say, "Look at this guy, such an evil guy. Look at Saddam Hussein. The guys were working with Saddam Hussein for the longest time, but now he's the he's the example of a evil dictator. Or look at Muhammad Gaddafi, such an evil guy, human rights abuser and so and so on. They install a whole bunch of dictators all over the place and then they give those examples. What about Lee Kuanu? Well, he was a benevolent dictator, great man. Great man, right? What about him and so on? So the thing is it's just propaganda. Propaganda. If you have a good system that throws up the right people, then even a dictatorship can be super beneficial. And what happens in a dictatorship? Okay, what happens? Assuming it's a good dictatorship for example, then the country is run like a corporation and the dictator is the CEO and the dictator's minions are the seauite COO, CFO, CTO, whatever. And everything is done super fast. So that really uh speeds up the decision making and uh the the speed at which decisions are implemented and executed and problems are solved and so on. In a de democracy there's a road for everything and that's especially a nation like India. So right okay let's take this one. Raji Raj says, "Russia did not make any technological progress after the dissolution of the USSR. So their war tech is of the 80s. Explains why the Russia Ukraine war is taking so long. What do I think?" Not entirely the case. Not all of their technology is from the 80s. Yes, some of the strategic aircraft are from the 20th century. Look at American strategic aircraft. Many of them are like 70 year old designs, but they are still manufactured and they are high quality. Uh some some designs are timeless. Um, so not all of Russia's technology is from the 80s. The tanks are super super new, super modern. Uh, many of I mean, what about the Siron missile? What about the Kinjal missile? Do you think that's 80s technology, sir? Really? You think so? What about all the drones they're using? Do you think it's 80s technology? What about the Sarmat missile? Or what about the Sukoy 57? Is that 80s technology? I can give you so many examples. So, it's not the case. Okay, I I hope that the examples will convince you that it's not entirely the case. I'm sure there will be some technological um some weaponry that could date back to the the Cold War. It's possible like some of the strategic bombers, but they still work fine. So why why change that? But those strategic bombers will have the latest cutting edge frightening missiles, hypersonic missiles, Mach 9 missiles. So you do what you can with whatever you have and that doesn't explain why the Russia Ukraine was taking so long. That does not it does it. Uh the rational reporter says what type of what type and quantity of aircraft air defense and ISR do we need to gain air dominance over Pakistan like Israel did over Iran? What budget and time is required? We already have all the all everything we need. We already have it, don't we? In operation synindur, we we achieved air dominance over Pakistan. We first knocked down their air defenses. We knocked down their radars. So, they were blind. Uh we knocked out their their Chinese air defense systems. Then we uh created their their their runways and we poked holes into their hangars and stuff and then our aircraft were flying over Pakistan and there was nothing the Pakistanis could do. The runways were created. So we already have everything we need to gain air dominance over Pakistan. There's nothing more extra we need right now. He's manticor is glad to be a member. Join after the Chingghistan video. Well, thank you so much. That's a long time ago, right? It's like four years ago now. I I if I'm not mistaken. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Really I do. Okay. Now I will once again let me tell you I will not take non geopolitics questions in this live stream. I will not take non- geopolitics question. I mean I I will simply just ignore this non- geopolitics questions. Ah um Reddi always ready says are we rivals to China are are we a rival to China when were half their GDP or 2/3 I'm not sure what you're asking. Are we a rival to China? We are rival to China. China is our rival. We are their rival. China is two and a half times more powerful than us. But we are still rivals. That's what I can answer you. I'm not sure what the I'm I'm not sure if I can um I can understand everything you're saying here. R W A. Okay. So yeah, that's the answer. I think we are out of super chat. So I'll take some live chat questions um and then we can then we can um later end this. Venita Vijay from uh Facebook says do you think there will be a third world war? Well first of all I let me say that I hope it never happens. Uh but there are some flash points in the world that could lead us to a third world war. flash points like the Ukraine war in which there is if there is an escalation you know for example if the Ukrainians continue to use long range weapons and if they end up hitting Moscow or something then Russia may be tempted may be required according to the nuclear doctrine to possibly use nuclear weapons if they use nuclear weapons then there could be some response from the west of similar of a similar kind that could very quickly lead us up the escalation ladder and cause a nuclear exchange which is a third world war So that's one very dangerous flash point. Ukraine seems to be going very slowly but it's a very dangerous flash point for the world because it can escalate very fast. Then you have uh the the Middle East region which which even if the US gets involved unless the Russians get involved it's not really a big issue. Obviously it's bad for the world because it will you know raise oil prices and all that but that's not a third world war issue. China, Taiwan could potentially be a third world war thing if the US gets embroiled and if Russia gets pulled in. India, China is not a third world war flashoint. It's it's it's a dangerous flash point for both nations but not a third world war flashoint. So I think Ukraine is the most dangerous flash point right now which could lead us to a third world war. I hope it doesn't happen. Um okay. Uh the Mandian says how to protect our land and marine choke points. Uh how do you protect choke points? You you protect them by fortifying the area militarily. So if you have a choke point for example, okay, let's let's go to the map. That's an interesting question. If we look at the Z map and if you see the let's take a look at the major choke points that uh that are relevant to us. One is the straight of hormones. Now people will ask why do we care about the straight of hormones? It's it's so far away from India. it's between the UAE and and Persia. But 40 to 50% of our energy comes from here. So this is important for us. If so, if this uh this trade is choked, then we lose access to about 40 to 50% of the energy we are importing, right? So that's uh important. Then we have uh this choke point Babal Mandib which also you know a lot of the imports come from there. Then there is uh Mala which is strategically important for China not that much for us but it's something we can control. So how do we protect these choke points? By having power projection capabilities that can uh that can cause us to dominate these choke points. That's how we do it. So we need powerful we need a very powerful navy that can be deployed on demand to these places. We also need a very powerful air force that can reach these regions right and and return. So that's for that we would perhaps need uh aircraft carriers or other military bases in other other parts of the world. For example, the Anderman islands can serve as air force bases. Why not? Why don't we have that? I don't get it. Why don't we have a naval bases here, submarine bases here? We should do that. Uh so that's how we do it. You do it by fortifying them and by developing the power projection capabilities that would lead that would allow you to dominate these places uh militarily. All right. Okay. We uh okay let's take this question. What if the US interest is to push back Iran nuclear program but not regime change? It counterbalances Israel and ensures weapon sales in Arab countries. Sir, you are a G. Sir or ma'am, you're a genius. Hasn't Isn't that what the US has done? Isn't that what the US has achieved? They have pushed back the Iranian nuclear program by 6 months or so. They haven't obliterated anything like Mr. Trump keeps on saying, but they have pushed back the nuclear program by maybe 6 months. They have made made sure there's no regime change in in Iran. They've made sure Israel doesn't get a big victory. And now the region is tense, so there'll be more arms sales in these regions. Outstanding win-win for the US. So yeah, there you have it. There you have it. Good. Um, okay. Talik Sue says, "What is India's economic fallback if the US cuts off um reliance on India's IT sector or weaponizes the IT sector? Huge portion of India's GDP relies on IT exports. India doesn't seem to have any economic fallback to that." You see that's a great question you're you're raising here and you're highlighting a very big vulnerability that India has. So we like you like you rightly say a significant portion of our GDP comes from it it it comes from IT exports services that we export and and and software exports and IT exports essentially. So that's a the So if this goes away, it's a big problem for India. Now how could this go away? One scenario is that the US decides that it no longer wants uh India to have access to its IT market. So it it stops relying on the Indian IT sector. So India's IT sector runs out of orders. No, no more clients. Then what do you do? Who do you sell to? Right? That's a problem. The other scenario is going to happen. The other scenario is even more dangerous is that AI takes over IT and you don't need IT contractors anymore. So right now what what is the Indian IT sector doing? It is relying on wage arbitrage. So in the US a programmer will let's say hypothetically charge $100 an hour. Hypothetically $100 an hour. But the Indian programmer or the Indian company will have programmers and they will charge the US clients instead of $100 an hour, $20 an hour. So it makes sense for the American companies to to to outsource the work to Indian companies that charge just $20 an hour instead of $100 an hour. That way they can have, you know, five people do the work that uh that uh I mean it's five times cheaper that way. But what if you can hire AI employees who will do the work for $2 an hour? It'll be superior to anything a human being can do. Well, that is almost upon us now. That time is almost here. We already have agentic AI. You already have these u um what is it called? Clo code which kind of is kind of going in the direction of being an u AI employee of yours. You have tools like cursor these days which I hear is very good. You also have other agentic systems. So we are beginning to go venture into that territory. Okay. Where AI becomes your employee and it's superior to humans. So once give it 6 months, give it one year and the whole landscape will be changed. So then if I am an if I have a US company that needs IT work done and I am outsourcing it all to India much of it and now all I will have to do is to hire AI employees. So I go to I I I purchase a plan from OpenAI and I get a 100 AI employees and maybe it costs me $2 an hour per AI employee something and whatever it is. So it's way cheaper than India and all I have to do is hire a couple of managers who will handle the tasks, allocate the task and ensure that everything is done properly and do the QR testing and whatnot. It's super cheap that way and this will completely annihilate the Indian IT sector. So that's that's coming that's coming. It's going to happen and I don't think any India India has any answer to this right now. Anand Murukhan, thank you very much sir. Ishan, thank you very much. Where is Ishan? Ishan, thank you very much. Um, Haridas says, "How did 1970s Iraq, once advanced in science and education, collapse into instability? Was it due to dictatorship wars or foreign interference?" So, Iraq was fairly advanced. It was very well-governed and organized and administered. Saddam Hussein was a dictator, but he did a great job actually. You know, Iran was a secular nation. Women were not forced to cover up or anything. Women worked just like men. There was complete peace and harmony. There were no sectarian troubles, Shia, troubles or any such thing. Um there was a high quality of life. There was law and order. No issues at all in the country and high quality science, high quality education, all of that. So what went wrong? First of all, the Iran Iraq war starts sometime in the 1980s, goes all goes on all the all the way until 88 or so that devastated both nations. And this was a proxy war between the US and Iran. Okay. So, the US used Saddam Hussein as a proxy to try and destroy Iran. And Saddam Hussein, well, he allowed himself to be used as an as an agent by the US. So, that was the beginning of the thing. And then in the early '90s, the Americans encouraged Saddam Hussein to invade Kuwait. So he kind of asked the Americans, would you guys mind if I invade Kuwait and take over? And they kind of indicated that they will not mind too much. The moment he invades Kuwait, they assemble an invasion force against Iraq and then they devastate Iraq. So that's where it all went wrong. It went on 1980s onwards. It went wrong 1980s onwards gradually. All right. Um, ready always ready is now expanding the question. Will we be a real competitor to China when we are half their GDP or twothirds of theirs? I mean a genuine rival to China also to be a major power in the world. Look you you are a real competitor when your system is is is not just to do what GDP. So even today we are kind of a rival for China but not really taken as seriously as China. U our GDP is 4 point something their GDP is 18 right trillion. So they are like 4 and a half times our about four times our GDP right now. uh let's say in a few years their GDP is 20 and ours is 10 a hypothetical example we'll be taken more seriously and China will take us more seriously and our the level of competition we will be able to give them will be more than what we can give them right now but what if in the future they are 24 and we are 16 so now we are 2/3 of their GDP then they'll take us even more seriously and the competition and rivalry will intensify so the more the closer you approach them from a GDP perspective, the more intense the rivalry becomes. No question about it. Especially when you're neighboring nations. But we will also have to reform our system to become a real rival to China. If we continue the system of mediocrity and corruption allegedly and so on, then we will never end up being a real rival to China. So we will need to uh address all the internal issues that we have. When you have a 100 million plus illegal immigrants living squatting on your territory, you're not going to be a real rival to China. You have all these problems that need to be solved. So it's not about just about GDP, it's about so many other things. But yeah, if we get all these things right, we will be real rivals to China. Uh Ram Raman Raman says, "What's your opinion on RAC? Is it positive?" RA is a symbolic forum and it can be a great forum, but it won't be because China exists in the forum and China is the spoiler. China is the spoiler in RIC and China is also the major spoiler in bricks. It is not India that is creating problems in bricks or RA. It is China that is the spoiler. China is hostile to Russia. It is hostile to India. It pretends to be everybody's friend. It lectures the world about nice things but its actions are those of a bully. So ra is just a symbolic forum. It will never amount to anything significant geopolitically. Um, Adita Jooshi says, "What's your what about recent developments in relations between India and North Korea? Opening of an Indian embassy in North Korea. Do you foresee any future tactical strong relations with North Korea?" Um, it's it's good that we have now we're now going to have an ambassador in North Korea and uh that's that's good. It's a it's a positive move by India. Do I foresee uh future tactical strong relations with North Korea? I don't foresee that. The reason is that North Korea is a Chinese vasal. Okay. And uh they are very strongly uh influenced by China. They are strongly dependent on China and Russia for a lot of things mainly China. And because of that it's not possible for us to have strong tactical or strategic relations with North Korea. I think the appointment of an ambassador to North Korea is kind of a signal to the US. It's actually it's it's actually a message that we are sending to the US that you guys are you know you're playing with Pakistan and you're vasalizing Bangladesh and supporting Pakistan investing in Pakistan hurting our interests we can also do these things that's the kind of message we are sending diplomatically beyond that I don't see too much more to this what's the story behind China's economic miracle that it poses a threat to the US and the world today are there any books or sources focusing on that I'm sure there are lots But I can't remember any of them. China's econom economic miracle. What's the story? The story in long and short, I mean in short is that China was very very inspired by Lee Kuwanu and what Lee Kwanu achieved in Singapore in just a generation, in just 20 years. And the Chinese sent bureaucrats and government officials to Singapore to study how Lee Kwanu achieved what he achieved. And then they sought to implement that in China which was easier said than done because Singapore is a a city and China is this gigantic nation. Uh but they slowly steadily opened up their economy and used it very very very smartly to become a manufacturing power. That's the main economic miracle and then they reformed the education system and they poured in the money into other sectors and so on and they became that's that's how it happened. So they were aided and abetted by the US. The US imagined that if China becomes economic economically prosperous, they'll become a democracy. Well, that's not quite happened. So that's kind of the story in brief of China's economic miracle. Okay, let me take one or two questions more and then it will be the end of this live stream. This was a pretty good live stream actually. I enjoyed it mostly um because I did not take non- geopolitics questions as I had said. Um now look this is the kind of mindset lots of Indians have sir this is a channel where we do positivity I we are aware of all the problems in India lots of problems exists but if you say stop dreaming then I'm going to have to ban you from this channel because I don't I don't need such negativity here why should you stop dreaming then this nation has more potential than anybody else on the planet. It's just that we have our self-imposed limitations which need to be dealt with. Last question for today. Does India have any of its own vasals? We don't. Officially, we don't. Okay, that's the answer. All right, everybody. Thank you so much for the questions. I'm going to end this live stream right here. 2 hours plus as always. Uh so, it was fun. I enjoyed doing this and uh thank you so much for all your questions. Keep learning, keep asking questions, keep keep please keep raising your standards. One thing that frustrates me often and I'm sorry if my frustration is sometimes visible, but after all these years of answering your questions, I'm hoping for better questions. I'm hoping for some some some raising of standards. Maybe I'll teach you step by step how to raise standards, but that's something we can do in the future. So anyway, thank you so much. I really appreciate your viewership. Uh, and I look forward to seeing you next week. I'll put out the put put out the schedule for next week, probably tomorrow. And I look forward to seeing you next week. Thank you so much for everything. Take care. I'll see you soon. Bye-bye.