Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. [Music] Heat. [Music] Well, hello. Welcome back to the Ask Abijet show. Good evening and good day to all of you wherever you are in the world. It's great to see you all again. Uh I'm going to take questions today from the live chat from the super chat and we're going to do as many as possible but before that let's see who all is there on the live chat. Let me greet as many of you as I can quickly. I can see Shri Ramachandra Namaha. I can see Dya Ranganat. I can see Savia Sait Aayush Singh. Uh, Spuri URI uh, Savaria say it again. Aush Singh geopolitical dub from Indor Dak Panipal from Kolkata. Anandpai satellite suas ready project smiling Buddha Lakshai Hitan Shua from Gujarat welcome Shashank Koshik welcome back. Sager Torat are you singing again. Ram Shukla from Kpur. Well good evening. HB Ashoto Kumar Ashu Gautam Ashu Gautam Somia Explorer 1 Kapalain Rashmi Ratur from Rajasthan good evening Suhas ready from Bangalore good evening Bangaluru Sumit Rana Vidant Shukla Arindam Das Sager Torat uh Uju who else daddy Tashi Beast Vamsi Khale Vamshi Kalem Akash Ba Rashik Udin Suas Reddi from Bangalore. Animeh Paul Anatab Singh Gorish Kei from Dublin. Mlelan Ram Ashoto Kumar Aush Yadav Vidant Shukla Shashank again Sagert Turat Suran Brian Stellar Opai Opai uh who else do we have? Uh Karan Singh, Ratur, Adimesh, Chat DSP, Shik Kazu, Patrick the Keller, Alka Shikari, Master Dis etc. Uh U has missed two weeks but welcome back sir Apernna Saha Shri Shri an Shukla and everybody else. Okay. So I'm going to take questions about geopolitics today so that we are focused on one topic. Let's do that. Right. So, please get going. Let's let's see what questions you all have. I'll answer as many as I can and I will prioritize uh super chats if there are any, but uh we'll take as many as we can. All right. So, Soldier Boy says we need to suffer. We need to suffer for 20 years. Can you please clarify what kind of pain? What type of pain uh I was talking about? So I was talking about the fact that you know uh we know what's happening right now. Shri Donald Trump is imposing sanctions or not sanctions but tariffs on India 25% tariffs which is going to make life difficult for India from a economic perspective trading perspective. Uh the US is one of our major trading partners and now our goods will be priced at uncompetitive rates in the US. So it's going to be not so good for our for our economy and if you see my last episode of geost strategy in that in that I have shown how it's going to affect our GDP roughly you know a rough ballpark analysis of that and Trump is threatening even more tariffs punitive tariffs because we are trading with Russia because we are purchasing Russian oil and so on and the US sees India as a long-term adversary because India is growing India has naturally been at the top of the totem pole when it comes to the global economies. India has always been the largest economy historically for the past 2,000 years. There's been a blip in between some 300 years or so when we were under European occupation, right? When they destroyed our economy, but we are rising again and they don't want us to rise. So, they're going to do everything they can. The Americans, okay? And you have to understand that's what any great power will do. Any great power will ensure will try to ensure that any rising power will be nipped in the bud and it doesn't become a threat long term. So, that's what they're going to do. They're going to try their best to clip our wings and ideally from their perspective to turn India into a vasal state. So it'll all depend on the quality of India's leadership. Right now we have good leadership. Well, let's see how it goes going forward. So that's what I'm talking about 20 years of pain. If if we can somehow go through those 20 years without caving in, without becoming a vasal, without engaging, without getting drawn into a major conflict somewhere, then we're going to be a 15 20 trillion economy. We're going to be a whole different beast and then it's going to be very hard for anybody to mess with us. So, it's a question of about 20 years and those 20 years will be tough. So, that's what I mean by that. Okay. Rohan Sunja says what will happen to Armenia if Iran falls in war? Well, life will get will yeah you to life will be difficult for Armenia. So let's take a look at the map to understand uh what we are talking about here. Let's see the map because the map gives us a lot of information that otherwise we won't understand. So we are talking about a nation in the Caucasus region which is Armenia. It's a landlocked nation currently. uh it used to be a much larger kingdom in the past. All of Azarbaijan was once part of the kingdom of Armenia but yeah this is where we are today and you can see that there's parts of Armenia that the Azarbanis have taken over. See it's now Azarbaan. Google officially recognizes these regions as part of Azarbaijan. Now it wasn't the case earlier. Uh so and Armenia is a nation that uh has suffered terribly at the hands of Turkey in the past. Uh the Armenian genocide which Turkey refuses to uh recognize as a fact but it is a fact right? We know that there are multiple waves of the Armenian genocide starting in the last quarter of the 19th century and the last major wave of the Armenian genocide the the hammer blow was around 1915 or so. You can look up the history to see the exact details and exact dates. Uh so Armenia has suffered tremendously at the hands of the Turks and Azarbaijan is a very staunch Turkish ally. It's a Turk culturally Turk nation. Okay. Um and the two nations uh Turkey and Azarbaan would like to wipe Armenia off of off the map of the world. And Armenia well right now it has a few allies. It's interesting that you know Israel is aligned with Turkey for its own geopolitical reasons and against Armenia and Iran is supporting Armenia. India is supporting Armenia. Uh so you have a Hindu nation, a Sunni, a Shia Islamic nation both teaming up to support a Christian nation Armenia. Uh it's very strange but it's interesting. So if and and India is supplying various kinds of weapon systems to Armenia like the Paka multiarrel uh multiarrel rocket system, Swati radars and whatever else we supplying to Armenia and we are typically doing this by trans shipping the weapons packages via Iran by road. Okay. Now if Iran a staunch I mean one of the major allies of Armenia were to fall in the war Armenia will be in deep deep deep trouble seriously deep trouble and uh it may end up being wiped off the map of the world so it's very important for Armenia's perspective from Armenia's perspective that Iran continues to survive and it continues to exist and does not fall in any war so I hope that explains the situation right now we have Zean gaming says who says now that Trump and even the Indian opposition leader has have said that India lost five jets to the Pakistan air force are you willing to admit that that's what actually occurs so if Trump says something I'm supposed to admit because the white man said that and somebody else said that somebody else made an allegation do you have evidence of this are you willing to admit are you Indian are you Pakistani what are you exactly not Sorry. Um, all right. What next do we have? Feminist Slayer, quite a name, says, "Can green hydrogen, solar, and other renewables make India self-sufficient in terms of energy or is nuclear the future? Are there other any other alternatives to explore?" Okay. uh green hydrogen it's it's hydrogen gas and you're proc you're producing it via green means which means non uh means that are not dis not not harmful to the environment that's what we mean by green hydrogen it's produced in a sustainable manner in in a way that doesn't harm the environment that's green hydrogen so we have green hydrogen which is hydrogen gas which we will combust with oxygen to produce by water vapor and energy that's one uh solar energy which produces electricity uh other renewables like u like wind energy and geothermal energy and hydroelect electric energy and so on and so forth. These are renewables. Are all of these renewables sufficient to make India self-sufficient in terms of energy or do we need to add nuclear in the mix? I think nuclear is a great option. It's a very clean form of energy as long as we do it properly. Right? We have had a few issues outside outside of India. We've had Chernobbile. We've had a 3mile island in the US which was a nuclear accident. We've had Fukushima in Japan as a consequence of the 2011 disastrous earthquake. Uh and maybe a smattering of other incidents. But overall nuclear energy is extremely safe as long as you know what you're doing and you know how to handle it. So I think nuclear energy I don't so nuclear energy is another factor that we can use. Are there other alternatives to explore? Green alternatives. Well, there's hydroelect electric, this geothermal and wind energy. Um, I suppose there could be some more. There's there's waves, you know, waves, tidal waves and all. Not just tidal waves, but just regular waves in the sea that you can use to uh the you can put boys there and the up and down going of the boy can be used to generate electricity. There's a whole lot of creative ways in which you can generate electricity and energy. But those all of those depend on the climate on the weather on on capriccious factors that are not under your control. Uh solar for example only half of the time you will get energy because at night time there's no solar energy. Uh wind energy depends on the winds. Uh geothermal depends on whether bas factors. Uh so all of these other forms of energy they depend on factors that are not under our control. U nuclear energy it's entirely under our control. Um so I think nuclear energy needs to be a major component of our energy strategy uh going forward. Uh but can the real question is can we entirely do away with uh with fossil fuels, oil and gas? That's the big question. Is it even possible to do that? Let's say you have to fight a war. Unfortunately, you have fighter planes, right? Can you power fighter planes with hydroelectric energy? I mean, yep, with with the lithium ion batteries, you can't. You need fossil fuels for that. Uh so, I think fossil fuels are still very much an integral component of any nation's energy. uh strategy long-term we'll see how it goes. Uh so that's why I would say that because of the capricious uncertain nature of solar other renewables etc. it's it's a better it's always a good strate good uh strategy to have something like uh something you can control entirely like nuclear energy even green hydrogen. Yep. Okay. I am Koshik says okay this is not geopolitics I'm so sorry but I've said it very clearly it's geopolitics I really appreciate the fact that you asking me questions but today is not the day for physics questions please understand sir please today I I've put a pinned comment saying that today is a geopolitics live stream okay so uh today the audience is here to see geopolitics because that's what I've announced so we will not let the audience down and uh yeah so there we Vunsoon says, "What will be the impact of Trump's tariffs on the software sector? Why are we not able to build companies like AWS that could have protected our data integrity? We could have we could have led as Alibaba is the only big player here from Asia. What's going to be the impact of Trump's tariffs?" It it depends. First of all, right now he's announced 25% tariffs. is also threatening more additional punitive tariffs because we are trading with Russia. There's this uh bill by Lindsey Graham that that threatens 500% tariffs two nations that that are purchasing Russian oil. So, it's all all going to depend on how it goes. We are still engaged in trade negotiations with the Americans and Trump is very miffed for for for a variety of reasons with India. uh but but assuming it's going to stay at 25%. I am look I have not done an analysis of the software sector particularly specifically that what's going to be the impact on the software se sector but overall it's going to have an impact of about a a delterious negative impact on the Indian GDP growth over the next year which is about 0.2 to 0.4% 0.2 to 0.4% 4% ballpark rough figure I'm giving you. So the RBI has forecast okay that the Indian GDP will grow at about 6.5% let's say over the next year. So the Trump tariffs will bring it down to either 6.3 or 6.1%. which is not good right that's what I can tell you I haven't seen the impact of the software sector for that I'll have to sit down and do some number crunching and all that I have to see what was the total volume of uh trade software exports from India to the US how much was the revenue for India over the past year right and assuming 25% hike and then what's the effect I have to do some calculations I don't know right now I've not done that but you get the point you get the point right so if you are charging for example if I am a software company, you know, old-fashioned uh labor arbitrage software company, and I'm hiring uh pro Indian programmers at at at pitious salaries and I'm billing the client, American clients, $20 an hour, let's say, okay, for the work they are doing, my my software employees are doing. So, if it's $20 an hour, then with 25% hike on that, what's 25% of $20? It's $5, right? 1/4 $5. So now it's going to you're going to it's going to cost about 25. You can do that sort of calculation. Maybe that's not the right way to do it, but you you get the point. So it's going to be u you know it's going to be tougher for India. That's the kind of uh effect it's going to have. Why aren't we able to build companies like AWS? I think it's a question kind of question I took yesterday. It's because Indian uh all these Indian corporations don't have the appetite for risk. They don't want to innovate. They don't want to innovate. They're getting money the oldfashioned way by do by engaging in labor arbitrage. They just they're just happy with it. They have no desire to innovate. It's it's so sad to see this. The kind of people who are running these corporations. Absolutely. We've had so many gigantic Indian software companies the past several decades, right? All working for American clients. How many software products, new software products have the Indian companies created? How many Facebooks, how many LinkedIn, how many Twitters, how many apps, how many um original pieces of software, what have we created? We've done nothing whatsoever. With all this this huge pool of talent, we have only done software arbitrage, labor arbitrage. It's it's pathetic the kind of mindset these people have who are running these companies. So that's why it's not like we can't do it but obviously when you are trying to create new products and and market those products it's it's it's risky. The payoff could be huge but the risk also is there. It's also you may you stand to lose money sometimes right? So they don't want any risk. They've got this tried and tested model of labor arbitrage which which is bringing them money. So they've been okay with that. But now things are bad. things are bad because of the advent of AI and in five years time it's going to be who knows could be curtain for the Indian IT industry it could be so it's because of this attitude that we have not been able to build companies like AWS or whatever because they have never wanted to do something different says every nation on big daddy US's earth as of now suffers from illegal immigration including the US the invisible hand speaks a certain language. Well, that is something you claim. I I uh we don't have any uh evidence that goes in that direction. Okay. So, I'm going to just say all right if you say so. Kumar Kanesk says as India is close to finding massive oil reserves in the Andaman Sea. There are news of American giants like Shell etc. to acquire Bhat Petroleum. Is this a red flag? I think Bat Petroleum is it a is it a governmentowned company? Barat Petroleum is it a state-owned company? Let's let's find out. Barat Petroleum Petroleum is it stateowned? It's a Fortune 500 etc. Indian public sector headquartered. It's the governmentowned. It's a government-owned company. It's India's second largest government-owned downstream oil producer. Okay. So Bhat petroleum is owned by by the government of India. I if you have heard news of uh American giants like Shell or whatever trying to acquire this well as long as the government of India doesn't want to sell it, it won't work. It won't work like that. It doesn't work like that. Right? Uh now when it comes to these this news of India being close to finding massive oil reserves in the say well let's not count our chickens before they hatch. Okay? We haven't seen any actual news of a gigantic uh oil discovery. So until that news is announced and we actually find something, let's not talk about that. I mean it's pointless. I have been saying for the longest time myself that you know gigantic subcontinent sized nation like India, it's inconceivable that we won't have gigantic oil reserves in various parts of the country or off of of the of the continental shelf in the ocean. It's inconceivable. But having those reserves hidden somewhere is pointless. We've got to find them, right? And right now there are people talking about, you know, we are on the verge of making a huge oil discovery. Well, discover it and then talk about it. That's what I would say. Okay. Uh Rashi Kudin says, "Is India cautious about Bangladesh subs? They want six more from Korea." You mean Bangladesh submarines? Bangladesh want six more submarines from from Korea. Well, I suppose Korea I I suppose you mean South Korea. Well, let the Bangladeshes do whatever they want. That is their their internal matter. If they want more submarines, let them buy the submarines. If they acquire the submarines, well, it's going to be a long drawn out process. And if obviously now Bangladesh is a vasal of the US, it's East Pakistan now. So, if they acquire submarines, even though they face no threat for anybody, it means it's a threat to us. So we will obviously take appropriate steps uh to circumvent such threats and and uh potentially neutralize them if required. So we we'll look into that if this happens. Shva said Sherva says the western governments are moving towards censorship under the protect of pretext of kids safety acts. What are the global repercussions other than mass surveillance in the UK? protest videos against censored uh are censored. Okay. Um yeah, the west the western governments are indeed moving towards censorship. Uh not so much in the US that that much right now but definitely in nations like the UK and various EU nations. We have we are witnessing the passing of various laws and rules and regulation. Um, in the UK, uh, you you stand to spend more jail time for putting a meme on social media than for actually doing some kind of actual crime. Yeah. Some some real world crime. So that's the kind of dystopian, you know, situation we are these nations are moving towards. So if you're in the UK and you post certain things on social media, you go to jail, the cops come and knock on your door and you you are thinking bad thoughts and you need to go go to jail. It's very much like u that book, right? The dystopian book by George Orwell 1984. Um thought crime. Thought crime. So there's absolutely no freedom of speech if you have such such laws, right? Uh so censorship is becoming kind of the norm. And uh I don't know about the kids safety acts. I have not looked into that but there are various kinds of censorship that's that's that are becoming more and more prevalent. What's the global repercussions of this other than mass surveillance? Well, if that infection spreads to other countries, it becomes a you know the whole n the whole world becomes a morass of censorship and uh people will then have to be very watchful about what they say and what they post on social media and so on. So that means that that people will have to take uh resort to some other measures to express themselves or maybe they can't express themselves at all. Uh thankfully that's not the case in across the entire world. There are still countries where you can to a reasonable extent express yourself, right? But if if there are there's this global outbreak of of censorship, well that's bad. It means the world has become has regressed. it's become more total. It it would indicate that the world is becoming a more totalitarian place, a more authoritarian kind of uh world and that well that's not that's not good for everybody, right? It's it's bad for everybody. You can't have the free exchange of thoughts and ideas. You can't have free and fair dialogue. It's it's it's a good it's a good practice for people with opposing views to be able to speak freely and and have a dialogue so that they understand each other's perspectives. That's what you have in a free and open world. That's what the West calls the liberal world order, but they are in the process of dismantling it, which which is unfortunate. Um yeah, so the UK seems to be the flag bearer of all these things right now, which is well unfortunate, isn't it? Joshua Lawrence says 150. Well, all right sir and thank you for your contribution. Um Rohan Suna says my views on the shameless BCCI playing cricket with Pakistan. Well, I have made it very clear that I am not in favor of playing anything any any kind of sporting sporting there should be no sporting contact with Pakistan. Look, do you remember folks, South Africa was uh banned from participating in international sports for more than two decades because of their uh policy of practicing apathide of of treating their majority population as secondass citizens right South Africa you may remember that they were banned from cricket as well and it's only after they dismantled the system of apathide that South Africa was welcome back welcomed back into the uh global sporting um fraternity and their first uh cricket series after re-entering re-entering the the global world order was against India. It was a three one-day match series against India which which India won 2-1 uh if I'm not mistaken. So India was the nation to welcome them back with open hands with open arms. So South Africa was banned for practicing apathide but Pakistan practices practices something much worse. Pakistan practices terrorism. I think Pakistan needs to be banned from any kind of sport. There should be a blanket blanket ban on Pakistan. They should not be allowed to partic participate in any international sporting activity and India should ensure this happens. That's all I'll say. I'll not comment about the BCCI or any such thing. But that's what needs to happen. And the government of India and the BCC have the power to compel all other cricket boards from not to to not to not engage with Pakistan in any bilateral cricket engagements and we can ensure that Pakistan stays is is removed from multilateral tournaments as well. That's actually what needs to happen. That's what I would say. Um Nachiket J Raman says what's the deep state's end game with DJT Donald J. Trump three and a half more years. Well, Donald J. Trump is obviously uh tasked with reshaping reshaping the world order, the world economic order and the world the global order is overall. So the the US once constructed something that they have until recently been calling the rules-based world order, the westernled liberal world order, the rules-based world order. Right? Well, I've always said this even before Donald Trump came back for the second term that the rules-based world order is a whimsbased based world order. They make up the rules as they go along and whenever they feel like they'll change the rules. Well, that's what's happening now. Donald J. Trump, his his task over the next three and a half years during his four-year term is to completely reshape the global uh order, the the trading order, the financial economic order and overall the the relationships between the US and all other nations. That's what the objective is. Uh so the US is going to be much more harsh now towards other nations. is going to treat allies also with with this bully sort of behavior, bullying behavior, arm twisting behavior. It's going to extract way more from allies. Um and uh it's it's a world order that we are witnessing the bifurcation of. Uh so it's it's all to do with the with the economic rise of China and technological rise of China and the US obviously sees that as a very worrying uh development and uh also India is also showing signs of you know if India is left alone for the long term India will also become a major economy. Uh so the and the objective is to completely reshape the world order. Uh so that's what DJT is doing and in the next three and a half years it's going to be a very different world. Okay. Uh Kapay developer says what's the path to generate divergent tech trees. Uh the rest of the world seems to play catch up with the leader. Is this an inherent tribal trait? Look, when it comes to creating divergent tech trees, uh, look, the the US is obviously the the technological leader in the world, uh, and it it has created all the platforms and all the technologies that the that the world consumes, right? Uh, the products may be may be manufactured elsewhere, but the products are still American products. So all these technology platforms like YouTube, like Facebook, like Google, like uh Chat GBT, OpenAI, like like uh Anthropic and whatever else you can think of, all of that is American. All of the major cell phone oss, operating systems, it's either iOS or or Android. If it's if it's if Android is is a derivative of Linux, let's say, well, Linux is also was also developed in the West, which the US is the overlord of. So it's the western thing and the Chinese have tried their best to create their own uh parallel uh technological ecosystem uh behind the great firewall. So uh they also have created operating systems for phones Android style operating systems maybe by forking Linux or whatever and they are trying to create their own uh semiconductor thing and all that the semiconductor development ecosystem their own photo lithography machines and whatnot. So the Chinese are trying to create their own independent thing and they are succeeding rather well at that. But when it comes to the rest of the world like you're saying like India etc. we just following the leader uh following the leader being a consumer rather than a producer and when it comes to India when we saying that we are developing technologies we are essentially like you say playing catch-up. So we are trying to develop jet jet engines the kind of jet engines that were developed 40 years ago 30 years ago in the west. we are trying to develop uh fighter planes. The kind of fighter planes were developed a long time ago in the west and so on. So it's to some extent because of pacivity to some extent because of of an inferiority complex and so on. So what's the path? Forget about the rest of the world. Let's talk about India. What's the path? We need to have our own uh indigenous technological uh ecosystem. We need to have our own see Silicon Valley kinds of places where you can attract the best talent. not overt tax them, not overwork them, not overregulate them, let them do, let them do stuff, let them break stuff, let them create, let them try, let them fail, let some of them succeed. Um, incentivize them for succeeding. Incentivize them for for trying. Don't penalize them for failing. And not just software, but also hardware. All of this needs to happen. Um, and it's it's I think it's the government's job and task to to make this happen, I would say. Yeah. Okay. Joshua Lawrence says the US has deployed two nuclear submarines near Russian waters if Russia's submarine fleet hypothetic is Russia's submarine fleet hypo okay if Russia's submarine fleet hypothetically surrounds the US submarines how does this play out okay look Mr. Trump he announced a couple of days ago or maybe yesterday maybe maybe day before yesterday whenever he did he announced that first of all he he he objected to uh the Russian politician Mr. Dimitri Medvev's recent pronouncements on social media he said that Mr. Medv is playing a very dangerous game and you better be careful in that sort of thing you know issuing threats Mr. Medvev is the former is a former Russian president um and then Mr. Trump said that since Mr. Meduv is is threatening nuclear war whatever so that's why I have taken the decision to deploy two uh of my nuclear assets nuclear submarines uh to the appropriate places wherever it is so people are consuming that to mean that the US is deploying two nuclear submarines near Russian waters. Well my dear friends let me tell you something. Let me break some news to you. US submarines are always deployed in forward locations. Always deployed in in regions that are not far from Russian waters. Always US US nuclear submarines are always on patrol across the world in the various oceans in the Pacific Ocean in the Atlantic Ocean in the Indian Ocean. the South China Sea most likely the sea of I don't know about that but it's all over the place and nuclear submarines especially advanced ones like what the Americans have they have very long endurance what is what is what does endurance mean it means the time they can spend at sea without needing resupplying or refueling so they first of all they use nuclear reactors for their propulsion right nuclear propulsion which means that they essentially have unlimited legs long legs because they don't need to be refueled. I mean the refueling is done once in a few years. So the nuclear reactor has sufficient fuel for to last several years actually and they can recycle the air which means the carbon dioxide that is exhailed by humans is recycled into oxygen. They have uh mechanisms for that and they can carry enough food supplies to last let's say 6 months. So they are on on mission for sometimes 6 months at a time. So they can go all across the world and uh the these nuclear submarines are an integral part of America's second strike capability. What's what do we mean by the second strike capability? In case an adversary is able to launch nuclear strikes in the US and uh destroy the US's ability to launch retaliatory strikes, then the nuclear submarines will do the job. And one nuclear submarine typically has enough uh ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads to destroy an entire continent. So that's the deal. So these nuclear submarines are always deployed all across the world. So this is I mean so then what does it mean that he's saying that? What does he what is he trying to say? He's just uh expressing displeasure. There's always a cat and mouse game going on between nuclear between the submarines of the various major powers. Okay. Russia also has a very powerful nuclear submarine fleet and there are various kinds of sub nuclear submarines. Some are ballistic missile submarines, some are attack submarines, hunter killer submarines and so on. So typically when a ballistic missile submarine is on a longrange patrol, you're going to have some other nations submarines trailing it, detect, trying to detect and trying to see where it's going. It's always a cat and mouse game. It's always going on right now as we speak. Right now as we speak, it's happening. It's happening in the Indian Ocean as well. We also have our nuclear submarines on on patrol right now. And that's how it goes. So that's how it plays out. It's an ongoing cat and mouse game. Right now as we speak there are submarines dozens of sub submarines on patrol on duty. Sabikwar. Thank you very much sir. Thank you sir. Ishan Mukhi says, "If the US hadn't gotten its got got its independence from the UK, how would the British Empire no would the British would the British Empire have created nukes and become a mega superpower even with colonies till date?" Okay. So um if the US had not received its independence or won its independence from the UK even then the world would be run by the same empire that we have today but it would be perhaps headquartered in in in London or maybe the British Empire would have decided that you know we have this huge continent that we own that we've captured by genociding the natives by stealing the land. let's move our capital to the to the to north to North America and they may have possibly created a capital city somewhere in North America and uh eventually they may also have created nukes depending on the threat perception and so on. Um yeah. So so we have to understand that the US empire is nothing but a continuation of the British Empire. And if the US empire had not been created, it would have been the British Empire that would have been ruling the world right now. Maybe from London, maybe from somewhere in the in the in in in the continent of North America. Uh now the question you to ask yourself is why did the US first of all how were the first nuclear weapons created? Well, all of that happened because of the discovery of of quantum mechanics in the early 1900s. And then once you start understanding quantum mechanics and you start probing the atomic structure of various um elements and when you move up the chain and you come to the heavier elements and you discover the properties of uranium and the unstable nature and what a slowmoving neutron can do if it hits a uranium nucleus and then you see that that a chain reaction is possible then naturally you will want to weaponize it. Hm. So even if the British Empire had persisted and no American empire had been created, as long as quantum mechanics was discovered in the early 1900s, somebody would have come up with nuclear weapons. And most likely it would have been the UK. And uh, of course, the Manhattan project happened during the Second World War when the US wanted this this tremendous asymmetric advantage that nobody else would have. That's why they did that out of war footing and it was Mr. Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer who was at the helm of the project. So yeah, I think it would have happened anyway. Prashant says, "Aren't Indian drug drug manufacturers immune to tariffs?" I am not sure if Trump's tariffs exclude Indian drug manufacturers. uh it is indeed true that India supplies about 40% of the generic generic drugs that the US uh as a nation uh let's say consumes. So yeah 40% of the America of America's generic drugs are supplied from India. U I'm not sure if Trump has imposed tariffs on India's drug manufacturers. Uh they do need that. So, so let's say hypothetically uh India stops tomorrow uh the export of of these drugs to the US. It will create an immediate healthcare crisis in the US. Immediate and America's public will blame whom? They will blame Donald J. Trump for that. He'll try and portray India as the bad guy. But we'll make it very clear that we are doing this in response to whatever tariffs, punitive tariffs, etc. Trump has imposed on us. It's you who started this. we are simply responding because we have there has to be some reciprocity. You take action, I'll take action. Um so um it's it's not good for the US if that happens, right? So that's one uh example of the kind of leverage that India does have. Obviously the US has way more leverage than India, but we also have some leverage and and generic drugs are one of those uh factors that we have. Uh so I'm not sure if Trump has uh imposed tariffs. Uh let's let's try and find out. Let's try and find out if he has. I think he's imposed blanket tariffs, right? I think he has imposed blanket blanket tariffs on almost everything. Has he has he has he uh exempted certain products from the tariffs? I'm not sure. I'll not go and do the research now because we're doing a live stream. But check it out, guys. Ladies, ladies and gents, please check it out. Nearby says, "Recently, the US has struck a one-sided deal with the EU and Japan. Even Indonesia, by the way, were pretty one-sided. Why do people in these countries not realize that they have been vasalized? They were always there were always vasals." And okay, let's not talk about Japan for for now. Briefly, let's talk about the EU only. The EU, the European Union. What is the European Union? It's a conglomeration of nations all vasalized by the US. When did the vasalization happen? It essentially happened in 1945 when the when the entire continent of Europe was in ruins and only two powers existed in Europe. One was the US, the other was the USSR. So, so that's what drew the iron curtain and one on the eastern side of Europe was taken over by the USSR. The Warsaw packed nations became the USSR's vasals and the western nations in Europe became American vasals. And it's been such a long-standing situation that nobody realizes that we are vasals. But the leaders of the nations know that and certain nations chafe against that. Certain nations have simp most other nations have simply accepted that as as a feta comply. This is just the world the way the world is. Okay. So the nation that chiefs against American masalhood is is France. The other nations have simply accepted that it's the way things are. And uh yeah when it comes to Japan, well Japan is not just vasalized, it is under active permanent US military occupation. more than 130 permanent US military bases on Japanese soil. And what the Japanese people are taught in their education system in school, college, university, etc. is that Japan has has been a very evil country. We did very very evil things and whatever happened to us as a consequence was fully deserved by us. It was karma. So if the Americans tested two nuclear weapons on our cities, we deserved it. If the US uh enslaved us, we deserve it. If the US run our country today behind the scenes, we deserve it. And going forward, we have to be a pacifistic nation. We must not have an army and we must do whatever the US tells us because they are better than us and they are superior to us. That's that sort of thing. And the Japanese constitution was written by Americans. So once you have the system, how will people ever realize that they are vasalized? So that's how it goes. You see um Sorup guy says your view on America on the US importing uranium from Russia is a hypocrisy. No that's how the world works. And if you are being hypocritical it means you you've earned the right to be hypocritical. Only the powerful can be hypocritical. You see that's how it goes. Preach one thing and do the other. Do something else. Do the opposite of that. So the US imports uranium from Russia. Sure. Why does Russia sell it? Because it's making money out of it. It has sufficient reserves. Uh excess reserves possibly. It's not just uranium that the US imports from Russia. Let me show you another example. I forget the name, but I I I'll Google it immediately. Okay. Uh rocket engines imported by USA from Russia. RD 180. RD 180. Okay. So the RD180, what is this? First flight, etc. A rocket engine that was designed and built in Russia. Um, it was developed for use on the US Atlas 3 and Atlas 5 launch vehicles. It is currently being phased out due to the national security implications of reliance on the Russian built engine. The Americans have tried their best to reverse engine this, reverse engineer this engine and they have tried their best and they keep on failing. So the Americans still import this engine from Russia. So it's not just it's so much more. Check it out. Okay. So much more. Okay. Shesh Sundesh says uh India's stand in trade tensions shows our deep strategic roots like Pulashi who stopped Hershawan India asserts autonomy not bends to global powers even if it's smaller and prouds of roots and bold future um I I'm not sure what's the connection between puli hashwadan and trade tensions uh you see You have to please understand my friends that the modernday nation of India has tried its best to cut its ties from the civilizational entity that was bat that was India. The constitution does say India that is bat and so on. But our constitution is entirely western in nation. It is entirely non-Indian in nation. Our laws are entirely non-Indian in in in in nature and everything about the bureaucracy the Indian economy the government not the economy the government governance machine etc is non-Indian actually we have tried our best to ape the west we've tried our best to erase our civil civilization the education system has been a big factor in that and so on uh so if we are standing up to to the to the bullies today and if we are standing up for ourselves it's it's a good thing but it would be great if we would hearken back even more to our ancient roots. Uh but it's a good thing. I'm I'm obviously I'm not complaining that we are standing up to the to the west. It's a very good thing. Ankida says, "What do the West, which is the NATO alliance, want to achieve out of the Russia Ukraine war beside economic benefits from arms deal and weakening the Russian economy? Uh will this war ever end? Is it ever going to end? So what does the west want to achieve is the question. So it was clear as soon as uh the USSR broke up that the the the US was not interested in disbanding or dissolving NATO. NATO was created as a response to what the US called the Soviet threat, the communist threat. But now the USSR was gone and Russia became a normal democratic nation. They even adopted democracy, western style democracy. And they allowed the west to penetrate their markets and take over industries. And yet the US did not dissolve NATO. And they had made a promise to the Russians that they would not have NATO expand one inch eastwards. But they immediately broke the promise in a couple of years. And they started expanding eastwards, eastward, eastwards. And it became clear that Ukraine was Russia's red line. And the and the US carried out a coup in Ukraine. the so-called Euromaidan revolution which is a coup. It was a regime change operation. It brought in a puppet regime, a USbacked regime in Ukraine and eventually it led to the Crimean uh situation. Russia annexed, reanexed, reabsorbed Crimea and then you've had the Ukraine war which has been raging since 2022. What's the objective of the West? The objective of the West is to weaken Russia. It's to weaken Russia's economy, what they call Russia's war economy. and they are willing to use the people of Ukraine as cannon foder in their quest to weaken Russia. Well, from their perspective, unfortunately, it's not happened because Russia's actually become stronger as a as a as a consequence. they have re reignited their their war machinery that their military uh industrial uh ecosystem and their economy has become stronger as a consequence that GDP has grown and their their their econom their military budget has risen way beyond India's and so on. So the objective was to drag Russia down, to bog Russia down, to uh to degrade Russia's economy, to weaken Russia and if possible effect regime change in Moscow because Mr. Putin is a very bad man. Right? So these are the objectives, but it's not happened. And now what's the objective? Just to keep the war dragging on as as long as possible to keep Russia bogged down in Ukraine so that it doesn't become a factor in in the West's competition with China. That's the That's the objective. So, the Ukraine war, it looks like it's going to go on for a I hope not a decade. It looks like it's going to go on for several more years. Why do I say this? Because they are resupplying Ukraine. They are they are sending more aid to Ukraine. The Western nations, including European nations, they're supplying Ukraine with more money. They're supplying Ukraine with long range strike weapons. And because of that, the Ukraine government carried out long-range strikes on Russia. They they they struck at Russian air bases deep inside Russian territory. They conducted operation spider web. It was called operation spiderweb and so much more. So it's it's this is this is causing an escalation of the war and so on. So uh it looks like the war will go on for a long time and yeah but the west hasn't achieved its objective of of weakening and deg degrading Russia's economy and the great great great dream was to carry out regime change in in Moscow not directly but maybe indirectly. So if the war is not going well, if Russia's economy is dragged down, if people are facing hardships and so on, then obviously there could be the temptation in Russia to for for the people to perhaps carry out a revolution kind of thing and and and change the government in in the Kremlin that obviously has not materialized. Satellite says if the American deep state exists, so can we say that their democracy is fake? And what about India? How is India's democracy different from other democracies? Okay, let's do some kind of comparative analysis. Forget about the deep state right now. Forget about the deep state whether it exists or not. Let's examine America's democracy structurally. When you have an election for the president, okay, we're talking about the topmost level. We'll not go all the way down to other levels. Presidential level democracy. So when we are when American citizens are voting for the president, they are voting for two candidates h and one is from party A, the other is from party B, Republicans and Democrats. There's only two parties that matter in the US. They have some other political parties for names sake, but those are insignificant and immaterial. They don't matter. For all intents and purposes, the US is a two-party system. two-party system, two party state and both parties have essentially the same foreign policy. They have different opinions and different policies and different agendas when it comes to domestic politics. But when it comes to external affairs, they have essentially the same agenda and they follow the same rule books. So it's essentially a uniarty system masquerading as a two-party system. And even if we say it's a two-party system, that's just one step above a one party system like the like like China or North Korea, right? I mean, why isn't there a political party that represents the interests of the African-American people? Why isn't there a political party that represents the the interests of the uh Hispanic people? Why isn't there a political party that represents the the interests of the native original inhabitants of the country? Why aren't there multiple political parties in each state in the US like we have in India? It's not a real democracy. It's an autocracy masquerading as a democracy. That's what the US is. It's a police state. Go to the US. Go to New York City. See how many cops there are on the streets. You take those cops away for 15 minutes, there'll be riots. Okay? That's how it is. It's a police state. Even Europe is a police state. I'm talking about Western Europe. It's a police state. I recently few months ago met met some EU parliamentary delegations and some people from Yeah. And yeah, some of them did agree privately that Europe is a police state privately. They won't say it in open. Um so that's how it is. So do you call that democracy? Do you really call that a democracy? What you have in the US? just two parties and all both of them essentially have the same uh foreign policy. It's not really really democracy. What's the options that the people of the US have when it comes to voting? A or B? And both are essentially the same. In the US also you have this political dynasty, the Clintons, the Bushes. Come on. Come on. What about India? Well, in India you have got chaos. So many political parties. There's one political party that represents I mean there are multiple political parties that represents that represent the interests of each little community or so-called cast or religion. Each state has multiple political parties. My goodness, you have a couple of political parties that are considered to be national parties and there are so many other political parties all over the place. It's chaotic. It's a mess but it's real democracy and it's is it good for the country? That's a different story, right? So India is a genuine democracy, a vibrant democracy, a messy democracy. Yeah. Uh so that's how India India's democracy is different. In other countries like France, the UK etc. you have multiple parties, more than two, more than two. But even then, even there it's quite managed. In India it's not managed. It's anybody can start a political party tomorrow and you know if you have the money you can do that. So it's so we don't even have to discuss the deep state in in this context. Okay. Okay. Kunar Kumar Kumar Kaneshka says as the US is now gearing against India openly for sanctions well it's they're calling it tariffs for now. So for tariffs will it hamper excuse me. So will it hamper India's defense procurement like Sukoy 57 S500 all of which are essential for defense? Look the Americans are expressing tremendous displeasure over the fact that India is buying Russian oil and uh other connections with Russia and so on. So they want India to cut all ties with Russia otherwise there's a threat of potentially 500% tariffs. So the US is is being very tough with India. The Trump administration is being very tough with India right now. They are adopting a variety of maximalist stances in the diplomatic negotiations for a so-called trade deal. Right? And obviously what they want is India should become US facile which means cut all ties with Russia. Stop buying stop purchasing Russian oil. Stop purchasing Russian weapons. Uh only purchase American weapons, purchase oil from America and do everything the the Americans say. Be a good boy, little doggy, good dog. That's what they want. uh India will not do that no matter what happens. So it's going to be uh a it's going to be tough days for India because the Americans are obviously way more powerful. Uh will this hamper India's defense procurement? Look, we have now clear said it very clearly to the US. We are not going to purchase your godamned F-35s, those what flying trash cans. We will not purchase those aircraft. But we need something as a stop gap measure until we have the AMCA becoming a viable you know becoming entering serial production which should be maybe around 2030 something by 2035 we should have reasonable numbers of that hopefully. So we have a decade to go in the in in the interim. We need some stop gap arrangement. We need some uh some decent numbers of fifth generation fighter planes. So that would I most likely with the Suka 57. Otherwise we can buy a bunch of Rafal maybe 100 plus Rafals which also could perhaps make sense. But but I would say we should go for the Suka 57. It will really infuriate Donald Trump and the Americans. But we need the aircraft and we can't go for the F-35. for a variety of reasons be beyond the trade thing and all that. So it would have to be the Fuka 57. It's going to be a very tough choice for India. A very hard decision to make but India will need to make that decision. Otherwise we have this tremendous shortfall of aircraft squadrons. The Pakistanis have nearly as many squadrons as India. India is economically like not anywhere near Pakistani. We are a much more gigantic economy but we still have almost the same number of aircraft squadrons as Pakistan. This is unbelievable and something needs to be done about that immediately. So India needs to quickly acquire a significant number of fighter planes right and there's news about the Pakist potentially supplying Pakistan with fighter planes and whatnot fifth generation fighter planes which will make the situation even more dire for India and the US is very happy about that. They're okay with Pakistan being like I said in bed with China. So India will have to procure quickly fighter planes. We cannot dillydally for for another couple of years. The decision will have to be made very soon. So will Trump's u actions the Trump regime's actions hamper India's defense procurement? I hope not. It should not. Otherwise we we are setting ducks to our enemies. Also the S500 I'm not sure if India is considering the F S S500 U India is developing its own S400 S500 kind of system which is good but if we have a shortfall if we have a requirement in the interim interim time period maybe we should even go for the S500 the S500 will be clearly an improvement over the already excellent S400 so I think it makes sense if if we have that requirement of that sort of system more numbers maybe we can go for the S500 Look, if it displeases the US, it is what it is. We've got to do what is u in line with our national interest. And that's what the government has been saying the past few days, ever since Trump announced those tariffs that India will take what will do whatever it takes to safeguard India's national interest and the interests of India's citizens, which is good. Suchin Kumar says, "How credible is mutually assured destruction? Mad in an age of precisiong guided conventional weapons. It is still very credible. Mutually assured destruction. What is this concept? It's a concept that emerged in the previous cold war, the 20th centuries cold war. So the US had developed nuclear weapons. The USSR went ahead and quickly developed its own nuclear weapons. Then both nations started developing ballistic missiles, you know, delivery systems. The Soviets uh they they had various options when it comes to delivering nuclear weapons to the destination long range uh strategic bombers also uh ballistic missiles. both nations the US and USSR uh employed Nazi former Nazi uh rocket engineers and that's how they developed their their own space programs and so the the concept emerged that you know both nations can destroy the other. So, so the the the the the logic which essentially comes from game theory was that you know uh the the presence of so many nuclear weapons ensured that both nations can't go to war because if one nuclear weapon is launched then then the receiving nation will immediately launch its own strike package before that nuclear weapon even lands. the missile even lands and then if you if this nation launches a retaliatory strike package then the other nation will again launch more missiles and it's going to be a salvo from both sides and both nations will end up being destroyed. So that's mutually assured destruction. So both nations ensured that they maintained stockpiles of up to 10,000 nuclear warheads each which assured the other that if you attack me I'm going to attack you and we will both be destroyed. And then there was there was the concept of second strike and so on which because of which you had uh nuclear submarines permanently on patrol which would ensure that even if all the nuclear missiles on on ground are destroyed the submarines would ensure that the other the offensive country was destroyed. So that is mutually assured destruction which essentially prevents war from happening but it is so dangerous of the world. A false alarm or something can can end up creating a cascade of events which will destroy the world. So that's mutually assured destruction. Does that concept still exist today? Absolutely. Absolutely it still exists today. Even if you have precision guided conventional weapons even then the concept exists. India and China. Let's take that example. Forget about the US and Russia today. India and China. Uh it is said that India has about 180 nuclear warheads. That's what the west claims. Well, did they come and examine our warheads? I mean what the hell? How do you know? But let's say let's imagine we have 180 and the Chinese have what 600 like the West says. You don't need 180 warheads to destroy a country. You don't need that. Uh so in the context of India and China, India has extremely precise uh ballistic missiles and other kinds of missiles. We know that we saw that during operation sindur the precision with with which we hit our targets. The targets were just across the border just Pakistan just a couple of kilometers 100 km or something 200 300 km away from where they were launched. But uh our missiles are extremely accurate even at longer distances. Uh so we have very precise conventional weapons, precision guided conventional weapons. I expect the Chinese also have very precise precision guided conventional weapons. Um cruise missiles, ballistic missiles, whatnot. Yeah. So let's say India and China hypothetically go to war. We never want it to happen but hypothetically. And we use conventional weapons very precise bam bam. So India strikes at China's assets in Tibet. China's occup strikes at whatever assets they want to strike at and we see how it goes. But let's say things go bad for either country and then they think of using nuclear weapons. Then what happens and the other country also has nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them. Both countries have ballistic missiles with the whole other country in its complete range. Then both countries have MIRV equipped ballistic missiles which is one missile containing multiple warheads and the warheads can go in different directions and be targeted independently. So if a nuclear exchange happens it will end up destroying both countries fully. Everything China or India has spent decades building up will be destroyed. So that is mutually assured destruction and it exists. It is it is credible and it is relevant even in this age of precisiong guided conventional weapons. All right. Rahul says should we implement a law like GDPR which with clauses that make it mandatory for companies to partner with local cloud partners store data within India? I think it's a good idea. I don't know what GDPR is. Let me just quickly Google that. What is GDPR? Let me see. All right. GDPR. What is that? GDPR. General data protection regulation. A European Union law focused on data privacy and security. It sets guidelines on how organizations collect, process, and protect personal information of individuals within the EU. When enacted within the EU, long story, so I'll not go and read the whole thing. But uh if it if if the law makes it mandatory for companies to partner with local cloud providers and store data within the host country, it makes a lot of sense. Yep. So depending on how things go with the US, we could and we should enact a law and implement it like what you what you are mentioning here. Um okay says please teach us system think systems thinking and design thinking. Is it if possible make a playlist just like understanding America? it would help many young entrepreneurs. Okay, thank you for the suggestion. I will consider it seriously. Systems thinking and design thinking. Yeah, it's something that is very important. So, I I will take this into account. Thank you, sir. Rajith Lalit says big fan of your work, sir. Thank you for the all the knowledge. Well, you're very welcome. It's my pleasure and thank you so much, sir. Geopolitical Dubai says, why does Russia have only one aircraft carrier? Well, that's a good question. Why does Russia have only one aircraft carrier? First of all, we have to understand aircraft carriers aren't useful in contested waters and it's it's a huge enticing target. So that's one thing. Russia is a continental empire. Let's let's Google let's go let's not Google. Let's go to the map. Sorry. Let us go to map and let's take a look at Russia. So we're talking about Russia here. the country that sprawls across Eurasia. To the north of Russia, you have what looks like the ocean, but if we look at uh satellite images, you will see it's it's mostly ice. It's mostly ice. If we if we zoom in, okay, this is not satellite images. What is this um terrain? I would like to say satellite. Okay, it's not doing a good job of showing us the satellite imagery. But if we zoom in, you will find that it is mostly ice. It's mostly ice and snow. It's all it's all frozen. Why are Zlia where they tested the Tar Bomba back in the 1960s or something 50 megaton? Uh so Russia is a continental empire, continental entity and its threat perception, its major threats lie on land. The major threats are west west of Russia which is the EU and NATO nations and the other major threat for Russia is down south which is China and uh so Russia and and other threats over here obviously are the hidden threats which are submarines. So Russia doesn't have any hegemonic ambitions right now. Uh aircraft carriers are employed by hegemonic nations for the purpose of projecting power and terrorizing the nations that see the aircraft carriers. An aircraft carrier is is a threat. It's a massive threat, but it's not something you employ in contested waters because it's so so tempting to hit. I mean, the loss of an aircraft car is such a disaster for a nation's morale. So, because of these reasons and also perhaps because of uh budgetary constraints uh etc. that's why Russia has only one aircraft carrier. It's not that important for Russia. Russia has tremendously dangerous submarines and that's where the real threat for its adversaries lies. Anonymous scientist says Musk compared Elon Musk compared the capabilities of different space agencies and the time their best vehicle would take to reach Mars. He intentionally excluded IshRO. Why does the West downplay India's achievements? Some sinister plan? There's no sinister plan. Um it's just the West doesn't like India. The west doesn't like India. There is a deeprooted uh annoyance let's say with India. Why does India still exist? The west destroyed the entire world in the past 500 years. They destroyed entire civilizations, entire cultures. Look at Africa. Does any country in Africa practice its indigenous culture and independence system of governance anymore? Indigenous religions? Nothing. Everything's been wiped out. There's just two foreign religions across Africa. This is a smattering of people here and there who practice some local African religions and they those people are demonized. They're called what? Uh practicing witchcraft or or occult or uh ritualism or something and those people are typically treated like criminals in Africa. So the west has destroyed entire cultures. They've enslaved entire nations. Look at Japan enslaved. Look at South Korea enslaved. Look at South Korea. Where is Buddhism today in South Korea? Almost wiped out. They have done that to everybody. They enslaved India for a for two and a half centuries and India still not destroyed. That that deeply annoys the west and the west hates polytheism despite them originally being a polytheistic culture which was smashed out by Christianity in over the past 1500 years or so. Polytheism was smashed out of the west brutally. Brutally So the west hates India for that. They hate polytheism. They don't understand polytheism. They consider it satanic and so on. And these Indians, these these brown Indian Hindus who we ruled for two and a half centuries, they dare stand up again on their own feet and they dare launch rockets into space. So there's this this hatred, right? This deep deep uh jealousy, annoyance, whatever. And that's why they like to exclude India. So yeah, sometimes and and and sometimes it is done without realizing what you're doing, but it's there deep down. Uh Twinkle Barbados says, "What's the long-term solution to the Bangladesh issue?" The long-term issue, long-term solution to all issues in the subcontinent is for India to grow, India to rise, India to become so powerful that all the um all the children of mother India eventually want to return to the fold of mother India. India has to become extremely powerful economically and otherwise technologically and culturally in the ter in in the matter of science technology in the matter of culture and civilization economically also India has to become a space fairing power India has to lead the world in everything once we start doing that even if we are one-third of the way there all solutions or all problems will automatically start getting resolved The long-term solution to all of India's problems is for India to rise again significantly, not be um an also ran player. India should be the main player, not an NPC like they say, right? India has historically the since 47 been an NPC. Now India is showing signs of aspiring to be a main player, a central character and that's what Yeah. Okay. So that's what needs to happen. Vive Singh says, "Can the US throw Taiwan as a carrot to China and engage them in a long war like Russia Ukraine?" Well, actually the US won't mind that. The US won't mind China getting embroiled in a war in Taiwan. But then the question is who does China fight for Taiwan? If it's Taiwan alone, then China can take care of Taiwan. But if the US supports Taiwan and that's what causes the war to go on, well, that's a direct confrontation between China and the US, which is dangerous. Uh so when it comes to Ukraine, it's all the supplies for Ukraine etc. are coming in from the NATO nations, not directly from the US. It's coming via NATO. There is no NATO like structure in the Taiwan region. You have South Korea which is a US occupied country. You have Japan but they don't want to get embroiled in any war. If the US wants they can obviously embroil South Korea and Japan in a war about Taiwan. I mean let me show the map. If you look at the map, if you look at the map, see we have Taiwan here. And you see the Japanese islands near Taiwan. See Yaguni. This is the island of Yonaguni which is a Japanese island right just a few about a 100 or so maybe 150 or so kilometers from Taiwan yeah 113 kilometers from Taiwan so Japan is right next to Taiwan let's say China makes a move on Taiwan the question is who defends Taiwan the US has sufficient naval naval power to cause huge problems for China u but is it possible for the US to keep a war with China going on for a for a few years over Tai Taiwan, I think it's pretty difficult. So, so Taiwan is a different situation. If you just if you just look at the geography, you will realize that it's a different situation. Of course, the US could bring in South Korea and and Japan into the mix, but it would not be good for South Korea or Japan. Those two nations could also get end up getting significantly damaged as a consequence. Um, Arinagi says, "Have you watched Narima film ball?" Okay, we're not discussing movies today. We're discussing only geopolitics. Very sorry. I will only take geopolitics questions today. I apologize, but that's that's the rule, right? Look at the pin comment. So, maybe you can ask this question in in a future live stream. All right. Thank you. Kajuro Bitter Thornne says, "Will India have more room to maneuver after the 2026 midterms in the US? Surely the Republicans will lose their majorities. Or is it is trade policy all in the executive's hands. I think the trade policy is mostly in the executive's hands. And even if there's the the Republicans lose their majority in the House or Senate or whatever, uh I think trade policy is still in the executive's hands. Of course, if the Republicans lose their majorities, it will make Donald Trump a rather diminished president and uh his actions will then not be that popular. his his image will have diminished and obviously it it will make things kind of easier for India definitely even if uh the trade policy remains in the executive's hands but if the executive itself is weakened the president himself is kind of weakened and he loses some of his aura and and and and uh strength and power etc in the US it will probably give India more room to maneuver so yeah we will have to wait and watch I think we should wait until the 2026 midterms in the US. I think we should continue our trade negotiations with the US which we are doing. Uh we have been very our government has been very mature. We haven't thrown a tantrum like Trump has thrown. We haven't backed down from the trade talks. We has we have said that you know we want to reach a mutually acceptable beneficial trade deal with the US and we are continuing our negotiations. So let us continue the negotiations and don't give into the maximalist demands of the US and keep it going as long as required. we cannot exceed to all of their demands and if that ensure that our the trade negotiations go on for a long time let it be so it will obviously frustrate Trump but yeah uh what you're mentioning is is a is very important things will most likely change after the 2026 midterms and that will probably give India uh more room for maneuvering nilast says uh among the top four armies except for China All armies are battleh hardened. Why PLA is not involved in any any conflicts? China must be knowing the benefits of being involved in a conflict. Still they boast that they can take Arunachal or beat the US. What you are saying makes uh significant sense. The last time China, the Chinese army, the so-called PLA, people's liberation army, the last time it was engaged in an actual conflict was 1979. Let's take a look. um here. So in 197 in the 1970s um Cambodia was taken over by the Kir Rouge which was a Chinesebacked leftist Mauist gerilla outfit. They took over Cambodia and unleashed a horrific genocide on the people of Cambodia. Horrific. No words. That's how bad it was. So Vietnam which was a communist nation eventually I think in 78 or 79 you can look at they invaded Cambodia and liberated Cambodia from the Kir Rouge. So they defeated a Chinesebacked terrorist organization essentially genocidal organization and to punish Vietnam for defeating the Kir Rouge China invaded Vietnam from the north. The Chinese PLA invaded Vietnam and they thought they will quickly overrun Vietnam and teach the Vietnamese a lesson. But what actually happened was unthinkable for China because the Vietnamese gave the Chinese a resounding defeat. It was it was a humiliation for the PLA. So the PLA was defeated roundly and soundly by the Vietnamese given a absolutely bloody nose in 1979. In 1987 there was a clash between India and China I think in Arunachal Pradesh and India won that clash. The Chinese were defeated in that as well. Uh so since there was not a major conflict obviously it was a series of localized clashes. Uh but since 1979 essentially the Chinese PLA has not been involved in any conflict. They are not battle hardened. They are not battle tested at all. They don't even have any insurgencies or any separatist movements or any such thing that they've been battling. So, so the question you're asking is why doesn't the PLA get involved in any conflicts? Well, they don't want to. There are benefits of being involved in conflicts because you it it battle tests you. It allows you to tests to test your new weapons u and see their strengths and weaknesses. it it it battle hardens your soldiers all of that but the question is who does China fight with it means they will have to initiate some conflict somewhere well there are drawbacks to initiating conflicts right you may get beaten again so that's the deal so obviously they will boast China is a nation that is great at propaganda they'll boost that they can beat everybody take Arunach or whatever well well please try it please do try if you want to yeah so there you have there you have Um, Nav Nu2 car says, "Why Russian invasion of Hostol airport day one of war failed? What lessons can we learn if we need to do a similar airbridge operation in Scarardo in the future?" What is host? I'm not sure of this hostel thing. Let me check it out. Russian invasion of Hosttol airport. What is hostile airport? Hosttol airport. What happened there? Battle of Hostto airport was a military engagement that happened at this airport during the Kiev offensive. Okay. In early 2024. Yeah. On 24th February this special military operation started and 24 25 February 2022 this thing happened and what Russia failed did it at this battle. What was the outcome? result occupation of this thing by Russia until 2nd April uh and so on unexpected nuclear okay so it looks like Russia tried to take this and they were foiled at that so I haven't analyzed the battle I don't know why it failed uh so I'm not sure what lessons became wrong I will have to read the whole thing analyze it and then draw conclusions from that I haven't done that and during a live stream I will not spend waste your time by sitting five minutes and reading the whole thing. So I'm sorry I can't answer the question because I haven't studied this. All right. Uh but what what lessons can we learn if we need to do a similar airbridge operation in Scardu in the future? Uh I would say look don't try to do airbridge operations at all. Conquer whatever you want to conquer and absorb whatever territory you want to absorb through movements on land. That's more sustainable. Yeah. Uh okay. Gor of Rati says, "If Russia had not developed nukes, would the US have initially vasalized Russia? Are Russian nukes the only reason why the world is not a US vasal?" I think the only thing that prevents nations from becoming vasals of somebody else is the is the final weapon. Um how many nations have nukes? You have the US. You have Russia which is which was formerly the USSR. You have France. We have the UK. That's four. Um we have China obviously. That's that's five. Then you have Israel, India, Pakistan, North Korea. That's eight. What am I missing? What am I missing? I'm missing somebody. Uh list or List of nuclear countries. North Korea. What? List of states with nuclear weapons. What did I miss? Um, North Korea, Israel, Pakistan, India, China, France, UK. Yeah. Okay. So, these are the nations. It's eight or nine. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 nine. Nine nations. All right. There we have it. So, the US was the first nation to acquire nuclear weapons. that the USSR immediately as soon as possible acquired nuclear weapons because it was very important from for them to do that. Uh then the Americans proliferated nuclear weapons to several countries the UK and France. The US proliferated nuclear technology to the UK and France. Uh then China developed nuclear weapons then India and eventually other countries. The Israel is also probably pro benefited from American or or from second order effects of US proliferation. So you see France and the UK did acquire nukes in the 1950s and 1960s but they are both American vasals. So they developed nuclear weapons for the benefit essentially of the US and and and uh to serve as a bulv war against the USSR because the US wanted nuclear weapons in the continental part of Western Europe and offshore part of Western Europe as a bulv war against the USSR. So that's why they proliferated nuclear weapons to the UK first and then then to France and they were okay with Israel for some reason acquiring nukes. Right? So sometimes the overlord will proliferate nuclear weapons to its vasals but do so in a way that the nukes can never ever be used against itself. Uh and sometimes the only option a nation has to avoid becoming a vasal is to acquire nukes. That's what Russia, the USSR did. That's what China did. That's what India has done. Pakistan most likely has American nuclear warheads on loan or whatever and North Korea has been possibly allowed by China or possibly maybe China proliferated nuclear nuclear technology to North Korea. So it's pretty complex and complicated that way. Uh so the question you're asking is is that is Russian nukes the only reason why the US the whole world is not US? To some extent there is some truth to that. to some extent. Uh Dir Kamat says why and how did the US impose 15% tariffs on on Israel of Israel? I have never claimed that the US is a vasal of Israel. Uh let's see. Uh US tariffs on Israel. Let's see tariffs. Uh 15% on Israel. Let's see what it says. um 2 percentage points lower than what Trump ad going to effect in 7 days. We'll use tariffs as necessary. Um let's see Trump 15% tariffs on Israeli goods. The rate said of the finance ministry responded that Israel will Israel at the lower end reflects positive dialogue. So yeah, the US is indeed imposing tariffs on Israel. And if you don't do that, then it looks like you are the vasal. So it's okay. How and why? Why and how? Well, how? We know how it happened. The Trump administration announced tariffs. So it's like this. Look, if you are imposing tariffs on the entire world, but you exclude one nation, it looks very bad. Yeah. So even if you have special relationship with Israel, uh it's it makes sense to impose tariffs on Israel as well. I'm not sure if these are blanket tariffs or whatever. I don't think it'll hurt Israel too much. Israel is a pretty prosperous nation, very high GDP per capita and so on. It won't hurt Israel too much. So I have never claimed that the US is a Wasal of Israel by the way. Okay. So uh is it? Well, time will tell perhaps. Who's who was? Who is whose Wasal? Time will tell I suppose. Animesh Paul says the US spends billions on wars yet its health care remains broken and expensive. Is this by design? Of course it's by design. Of course it's by design. Why not prioritize affordable health care or and or education? Do geopolitical interests outweigh citizens well-being? The US is a capitalist nation. Capitalism is pretty rough on people who are not very capable, very good at at earning money. The US is is almost like a paradise for people who are wealthy. If you are wealthy in the US, which means if you have a net worth in excess of at least $5 million, it's it's it's a great country. It's fantastic. It's paradise for you. But if you are one of those people who earns, let's say, $50,000 a year, good god, it's hell. Some people earn $30,000 a year. If you are a low-skilled person, if you if you don't have a great income, the US is terrible for you. And that's the system. That's the way the system is by design. By design. Um the health the US can certainly afford to give free healthcare to everybody but they don't. Everything has been everything is an industry. Healthcare is an industry. Agriculture is an industry. Everything is an is an industry. And the objective of the industry the objective of the corporations is to maximize profit at the expense of the people. It's by design. It's by design. And this has nothing to do with geopolitical interests by the way. This is this is the way the US has been for over a century since the beginning of the 20th century more or less roughly roughly roughly roughly. It has nothing to do with geopolitics. That is just the DNA of the nation. That's how it is. Okay. Herman Jot Singh says does anybody going to re reconcile the fact that the war started just because the US tried to add Ukraine to NATO? Russia even said that they will deescalate on refusal. No, I think everybody knows that. But the if you look at Western commentary, they will blame Russia for starting the war. If you see western analysts and commentators and what they say on in their in their pronouncements, in their articles, in their social media posts, they will say it's Russia's war on Ukraine, Putin's war on Ukraine, Russia's war economy. They try to place the blame on Russia, but the fact is undeniable that it's it's the it's the West that caused this war. They kept on marching eastwards inexorably. They had given a promise to the Russians that they would not expand NATO further. But they kept on expanding NATO further and further eastwards and Ukraine was the red line. Many American analysts had warned that Ukraine was a red line for Russia and they had warned this more over a decade before the actual war happened. More than a decade before the war happened. So the west western analysts will will try and sidestep this fact. But the fact is that the war started because of American actions. First of all they conducted a regime regime change operation in Kiev in in Ukraine. In 2014 was it around 2014 the the Euromaidan coup. I mean Victoria Newland was on was was on the ground in in Kia when this happened right and they ousted a democratically constitutionally elected government and replaced it with a puppet regime of the west. It all started there. As a consequence, Russia quickly reabsorbed Crimea and they they that that is called an act of aggression by the by the Americans by the West. That's how it is. So it's very clear that the war happened because of Western actions. Russia was left with no choice but to start the war but to conduct the so-called special military operation. WV says China or the US who is a bigger long-term threat for India. Well, look, neither are our friends and both will continue to exist for a long time. So, I think both both see India as a problem. Both seek to clip India's wings and cut India down to size. Neither wants to see India become prosperous and strong again in the future and both are willing to use Pakistan as as a stick to beat India with. I think if you regard these two nations as threats if you do and you want to know which one is a longerterm threat bigger longer long-term threat I think both are equal in that sense both are equal in that sense. Mayang says this the Spanish the Ottoman Empire the Roman Empire etc used tariffs at the end at end tariffs etc that's been used by in all economies historically tariffs and there is something called mercantalism and so on so yeah you're right um ICBM says you spoke about politicians being lazy about energy security visa v oil for example could the same thing be said about nuclear energy given how Well, France has done. Oh, absolutely. And you can't blame the scientists and engineers and technicians who work in India's nuclear program for this. You can't blame them. See, let's take the example of France as the last see France generates about about 60 or 70% of France's electrical energy comes from its nuclear program, nuclear reactors. 60 to 70%. You can look it up. You can look it up. So France has been tremendously successful at using nuclear power for energy generation. The most successful country in the world and that saves France so much money. So much money. So India also has this longstanding three-stage nuclear program that was devised by Mr. Dr. Homie Baba back in the 20th century middle 1960s or something. And we have been very lax in in implementing this. We have tremendous thorium reserves in India. We have the world's largest thorium reserves but we have not taken the steps to operationalize a full-fledged thorium nuclear program, nuclear power program. We're still dillydallying and taking like little steps in the direction. So yeah, you're absolutely right. We have our our leaders the leaders of the country have been tremendously lazy when it comes to uh taking the nuclear program forward. By now we should have been the world's biggest generator of nuclear nuclear energy and electricity via thorium but yeah there we are unfortunate. Sumit says is vokeness dying Sydney Sweeney jeans commercial. This is not a geopolitical topic sir. It's not right. But yeah, it seems to be dying. All right. Uh Dhir Kamat says, "Why is Donald Trump not releasing the Epstein fires? Is he Is it likely that he too is a disgusting predator?" Well, I haven't seen those files, so I I can should I speculate? I don't know. So, let's consider the options, the possibilities, the scenarios. One one scenario is that yeah he may be on the on the Epstein files. He may he may be one of the people who is mentioned in the files. That's one possibility. Second possibility is that maybe he's not mentioned in the Epson files but very powerful very important people in the US are mentioned in those files and maybe they belong to both political parties and it will be equally damaging to both political parties. That's another scenario. Number three scenario is that maybe very powerful people, world leaders from other countries are mentioned in the Epstein files and if you release the files then all of that leverage that you have that the that the US has or those those people it evaporates because now they're outed and there's no more blackmailing to be done because now everyone knows. So there are multiple scenarios that could explain why Trump is not releasing the files. Uh I remember his vice president Mr. Vance was saying that the files need to be released. Uh I remember Cash Patel the FBI director in the past I think kind of mentioned that those files need to be released and so on. Trump also kind of must have said in the past but now they're all claiming that the files don't exist at all. So so clearly there is something at play over here. All right. Wenutsai says what's the origin of the Maui people? The indigenous people of New Zealand. Their facial features resemble Indians. Were their origins connected to India in any way? The Mai people, they arrived in New Zealand less than a thousand years ago. They are, what's their ethnic group you're asking? They are Polynesian people. The Polynesian peoples. They are the inhabitants of the South Pacific Ocean. So, let's go to the maps. To the map. Um we are familiar with this part of the world and that part of the world but there's this huge domain that's unchart like not uncharted but it's like just ocean the South Pacific and over here you have all these little islands island uh communities you have Fiji you have Tonga the Cook Islands you have French Polynesia you have Tahiti um Tokilawu Kiribati Nauuru Toualu the Solomon Islands New Calonia Vanuatu uh the Marshall Islands, Micronesia, the Northern Marana Islands, Palao, you have Hawaii, you have the Pit Karan Islands, you have Hungaroa, which obviously no one lives there anymore and so on. So the people who live across all these islands, they are the Polynesian people and the people of New Zealand, the Mauies are one are ethnically part of that ethnic group, the Polynesian people. And they arrived in New Zealand less than a thousand years ago. Uh and there were the Mori also over there. That's a whole different story which we'll not delve into. Um and even the people of Papua New Guinea are part of the same overall ethnic group. Uh is there a connection with India? Not as far as I know. As far as I know, there is no connection that I know of with the people of India. There could be but I don't know of any. All right. Arjun says should India have bought the sub grippen with full technology transfer as like they agree with Thailand as the soul denied India Rafal's source code is there any guarantee they will give you full technology transfer there's no guarantee the grippen is is what Swedish probably Swedish they are a US asset you think they will give us full technology transfer eventually during the negotiations some clauses will come up which will imply that there will full technology transfer won't happen. Uh so no and again I don't know how good or bad the aircraft is maybe it's a very good aircraft whatever but how many different kinds of aircraft do we want to have in the country it's a absolute nightmare for procuring spare parts for getting servicing done for training pilots for training technicians and engineers it's a headache it's an absolute nightmare when you have so many different kinds of aircraft I don't know what they have agreed with Thailand Thailand if they are acquiring the the the aircraft with full technology transfer. Well, good luck to them and congratulations. But I don't think they will do that for India even if they may have offered it to us. Uh the denied Rafal source code I don't know whatever that's how it goes. Look, you have to you have to develop your own aircraft which you control entirely. You can buy certain aircraft as a stop gap measure but you can't buy like hundreds of different kinds of aircraft, a whole zoo of different kinds of aircraft. It becomes a nightmare. So I think it's a good idea. Good thing that we did not bought, we did not buy the Grippen. I will not take political questions. I will take geopolitics questions. Right. Rahul says, even though it's many decades away, how would quantum computing and quantum AI reshape economy, warfare, humanity in general? I am not sure if it's several decades away. Quantum computing could become more prevalent in in as much as a decade's time. Every country is doing is is has a quantum computing. Every major country, every self-respecting country is doing is taking quantum computing research very seriously. Even India has its own quantum computer now at least one that I know of probably more. Uh and there are issues in there are difficulties in quantum computing and all because of various factors. We we will not go into the physics of that but I think within a decade's time quantum computing will be much more robust. I think probably within two decades you may have commercially available quantum computers. Two decades at most in my opinion in my assessment. Um so once you have quantum computing becoming significantly prevalent it could reshape a lot of things. It could make cryptography well the present cryptographic templates uh not templates techniques pretty obsolete because cryptography is all about encrypting information and quantum computing will break that for sure. warfare warfare as well. Humanity in general I I think look quantum computing gives you more powerful computers. It allows computers to do things that conventional computers currently can't do. Very very difficult problems can be solved easily using quantum computers because of the inherent nature of quantum superpositions and entanglements and all that. So uh so essentially what it means forget about the the the scientific terms and all that technical terms quantum computers when they arrive will be way more powerful than regular computers for a specific number of tasks. So that will allow us to do better jobs at drug discovery and molecular u molecule discovery probably solving diseases curing diseases like cancer and so on. um warfare. Warfare obviously encryption will become more difficult. Uh entanglement. So yeah, it it will it will give you radars that can break stealth technology that can detect stealth aircraft and so much more. So overall it's it just means that you have computers that are super powerful and which can do things that you can't currently do with normal computers. And when you take quantum computing and merge it with AI, it will be a whole different dimension. So yeah, obviously it's going to be very powerful. It's going to be transformative for the world as we know it. You know, I think overall it's humanity is going to be it's going to be a whole different ride for humanity going forward and it's starting right now actually. Um Arun says anyway I can think of Pakistan and US finding oil is by occupying international waters in Arabian Sea. Is it possible? Am I overthinking? Do we have any known major oil discoveries in the so-called Arabian Sea, the western Indian Ocean? I am not aware of any. If there is something, well, good for them. Uh they can't occupy international waters. International waters, anybody can occupy that way. Uh they can see Pakistan if it wants to uh dig for oil and extract oil, it can only do that in its territorial waters or within its exclusive economic zone, not beyond that. If the US uh helps Pakistan in doing something like that, you're essentially breaking international law, right? That's not good. Of course, it's possible because the US can do anything it's want it it wants. It's the most powerful country in the world. It's certainly possible. So, I would not say you are overthinking. It's definitely within the realm of possibility. We'll see. Yeah. Um Aditya Adita Bandari says, "Did Trump fail in destroying the the drug cartels?" Look these drug cartels. Where do they exist? Some exist in Mexico. Some exist in Colombia. The Colombian cartels are the classic famous ones, infamous ones, right? The notorious ones. The Kali cartel, the Sinaloa cartel, the Bedin cartel. Cartel. Uh Don Pablo Escobar was the boss of the Medí cartel and so on. The question you to ask yourselves is this. These cartels that produce drugs, who is the customer? Who's the consumer? What is the market, the target market? It's the US. It's the US. Now, you also have to ask yourself yourselves. Why is it so easy to acquire drugs in the US? Drugs are available everywhere in the US. Everybody drug does drugs at some point in their life. That's how the US is. If drugs are illegal, why are they so easy to obtain? Isn't the US the greatest nation in law enforcement? So why are they allowing allowing drugs to be so easy to procure? It's for some reason they want their people to be hooked to drugs it looks like. So why would they then then destroy the cartels? They don't they will not destroy the cartels. Yeah. Okay. Godliness says in the last 13 years India has signed three important strategic pacts with the US. Limoa, Gasonia, Kasa. Will it cost us in the future? Also some words on US defense policy for the Indian Ocean. We have indeed signed these pacts and these pacts they allow some kind of U US penetration of U Indian defense systems to a certain extent certain extent not full but to a certain extent so we have indeed signed these packs because we were trusting of the US will it cost us in the future look all we have to do is to walk away from the pacts it's not impossible hasn't the US walked away from the JCPOA with Iran, the joint comprehensive P plan of action, the Iran nuclear deal, the US walked away un unilaterally from that. Uh the Chinese walked away unil unilaterally from their deal with the UK visa v Hong Kong one nation two systems. The Chinese walked away unilaterally. India walked away un unilaterally from the Indust treaty. Similarly, if you have signed a pact with somebody, you can walk away from it. Of course, the US will not be pleased with such an action, but we can walk away if it if it is potentially going to be bad for our national interest. Yeah. Uh it may cost us something. The US may take actions that are bad for us. They may throw more tantrums and so on. That that could happen for sure. But it is what it is. So if it is in the national interest to walk away from the pact, we can do it. Um for that we may have to stop using the US equipment we have bought. Of course, it the walking away from the pacts may make that equipment unusable for us, but it is what it is. Maybe it's a price we may have to pay. Uh some words on US defense policy for the Indian Ocean. Um the US has assets in the Indian Ocean region. If you look at the map, um see if you look at the Indian Ocean, the major power is obviously India. Uh we also have France which is a significant power in in India. Uh the French have uh certain assets in the in Indian in an ocean region like Runo and uh certain other islands. Where are those islands? French southern antarctic lands and so on. Uh Alfred I'm not sure if it's French or not. Is it French? Yeah, I think it's French. Iloilosong which means the island of the pigs island with pigs or whatever and so so the French have some assets in the Indian Ocean region and that's why they have a presence here and France and India are pretty pretty are essentially co cooperating when it comes to Indian Ocean security when it comes to the US presence in the Indian Ocean region they have lots of air bases and naval bases in the Gulf region they have something in Djibouti They obviously have a power projection center in uh south of the Maldives which is the which is Diego Garcia from which they can launch uh strategic bombers to bomb any country they want in the region and so on and they obviously have Australia which is a US well US asset. So they so the Indian Ocean region for the US is not that important because they don't have any major threats or enemies in the region. uh as India grows and becomes more powerful, they may choose to focus more on the Indian Ocean region in the future. We'll see about that. Okay. Rahul says, "How could techno capitalism and geopolitics evolve in the coming years? Can China catch up with a silicon and high NA alternative ASML competitor? Can China catch up?" um how will all of this evolve? Look, technology is an integral component of geopolitics. The nations that rule the world are generally the nations that are the most technologically advanced. That's that's something you have seen throughout history, right? And that's why what you will see is that the current geopolitical race in the world the the the competition that we are seeing the geopolitical competition between the US and China is also a technological competition. It's a technological arms race that we are seeing right now. And it is the technological arms race that is driving the geopolitical race and the the the trade and tariffs race also that that that war that's happening right now that also there's a significant technological undercurrent to everything. Technology to some extent is a is a driver of what's happening. So why has the US now decided to to go allin against China? It all started with Trump around 2019 or so when he imposed certain restrictions on exports American exports to China the chips act or whatever it was Biden continued that so why did they choose to do this around 2019 until that time the US was the biggest trade partner of China right but around 2019 they started imposing these restrictions on China because they realized that China is beginning to catch up with the US technologically in a very dangerous way so that's why this is going on now the Chinese They are now facing all these, you could almost call them sanctions, right? Sanctions, technological sanctions and and technology denial from the US. Nvidia is not allowed to sell certain chips to China and so on. So the Chinese are trying to create their own technology, their own ASML alternative. They're trying to create their own photo lithographic technology that will allow them, enable them to uh manufacture their own high-end chips, GPUs and whatnot. they are trying to do that and they are not doing a bad job of it. Okay. So it's quite likely see the Chinese what they've done is they invested trillions of dollars in two things since the 1990s. They invested trillions of dollars very systematically on two things. First their education system and second their technological ecosystem. And the education system is what feeds the technological ecosystem because they focus their education system on science and technology. They they made it a point to ensure that their universities become some of the best universities in the world. Research-driven driven universities. They they hunted down and attract the and and attracted the best talent teaching talent to China to China's universities. They reformed the education system thoroughly. So now the education system produces highquality engineers and techn technicians and scientists and those then go and fit into the technological ecosystem that China has. So they identified the the core technology the critical technologies that China needs to master around 2000 around the year 2000 and they brought in foreign experts to help them. So, it's been a very systematic step-by-step process that they've taken and they've invested trillions of dollars worth of wealth into that and that's why they're in a position where they can actually compete with the US. So, it's a it's a technological arms race that's going to be neck and neck essentially over the coming years. The advantage the US has is that they have got a big head start. They've got the Silicon Valley thing and all the Chinese are now developing their own, you know, parallel systems. their competitors and they're doing a very good job. The real advantage of the US is its global power projection capabilities and China is betting that their technological advance advances will help them overcome the US advantages and that's what's going on. So it's going to be a neck andneck race in the coming years. Arun says Australia's first rocket launch failed. I was surprised that that they could not do it and the western media sphere looks down upon India whenever we launch something. Well, that's how it goes. Like I said, the west the west is deeply unhappy that India even exists. They would have wanted us to be to have been totally destroyed by the British during the two and a half centuries of occupation. And the fact that we are still polytheists majorly is is a huge irritant for the west. So if something goes wrong in India, they will highlight highlight it for weeks. If something happens, something goes wrong in a western nation, well, they just keep quiet about that. That's how it goes. Anonymous scientist says, what should India do if China invades Taiwan? First of all, India should stay out of the matter, but if required, India should take steps to secure nations in our periphery. Secure I am I don't mean invade secure essentially Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka etc. Whatever steps need to be taken. Koshel says how does the long-term future 100 years for India look like? I'm both afraid and hopeful at the same time. What's your 100year outlook for India? Look, if I am to be optimistic, in a 100 years you will have Indian citizens living on various cities in Mars on Mars. In a 100 years, if I am to be optimistic, India will be the major power in the world, the uh most advanced technological power and obviously economic and geopolitical power. If Indians are living on Mars, it means that we have essentially reached the stars, the step stepping stone to the stars. That is if everything goes well. for that to happen the next 20 years is the most crucial right uh the worst thing that you can imagine is that India gets balconized and it's over for India uh that's also a possibility but I am by nature an optimistic person so I think I am confident I'm optimistic that India will be able to overcome all the challenges and difficulties India will be able to withstand everything that the west and the other in the rest of the world throws at us over the next 20 India will be able to overcome all of that. India will be able to grow and rise again. India will be able to return to its indigenous cultural and civilizational roots and throw away the the vestigages of colonialism that we are laboring under right now. And I'm optimistic that great leaders will emerge in India. And I think in a 100 years Indians will be living in cities on Mars and India will have conquered space. And India will be the most advanced and prosperous nation civilization on the planet. MK says, "Could Kamala have been better for India?" Well, maybe if you look at the way things are going, maybe you could say Biden and Kamala would have been better for India. Okay. A rational reporter says if the parliament makes a law giving the prime minister option to use military like we did in Sri Lanka and Maldives to stop a coup in our neighborhood if the country requests, could that help prevent future Bangladesh like situations? The the parliament of India does not need to enact a law giving prime the prime minister that option. The prime minister already has the option. The prime minister of India must do whatever it takes to safeguard and and promote India's interests wherever required. I don't think parliament needs to enact a law for for for that to happen. Yeah. Uh so if there's a coup in the neighborhood that's going going to happen or about to happen or happening that will be bad for India. I think the the prime minister of India has the option to intervene if required and that obviously could help us prevent future Bangladesh like situations. Parthan says which countries are likely to succeed at quantum uh computing? Definitely the US, definitely China, India also could be on the way. Uh European nations like France possibly could do that. Russia could possibly do that. Who else can I see? maybe Israel, maybe Israel, Japan, obviously Japan, maybe even South Korea. So all the nations that are technologically advanced have have high quality um technological ecosystems etc will do that. I think India also will do pretty well. We are on the way to that. Yeah. Okay. Wamshi Khal says, "What GDP can we unilaterally take action at? 10, 15 or 20? Right now we we're closing in on 5 trillion. Right now we can't unilaterally take action like what the US can do. Uh China is at $18 trillion. Even China today cannot unilaterally take action like invading Taiwan. So I think we will have to b our time maybe until 20. Okay let's say until 20. Give it 20 years. Work as hard as possible. All of us in 20 years if we are at $20 trillion maybe we will be able to take unilateral action. Yes. Okay. Pratam Sony says in the Galwan clash what Modi government act action was different from past governments what changed China POV versus India what led to five years standoff and some tips to raise what? Ask one question. Excuse me. Let's take one question at a time. Galwan clash the first armed clash between the two nations for I don't know since the 1980s or something maybe even before that the first time bullets were fired in multiple decades the first deaths for for since I think I think the 1960s death of soldiers on both sides um so why did the cash happen it's because the Chinese were very very getting very upset and and anxious ious about the infrastructure development on the Indian side of the line of actual control. For decades, Indian governments had not bothered to develop any infrastructure on the Indian side. So what action did the Modi government take first of all that caused this from China's perspective? From China's side, it is the Modi government doubling down on creating as much infrastructure as possible as rapidly as possible. You go to the border regions, you will see bro BR border roads organization working day and night day and night. Whatever weather it is, whether it is raining, whether it is snowing, whether there are there's a hail storm, they are always working. We are building infrastructure as fast as is humanly possible. We're building roads, we are building whatever is required. And the Chinese were very upset about this and they were trying to push and that's why the clash happened. And after the clash happened the government of India and the Modi government like you said did not back down. We had a standoff with China for se for for several years face to face. In the past the Indian government would have backed down from that. So a lot changed a lot has changed now. This is a different India obviously right. Udai Kumar says can the US freeze India's forex reserves like Russia? Do we have assets that the are based in the US? If we have assets that are based in the US the US can obviously freeze those. Yeah. So it's best not to do that. Arun says as a backpacker I have noticed western tourists come to India to see the spiritual side of India. They want to do yoga etc. Eastern tourists like to experience food of various regions. We should be using food software the way we use yoga. I I could not agree agree more with you. I completely agree with you. We have such an tremendous diversity of cuisines in this country in India. Every state has multiple cuisines in the various local regions. Every 50 kmters there's a new cuisine. We should start culinary schools in each state. Every state should have multiple culinary institutes where you are taught cuisine and it's presented and and served at the highest standards. Why can't we do that? We have the best cuisines in the world but we don't serve them properly. We don't showcase them properly. It's all about presentation. It's all about style. It's all about the way you put it across. India has the potential to be the world's premier tourism destination to be a tourism superpower. It's a lowhanging fruit. We are doing nothing about it. It's such a shame. So Arun, I I completely agree with you. Completely. Sedant VMA says, "Could Iranian Azarbaijan and Kuzastan break away from Iran due to separatists, separatist movements? How come half of Iranians identify as non-Persian like Gilakis, Azaris, Arabs, etc.?" Because they are not Persian. Why do half of Iranians identify as non-Persian? Because ethnically they are not Persian. Ethnically they are Azaris. Ethnically they're Arabs. Ethnically they are Baluchi. Ethnically they're whatever else. How did that happen? Well, Iran like India was for quite some time under Turk occupation. Let's say part of the Quarasma Empire. Then the Quarasma Empire was destroyed by Shir Chingishan. Then you had other Turk Turk empires. That evil what's the what's the monster? Let's call it call him monster. That evil monster Nad Sha who sacked Delhi and and and genocided the people of Delhi. He was a Turk. He was not Persian. So when the the Turks were ruling Persia, they brought in lots of people from other parts of their empire out non-Persian parts of the empire and had them settled in Persia. If you look at the people of Iran today, many of them actually look white. There are people with blonde hair, people with blue eyes or green eyes or whatever. There are many people in Iran who look almost European, right? Those are the non-persian people. those are the non-persian people. Um so that's it's the Turk rulers of Iran who brought in people from other parts of the world from other parts of Eurasia, people from the Caucasus region, people from Turk parts of their empires and so on. And that's why today you have the situation where half of Iranians they are of other ethnicities. Now Iranian, Azarbaijan, Kazan etc break away from Iran due to separate separatist movements. Well, if the government of Iran becomes weak then anything can happen. So the the trick is do not become weak. Okay. Okay. We have crossed two hours. Let's take a couple of questions. Sparti says, "Do you think importing minerals from other countries for use now and preserving our own resources until others run out could be considered a strategic approach?" It's not a bad approach. If we have our own resources, if we have our own reserves of strategic minerals and what not and we don't want to use them up because maybe they're limited, then it makes sense to import from other countries and import as long as as it's possible, right? Yeah, it makes sense. It's it's a it's a good it's a prudent approach to have. I would agree with that. Yes. Um, what else do we have? Let's let me take a couple of questions. Let me take a couple of questions. Sur says your subscriber count is not crossing 949K. We will discuss that at at a next week. Yeah, you're right. You're right. Okay, let's take maybe this is the final question. All right, let's take this as the final question. Uh Dhir says, you have often stated that India does not seek to be a hedgeim. Don't you think that it's necessary to be a hedgeman for the superpower to remain one? Well, if you are in the position where you are a superpower, it means that you have reached there. What what is the definition of superpower? Once again, going back to first principles, first of all, let's define what superpower means. My definition, yours may differ, but my definition of superpower is that a superpower is a nation that can intervene militarily anywhere in the world at 60 minutes notice. It means that it has global power position capabilities. It means that it has a global military footprint. It means that it has military bases all across the world. That is pure hegemonic behavior. So the US is a superpower and to remain a superpower the US needs to be a hgemon and it needs to continue to be a hgemon. Now if India aspires to be a superpower in that case we essentially it means that we aspire to replace and displace the US as the superpower and become the global hedgeim we it's not part of our culture it's not something we've ever been like but if we want to be a superpower it means we have to do that for that you will have to be a hammen no question about it right do we want to be that do do that do we want to have global power production capability do we want to have military bases on other pe other nations territory all across the world. I would I would like to ask you all is that what you uh is that what you want India to do. So I think it it depends. See we are a very democratic nation. I think the people have to decide what kind of nation we want to become and if it's if if that's what you all want then that's the kind of nation India should aspire to be but for that you have to take appropriate action. Right. Right. Okay. Okay, so we are at the end of today's live stream. Thank you so much. It was great fun. It was great fun. I really enjoyed all the questions. A very diverse set of questions within the theme of geopolitics and I look forward to doing the same thing next week once again. So until next week and we will discuss some other things next week. Next week is going to be a little different. So thank you so much. Take care. Good day. Good night and I will see you in the next live stream. Take care. Thank