Heat. Heat. Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Hello everybody. Good evening, good day and welcome back to the ask a bajid show. I hope you are all doing great this fine evening or fine day wherever you are. Let's see who is there on the live chat with us. Let us see I can see Naganand Shinoi good evening. M AK4 G1U. Avin Random Skull. Hello. Surya Pratab here is here from Tenjiku. Very nice. Tenjiku. Uh Geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor. Shik Rayan. I do remember you sir. I've seen you before. Uh Devil F9N. Uh Tanesh Pandy. Hello. Chaitana Manuja. Uh V shon. All right. Anka G is here. Good evening ma'am. Devil is also here. Um, who else? Swami is here. Chat DSP. Namaste. Nabarita Das. Namaste. G. Basar bandit. Hello. Namaskarum. Uh, Adwit Ashwani written by Deb. De Pratt. Dana. Namaste. Written by De J. Jagnath. I suppose. Zalinsky will win is here. Is from Nepal. Good to have you sir. From Nepal. Uh, Daran Rajendra Datar. Who else do we have? The Baron Zemo Niraj Bardage Tushar Kaluri Hello Priyanka Javalia is here from Gorgon. Good evening ma'am. Adwit is here. Sai Nirup Namaskar Yuk 80045 hello. Uh Swami says have I watched 2001 a space odyssey? I'm not sure if I've watched it but I have read it. Um Rahul Dunak hello uh Bush Runner Ultimate Power A1. Yo Krishna of the Surinabies Netherlands is here. Hello good to see you sir. Manisha Kardos namaste namaste. Um who else? Sumit Agaral. Hola kennel 4605 sar s. Um who else? Who else? Um real brother Vladimir Putin once again I who else? Khan. Kahan is here. Journey with Karthik Anandam S2825 Chatany once again uh No Club Namaste uh and everybody else. Okay, so uh let us Crazy Brain is here. Good to see you crazy brain journey with Karthik once again. Ultimate Power is here. I haven't seen Dark on Netflix but maybe I shall see in the future if I get some time to to watch stuff. Uh Northern Roshan is here. Namaskarum Ara Vladimir Vladimir Putin is also here Abir Tuli and everyone else Sumita Agarwal Ram Ram okay I'm going to discuss history today first of all some of you sometimes have the question of how to ask questions on so that I can consider them for you know for the ask a widget show what you do is very simple if you want to ask me a question you simply type down the question and and and you and and u you add the question in a comment in any of the videos or maybe on the community page. So you write the question as a comment and use the hashtag askabijit. So what I will do at the end of every week or before I do one of these live streams is I will spend a few hours searching for that hashtag askabjit. I'll go through all the questions that have come with come up in the past few days and I'll take as many as I can the most interesting ones. So ask me interesting questions. before asking a question just search on my channel to see if I have answered those such a question or not before so that it's not repeated sometimes people get frustrated that I don't take their question but the point is I've already taken their question multiple times before perhaps right so ask me questions that I haven't answered before or maybe a different variation of a question which would throw up some interesting light on something I haven't maybe thought about and u if it's interesting if it if it catches my interest I will certainly take the question if it is something that will provide value to all of the viewers then it is then I will certainly take it up. So that's how you ask questions for this show. Today we discuss history. History is very important. You don't understand the world unless you understand history. There are so many geopolitics experts out there who talk about what's happening in the world based on what's on the news. But to really explain what's happening in geopolitics, you have to have a proper background of the history of whatever is happening. for for example Ukraine. You don't understand the Ukraine conflict without understanding the history of the past 500 or 1,000 years. You to understand the cause and effect. So that's why history is so important and that's why I keep doing these history live streams and let us get going with some questions. What are the questions that we have today? I I I'll take at least 20 questions over the next couple of hours. If there is time I'll take some questions from the live chat as well. So let let's see what do we have. Right. Salon Mishra says why was England seemingly okay with female female monarchs as opposed to other countries right so that's I took something similar u in one of the recent episodes didn't I uh it was about how the status of women changed in Europe after the imposition of Christianity on the people of Europe and uh it the status of women changed drastically once Christianity became the dominant uh religion in Europe. So before Christianity, the women of Europe had significant rights and privileges in society. They were healers, they were u teachers, uh they were decision makers, they could own property, they could initiate uh various legal proceedings, they could initiate divorce, they could keep their dowi and pass it on to their descendants the way they wanted. They could even rule. So all of these rights and privileges were available to the women of Europe before the imposition of Christianity. And once Christianity was imposed, it was like a 180°ree turnaround for women. Women lost essentially all rights. They became property. They became like non-persons in European society. It was said there was a legal principle that said that the husband and the women and the wife are the same person and that person is the husband. So women became non-persons. women became erased from society in Europe after the imposition of Christianity and yet you have this phenomenon in England in England that you have female monarchs. So what's the deal? How did that happen is the question. Very interesting question. Let's uh so have you heard of something called the celic law? Let's let's Google it so that you get get the point of what I'm trying to say. There was something called salic law. S A L I C. S A L I C. All right, let's check it out. What is the celic law? Right. So also known as the salon law. Let's take a take a look at what Wikipedia has to say about this. Uh so Wikipedia is superheroentric. So it's going to give you a proper understanding of what selic law is. Also known as salon law. It was an ancient Frankish civil law code compiled around 500 AD by whoever the first and so on. um it remained the basis of Frankish law throughout the early medieval period and influenced future European legal systems. The best known tenate of the old law is the principle of exclusion of women from inheritance of thrones, thiefs and other property. The exclusion of women from the inheritance of thrones, thiefs and other property. Right? So it disenfranchises women and the cyic law was adopted by by Europe and that's why in Europe you would not find any female ruler. So in in in various European u kingdoms etc. Uh if a king died without leaving a male hair then the next king would be chosen from somebody in his male along the male lineage. So maybe a nephew of his or or some male relative, the closest male relative who is fit to be on the throne, that sort of thing. And that's how the next king would be generally chosen based on that principle. But no female descendant of a king would ever be allowed to rule with very few exceptions in Europe. Right? So that was the deal in Europe. But and and this became uh it became a core principle especially in the French u monarchy and other European monarchies uh around the 14th 15th centuries AD. Okay. So that is sailing law. But now in England things were different. First of all you had this great fantastic king called Henry VIII. Fantastic guy, outstanding, brilliant guy. He imagined that he was a world conqueror etc. He imagined he was the center of the world and very interesting character and uh he he I don't know how many ladies he married at least four or five ladies more than half of them had their heads chopped off eventually for the sake of expediency uh more than anything else and Bolain is an example. Um so Henry what he craved was a male child but when he wanted to marry Anne Bolain he was already married to Katherine of Aragon and he wanted the pope to anal his marriage based based on some flimsy completely made up excuses. Uh but the pope was unwilling to anal the marriage and that's why what Henry VIII did was incredible. He broke off from the Vatican. He broke off his allegiance. He he he severed his allegiance to the Catholic Church and he set up his own church of England, the Anglican Church, which still is the main church is the the basic uh overall church of England today, the Anglican Church. So he broke off from that and that started off a chain of events that eventually led to England becoming the most powerful nation on the world for in the world for quite some time eventually. Eventually so that's where it all starts. So Henry craved a male child. Katherine of Aragon could not produce a male child. She gave him uh Princess Mary but no male child. Then he had a mistress who gave a male gave him a male child but the male child died. Then he married Anne Bolain but Anne Bolain again could not produce a male child. She gave him Elizabeth, Princess Elizabeth. Uh and so on. Eventually he married Jane Seymour who produced a male child but that male child died very young. I think in his early teens or something. and you can look up the exact details. So because Henry was left with no male children, he therefore decided that instead of passing on the throne to some distant relative or whatever, I'm going to pass it on to my daughters. So he structured his succession such that his first successor would be his daughter, eldest daughter Mary and in case she could not continue for whatever reason or or passed away or did not leave behind any male children then the throne would pass on to his second daughter Elizabeth. Right? So after Henry VIII dies tragically uh his daughter they you know there was this small little episode of Lady Jane Gray who they tried to install on the throne. She ended up with her head severed from the seivered from her body. Her ghost still haunts the Tower of London apparently. That's a digression. So after Henry dies, there's this little brief interlude of Lady Jane Gray and then an uh sorry not Anne, Mary, his daughter Mary becomes the queen of England and that's because England does not did not uh follow celic law. So Mary became the queen of England and she was not opposed to any by to any significant extent by the nobility etc. So she became the queen of England and she ruled for quite some for for a reasonable amount of time and she is history has given her the title of bloody Mary because she tried to undo everything her father did and she tried to you know restore the Catholic faith and all that and she she did all kinds of terrible things burned lots of people at the stake alive and she also eventually dies and that's how that's when Elizabeth becomes the queen so first you have this one queen that is Mary bloody Mary and then you have her sister half sister Elizabeth who becomes the queen and that's the start of the golden age of England the Elizabeth and age that ends around 1600 AD roughly you can look up the exact dates which is the beginning of the English colonization the very initial steps of the English colonization occupation rather of India so because the English did not follow celic law that's why they were okay with female monarch so once you have the president that set first with marry and then with Elizabeth who turns out to be such a brilliant ruler, it's hard to then argue against a female ruler uh ruling England. So one of the reasons uh why you know a female ruler was not regarded as a good thing apart from the Christian anger etc is that a female see is that because the royal families in Europe they would marry among each other. So typically a king's daughter would be married to some prince from another country and if the king's daughter becomes the queen then her husband who is a foreigner suddenly has incredible influence in the running of the country which is not necessarily always a good thing. So that's one reason why it was not seen as a you know as prudent to have a female ruler. And if you look at uh Queen Elizabeth II, well, her husband has significant German ancestry. Uh her mom, was it Victoria? Most likely, she also, you know, there's a lot of German ancestry today in the English royalty because they allowed uh queens, they allowed female monarchs to rule the country. So, that was the deal. And I hope this explains why England was okay with female monarchs as opposed to other countries because they did not um follow Celic law despite being Christian and all that. All right, next question. Rohan Biri says the the Portuguese were the first Europeans to land in India in 1498 while the East India Company was formed in 1600. Why didn't the Portuguese occupy India on the scale of the British Empire despite having a century long head start? You see, being the first in the game isn't necessarily going to give you success. And this is a great example of that. And the same applies in business also. You may be the the person who discovered a new product or or you know came up with an invention, but it's not necessarily you who's going to, you know, create a monopoly. somebody else will do it better than you. So sometimes so the Portuguese they you know Vasco the Gama that fell out he landed in India in um 1498. So and and the British did not even begin thinking about India in a structured way until the formation of this joint stock company the East India Company in 1600. So the Portuguese had more than a century of a head start over England. And yet what happened eventually the English took over India and the Portuguese were simply elbowed away. Right? And you see similar things happening in other parts of the world as well. For example, in North America who discovered Laafllorida who who made did the first expeditions into the North American, you know, what is now the United States? It was the Spaniards and also the French. But who ended up ruling the United what is now the United States and Canada, North America, all of it? the English once again. So the English came in much later and yet they ended up ruling it. So there is something about what the English do that's different from what the other Europeans do. So let's think about the Portuguese approach to whatever you know to colonial practices, let's say to plunder. So what was the main aim? What was the main strategy of the of the of the Portuguese? See the Portuguese first of all you have to understand it's a very small nation around 1600 which is more than a century after the Portuguese came to India first around 1600 the population of Portugal would have been about 1 million and the population of England around 1600 was about probably more than 4 million at least 4 million so it's a 4 to1 advantage the English have right away over the Portuguese now the Portuguese strategy Y was to establish a monopoly in sea trade via control of ports, coastal areas, ports, choke points, Malaca, Hormos, um, etc. Malika is something they they controlled. Hormos, trade of hormos, the Persian Gulf between the Persian Gulf and the western Indian Ocean, they controlled that as also for a while. Um they also took over Du in Gujarat. Um what else? Vasai in what is Maharashtra? Wasai in Salet is which is present day Mumbai Goa as well. So it's all coastal areas and the Portuguese were far-flung at the same time they were trying to control parts of India, the coastal regions of India. there they were also they also had you know possessions in South America which eventually became Brazil. So they they were spread thin and their strategy was to monopolize se sea trade via ports and choke points in trade routes. Now how was the Portuguese enterprise colonial enterprise funded? It was funded from by the crown of Portugal, right? The the the the crown of Portugal, the the king of Portugal would fund this. So all the money came from the crown and they had all these scattered ports and scattered forts that they were holding on to and uh that was the deal with them and obviously uh it was all focused on the navy. There was a major naval focus and they would have small armed forces in each of the forts. small garrisons right in each of the forts in each of the forts or ports because the ports doubled as forts now at the time when the Portuguese started this this let's say policy uh of holding on establishing and holding on to forts and ports in India at that time we're talking about the what the 1500s that's when you don't have a centralized empire in India you have the Turk muggle kingdom OM which eventually becomes the Muggal Empire. But when the Portuguese first came, it was not yet the Muggal Empire because it becomes the Muggal Empire under Ash not ash sorry the other guy Akbar Akbar Jalaladin Jalaladin Akbar he is the the king who transforms the kingdom into an empire. So when the Portuguese were doing the thing it was still a kingdom and it was not central it was not you know spread across India. uh India was still fragmented in various kingdoms etc. which is why the Portuguese were able to uh establish ports and forts. Um so that was the deal about Portugal. Then you have British India before we come to British India. So we have the by the time the 1600s happen the Muggal kingdom has become a muggle empire. It's big. It's spread out and they are absolutely not going to tolerate any expansion of Portuguese rule etc in India which is what the Portuguese could not do a thing and because they were spread so thin and they had so many possessions across the world and they were funded by the crown and not by anybody else the funds were less etc and which is why uh they did not do well. Now when it comes to the British, see their strategy was very different. Their strategy was to form joint stock companies which were not funded by the crown. Okay. Private companies, a bunch of wealthy businessmen get together. They pulled their funds. If if I put X number of pounds, then I will re receive a proportionate amount of stock in the company. So it's a joint stock company and the company will have a proper charter. So it was a purely commercialized commercial enterprise. So the the objective was to trade initially. Okay. Trade and uh gain some territory small footholds of territory in India and extract revenue from there. And there was a deal. There was a deal. So so the British are a nation of traders. They are a nation of shopkeepers. and their only objective was to make profits to extract whatever they could. So their approach was very different from the Portuguese. They did not try to monopolize trade routes and and go and hold various ports and forts across the coastal regions of the world and u do all that. They they established private armies. They equipped the private armies really well with artillery and the latest weapons and they set foot first where it was in Surat then it was in what they called Madras eventually what became Kolkata and their first major territorial grab was what is today Bengal and they held on unlike the Portuguese and what happens is that eventually there is Mughal decline the decline of the Mughal empire the rise of the Marad as the Maratas kick the Portuguese out of Salset, of Wasai, of other places. The the the Portuguese hold on to Goa somehow. But the Maratas kicked them out of everywhere else. But at that time the British are established in Bengal and slowly eventually because of the infighting of the Marata Empire, the British start slowly start making inroads everywhere and that's how they were able to grow. They were able to outlast the Portuguese, outlast everybody else. And because their strategy was totally different. They were a purely mercantile empire. Their strategy was to hold territories, not to just hold ports, but to hold territories, go beyond ports and go and acquire territories, acquire rights to trade in the territories first and then acquire the territories themselves when the kingdoms or whatever the rulers become weak to have private armies and so on. And that's why once the Muggal Empire declined, there was regional fragmentation. The Marata Empire also declined. Then they they went to war with the Marata Empire and in 1818 or wherever it was, they defeated the Marata Empire. So that's how the British were able to able to prevail. They had a larger economy. They you know they they they grew their finance. They grew industry. They they were a fully industrial state and that's why they were able to pre prevail. So, so the time frame the the time window for large scale territorial conquest opened in India with the decline of the Muggal Empire. Okay. In the 18th century after the death of what's his name Orurange which is what 1707 I think if I'm not mistaken you can look it up the exact date. So by the time Orurangzip dies and the Muggal Empire starts disintegrating that's when the window opens up for territorial conquest large scale territorial conquest conquest in India right but by this time the Portuguese empire was already in long-term decline right and Britain was entering its its uh expansionary stage industrial stage with financial upswing right so there's a mismatch in timing the Portuguese are going down the British are going up and they took full advantage of the situ situation and by the 19th century they were able to um defeat the Maratas and that's why the Portuguese you see that's why the British were able to um occupy India on the largest scale and plunder India to their heart's contest uh heart's content as opposed to what the Portuguese were able to achieve. Rita Opadadyia says, "You have been ignoring this question again and again. Please explain about the confusion bureaucracy in China and who was Confucious." Okay, first of all, Retita G, I did not mean to offend or upset you. Look, uh I I can only take about 20 or so questions in each episode, right? But if your question is good, I will eventually notice it and qu and pick it up, which is why I've done it today. Um so who was first of all let's deal with Confucious. Who was this person Confucious? So he was a Chinese philosopher, thinker, teacher, whatever you want to call it. He was born in the Shandong province. Where is the Shandong province? It's uh south of Beijing and east of Korea. If you want to I don't think we need to look at the map for this. You can look it up yourself. Shandong province is south southish of Beijing and and westward of Korea of the Korean peninsula. That's Shandong province. So he was born in the Shandong province probably the fifth or sixth century BC around that time. And his ideas, his teachings became the core of traditional chi Chinese culture, Chinese philosophy, Chinese government, right? Um and his teachings were both moral and the political. Okay? And his philosophy was all about cultivating virtuous people, cultivating orderly relationships. And these ideas are are very well aligned with having an orderly empire. Right? So his ideas they influenced China. They continue to influence China and they also influenced various parts of Eastern Asia as well. Right? So what was his philosophy about? He's a philosopher mainly. His philosophy is about how to how to become a good person and how to form harmonious communities. So how do you do this do these things? You cultivate humanity. You cultivate benevolence. You practice right behavior. You practice propriety. You become a junzi an exemplary person. Right? And you do this by stressing by by focusing on learning. With learning comes knowledge and wisdom. So you focus on learning. You f your society the the ideal confusion society is a hierarchical society but not not a rigidly hierarchical and oppressive society. It's a hierarchical society that is that is characterized by or moderated by benevolence. So a benevalently hierarchical society with social harmony. Okay. Um and confusion says that you have to follow the proper way in u you know personal life and political life. So that is the confusion philosophy kind of it's it's pretty I mean it's it's not something you can explain in 5 minutes but that's kind of the gist of it. So this philosophy, confusion philosophy, the confusion thought, whatever you want to call it, it became, you could say a durable moral system for family life in China, for education in China and even politics in China. And eventually the Chinese spread these ideas to Korea, to Japan, even Vietnam because Vietnam is a highly sinusized society because of various Chinese invasions and so on, right? Um so what are the things that confucious thought because we want to talk about bureaucracy. So let's understand what are the things that confus confusion thought and philosophy influenced it influenced family family life family ethics you need to be you know felial piety respect for elders um obligations to your kin to your family and kin and family are spread across society because we are all cousins and aunts and uncles of each other you know across across generations so you have obligations to to to society to your kin networks etc. So that's how it influenced family life. It also influenced education because it's all about you know study you've got to study uh you got to cultivate the self moral self-cultivation obviously that happens through study and the junzi the ideal person becomes the model for not only students but also for officials in government and it influenced politics very strongly. You must have I mean if you are a long-term viewer of this channel you would have heard me speaking about the mandate of heaven that is a central concept in the Chinese imperial system. As long as the emperor has the mandate of heaven he rules. The moment he loses the mandate of heaven, the emperor falls, the dynasty falls, and there is a period of chaos and civil war that typically lasts a century or so before the next dynastic cycle starts. The mandate of heaven. What is this concept? This concept comes from confusion philosophy. So Confucious his view was that rulers should govern by virtue and they should rule by setting the right example. And um Confucious said that the legitimacy of a ruler is interconnected or linked with their moral conduct. Okay. So the mo as long as you are morally upright and you are doing the right thing and and serving society and controlling society and being like a father figure to society as long as you do all these things you have the mandate of heaven and when you lose the mandate of heaven that's when your dynasty falls and so on right so that's all about confusionism about its role in society its role in uh education its role in family life and its role in politics now what does it have to do with the bureaucracy Right? Confusion, bureaucracy, what what is that? So if you go back to the first millennium AD, you have the Tang dynasty which was very strongly influenced by India. You also have the Song dynasty that comes probably later, right? So from the Tang period onwards, the Chinese civil service examination system, it became based on Confucian literature, confusion classics. So the confusion classics became the main content of the uh civil services education uh examination system. It became the main content and it became the ideological basis of the entire bureaucratic examination system. So if you wanted to become a bureaucrat which would elevate you to very high and very powerful status eventually if you're good in society if you wanted to become a bureaucrat a powerful person in society in the empire then you had to succeed in this exam and to succeed in the exam you had to read you had to understand the world through the lens of confusion concepts confusion philosophy you were you were supposed to value Confu, you know, you were supposed to embody concept uh confusion uh virtues and ideals like loyalty, like valuing the hierarchical order of order of society, valuing confusion norms, understanding what the mandate of heaven is and so on. And if you were good at this, if you could crack the exam, then you could become a highranking official eventually if you do the did the right thing. So that was how you entered the bureaucracy. So this was an officially sanctioned form of confusionism. There are various forms of confusionism but this was the officially sanctioned form of confusionism and the objective was to legitimize the rule of the empire of the emperor and to shape the values and conduct and behavior and comportment of the bureaucrats of the officials who would do the job of ruling the empire in the name of the emperor. So um so this connected administrative careers to confusion philosophy, confusion ethics, confusion morals, confusion values and confusion political ideas and ideals. Right? So that is the deal. So that's and and this system has been going on since at least the Tang dynasty and it went on all the way until the fall of you know China to the the westerners during the opium wars. So historically imperial governance was based on confusion uh values, conf confusion principles but it also incorporated legalism, legalistic techniques, centralized control, harsh law. So it was a mixture of both. Now what is legalism? Since we discussing confusion bureaucracy, let's discuss legalism. Confucianism and legalism are essentially polar opposites. These are two you could say ideologies or philosophical worldviews. Confucianism views human nature in a certain way. Legalism views human nature in the exact opposite way. Okay. So legalism differs from confusionism like a 180°ree turnaround uh about how they how it views human nature, how it views how rulers should govern and uh and what is it that holds an empire together. Confucianism like I said emphasizes virtue. It emphasizes moral education and legalism is all about strict laws, centralized power and harsh punishments. Okay. So it's very different and and Chinese governments empires they have historically mixed the two things you know employed aspects of confusionism and employed aspects of legalism and you see that you see that even today. So legalism assumes that people are fundamentally self-interested and short-sighted and confusionism assumes that humans are capable of goodness and they they have good morals inside them that need to be cultivated through confusion, education, etc. And legalism says that people respond only to punishment, not to moral persuasion or or education or whatever. And legalism is about reforms. Okay. Legalism is willing to break with tradition to strengthen the state to for example if you want to uh increase agricultural output you can break with tradition. If you want to make turn monks into workers you can do that if you're a legalist. But if you're confused you can't do that right? And if you want to take the workers take the peasants whose job is to you know take care of agriculture. If you want to take them and put them into the military to build military power, then it's fine with legalism. But it's not fine with Confucianism. In Confucianism, the uh the emperor is a father figure, right? And uh he has the mandate of heaven if he cares for the people and does all all the good moral things. But in legalism, the ruler is absolutely sovereign and he doesn't have any need to be a father figure. He is supposed to use law, administrative tech, administrative techniques and punishments to keep the ministers, the bureaucrats and the subjects, the peasantry in line. So that's the difference between confusionism and legalism. See, Confucianism is humane. It is virtue centered and uh it it is not about coercion. It's about uh it's it's about persuasion more than coercion. And legalism is all about coercion. about looking about regarding coion as indispensable to uh ruling a powerful and orderly nation. So if you look at the Chinese Communist Party today, if you look at Mr. Xiinping, he does try to portray himself as a father figure, doesn't he? Right? He does portray himself as kind of a grandfatherly figure sometimes or a fatherly figure sometimes. But the Chinese Communist Party if you look at what its conduct has been its actions have been especially in the 20th century you don't see too much confusionism there it's all legalism right but today it's trying to adopt a softer approach if you look at the Chinese Communist Party's approach towards Tibet you don't see confusionism there right but today it's trying to at least portray itself as as being more humane and so so forth which um and and and in doing so it's uh merging confusionism with its basic legalistic framework and confusionism once again before I end this there is no god in confusionism yeah confusionism is not about it it it's a you could say an atheistic ideology or or philosophy there is no place for god in confusionism and the tang dynasty adopted confucutionism as the as the state bureau ratic thing uh as the basis of the of the bureaucratic entrance examinations. But the Tang dynasty was very strongly influenced by Indian Buddhist and Hindu ideas and and that tells you that that Chinese society and all societies and civilizations are super complex. But anyway, I hope that gives you some kind of understanding of what Confucianism is, of what of who Confucious was and why Confucianism, Confucianism is still relevant in Chinese society today and how the Chinese Communist Party employs both Confucianism and legalism to rule the country. Right. Okay. Next question. Amish Amishara says, "What are the major differences between the Spanish, French, and English colonies in the Americas and how did these differences affect the native Americans?" Right? So if you look at the colonization or occupation of the Americas which still continues, it was done by multiple European powers. It all begins with obviously the Spanish. Then the French get involved. The English are late entrance but they end up dominating and and occupying the entirety of North America and so on. So, so all three of these European major European powers had different approaches in their occupation. Let's say colonization because colonization is a is a nice soft fuzzy term that is not as harsh as occupation. So people like to use colonization right as a term. So the Spanish, the French and then the English, their patterns were very very different. Okay, their goals were different, their economies were different, their settlement patterns, occupation patterns were different, their attitudes were different when it comes to either the capture of territory or how to deal with the concept of race, the issue of race because race is a very big deal. And these different approaches, goals, etc. they shaped very different experiences that Native Americans had at the hands of these foreign occupiers. Okay. Um to one extent to at one extreme you have slavery, you have u you know coercion. The entire population is is enslaved and forced to do hard labor. Um that is something the the Native Americans experienced under Spanish occupation. You also had cultural suppression that happened against uh under Spanish occupation. When it came to the French, you had u sometimes alliances with the French that the native Americans had uh in doing the fur trade. And who was the client in the fur trade? It was Europe, right? And when it comes to their experiences with England, it was total despair, total loss, largecale territorial loss, large scale large scale war, ethnic cleansing, genocide or displacement. All of that came under England, right? So what did each of these powers seek? Let's begin with the Spanish who came first. The Spanish, they were very simple people. They sought gold. They sought precious metals. They sought to extract whatever they could in terms of, you know, bullion, gold, silver, precious metals. uh whatever you know and they also sought Christian conversion at the very out from the very outset they sought Christian conversion and the Spanish were ruling over very densely populated areas and they had systems like the encommenda system that I've spoken about in the past the encommenda system essentially was a system of slavery and the people who were enslaved were were expected to do very hard labor and produce a certain amount of tribute or goods to be exported to Spain every year or every quarter or whatever it was. Right? So the Spanish, they were very brutal. They built cities on top of existing Native American cities. They built churches on top of destroyed Native American temples. They would destroy the temples and build churches churches on top to show who's the boss, who's one. The Spanish imposed a rigid racial hierarchy. white man is the at the top and the brown man is at the bottom and they insisted on conversion. If they if you would not convert, you would be killed in various super brutal ways ways, right? So that this destroyed native religions. This destroyed the native uh governance systems and so on. And because of this and also the the Spanish were very dirty. So were the English. Um and they brought in all these horrific diseases uh to the Americas. Um so the native Americans they establish they they experienced catastrophic population loss because of diseases because of extremely harsh labor conditions and uh entire islands were depopulated like the island of Hispanola completely depopulated zero zero zero survivors that sort of thing and sometimes the native Americans would be relocated to to towns or cities the Spanish would construct so that you to to concentrate labor in one place. So this totally destroyed the society of of whoever survived. The Spanish also gave the status of nobles to some of the indigenous uh rulers or elites who would convert to Christianity. Right? So they would be given the status of nobles. They would be given decent status in society. Then the Spanish also intermar intermarried with the nobles with the with the elite of the uh indigenous societies. Then this produced large scale mixed populations and they the Spanish imposed a cast system kind of thing based on the color of his skin, lightness of his skin and so on. So that's what happened with the French the with the Spanish. The French were different. They focused on fur trade in North America. Okay. Um they did not care about agricultural agriculture the way the English did. So this the French established scattered outposts uh and there's a you know they did not establish large colonies large plantation colonies like the Spanish did in and later the English would do. The French were only interested in fur trade and French traders they relied on native people uh they relied on native people as economic partners. So the French wanted to trade fur. They wanted to acquire fur from North America and sell it in Europe. They would acquire it in from North America for for very little money, for very little cost. They would transport it to Europe and sell it at high profit. Fantastic uh business model, right? So for that the French made the indigenous people their allies. They did not oppress them. They did not kill them more or less. Yeah. um they would use Native American travel routes, trade routes. They would sometimes even marry uh into native communities. And because of this, the natives wherever the French were present or the French had control, the natives would retain control of their lands. And um they also became partners of the French in European power politics once the French started having conflicts, clashes with the with the Anglo and so on. So there was something called the French and Indian War, which you can read about, right? Um, and this this like I said this this fur trade it the clients were European clients, right? And this tied the Native American tribes into the European trade networks into um into European markets and this led to clashes between Native American tribes. Intertribal conflict over what? Over hunting territories, right? Because if you want to sell fur to the furs to the French, you need a large territory where you will do hunting of reindeer of caribou of of wolves of foxes of rabbits, mink, whatever. So you need large hunting territories because that's what gives you the first and that's valuable. So then it led to intertribal conflicts and eventually it was devastating when the French power declined. Now when it comes to the English, okay, the English were all about permanent occupation. They were not about trade like the French. They were about permanent occupation, agricultural settlement. What the English sought to do was to create a society that either replicated England, English society, or improved upon English society. They did not want to rule over large native populations, the English. They wanted to create a better version of England in the Americas. How do you do it? Permanent settlement. Wipe out forests to create agricultural land. Migrate your settle migrate your families and settle them on this land. Create private land ownership on land that is not yours. Right? So the English colonists they created separate communities. Okay? They did not do any most likely very little intermarriage with the native Americans. And what the English would do is that if the native land was not farmed in English ways then they would say that this land is unused which means we can take it. And obviously the natives did not farm in the English ways. So they use this so-called agricultural argument to justify taking native territory. So we're doing it legally. See this land is unused. It is not farmed the way we English farm. The natives are doing some some wild, you know, backward things over there. So it's unused land. So that justifies it justifies us taking it legally. So the English regarded the natives as essentially agricultural pests. What is an agricultural pest? Rabbits, deers, birds. What do they do? They eat your agricultural produce. They eat your cabbages and cauliflowers and lettuce and and carrots. The birds, they eat your grain, right? So what do farmers do? they shoot those animals whether it's rabbits or birds or deer or whatever. If you are doing chicken farming or some other farming then foxes come and eat those. Wolves come and eat those. So you want to shoot the foxes and wolves and coyotes. These are called agricultural pests in the eyes of farmers of agriculturalists whose uh livelihood can be affected by these animals. The English regarded the native Americans the same way farmers regard certain species of creatures animals as agricultural pests. What do you do? You shoot. Yeah. So what was the effect of this continual land loss, relentless loss of native lands? The English would first sign, you know, draw up a treaty in the English language and ask the native chief to put a X or a cross or something which means now we have a legal agreement which gives us certain rights and then they would once it is the the time is opportune they would break those treaties and this would lead to violent clashes with the natives because the settlers they were their their greed for land for territory was insatiable. Where do the natives go? Right? So this led to displacement of the natives. This led to massacres of the natives. This led to genocide of the natives. This led to ethnic cleansing of the natives and all the territory was lost. And then the the natives whoever survived somehow they were put on put on little areas called reservations where nothing grows, barren land which is useless. Yeah. So the English occupiers were completely disent disinterested in integrating native communities into their society. So natives were they had the choice of either moving away or become second or third class citizens at the margins of English society, English occupied society or resist militarily which guarantees death because the English had far superior organization, far superior ways of applying organized violence and eventually the natives today they are conquered and subjugated secondass citizens. in the Americas. That's the deal. Terrible, terrible story, part of history. Nirvana Shank says, "How did enlightenment ideals of liberty and equality coexist with the rise of European colonial empires and can the ethical contradictions of the period be reconciled historically?" Right. Thank you for your attention to the matter. Yes sir. So libert enlightenment ideals of libertal that that's a French revolution but the this all comes from the so-called European enlightenment where you have liberty and equality but how can liberty and equality coexist with slavery is what Nirvana Shanks is asking right so these ideals liberty equality they actually coexisted with European can impose slavery on all these so-called colonies because because of very clever ideas. See many thinkers in Europe they they narrowed down the classification of who counted as fully human or who counted as citizens. So these principles, liberty, egalit, liberty, equality, they sound like they're universal principles, right? But these Europeans then turned these principle into principles into selective rights by by tweaking what what is the meaning that by tweaking the definition of the term human in the term citizen. Okay. So before we proceed to colonial empires, let's talk about European society. So these many of these enlightenment writers, okay, what did they say? All men are equal. Now what happens to women? Women, what happens? Nothing. Women don't exist. Women, women are subordinate. Women are non-persons in European society, Christian society. That's how it was. I kid you not. And when they said that all men are equal, they applied that to men who had property, men who had wealth, not the refra, not the, you know, the peasants who toiled on on on a feudal lord's property. No, not those people. The the males, the European males who who are wealthy and who have property, they are the ones who are equal. So even in European society there was not this this this this did not apply equally to all human beings. Women were not part of this term all this this statement that all men are equal and even when it comes to men it only applied to people who had wealth and property and it certainly did not apply to colonized people. Okay. So the empires could claim that they gave rights to people at home, males at home, but they could deny those rights abroad. So you know the Europeans had these fantastic ideas about what it means to to be a civilization, what it means to be civilized. They had ideas about civilization. They had about ideas about race. They had ideas about historical stages of development. Historical stages of development. So certain populations are are essentially prehistoric or a you know they are not sufficiently developed to be called uh civilized people for example they are too backward or they're too brown or they're too black or whatever right or they're not Christian enough or they're not Christian at all so they can't be called civilized that sort of thing. So by by you know by introducing such nuances they could they could portray colonized populations of territories they had grabbed. They could portray the populations as people who are not yet ready for full equality, full liberty. Right? So by doing this they could they were able to justify conquest. They were able to justify forced labor. um they were able to justify u this paternalistic attitude of the Europeans as steps towards uh eventually reaching an allegedly higher European standard of civilization. Right? You will also know that the Americans they had a constitution. They they have a constitution, right? Um whatever it says it calls the the natives as as what? Savages. No, that's the Declaration of Declaration of Independence, the US Declaration of Independence, if you read it, it uh portrays the natives as savages. But the Americans have a constitution. And this Constitution was allegedly ratified by the people of America. But was it? Well, it wasn't ratified by women. It wasn't ratified by by the natives. It wasn't ratified by the enslaved Africanamean people. It wasn't even ratified by white men who did not have property. So, you know, that's the kind of game they would play. So they created cultures, they created societies, okay, in which the freedom in which not everyone was a citizen and freedom was for the those who were called citizens was built upon the slavery of those who had been conquered and enslaved and who would do all the labor for the for the so-called citizens. So that's how it was. You see uh so European so non-Europeans had to be first educated and how do you educate someone through hard labor so that they can you know become more attuned with the European way of doing things uh so on so that's how it was it was all racism it was all justification for conquest for slavery for genocide for forced displacement for uh ethnic cleansing for having uh millions of people work as slaves while you enjoy the benefits of that Right. So that all came out of enlightenment. Enlightenment. So the the these these thoughts that came out these thoughts and slogans and ideals that came out of enlight of the so-called enlightenment or enlightenment thought they actually gave the Europeans tools for legitimizing slavery for legitimizing genocide and whatn not. Can we can we reconcile these ethical contradictions of this period historically? Well, how do you reconcile these contradictions? Right? You you can't it cannot be justified. You can perhaps contextualize it. You can say that all whatever happened was a product of economic interests of the Europeans. It was a product of the entrenched racism, inherent deep rooted racism of the Europeans and it was it was consequences of um the limited notions, the limited ideas of what counted as a citizen or even among the subjects what counted as a person who had some kind of rights or did not have rights. Right? So it's it's uh this entire period the so-called colonial period the period of the destruction of the world by the Europeans it is a history of rapacious occupation rapacious plunder and domination of people millions hundreds of millions of people dressed in the language of progress. Okay. They used they used the terminology the vocabulary of rights of equality of self-determination human rights democracy today same way and they used it to just to to justify uh their domination and all the the abuses and and and and atrocities they did. So you can't you can't reconcile these things. And the same kind of attitude persists today. Today they will give you slogans about human rights and freedom and democracy while being the worst abusers of human rights and freedom and democracy. Nothing really has changed. Well, there we have it. Okay. Amisha Mishra says, "How did Rhodesia, now known as Zimbabwe, decide who could vote and who couldn't? Was it based on your ethnicity, your income, etc.? Interesting question. Where is Rhodesia? It doesn't exist anymore. But it does exist. The region exists, but now it's called something else. Like Amisha says, it's called Zimbabwe. Where is Zimbabwe? Let's find out. Indians would be somewhat familiar with Zimbabwe because of the sport of cricket. Because there's a Zimbabwe cricket team, which used to be good in the past. It's not so not so good anymore. So if you are in India, we go westwards. And here we have Zimbabwe which is to the north of South Africa and to the east of Botswana and to the west of Mozambique that is where we have Zimbabwe the capital is Harare. So this region this this country was was in the 20th century until what the 1970s late '7s you can look up when it happened until then it was called Rudesia. It was named after the great barbarian Cecil Ruds after whom on whose name you you have this fellowships RDS fellowships that Indians still enjoy sometimes. So that is what Rhdesia used to be. Okay. And uh who ruled Rhdesia? English-sp speakaking people. A bunch a small number of white people ruled the country. And uh who were the subjects? The black people who did not have too many rights. So what was the deal? Did Rudesia have universal adult suffrage? Did they allow everyone to vote or did they restrict who could vote? And what were these restrictions based on? So, first of all, Rudiga did not have universal adult suffrage. What does it mean to have universal adult suffrage? It means that anyone who is legally an adult is allowed to vote. India has universal adult suffrage. Anyone who is above the legal age for being an adult can vote in any election in India. In Rhdesia, you don't you did not have that. So the vote in Rhodesia, the right to vote in Rhdesia was restricted. You had to meet certain requirements. You had to meet certain qualifications. What kind of qualifications? Like u like Amisha says, it was it was not ethnicity. It's it's it was very cleverly done. Um it was based on requirements on on on income on property on education and residency. So you have to be a resident of the nation etc. But you need to needed to have a certain amount of income minimum amount of income a minimum amount of property. Taxation also mattered how much tax you paid minimum amount of tax that you had to pay also education. Right? And on paper, these rules applied to all races on paper. But the minimum level, the thresholds, they were set in such a way that mostly it was the white so qualified and only a very small minority of the black natives qualified. Most of them could not. So they had two voter categories, two voter roles, A- roll and B- roll. B-roll is very cinematographic, but it's not that. So, you had the A voter rule and the B voter rule. The A- roll was obviously the Europeans, the whites, and the B-roll was predominantly the natives, the Africans. So, to register to vote, you had to satisfy these minimum levels of income, property, ownership, property ownership and educational levels, etc. Now the colonial pol policies were such that Africans had far lower incomes than the whites. Africans probably very few Africans were allowed to own land right and most Africans had did not have any access to European kind of schooling that sort of thing. So because of this these so-called the supposedly neutral qualifications or thresholds etc. They excluded the overwhelming majority of black adults from the right to vote. So a few lakh a few hundred,000 white people held the majority of the elected seats and millions of black people. they only had a handful of seats and most of these seats were chosen indirectly through nominations from chiefs or whatever not by the popular vote. So the theory and practice are very different in in theory anybody meeting these criteria was allowed to vote but in practice these tests these these criteria were designed and maintained in such a way that they preserved white dominance in a black majority country. So that was the deal. So it so these criteria were built on a racially unequal society and the right to vote was clearly demarcated on racial lines. Uh even though it was not explicitly demarcated or defined by ethnicity and these are the this is how you can use laws to exclude people even though they sound neutral on paper and it's it's not just Rhdesia where such things happen. You can look closer to home and examine certain lows and you will find that though they sound neutral, they are actually very skewed. Very interesting. All right. Shub says we all know about atrocities done by the axis in the second world war. What's the axis? It is the alliance of Germany, Italy and Japan. That's the axis, right? So we all know about the atrocities done by the axis in the second world war. We don't have to discuss that. We all know right? Please tell us about the other side too as their war crimes are often hidden. Well you see it's something that's not taught in your schools. It's something that no textbook will write about. And so it's it's prudent not to talk about it in too much detail. Yeah. But there was a significant period of ethnic cleansing of Germans and also Italians after the second world war. Okay. So the mythology is the the what what we are told what the Hollywood mythology etc is that the allies were the good guys. They were bringing freedom to the people of Europe. They were bringing freedom to the people of Germany. They are bringing law and order to the people of Germany and to Europe. Right? The truth is that it's uh this the truth is complicated. The allies were often just as brutal as the Germans. Okay. Um look at the end of the day. The Americans and their allies, they were not fighting for human rights and freedom and democracy and all that wonderful stuff. They were fighting for power and control. They were fighting to create a new world order based on whatever benefited them. So they wanted as much power, as much control, as much domination of the world as possible. And Germany was a problem for them. That's why in Japan also, Italy did not matter that much. So that's why u they were fighting the war. At the end of the day, the allies won, the Americans won actually. And that was the the the beginning of what became the American Empire which still rules the world. So you may not have heard of these territories, German territories called Pomerania, East Prussia, Slesia where you had German populations that lived there. Today these territories are part of either either uh Poland or or Russia or the Czech Republic or Austria or some you know it's divided among these countries and you you probably don't have any Germans living there. So more than 10 million maybe up to 15 maybe 10 to 15 million Germans were evicted from these territories. It's called ethnic cleansing by the way. Yeah, they were evicted from these territories, driven out and uh what's the death toll? More than 2 million perhaps? More than 2 and a half million perhaps. So the death toll could be between several hundred thousand to 2 and a half million. Maybe more, maybe whatever. Right? So it's it's a massive it's it's a it's a massive massive u case of ethnic cleansing that happened in the aftermath of the end of the second world war but you won't find uh any history textbook speaking about this right um and many such atrocities were committed during the second world war I'm not trying to nobody can deny what the Germans did the holocaust nobody can deny that no one's even trying to deny No one can deny what the Japanese did, right? Nanjing and so much more. All those things happen. But it's not like the allies don't do anything. They were sometimes equally bad. Nobody can deny what the Soviets also did. The Soviet atrocities were also terrible. So the Nazis committed horrific crimes, war crimes, no question. So did the Soviets. So did the Japanese. Italians, not so much. Nothing not nothing comparable to the that scale. But even the allies did similar things. But you don't speak about that today. So I won't go into too much detail about this. But uh you know that's the deal right. Amisha says Rajuts of the Hindu Shahi dynasty of Kabul, Zabul and Kandahar held their posts and defeated the most indestructible force in the world Islamic caliphate for two centuries. Persia fell in 22 years, Egypt in 10 years. But the Hindu Shahi uh they fought for over two centuries. The Hindu Shahi dynasty first of all you know when the Hindu Shahi dynasty ruled over Gandhar for about for about two centuries let's say okay roughly two centuries at that time they were not called Rajputs. This term Rajput emerged in about 5 600 years ago. But the people who were are retrospectively called Rajputs, they did not call themselves Rajput. So first of all, we have to understand that this is a newer term. It did not exist. The term Rajput did not exist at the time of the Hindu Shai dynasty and the dynasties of the first millennium AD. But today they are classified as Rajputs. First of all, we we're not quite sure if uh what are the origins of the Hindu Shahai dynasty. So before the Hindu Shahi dynasty, okay, we had the Turk Shahis who ruled in Gandhar which is northern western Pakistan, Afghanistan etc. That overall region is called Gandhar. The Turk Shahis were the descendants of the Schwa Hunas the Huns. The horns who tried their best to conquer India during the Gupta Empire and who failed. They were driven off repeatedly by our great emperor Scandag Gupta. But after Scandupta's death, the Horns prevailed and they swept into India and they eventually assimilated into the Indian population. They became Indians. Their descendants live all among us. So they established the Huns. They established a dynasty in Gandhar which came to be known as the Turk Shahis. See the Turks are descendants of the Huns. So this Hunic descended dynasty in Gandhar came to be known as the Turk Shahis because the Hun Turks are the same thing. And the Turk Shahis they ruled from the 7th century AD to the 9th century AD roughly roughly 150 to 100 years. They adopted Hinduism and Buddhism. And the Turk Shahis, descendants of Huns who were by blood Turk, they became Hindus and Buddhists. And for one and a half or two centuries, they fought the Abbasid caliphate to safeguard India. They fought the Abbasad Khalifhat for nearly two centuries. Okay. The Turks fought for India. They fought to safeguard India from the Abbasad caliphate. Eventually in the 9th century AD somewhere around that time the Turkis finally were defeated. Their last king was forced to convert to Islam and one of his ministers possibly a Brahman possibly Chhatria we don't know quite he took over the leadership and he established a new dynasty which came to be known as the Hindu Shahi dynasty. The Hindu Shahis were shvites. They moved on from the Gandhara script and they started using the Shahara script. Okay? And they ruled from the 9th century AD to the 11th century AD. The Hindu the the the Turk Shahis fought the Abbasid caliphate and they spent two year two centuries roughly defending India from the Abbasids. They eventually had to convert to Islam. They were defeated. The Hindu Shahis they fought not the Abbasid Khalivid they fought the Gaznavi Empire. Okay. So they did that for a couple of centuries. What was the Gaznavi Empire? It was based out of Gazni. Eventually it was based out of Gazni in Afghanistan in Gandhar. And the Gaznavids were Turk in nature in by ethnicity. They were Turk. They were of Mamluk descent. What does it mean Mamluk? It means they were freed slaves. They were slave soldiers who eventually became rulers. Right? Uh so that was the Gnavi Empire and the Hindu Shahis they fought the Gaznavids for roughly two centuries. And you can call them Rajputs, you can call them whatever. There are different accounts, varying accounts. Some Turk accounts say that the the Hindu Shahis were of Brahman origin. Some other accounts are that they were of Chhatri origin. It doesn't matter. They fought. It makes them warriors and you could call them Rajputs. Um so yeah they they defended India for two centuries from the Gnavids and eventually you had the they also were defeated right that as we know. So you have these centuries of resistance to Arabic and and Turic invasions of India by the Turk Shahes by the Hindu Shahes by various Rajput kingdoms in the north and west of India that your history textbooks and your teachers won't teach you about and that's a travesty we should know about these things. So I'm glad this question has been asked. I appreciate that very much. Amisha again says, "Did Adolf Hitler actually derive inspiration from US policies towards Native Americans for the Holocaust?" Let's understand this. We know what Adolf Hitler did. The Holocaust of it is said 6 million Jews, right? Uh in various horrific death camps and whatnot. Oshwitz, Soibbor, Ribbina and and so on. Horrific chapter of history. not fun to talk about. So we'll not discuss it but where did Adolf Fetra get the idea from? Where did he get the inspiration from? Did he get this inspiration of what he did to the Jews from US policies towards Native Americans? And that's the question Amisha is asking. Very interesting question. What is the truth? The truth is very interesting. So Adolf Fitler was indeed someone who studied US policies, US racial policies towards the blacks and the native Americans. and US expansionist policy. The US, how the US expanded relentlessly westwards from its initial base on the east coast of what is today the United States and then it expanded relentlessly, inexorably westwards, grabbing and gobbling up more and more Native American territory, displacing the Native Americans, genociding them, massacring them if required, eventually taking the whole continent essentially, right? So Hitler, he studied this in detail. He looked upon what the Americans did as a model for what he should do in Europe. But it was not necessarily the single straightforward blueprint for the the Holocaust that he committed. So and how do we know this? See Hitler wrote about this in Minecom. Minecom is this book that he wrote my struggle very unreadable book actually I tried more than 20 years ago um pretty hard to read but he wrote about this in mine and Hitler's writings speak about the fact that he regarded the the United States as a racial state as as one of the most successful racial states on the world in in the world because of its successful successful immigration restrictions because of the segregation system that the United States had at the time and because of the conquest of the western continental frontier that the Americans successfully carried out. He was a huge fan of the United States. He was very pleased that a a Nordic population, white skinned population had displaced inferior brownskinned indigenous people and conquered their territory. And they had structured citizenship, they had structured immigration on the basis of racial lines, on the basis of so-called white superiority. And Hitler said that this is a great model. It's it sets a great precedent for what his goals were in Europe, especially Eastern Europe, the German uh the Nazi uh desire for a lib in Eastern Europe to to conquer Eastern European territories and settle Germans there. And what should be done with the people who lived there? Deal with them the way the Americans dealt with the native Americans. Yeah. So the so the Nazis, not just Hitler, but the Nazis, they they studied all of this. They studied American laws, anti-misogenation laws, uh the Jim Crow, the segregation uh laws and policies, etc. The gym the Jim Crow rules or laws the Americans had. They studied the citizenship and immigration laws or rules that favored white Europeans and excluded non-whites. They examined laws that dealt with the Indian problem, the Native American problem, reservation policies and how to treat the natives and their native nations. Um to treat them as as people who are under your jurisdiction, under your subjugation who are not sovereign. Don't treat them as sovereign peoples. Treat treat them as as wards. Yeah. So Hitler studied all of this and uh they saw the American conquest of America as the as uh as the precedent for the Nazi um desire for a leven in Eastern Europe. So um and you can see that the way the Americans dehumanized the Native Americans, you know, the way they forcibly removed them, the way they they the way they forcibly removed them from the their territory, the way the Americans used hunger as a weapon against the Native Americans, all of this the Germans would eventually replicate when it comes to the people they whose territories they conquered and the people they subjugated. So you can see there are a lot there are a lot of the Nazi actions were you could say influenced by American actions in the 18th and 19th centuries even 20th century in in a variety of ways right so they consciously used aspects of US policy of US race law as models and as justification for what they did so Hitler was a huge fan of the United States right he looked up to the United states. Um, so that was the deal. But when it comes to the Holocaust, the the the genocide of the Jews that the Germans that the Nazis committed, uh, you could say it's it's not just based on what the Americans did to the to the native populations of North America. It was also based on anti-semitism, which, you know, in Europe there's a 2,000-y old history of anti-semitism. So, it was also based on that, not just, you know, based on what the Americans did. It was also based on various German colonial practices. It was based on the experiences the Germans had in the first world war. It was based on Nazi ideology also racial superiority, the Uber mench, that sort of thing. So all these different influences came together including the very important model that they copied from the US. Um and that gave rise to well the displacement of people in Eastern Europe. um the concentration camps that the Germans that the Nazis set up, the systematic genocide of the Jewish people, all of that. So the US policies towards Native Americans are one strand of influence in um in the way the Nazis behaved. It's not the only thing, but it was definitely a major and and very important influence on the Nazis and on Hitler's policies and behavior and actions. Salon Mishra says in what language what language did emperor Ashoke use to speak what was his mother mother tongue the language he used for talking for speaking what about Chandra Gupta Moria so Chandra Gupta Moria was Ashok's grandfather what language did they use so if you look at Ashok's inscriptions they are in magadi praarit in in the Magad region and in other parts of India but not always. Right? If you look at northern India, northern India, northwestern India which is which is now Afghanistan over there you will find their their inscriptions in other languages like Aramaic also because you know there was a place where you had people from other countries coming in from other kingdoms other regions of the of Eurasia coming in. So you would have to write those inscriptions in in international languages. So you does Ashok have inscriptions in Greek definitely Aramaic but I'm not sure but if you look at his u inscriptions south of Gandhar you will find that they are mostly written in madiar which would indicate that that was not just the state language the official language of the state because if you write an inscription in that language it means it's the official language of the state so most likely the official language of the state was magi pakarit and that would also have been is the language he used to communicate most likely. Beyond that we don't have any further information. So whatever we say has to be based on whatever evidence we have. So there is madi there is ardamadi pak perhaps right and that would have been the language of not just ashok but also his grandfather and also probably vishnuishaka who would also have known sanskrit obviously because he wrote the art chastra in sanskrit. So yeah and then we have later on the Kushan Empire that employed multiple languages. Um we also have the Gupta Empire that used classical Sanskrit in its official communications. Right? So you have various empires using different languages for official communications. And it's very interesting too. I mean what would that language have sounded like? We have all these historians with PhDs who hold professorships in Indian universities but they don't want to do this research. What would a conversation in Madi Prait have sounded like? Why can't we reconstruct that language which is definitely going to be an upper branch language of Sanskrit. So it will not be that difficult to reconstruct but nobody has bothered to do these things. Everyone focuses on Pali for some reason. Pali Pali Pali Pali. What about Madi Pakarit? What about Maharashtri Prait? The ancestral language of the Marathi language. There are so many praits that were spoken in India in various parts of the subcontinent at different times in India. Nobody has bothered to reconstruct these languages. So it's it's uh sad that that's the case. Our historians clearly have specific agendas and they will stick to those those agendas. Uh but yeah, so the language of Emperor Rashok was most likely Magadi Praarit from about 2,000ish BC or two 2,200ish BC around that time. Swapil Mishra says, "What do we know about the first humans who arrived in the Indian subcontinent and how do they compare to early humans in Africa and the rest of Asia?" Early humans. So look, when we talk about early humans, we can talk about the early archaic humans and the early modern humans. The early modern humans are homo sapiens, right? We are the modern humans and the earliest homo sapiens where their fossil remains were discovered in North Africa and those date back to about 400,000 years before today. A place called Jibel Hud in North Africa. So the oldest known fossils of homo sapiens date back to about 400,000 years ago. But the oldest evidence of homo sapiens in the subcontinent, it it dates back to probably about 80,000 years before today. But that's not the oldest evidence of humans in the subcontinent. We have older humans whose remains and evidence have been discovered in the subcontinent. That is most likely Homo erectus. The oldest evidence of the presence of Homo erectus in India in the subcontinent is about 1 and a half million years old and that's in two archaeological sites. One is in Tamil Nadu, one is in Karnataka. And they have discovered indirect evidence of the presence of Homo erectus. How so? So they haven't discovered fossil remains of Homo erectus bones. They haven't discovered that. But they have discovered stone tools that were clearly made by human beings. And how do you date how old stones are? Because you can't do carbon dating of stones. You date them based on how how deep they were buried. in the archaeological record and and based on that you can kind of roughly estimate the date around which these artifacts were created. So that dates back to about 1 one and a half million years before today. Homo erectus. Then you have archaeological evidence from the Nurmada valley. That's there's a village whose name I can't recall. You can look it up where fossil evidence of ancient humans was found and that's about 300,000 years old in the Nermada Valley and that once again is Homo erectus most likely and what they discovered was a skull cap you know the top of the skull that part and a clavicle you know the collar bone the collar bone is this bone here so they found a cavicle and u the top of the skull the skull cap and that is most likely Homo erectus or the Nurmada Valley variant of Homo erectus and that is about 300,000 years old. When it comes to the oldest Homo sapiens, there is evidence of Homo sapiens surviving the Toba super volcano eruption in the subcontinent. So the Toba super volcano eruption did not happen in the subcontinent. It it happened in Indonesia, what is now Indonesia. It happened about 74,000 years ago. And there's evidence of a layer of ash from that super volcano eruption in various parts of India. And in one archaeological site you find evidence of stone tools under the layer of ash which means it precedes that and also just after the layer of ash just above it which means humans in India survived the tuba super volcano eruption that is homo sapiens most likely. So the out of Africa migration happened between 80,000 to 60,000 years ago roughly. We don't know for sure exactly but yeah so India was the first place where homo sapiens properly set you know set up shop and uh we had a thriving population of homo sapiens here and we are the the descendants of those early uh settlers. So yeah, so our ancestors 80,000 74,000 years ago they survived the Toba super volcano eruption and genetically we know that India has the oldest non-African populations in the world. When it comes to when it comes to matrinal uh genetic lineages, mitochondrial haplo groups uh haplo groupoups m and mn m and n are the oldest non-African matrinal haplo groups or lineages in the world genetic lineages and both originate in the Indian subcontinent and the oldest non-affrican patrineal genetic lineage which is haplo F which is a Y chromosomal hyper hyper group. It is also something that originated in India. So that's what we know from the genetic record. The fossil record of homo sapiens in India is very fragmentaryary especially you know the older record because nobody has done bothered to do archaeology in India. Nobody cares. Right? If we do take up the bother to do archaeology, you will find, I expect, staggering, stunning discoveries that will rewrite the history of humanity because India was the first place where homo sapiens properly settled down after the out of Africa migration. It's in India that that small group of migrants came and settled and established a large burgeoning growing population which eventually numbered in the millions. And it's from India that various groups of travelers of homo sapiens eventually went in different directions across Eurasia and settled down and you know set up human populations there and we see that in the genetic record. The oldest lineages both male and female non-affrican lineages are Indian. So if our archaeologists decide to wake the hell up and start doing archaeology, start doing what they are paid for, then we will find stunning discoveries in India of the origins of the oldest non-affrican homo sapiens population. It's just waiting to be discovered. Someday it'll happen hopefully. Okay. Sam says as you said a country needs a just cause to go to war against another country then what was the just cause of the Soviet Union to attack Afghanistan you see just causes are for weak countries if you are super powerful you don't need any just cause you can bend the laws as per your whims and desires rules-based world order it's only for the weak if I set the rules I can always rewrite the rules and do whatever I want I can go and flatten Iraq if I want I can go and flatten some other country if I want. Yeah. So it's the the just cause for war. It's only for weak countries. Now let's come to what we are discussing here. Soviet Union and Afghanistan. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan which happened in 1979 December probably 25 December 1979 if I am if I recall correctly. You can look up the exact date which may differ perhaps or maybe not whatever. So what was the just cause for the Soviets or the cause of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. So as always we have to go back in history to understand the cause and effect chain to understand what caused all of this. So let's go to the 19th century. See when I was first for the first time asked about the history of the Ukraine war. Why did this war happen? I went back to 1000 AD. So I am doing you a favor. I'm only going to the 19th century here. 19th century we had the Sikh Empire. The Sikh Empire whose great ruler was Shri Ranjit Singh. Maharaj Ranjit Singh and he liberated Kashmir from the Afghans. By the time the Afghans of Gandhar had converted fully to Islam and they had conquered Kashmir and they had done a horrific atrocities to the people of Kashmir. So Maharajjit Singh liberated Kashmir from the Afghans and he also grabbed significant Afghan territories as punishment as a punitive measure. So that was the western and northern and western frontier of the of the Sikh empire which included significant pashon territories. Then the British defeated the Sikh Empire and took over the Sikh Empire. And eventually when they when the British who occupied India when they finally decided to demarcate the India Afghanistan boundary after the Angloik wars, they decided to create this Duran line along along the the the borders of the Sikh Empire which included a lot of Pashon territory. Okay. In 1947 when the British left and divided India, partitioned India, that became the Pakistan Afghanistan boundary and that is the cause of a major territorial dispute that exists even today. Now let's once again go back in the 20th century you had Muhammad Dawud Khan I believe who was the who was the cousin of the ruler of Afghanistan. the the ruler of Afghanistan, his name was Zahir Sha and his cousin Muhammad Dawud Khan was appointed by Zahir Sha as the prime minister of Afghanistan. Now Muhammad Dawud Sha had the choice. See now the 20th century you have the cold war right after the end of the second world war you have the cold war and Pakistan has allied itself with the Americans and Pakistan Afghanistan have this major territorial dispute. So so um this guy Dawud Khan Dawud Khan he had the choice he he had to decide what to do. Do I also align like Pakistan with the Americans or do I align myself and my country with the Soviets? So there was a tug of war. Both the Americans and Soviets were courting Afghanistan. But Dawud Mohammed Daw Khan decided to go with go with the USSR. So the Soviets were very happy. They were very pleased that Afghanistan is on our side and they gave Afghanistan all kinds of aid, all kinds of support. They uh sold lots of military equipment, tanks, fighter planes, artillery, small arms, ammunition, all that to to Afghanistan. They also the Soviets also set up air bases in Afghanistan. Who constructed Bagram air base? It was the USSR who constructed the Bagram Air Base for the for the Afghans. They also used it. So, so all this happens in the 1950s. It's around the 1950s that this happens. So, Afghanistan initially Muhammad Alhan initially was thinking about being on the American side. But the Americans insisted that you to you to sign agreements with us. You to sign a mutual defense agreement etc. which essentially vasalizes you. And Afghanistan did not want to be vasalized. So they went with the Soviets. India was also aligned with the Soviets. Afghanistan was also aligned with the Soviets. So the Americans now pro the Pakistanis that create problems for Afghanistan. Right? So the Pakistanis start using Islamist tactics in Afghanistan. See the the government of Afghanistan the Muhammad Daud Khan government was a nationalistic government and and a nationalistic government will want its territory back. So Pakistan said let's let's u you know try and do a regime change in Afghanistan and put an Islamist government in place so that it's all about religion not about territory anymore. So that makes Pakistan and Afghanistan on the same page. So they tried to you know prop up you know they tried to forment troubles in Afghanistan and there were clashes along the Afghanistan Pakistan border you know low-level clashes and so on. So this continues in the 1950s60s. Uh eventually what happens in the 1970s is that the Pakistanis are supporting these warlords um warlords such as Burhanuin Rabani Gulbodin Hebati Ahmed Sham Masud etc. They are supporting these warlords and tried trying to create lots of trouble for Afghanistan. And then there is an attempt to do a coup in Afghanistan. At some point in time in the 1970s, Muhammad Dawud Khan ousted his his his uncle Zahir Sha as the sha as a king of Afghanistan and he proclaimed Afghanistan as a republic. Okay. And then there is this trouble with Pakistan. The Pakistanis are trying to use Islamism um as a tool against Afghanistan. Then there is an attempted coup in Afghanistan in the late 1970s somewhere probably 78 or something. Um and Muhammad Daud Sha is able to suppress that but then there are protests against him and the Islamists become very powerful and there's a lot of instability and Muhammad Daw Shad massacres some people that sort of thing happens and then and then the Soviets they had also cultivated a a communist party in Afghanistan which was called the Afghanistan people's democratic party or something and eventually they there was a revolution in Afghanistan called the sour revolution and you had a communist takeover of the country by this Afghanistan people's democratic party or whatever Muhammad Daw Sha is uh killed in that coup and then there is infighting in 1978 or thereabouts between various factions in the communist party and the Soviets who are very happy with this communist takeover of Afghanistan they are trying to patch things up but the guy who is in power whose name I forget. He said that I will not listen to the Soviet Union. If you guys try to pressurize me, I will go and go get into bed with the Americans. Okay. So he started become becoming pro America. And that was the last stro for the USSR. So Leonit Brev in 1975 said invade. And that's how the invasion happened in 1979. So long story short, the Soviets wanted control over Afghanistan. They could not afford to have Afghanistan fall into Pakistani and American orbits and that's why they invaded Afghanistan. But they they don't do a good job of it as we know and eventually it was a catastrophe. So whether you can call it a just cause, unjust cause, whatever, but that is how it happened. Those were that was a chain of events roughly. You can read the details with all the dates etc. But that's overall how it happened. Krishna of the Surinamese Netherlands says I understand from your explanations about vegetarianism that it originally originally comes from Janism and Buddhism. Do you mean that vegetarianism does not belong to Hinduism at all? Do I understand that correctly? You see Hindu what we call Hinduism is not something that has a 500 year history. It has maybe 10,000 years of history maybe even more. The oldest text of what we call Hinduism today. Today we call Hinduism. The oldest text of that is the Rigveda which was written thousands of years ago at a time when the Sarasati River was in her prime. That's when the Riga was written. What year what is was it? We don't know for sure. Maybe closer to 6,000 BC than to 2,000 BC because 2,000 BC the river disappears in the southern half of its course. um and 6,000 BC is when the decline initially starts the decline of the river. So the rigida was written closer to 6,000 BC than to 2,000 BC. Now the oldest religious text not just for Hinduism but for the entire world. The oldest literary text in the world therefore is the rigida. Now that is you could say the foundation of Hindu what what we call Hinduism today. Eventually you had other vedas that were written and then you had so many tens of thousands of texts that were written about Hinduism which are all part of what we now call Hinduism. So if we look at the original text the foundational text the oldest text the riga what does it say about eating meat? It says so here's here are the things it says it says killing of cows is unacceptable. Cows are not to be killed. If somebody kills cow, the punishment should be really harsh. So cows are not to be killed. That's what the rigida says. The rigida also says that horses are not to be killed unless it's the ashamed yagna. So only a great king can do it. Otherwise horses can't be killed. It doesn't say anything about any other animals. And it does prescribe various yagnas in which animals are sacrificed and eaten. So in the rigveda it's very clear you don't kill cows, you don't kill horses except if you are a great chakraarti king and you then you can do the asha yagna. So the rigida doesn't say a thing about not eating meat. It only specifies which animals are not to be killed. That's all. So do you have any advocacy or prescription for vegetarianism in the rigida? None whatsoever. Then you have aturva which comes later. Right? In the we have lists of animals which should not be killed. So it it it's an expanded list. It not only has the cow and the horse, it also has deer, you know, wild deers and various other animals. So it's an expanded list of of course the rigid also says you can't kill humans. Okay, it says you can't kill humans unless it's war or crime or whatever. So in the in the yajour ve you have other animals that can't be killed but but once again it doesn't say that you have a universal prescription or mandate for being vegetarian. Later we have all kinds of other philosophical schools of thought that came in right later schools of thought and some of these become you know advocates of vegetarianism. So today depending on what school of thought you follow whether you are a Vishna whether you are a shite whether you are this whether you are that depending on what you follow you will live a certain lifestyle right so univers so Hinduism is not a universal universalistic way of life or religion it's not a monolithic religion all kinds of practices are allowed in Hinduism you can be a pure vegetarianism or you can be a pure vegetarian You can be vegan if you want to. You can eat only spaghetti if it's if if it suits you. Spaghetti ugly olio or you could eat carnivorous diet if you if you like. The only thing you can't eat if you're a Hindu which all aspects of Hinduism agree upon is cows. Apart from that and I'm sure also horses. Yeah. Why would you want to eat horses by the way? And of course um um I don't think I would discuss dogs and cats right over here because no Indians would no in no civilized Indian eats dogs or cats. Um yeah anyway so there's no references to dogs or cats in the atravida but there is reference to there's a reference to a dog in the mahabharat right because yudushir when he finally met with lord yama yamraj he said that I will not ascend to heaven unless I can bring my dog with me because he has been faithful to me all this time I can't leave my friend friend behind so Yamaraj had to lord Yama had to agree to the dog join ing yudish in the swagal loca. So that's how we know that in our swagal loca dogs are allowed. So anyway that's the deal. So if you look at the rigid there is no advocacy there is no prescription that you can't eat meat. None whatsoever. And then depending on which school of thought or school philosophical school of thought you follow in Hinduism today you may or you may not eat meat. But so so it's allowed if you want to if you are a shaka I suppose you eat meat if you are a shite I suppose you can eat meat if you are a vishnav no no no meat no no no no no no no no and other other stuff as well so it's entirely up to you it's your choice what appeals to you which way of life appeals to you within Hinduism you can do whatever the only thing is you can't eat beef that's Brian Seeker Biswar says, "Could you explain the origins of the Ben Israeli Benes Jewish community in India? How the roots compare with those of other Jewish groups like the Kochin Jews and Baghdadi Jews? Is there any actual historical and genetic study suggesting how these distinct Jewish communities emerged and evolved in the Indian subcontinent?" Okay. So, the Beni Israel Jews are the Maharashtrain Jews. They live on the west coast of India and you know Maharashtra region. Then you have the Kochin Jews who are Kerala Jews and then you have the Baghdadi Jews who came much later. So what's the origin of the Ben Israeli community? It is said that around 2,100 or 2,200 years ago, a group of Jewish people was shipwrecked on the west coast of India and that happened to be the Maharashtra region, what is today the Maharashtra region and uh seven couples survived. Seven Jewish couples survived and they settled down in western India in Maharashtra and uh their descendants are the Beni Israeli. their roots go back about 200 2,100 or 2,200 years ago. So it it corresponds with the Seucid Empire, a time when the Seucid Empire had was was oppressing the Jews in their homeland. Yeah. Who was it? Which was the king? Antiocus something or whoever it was. So yeah, that's the origin said that's said to be the origin of the Ben Israeli community and for 2,000 plus years they have been in India and they have become super Indianized. They don't even look Israeli or Jewish. They look like Indians but they continue to practice certain aspects of Judaism like uh Israeli is the prayer. So they would do the prayer. uh they would uh do circumcision or whatever that is certain Jewish practices they were able to they they were able to remember and continue and they they they they observed Shabbat which is they don't work on Saturday or something whatever it is and they were able to live in India prosper thrive and they became super Indianized over time and later some Jewish people who came to India much later discovered this group of people who are practicing in Judaism but have be who have become Indian and they reintroduced some other ways of Judaism to them and that's that's a story genetically there have been some studies I don't have the exact studies with me right now but that kind of those studies do indicate that these people have mixed ancestry significant Indian ancestry but also ancestry from West Asia and that ancestry dates back to about roughly 2,000 years ago so the Beni Israeli are indeed of West Asian probably Jewish uh ancestry and they have been in India for over 2,000 years and they have thrived in India for 2,000 over 2,000 years. The coaching Jews are said to be even older an even older Jewish population. Um according to their folklore they either come from the time of king Solomon that is about said to be about 900 BC or maybe the time of the Babylonian exile which is the 6th century BC or something. So around that time they they came to India and they settled down in Kerala. So they have been in India for a very very very long time. And about about 500 or so years ago there was the expulsion of the um of the Iberian Jews from Spain as part of the aftermath of the reconista which happened in 1492 or thereabouts. You can look up the dates reconista. And in the aftermath of the reconista of Spain, expulsion of the Islamic Mo from Spain, the Jews were also expelled, the Sepharim. And a bunch of these Jews, Safharim Jews, Sepharic Jews, they came and settled down in Kerala and intermingled with the Cochin Jews. And they called the Cochin Jews black Jews because they had become Indian. And the Sepharin were white whitish. So they mixed with the uh intermingled with the coaching Jews. Today's coaching Jews are a descendant of those two communities. The old ancient um community from um from probably during the Babylonian exile time but definitely before the Roman destruction of the second temple and the sepharen who came about what the 16th century AD. So that's the Kochin Jews. The Baghdadi Jews are a very recent Jews entrance into India. um what 17th 18th centuries around that time the Baghdadi Jews came to India. They settled down in western India. The first place they settled down was probably Surat in West India, western India, Gujarat, southern Gujarat, then Mumbai which was then called Bombay and one of the most prominent of the Baghdadi Jewish families was the Sassoons. So the Baghdadi Jews came from West Asia from uh the Iraq region, Baghdad, Basarak also Syria, Aleppo etc. and they did not intermix that much with the Indians. They remained separate and distinct and the Fasoons became like I said a very prominent uh industrialized industrial family, a business family, very very wealthy. They were called the Roshells of the east or something. Okay. and they were they were into various enterprises. Um you have the Sassoon docks in Mumbai which is named after the Cassoons. You have the Cassoon library also in Mumbai and the Cassoons are al they also made their presence felt in China in Shanghai. In 19th century China the Cassoons played a significant role in what the Chinese call the century of humiliation beginning with the opium wars. The Cassoons were prominent traders of opium and so on. So anyhow these are the distant distinct Jewish communities that emerged and evolved in the subcontinent. When it comes to the Baghdadi sorry the Benisraeli and the Kochin Jews there is genetic evidence that corroborates those those uh folk that that folklore that they have about themselves that kind of corroorates what they have said. Um and the the the the Baghdadi Jews hardly exist in India at all anymore. I don't think any of them exist today. But uh the BI is some of them do exist. The coin some of them still exist in India. Um most of the Jewish people have done aliyah. They have gone and settled down in Israel and set up cricket clubs over there. Some still live in India. And India is one place that has welcomed the Jews with open arms and treated them the same as Indians. And the Jews have prospered in India. Not a single instance of anti-semitism ever against Jews has occurred in India. The Europeans, the way they've treated Jews for 2,000 years. All kinds of horrific accusations against the Jews. Blood liel and what uh I don't know the poisoning of wealths allegedly. All that nonsense. If the Jews are so evil and so on like the Europeans have claimed for 2,000 years. How did how come the Jews never did such any such thing in India? So clearly the Europeans have been lying for 2,000 years. No question about it. Interesting, isn't it? Right. Rishi says, "Why does Wikipedia propagate the lie that Brahmic scripts come from the from Egyptian heroglyphics when it's obvious that Brahmic scripts originated in India?" Let's find out what Wikipedia is saying. As I always say, Wikipedia is not necessarily a reliable source of information. It lies about India. Okay, let's see. Brah, no, sorry. Brahmic scripts. All right. What does Wikipedia say about this Wikipedia? Um, go on, bro. Okay, they are descended from the Brahi script. Let's go to what it says about Brahiscript. It says the Brahmos scripts it originates in the Aramaic alphabet which comes from the Phoenician alphabet eventually from the Egyptian heroglyphs. So that's what it claims. The origin of the script is still debated but most scholars state that Brahmy was derived from or influenced by semiotic scripts, contemporary sematic scripts. U some scholars favor the idea of an indigenous origin but the evidence is insufficient at best. But there is apparently evidence that it came it comes from Aramaic and eventually Egyptian heroglyphs. Interesting, isn't it? Now, now let's go back to Google and see what our friend Groipedia has to say about this. Elon Musk's neutral version of Wikipedia. Let's see what it has to say. Okay. Brahmei script Groipedia. Groipedia. What's it say? Okay, Grochipedia. Let's go to Grocipedia. It's going to be dark screen. Dark dark. Yeah, here. Here we have it. The braiscript is an ancient abigura writing system. Blah blah blah blah blah. Evidence suggesting it was a deliberate invention or adaptation. Its development reflects encloses from sematic scripts like Aramaic introduced through trade or administrative conducts but restructured into an indigenous alphabetical order bas based on vicology. So even Groipedia, Elon Musk's allegedly neutral version of Wikipedia or neutral um encyclopedia says that Brahmy has come from the Sematic scripts, Aramaic eventually Egyptian herographs. Absolute nonsense. The Brahi script has come from the Indus, the so-called Indascript, the Saraswati script, the Indus Sarasati script, the Hindu Saras script. No question about it. which has been recently deciphered by Barat Rao also known as Yajjan Devam and you can watch my conversation with him on this very channel. Okay, he has deciphered the um Sarasati Sindu script, Indascript, whatever you want to call it and the Brahi script is clearly derived from the Indascript. No question about it. So Wikipedia, Grochipedia, all these encyclopedia, Britannica, they're they all have this euroentric perspective which seeks to minimize everything that India has done and that's that's why we have this situation. No surprise there. Suhin Reyes says at the time of independence in 1947, why did our leaders not show any interest in merging neighbors like Nepal, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Bhutan into India? You know there's this uh apocryphal story about Stalin right when the Indian ambassador to the USSR met with Stalin um Stalin was shown a map of the Indian subcontinent with India Pakistan blah blah blah all that and Stalin points to this island he says what is this island south of India and the Indian ambassador proudly says this is the independent nation of Sri Lanka and Stalin looks at looks at the person with disbelief and says why is that an independent nation why What is wrong with you people? So at the time of independence 1947, our leaders clearly did not show any interest in merging neighbors like Nepal, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Bhutan into India. On the contrary, they were very willing to help the British in balconizing India. They created East and West Pakistan out of India out of our territory, the territory that our ancestors lived in. Right? They our our our so-called leaders were willing to create this very thin chicken neck which connected our far east with the mainland and put east Pakistan in the middle and today we still have the same problem. We gave up Pakistan. We gave up gave up parts of Kashmir. We gave up Axai. Our leaders were not interested in in in merging new territories into India or old ter or or or reabsorbing old old territories. They were happy to allow India to be fragmented and bulcanized further. The Sultan of Oman offered guada to India. We refused. The Khan of Kalat in Balojasthan wanted to merge with India. We refused. The Maharaja of Kashmir had to request Mr. Nu three times by sending the instrument of accession three times to Mr. Neu and NU refused. It was Mount Batton who finally accepted. There are so many stories. We gave up the Kabo Valley which was historically part of Manipur, the kingdom of Manipur. We gave up to gave it up to Burma. We gave up the Koko Islands to Burma as a gift. He has a gift for as it belongs to me, right? So I I'll give it up. That's the kind of leaders we had. Why? I have no idea. I I don't I don't know what they were thinking. What the great magnificent man was thinking. I have no idea why. Beats me. Okay. All right. Multiple questions about the same topic. Really? now says when exactly did the Europeans start significant intellectual theft from India they had no inventions and discoveries for a forever essentially and then suddenly there was this barrage of new theorems and concepts this period also seems to coincide with India's decline under successful invasions and the beginning of Turk colonialism perplexity refuses to admit that Kepler or Newton got any knowledge from India no intellectual theft happened and these people only built upon what their European predecessors like Taikobra Calleo uh and Copernicus originally came up with infuriating all major physics laws formulated by Europeans like Kepler, Newton, Galileo's discoveries of sudden rings etc all seemed to be from the 1600s. Suddenly everything starts starts in the 1600s right after Jesuits visited India and European colonial colonialism was taking root. Is it a coincidence? Also these extractions are called are being called rumors by chat bots like what perplexity I'm sure chat jpd and whoever else right all these chatbots so what's the deal how did this all begin it all begins with the destruction of India's universities and libraries India was the inventor of the concept of the university the oldest university that we know of is Takashila which uh has its origins in the first around the around the mid first millennium BC And we had universities across the length and the breadth of India. Naland Takshila, Tilhara, Udantaapuri, Vikram Shila, Shardir and so on and so forth, so on and so forth. So many. So we have the universities all over the place. Now you have the Turks who eventually start conquering various parts of India. And whenever they see a temple, they destroy it. They plunder all the golden jewels, Jews and all that. And wherever they see universities, initially the Turks sent interpreters and uh scholars okay to India and they would visit our universities to they would visit the libraries and they would take all the texts that they found interesting. So if it was a text about Hindu philosophy, they didn't care about it. But it was if it was a text about mathematics, about astronomy, about pharmarmacology, about toxicology, about uh science, about medicine etc. All these applied subjects they wanted that un that knowledge. So these al-qarismi and al- bironi etc. They all came to India. They took whatever they could, all the texts they could and they studiously, religiously translated all these texts from Sanskrit into either Persian or Arabic. And the Arabs who did this, they did not conceal the fact that this was Indian knowledge. Alarism says he what what did he title his book alabhind? Let's Google it, shall we? Am I making this up? Am I making this up? Let's see. Okay. Kab alhab al hind. What was this? It's a book by the Persian mathematician alisme which translated the Indian decimal positional system to Arabic al-hab right the principles of Hindu reckoning. So that's by Alarismi. Um no this is uh okay this isabi ushab al-hind it's a different book it's a book of mathematics written by kushar ibn laban and you have all these different Arabic um Arabic and Persian translators who translate all these Indian texts into their languages and they don't claim that they invented or discovered any of this but today al-Qism albei are regarded by the dressed as polymats as if they came up with all these concepts on their own. They never claimed that this was their you know this is knowledge that they came up with they were simply translators but today the westerners portray Alqarismi and Alberun etc as the independent discoverers of all these things so that's where the the distortion begins and then you had this Jesuits who would come to India so so what happened is that the Arabs and the Persians that took all of this knowledge from India eventually the the occupier the Turk occupars of India destroyed all the universities and burn burnt all the libraries. But all the interesting texts were taken and absorbed into the and translated into Islamic languages um Persian and Arabic. And all of this knowledge that flowed into the Islamic world, it gave rise to what they call the golden age of Islam. Two three centuries of of liberal thought in Islam of a flowering of knowledge. You had the great library of Baghdad and you know uh the Islamic Golden Age which was brought to a sudden abrupt end by the by the um by the conquest of the Arabic world of the Islamic world by Shri Huligu Khan the grandson of Shri Changis Khan. The he almost destroyed the Islamic world and that was the end of the Islamic golden age. By that time these translations of Hindu texts of of Indian texts were beginning to trickle into Europe and that's why the Europeans decided that this was all all Arabic stuff and even when the Europeans knew that the Arabs Arabs had translated Sanskrit texts they still decided to as to ascribe all this knowledge to the Arabs and they started claiming that Alberun et were polymats. Then 15th 16th century onwards the Jesuits who are the world's greatest thieves of knowledge they started coming to India. They started interacting with Brahmans in various parts of India and collecting astronomical and other data carrying it to to Europe going to Kerala discovering calculus carrying it to Europe and suddenly in the same year both Newton and Libnitz discover calculus. same year for 10,000 years Europe did not know what mathematics was suddenly the same year within a couple of months of each each other few months of each other both lienitz who was in Germany and Newton who was in on on an island in the Atlantic both of them independently discovered calculus what a goddamn joke so the Europeans absorbed as much knowledge as they could most likely um Kepler um who was a student of thyobra if I'm not mistaken. So Kepler most likely got all this astronomical data from India from through Jesuit priests and based on all these centuries of astronomical observations he was able to derive what he called what is now called Kepler's three laws of planetary motion most likely these were these laws were known in India but our historians won't bother to to research this and put it out in the public domain so that's the deal so all of this Indian knowledge scientific knowledge was absorbed by the west and today they portray it as something that either the Arabs have discovered or that they came up with on their own and that's the deal. Okay. Shub says was Zoroastronism a rebellion against Hinduism? Well, so what's the origin of Zoroastrinism? When did it appear or arrive? See, it is said that Kurush, King Kurush, Emperor Kurush, Cyrus the Great, Kurush of Vazarak, it is said that he was not Zoroastpri. So it is said that Zorashinism came after Kurush. So Kurush when did he rule? He was one of the great kings of the Aminid empire dynasty. Uh Cyrus the great the Jews are fond of him because he was benevolent towards them. He freed them. So so obviously the sixth centuryish BCish. Yeah. sixth sixth sixth sixthish century BC that's Cyrus and most likely he was not Zoroastrian which means he followed the pre-zoroastrian religion of Persia what was that we'll not go into it again it was Hinduism paganism it was a form of paganism what Hinduism okay so Cyrus was most likely Hindu but then you have the emergence of prophet Zarat And uh suddenly Zoroastrianism becomes the state religion some point in time. What was the shape and form of Zoroastrianism? So it says that there is the central great god not angra not angramanu but ahuramazda. Angramanu is the bad guy. So ahuram mazda is the good guy. He's the great benevolent god. Then you have other divinities also in zoroastronism. You will be told that Zoroastrianism is monotheistic which is a li which is a lie. Let me show you various Zoroastrian gods. Have you heard of Vitrahan? Let's see. Have you heard of Vitraa? Vitraa is a Zoroastrian Yazat or deity divinity. Okay. Vitraa means he who defeated or destroyed Vitra. Who was Vitra? He was the great serpent who encircled the oceans of the world. And who defe who who defeated Vitra? It was Indra, Lord Indra, who defeated Vitra. Vitrahan in Sanskrit means the slayer of Vitra which means Indra. And Vitra Vitra is one of the deities in Zoroastrianism. So Indra is a Zoroastrian deity. We also have myth. See in in Roman religion we have the mitriic mysteries. The mithriic mysteries. Okay. What is this? A Roman cult mystery religion focused on the god Mitras. This is the worship of the Zoroastrian divinity Mitra. Once again a Zoroastrian god. Who is the Zoroastrian god Mitra? It is some nothing but Mitra. The Vic god Mitra. Mitrauna. Right. Mr and Vun come together. So, Zoroastrinism is polytheistic. It is you could say an offshoot of Hinduism. All the major Hindu divinities are part of the Zoroastran pantheon. But at the top you have some you have the great god Ahur Mazda which probably is an invention of Zoroastra of Zeratustra and you also have the bad guy which is uh Angramano. So it is a is it a rebellion against Hinduism? I think it is nothing very much different from what Goautam Buddha did. He also took dharma into a certain different direction and he yeah so he established his own school of thought which was different from the mainstream school of thought and similarly zoroastra zaratustra also did something similar and he also termed he inverted the the terminology so that so the assuras or ahuras become the good guys and the das become the bad guys in zoroastrinism and in the vic religion it's the other way around the assuras aren't really bad guys in the Vic religion but they are kind of complex divinities aren't there so that's what Zoroastinism was not quite a rebellion against Hinduism but you could say perhaps Zaratustra was a social reformer or something and he wanted to change some aspects of Hinduism so they came up with this thing and which is now and obviously you have the worship of Agni Agni right they have these fires that have been going on for centuries thousands of years. So they worship Agni. So not quite a rebellion of Hindu against Hinduism but kind of a reformation, an attempt to reform Hinduism in certain ways. That's what Zoroastrianism was. Okay, we have crossed two hours but I still have some questions. What do I do? Let's take Okay, let's take one question more. This is by Saloni Mishra. Why did the Roman Empire not focus on conquering the entirety of Europe instead of going to Africa and Asia? Right? Okay. See, when you conquer a territory, it's a big undertaking. You have to set aside a certain number of soldiers, maybe 10,000, maybe 20,000 soldiers. You have to send them to capture a territory that is not yours, which means you have to fight a war. To fight a war, you have to supply them with whatever they need. Arms, ammunition, new weapons. Some of them will die. So you have to resupply them and send more soldiers. Perhaps you have to ensure that they are they have sufficient food supplies. Takes a lot of effort, lot of money. It empties your treasury. So then the question is which territories should should you conquer? Should you conquer all territories or should you conquer those territories from which you will get more money than you spend? See Europe if you look at places like Ukraine tremendous fertile land. Ukraine also existed during Roman times. Makes sense to conquer it. If you look at Gaul which is France and Switzerland very fertile lands and lots of people there you can either use them as slaves or you can use the the land for agriculture and you will get revenue from that. If you conquer Spain, there is gold there. Right? So, wherever you have territories with lots of people, if you conquer those territories, you will get a lot of revenue from there. If you go north of the river Rin or go east of the river Danube, you will find these forested territories, super cold territories, sparsely populated territories like Gmana, Gmana Magna, and the Nordic territories like what is now Sweden, Norway, etc. super cold, super frozen, sparsely populated, no agricultural agriculture possible there, no source of revenue. You go and capture that and then what will you do? You had to station soldiers there, lots of soldiers and you have to pay for that. What sense does it make? But if you conquer let's say Egypt, big population there and you can extract revenue from that. If you conquer North Africa, big population centers established there for centuries. You can tax them. You can force them to pay tribute. They can go and do all the dirty work in the Sahil region or wherever and they'll have they have to pay you a yearly tribute. So why not capture those territories, right? So so that's why it doesn't make economic sense to capture everything only capture the rich prosperous regions from which there is guaranteed tribute which will come in every year or guaranteed resources that will come in every year. That's what makes sense to capture. That's why the Roman Empire did not waste its energy, resources, men, manpower, whatever in capturing the whole of Europe because the whole of Europe was not valuable. It captured all the valuable territories. It went as far east as possible. It c captured Judea, which is presently Israel, the Israel region, West Asia region, but it could no not go further, further east because it ran into the Persian Empire. The Persians captured a Roman emperor and humiliated him. What was his name? Let's find out. Okay. Which Persian emperor, which Roman emperor, Roman emperor did Persia? Persia capture. Okay. Which Roman? Yeah. Here we have Valyrian. The Roman emperor captured by the Persians was Valyrian who was defeated and captured by Shapur the first in 260 AD. This is one of the most significant humiliations in Roman history. Okay. So the Romans understood we better not fight Persia. What's the point? We have enough territory. We will that will give us enough wealth. So that's why the Roman Empire went as far as it could go. Did not go where it was too difficult to fight. When you had a too powerful of an empire like the Persians did not go too far north because that land was useless. You would not get any significant revenue from that and you would have to spend more than you got out of it. So these are the reasons why the Roman Empire did not focus on cap on capturing all of the on conquering the entirety of Europe. It instead went in other directions like North Africa and West Asia. Okay. Okay. That should bring me to the end of today's live stream. I still have more questions that I've selected but yeah we have we have almost reached two hours 20 minutes. So let me take a few questions from the live. Jan as as always I can see that there are a few super chats. Please stop taking super chats. I'll deal with these that we have. And uh yeah, so Danam Priya Priyad is a new member. Thank you so much. Dwanam Priya Priy, welcome to membership. I really appreciate it. I never ever asked anyone to become a member, but you're still doing it many of you. So thank you so much to you sir or ma'am. I think it's sir. It's a male name Priya. Thank you. Thank you to you and to everyone else who has become a member. Thank you so much. Now, Godliness says, "Explain the history of museums. When did museums come into existence and what was kept in the early museums and do you want to visit any historical museum?" Okay, there. Okay, I forget her name. I forget her name. Um I'm not sure about the history of museums in Batwash in the subcontinent but there was this this Mesopotamian princess who was the first curator who maintained the first museum. I forget these Mesopotamian names are very hard to remember. So a Mesopotamian princess Mesopotamian princess uh museum okay f first museum let's let's ah first museum okay her name was Inigi Nana Inigal Nana Princess Inigal Nana uh she established a museum around 560 60 BC in the city of Ur in modern day Iraq and she cured a collection of artifacts from previous eras of Mesopotamian history and these were labeled in multiple languages for visitors. Okay, so incredible. So this this princess from about 500 something BC, Princess Inaldina, daughter of King Nabidus, which is clearly a Greek version of the actual name. So she was the first known uh museum curator or the first known person who established a museum. Uh that's what I can tell you apart from that history of museums. That will be a 2hour long 3-hour long discussion but that's an interesting historical fact. It's a Mesopotamian princess who established the first known museum. There may be older ones but this is the first one the oldest one we know of. Okay. and artifacts from previous civil previous empires, kingdom civilizations were kept in her museums. Uh, do I want to visit any historical museums? I would love to. I would. Yeah. When I was in London, I did not go to the British Museum, right? Yeah, I did not. I spent my time at the Tower of London. Uh, anyway, so yeah, I would love to visit the British Museum and and take a look at our stolen heritage over there. And uh yeah, museums are fun to visit. I don't mind visiting all museums. Visiting Indian museums is is is kind of a depressing proposition because of the terrible way in which our uh heritage is is uh preserved and displayed there. Terrible, terrible, shameful. There's not a single world-class museum in this country in India. Anyway, okay. Next. UMX says, "Has how Scandinavia became so rich historically poor?" How did Scandinavia become so rich? It was part of Europe and um it's a welfare state kind of. How has Scandinavia become so rich? I'm not sure I can quite answer the question right now. That would involve a lot of different historical tangents that all come together in one place. Lots of different wars they fought with the Russians and the Germans and so on. Long long long long answer I will need won't be able to answer it now but good question maybe I'll take it up at some other point in time okay not sonatan says okay did India price continuity or conquest did India price continuity or conquest India prized conquest whenever it was required um for example India see Indian kings historically wanted conquest up to the subcontinent they did not want to cross the Himalayas. Too cold up there north of the Himalayas. uh they do not want to cross into central Asia because once you cross the kyber what is now called the kyber pass you're in a totally different zone or region of the world and uh and the subcontinent was so valuable I mean so resourcerich that conquering other parts like central Asia made no sense whatsoever economic sense whatsoever unless you was you were kaneshka in which case you knew how to play the him. So um Indian emperors, rulers prized the subcontinent. They would they all sought to conquer the subcontinent. Some of them did like Ashok did. Kaneshkar was a hybrid conqueror. He conquered very large parts of Central Asia including uh the shores of the as Caspian and Aral seas and also parts of what is now China, Shinjang, the Shinjang region, Tibet region and much of northern and western India all the way to the west coast. And then you have uh the Gupta emperors. Some of them went into central Asia, Bahalik that region. And then we have the Cholas who conquered the whole of Southeast Asia. So each empire is different but yeah continuity the civilization has continued but dynasties have come and gone. What are my views says Anand Pancharan Rajar Ra Mahanro is a social reformer. Why does India need social reform? Why why doesn't Europe We don't have social reformers in Europe right who are trying to reform European society. You don't have social reformers in in in in in in China who are trying to reform Chinese society. You don't have social reformers in the United States who are trying to reform US society. We only have these social reformers in Indian society somehow. And somehow they all have ties to the occupiers and colonizers somehow. Yeah. So my view on this gentleman Mr. Ram Muanroy is very clear. He was an agent of the occupiers and he was an enemy of our civilization. Very clear about that. And I've spoken about this in detail in in the past. If you do a simple search on my channel about Ram Moy, I have a I have at least one video clip about this in which I've spoken about this. Okay. Gapati says, "Was the Look, we're discussing history today, sir. History. We're discussing history. We're not discussing current affairs in geopolitics. I request you all please take a look at the title of this YouTube live stream. It's world and Indian history. So let's not discuss other topics today otherwise it becomes a free-for-all or free for all. You need to value discipline in life sometimes not sometimes always. So I'm going to stick to my discipline. Today is a history episode. I will not take this. I really apologize that you have spent money on this but please understand this is a history live stream. All right. Thank you. Jazz 1993 says please talk about Uttarakhan history. I'm from Uttar. Nobody talks about it. I don't know much about Uttarakhan history. I'm very sorry. I don't know. Uttarakhand is this beautiful part of the subcontinent. Beautiful place. But I am not familiar with the history of Utarakand. So I don't know what to say. I don't know. I don't know in detail any about the history of Utakand. First of all, it's not it's not a very large part of India, right? It's a comparatively you could say smaller region of India. A very interesting geographical region location. Himalayan foothills. Very interesting culture. very interesting u manifestations of Hinduism and dharma in the place but the history I am not really well aware of so I won't be able to I'm very sorry I apologize for that but I I thank you for the question and it's a wonderful place I can tell you that all right I think that brings us to the end of today's live stream almost two and a half hours And uh yep. Okay. So, let me end the live stream right here. I'm just watching the comments and people are making fun of 200 rupees wasted. You know what? I don't like negativity. I don't appreciate that. Please don't make fun of people in that way. Please don't gloat when somebody spend money and they did not get what they wanted out of it. What's the point of gloating? Do you enjoy someone's misfortune? Why do you enjoy someone's misfortune? I don't get it. Anyway, I'm not here to lecture you all. You live your life whichever way you want. It's up to you your life. But anyway, thank you everybody for the questions and I look forward to seeing you tomorrow in tomorrow's live stream which will be a freeforall. Ask me anything. All right. Ask me any question tomorrow. It's going to be a um it's going to be a super chat live stream and not just geopolitics but everybody else. Saga, no problem. It's okay, Saga. No issues. No issues. No issues. Please, please be more positive, sir. Saga, please be more positive. Everybody, let's be more positive. Let's be more bring more positivity to the world. Okay, no problem. No issues. I'll see you all tomorrow. Please raise your standards in instead of lowering your standards. Take care everyone. I'll see you tomorrow. Bye-bye. Take care.