Heat. [Music] Heat. [Music] Hey. [Music] Hey. Hey. Heat. [Music] Heat. Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to episode 265 of Ask Kabjijit. Hope everybody is doing great. Uh today once again we don't have super chats. I'm going to take everybody's questions as many as I can. It's going to be a one-hour session because I had a long uh episode of uh geo strategy that just concluded. So let us see who all is there on the live chat. I'll do a 1-hour session. I'll take as many questions as I can. I can see Daksh Aush Yadav anonymous scientist Mojour Mwah Animish Hitan Shua Davik Shrian Rashmi Ratur from Rajasthan. Hello. Sujit Shanaga, Pratam Sharma, Arian Rocking Gaming, good evening. Meet Mistri, Barat First, Anime, Namaste, Baba Bugatti, Namaskaram, Hunter Canv, good evening. Mahi Shta, Truthful Penguin, Manisha Kardo, Anup Tead, Pranay Paul from Kolkata. Dave Molana, Abhijit Chava, well well from Kolinga, good to see you sir. Uh Jimmy Watram uh Samatriati no name Name Sergeant Skylan Animish again Adita G uh Atman Moa Sujit Shanagunda again Shri Namach Ramachandra Namaha Sam the gamer Anand Chandak Jimmy Karan uh who else we have uh Hunter Kvei uh Shah Raj from London England Merin Sunonny Palk Onar Kulkarnney Utsav Katri Krishna Ragunat from the Suriname Netherlands Anand again Shadow Gamer Sam no name Name Latangi Suresh Rahul Jangra Anudipta Sin Nishant Kumar Karish Supratim Random Skull Mlavin Jind Nabit Tadas Bay Nutan Roshan Geopolitical Dubai from Indor good evening and everybody else okay so let's take some questions let's take some questions Truthful Penguin. Hello. Salvatore's brother Damon is here. Okay, vampires. Let's go. Let's take some questions. Oopsy. Where is the question? Okay. Okay. Mah asks, um, how could Iran move its nuclear materials without the US picking up on it considering the strong intelligence resources they have? So we have evidence of Maxar satellite images that show that Iran had these convoys of trucks that were taking materials and stuff and equipment possibly whatever uh they were taking these materials away from those nuclear sites that were bombed by the US by the B2 bombers using bunker buster bombs. So we have satellite images that show that this happened like a couple of days before the bombing happened. So it's like it's like the Iranians knew about this, right? And Mr. Trump had been foreshadowing his attack on Isra on Iran for at least a couple of weeks before it happened. And it's look, we have no evidence that this may or may not have happened, but it it's possible that there could have been some communication that something's coming up. So if Iran was able to move its materials out of the nuclear sites, uh it's not like the US did not pick up on it. The US has eyes in the sky everywhere. The US knows everything that happens in real time. In real time, so they knew it and they waited for the materials to be taken away and then they bombed those three sides, you know, for the Natans and so on. So is it a fixed match? Is it that's the question that is the question unar says how can can India ever achieve the denuclearization of Pakistan well you see my friends most likely Pakistan doesn't have its own indigenous nuclear weapons most likely Pakistan has American nuclear weapons just like the US has parked a bunch of nuclear warheads in Turkey a bunch in uh the Netherlands some in some other countries and so on. Similarly, the US seems to have parked a bunch of nuclear warheads in Pakistan. The objective most likely is to counterbalance India. Right? So that is the US approach towards India. Please understand that. Right? So if India is to denuclearize Pakistan, India would have look we kind of to some extent apparently uh you know partially denuclearize Pakistan with our uh strike on the Nurhan air base. So it has now emerged that the the Nurhan air base is operated by the US and Pakistani military personnel are not allowed inside. Okay. And apparently there could have been some sensitive materials in the Nurhan air base and our strikes on the Nurhkan air base have created problems there. Um, so so the point is that the Pakistani nuclear arsenal is actually most likely the American it's an American loan to Pakistan. So to denuclearize Pakistan, we would have to somehow convince the US to withdraw his nuclear weapons, its nuclear weapons from Pakistan. How to do that is is a different story. Um okay, this is a good question by Pray. What do you think was Israel's core objective in this conflict? Denuclearization of Iran or something more? And has that objective been achieved? So first of all, bottom line, bottom line up top, Israel's objectives have not been achieved. Okay. So what was the objective? Well, the objective was Mr. Netanyahu's great objectives. First, denuclearization of Iran. Second, comprehensive military defeat of Iran. Third, regime change in Thran. Those were the objectives of Mr. Netanyahu. Has Iran been nucle denuclearized? It has not been denuclearized. The US ensured that the Iranians were able to take out all the whatever materials and equipment, whatever they wanted to take out of Foro and Natans and what not, those nuclear sites that were hit. It's also very likely that the that the bunker buster bombs did not destroy the sites entirely. They must have caved in the tunnels and the entrances to the to the tunnels that lead into the sites. But most likely according to US intelligence assessments these strikes have not destroyed the facilities themselves. Iran will able to will be able to eventually excavate and you know reopen the sites the entrances to the sites. So the deuclearization has not happened. Iran has not been comprehensively military defeated. Right? It's not been a comprehensive military defeat. Iran is claiming victory that we have emerged victorious. And by not being defeated, you could claim we could you could argue that to some extent when it comes to facing facing up against the US and its primary ally in the region, Iran by surviving and by not being defeated has kind of achieved some kind of victory. So Iran has not been denuclearized. Iran has not been defeated. There has been no regime change in Iran. So these objectives have not been met. So what has Israel achieved? Israel has ach assassinated some 30 40 uh top ranking Iranian IRGC leaders, military personnel and nuclear scientists and so on. But Iran endures. So what else has Israel achieved? Well, apart from that they have bombed some facilities and so on, but no major achievement. no major achievement. Iran still exists. Iran endures. Iran's nuclear program isn't destroyed. Iran's government is still very much in power. Uh the people of the country have kind of rallied around the government because of the external threat and so on. So overall, it's not been a victory for Israel. Israel has not achieved its core objectives. Israel has been thwarted. Mr. Netanyahu has been thwarted. Mr. Netanyahu, I don't know what he will do now because he faces personal problems. He faces political troubles. He faces corruption corruption charges. A corruption trial is ongoing. And if for Mr. Nathan to get salvation and freedom from this, he would have had to achieve a comprehensive victory over Iran. The the kind of victory that no other Israeli leader has achieved in the past and that has clearly not happened. So what happens now? Mr. Nathaniel will most likely redouble double down on the Gaza war possibly. So yeah, the objectives have not been achieved. Uh Nimish says earlier today, NATO chief called Donald Trump daddy live on camera. Really? Let me let me quickly fact check that if if it's possible. I'm I'm astonished if that's true. Uh, NATO chief calls Trump daddy. Really? NATO chief calls Trump daddy for using the f word in a bizarre compliment. I have no idea what this means. Okay, this I think is a part of western culture I don't understand. Okay, I don't get it. So I will What are my thoughts? My thoughts are are that I have no idea what what this is. I have no idea what it means. Bizarre. Okay. Hit Shu says, "Safon Aircraft Engines has announced the construction of a new MRO shop dedicated to the Rafal's M88 engine in Hyderabad. What are my views on further indigenous development of future aircraft?" They have announced the construction of a shop dedicated to the engine of the Rafal. It's a it's it's a factory which will I suppose build the engines the M88 engines. Well, I think that's a welcome move and we should indigenize the at least have it produced locally even if it's produced by a French technology and so on. Even if it's if the technology is not transferred to us, it's a step in the right direction. That's what I would say. Uh this is not connected to the indigenous further indigenous development of future aircraft. Jet engines are a specific niche in in a critical niche in fighter aircraft development. But see how does aircraft development happen? You assume that you're going to have an engine that gives you a certain amount of thrust and certain amount of performance characteristics. You assume that and based on that you develop the aircraft around it. You generally develop an aircraft around an existing engine. So let's say you have the Rafal M8 engine. So you develop an aircraft around it. So you design and build an aircraft according to these performance characteristics of the engine or maybe the general general electric F404 or F414 whatever you want to take it or maybe the future cavary engine right uh so this doesn't really have an impact on future indigenous development of future aircraft this is a good move when it comes to uh building engines in India so I I welcome this definitely very much Um okay Sam Achare says dumb question. No it's not a dumb question. How are nuclear arsenals maintained? Well that's that's not something we are supposed to know. Okay. So what's a nuclear arsenal? It's a collection of nuclear weapons. Nuclear warheads. A nuclear warhead is well it's an engineering it's a mechanical device and it has various components depending on what kind of warhead it is whether it's a fish device whether it's a thermonuclear device fish fusion device three-stage device the initial trigger is a chemical reaction a chemical explosion chemical explosives yes and so on so based on the various characteristics ics of the nuclear weapons. You may need to open them up for inspection and check the various things and so on. I assume because I have absolutely no idea, no understanding because these things are super secret. These things are super secret. How do you maintain your nuclear weapons? Do you inspect them regularly? Do you subject them to some kind of tests? Do you open them up and maybe replace some components once in a while in a in at a certain at a certain frequency? maybe every year or maybe every two years or whatever if required. I'm not sure how it's done. Uh I suppose some maintenance is done on a on a recurring basis maybe monthly, yearly by twice a you know once in two years or whatever. I think it's similar to the kind of maintenance that would typically be done with uh with your missiles. I mean if you have a stockpile of 10,000 missiles, you're going to have going to have to maintain them from time to time. uh obviously we now have solid fueled rockets which are easier to maintain liquid fuel rockets they have to be fueled before uh they are launched so that's a much more cumbersome and complicated uh challenge so I suppose so when it comes to your missile arsenal you test missiles once or twice a year you know randomly you pick some missiles a couple of missiles and you test them that gives you an indicator of how well the missiles are performing and how well they are um lasting and what is the effect of time on them. Sometimes you'll find that that a missile will fizzle out. You know sometimes you may find that so similarly some some such maintenance will be done on nuclear weapons but the exact specifics and details are highly classified and secret. Okay. Shah Raj says China, Pakistan, America are allies in common issues, I believe. Well, they're allies when it comes to India because the US and China see eye to eye when it comes to India. Neither nation wants India to to grow too much, to rise too much, right? Uh that is a common u point of understanding when it comes to the US and China. But how to approach India, there is a difference in that. So both nations are investing in Pakistan. Um it's something we can discuss you know in detail in a future geost strategy perhaps episode as to what is the is there no conflict of interest when it comes to China and the US in their um relationship with Pakistan because the US has most likely deployed nuclear weapons in Pakistan. The US has given has sold F-16s to Pakistan. The US has significant investments in Pakistan of various kinds. The US operates the Nurhan air base. Right? So there is a significant US presence in Pakistan. But on the other hand, the Chinese are selling fighter planes to Pakistan, maybe the J35. If they sell the J35, will the US not get get their hands on the J35? Will there not be a problem for China and so on? So there are issues, very interesting issues there that we could potentially discuss in a future geo strategy episode or Indian interest episode. Uh but overall yes when it comes to India, China and the US CI2i and Pakistan is their common asset, the common vasal, more of a US vasal, less of a Chinese vasal, but in the past it's been a full-fledged Chinese vasal. Pakistan and so on. Um, Malik said, Colonel Douglas McGregor, a former adviser to Trump, says that Israel most likely underestimated the the Iranian missile capabilities and they had to forcefully deescalate or they would have collapsed internally. What are my thoughts? You know, okay, I'm not aware of what he has said, but uh, thinking about this logically, it makes makes a makes a bit of sense actually. uh it is very likely that Iran has significant reserves a significant stockpile of various kinds of missiles. They have been very accurately acutely aware of the fact that they have been encircled by US bases right to a large extent and they are aware that most of the nations in the region are pro- US. They're also aware of the fact that Israel sees Iran for good reasons as a as a major threat, right? So, Iran has been for a long time aware of the threat uh of of the of the threat scenario it faces and that's why it has been stockpiling missiles of various kinds, ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, lots and lots of drones. It's also been exporting drones to Russia for use in the Ukraine conflict and so on. So it is very likely that is that Iran had tremendous had a tremendous has a has a tremendous stockpile of missiles and drones and it most likely significantly outnumbers the number of Iron Dome missiles the the Israelis have for the protection. So it just becomes a numerical certainty that after a certain time all Iranian missiles will hit I will hit hit Israel because their iron dome missiles will be depleted. Right. Uh so it is perhaps likely it is perhaps possible that Israel may have underestimated Iran's new uh missile capabilities and that's why they may have chosen to deescalate otherwise their military objectives have not been achieved. Netanyahu wanted denuclearization of Iran hasn't happened. He wanted regime change in Iran hasn't happened. He wanted a complete comprehensive military defeat of Iran hasn't happened. None of that has happened but he had to deescalate. So there are multiple factors that must have gone into the deescalation. Trump also is a big factor. He wanted he looks like he was he wanted this to end without an Israeli victory. Looks like he was okay with Iran, you know, pulling out its nuclear materials from the from the from the sites that he struck at and so on. So yeah, it's complicated. But overall, I would agree that Iran that Israel would have been in deep trouble if this conflict had continued and Iran would have been forced to push it further. I'm not sure if they would have collapsed internally. They would have possibly come close to collapsing. But then they always have the Sam Samsung option which is something uh nobody wants to countenance. Okay. Um let's see what other questions do we have. Geopolitical dub says what makes gravity in invisible to arise what is stronger time or gravity. Okay well when it comes to gravity well if you look at it we can look at it from various perspectives. U if you look at the Newtonian perspective on on gravity according to the Newtonian perspective gravity is an action at a distance kind of force. it acts at a distance, it acts instantaneously. Um, but that's not the case because Einstein's theory of general relative relativity shows that there's a speed, there's an inbuilt speed limit in gravity, which is the speed of light. And if you study general relativity, it tells you that gravity is not a force. It is something that results from the curvature of spaceime. So the curvature, so so spaceime is a four-dimensional fabric which includes the dimension of time. Okay. So time is part of the fabric of spacetime. It's the fourth dimension. And the presence of mass causes spacetime to curve. Mass curves spacetime. And the curvature of spacetime tells mass how to move. That is general relativity. And it's it's a supremely well- tested theory. People have been trying to break it through experimental uh tests for decades. never happened. It's extremely uh well tested. So general relativity is is the best theory that we have and it's a very precise very accurate theory. GPS won't work without general relativity. So according to general relativity time time is a dimension. It's one of the four dimensions and gravity the force what we feel is the force of gravity. It is simply caused by the curvature of spacetime which we perceive as a force but it's not really a force. Okay. So that is the deal. Um now obviously the gravity gravity which we feel is a force does have a strength and it's extremely extremely strong weak. It's the weakest of the forces and there also the possibility that gravity could be quantum mechanical in nature which to prove that you to quantize you to quantize general relativity and that's not working out for us right so uh the point is that time is time doesn't have a strength time is a dimension just like length or breadth doesn't have a strength that way time doesn't have a strength okay so you can't compare the strength of time versus something else Time is just a dimension. Uh what makes gravity invisible to the eyes? Well, gravity is the curvature of this four-dimensional fabric of spacetime. And we cannot perceive four dimensions. We only perceive three dimensions. Right? We do perceive electromagnetic quanta which are photons. That is how we see the universe. You can see different colors over here. You can see greenish blue over here. You can see yellow over here. Another yellow here. reddish magenta stuff here and so on. Over here it's more red. Over here it's blue and so on. So these are photons of different frequencies or wavelengths that we are perceiving in real time. When it comes to gravity if gravity is has a quantum mechanical nature it may the fundamental particle may be the graviton but we don't perceive it. We are electromagnetic creatures. We are not gravitational creatures. We do feel gravity weakly but our sense organs are geared towards the electromagnetic spectrum not the gravitational spectrum and that's why gravity is invisible to arise. In case we have dark matter creatures somewhere maybe there are dark matter scientists who are observing this right now and we not aware of them. Well, if there are beings made of dark matter only then their eyes would be gravitational in nature and they would see the universe in a whole different set of frequencies and wavelengths. they would see the gravitational nature of the universe not the electromagnetic nature of the universe. So yeah, I hope that answers the question. Um Shri Raachandraaya Namaha says why is the interior of the earth moving? What if it stops moving? It's a great question. These are the kind of questions we should be allowed to ask. These are the kind of questions children should be allowed to ask their teachers in school because that's how you understand the world. So why is the interior of the earth moving? It's because so so it all all goes back to the beginning of the solar system. How did the solar system form? The solar system formed out of a gigantic cloud of gas and dust. This cloud of gas and dust was formed by the death of a previous star which probably went supernova. Boom. And it just spilled its guts out. And this gave rise to this gigantic nebula, this huge cloud of gas and dust. And after millions, hundreds of millions of years, this cloud of gas and dust again coalesed together because of self-gravitation and it formed what we call a protostellar disc. What does a protostellar disc look like? Let's find out together. Protostellar disc. Proto stellar disc. Okay, you can also call it a proto protolanetary disc. So this is what it looks like. So eventually because of the action of its own gravity self-gravitation the disc start the the cloud coaleses into a disc and it develops a a chunkier more massive center and the rest of the cloud starts revolving around the center and over time because of self gravitation the central component of the cloud it accumulates enough gas mainly hydrogen for nuclear fusion to ignite and that is the birth of a new star and then over time various other parts of the of the cloud start coaling together in the form of planets and that's what happened in the early solar system. So initially the earth was formed about 4.5 or so billion years ago as a gigantic as a gigantically hot ball of magma just molten rock. Okay, it was hugely hot. So hot that rock would melt and slowly it cooled slowly. So the cooling happened on the surface. So it developed a crust, an outer crust which solidified over time. But the interior retained the original heat of the early solar system and the interior is still molten and at the core because of pressure there is a solid core of iron and nickel. So because of the molten internal structure of the planet and because of the angular momentum it inherited from the beginning of the solar system it's still moving inside. That's why the interior of the earth is moving. I hope it makes sense what I've explained. What if it stops moving? Well if it stops moving earth becomes like Mars. So Mars is Mars is a much smaller planet planet than us than than the Earth and it has its interior has most likely more or less stopped moving because it has cooled down. It is mostly solidified. What does that do? What effect did it have on Mars? The effect it had on Mars was that Mars lost its magnetic field. See moving charges cause magnetic fields and ions ions inside the the moving interior of the earth in the magma layer they cause this gigantically powerful magnetic field that the earth has because of the magnetic field most of the cosmic rays and much of the solar wind is trapped by the magnetic field it doesn't reach us otherwise it will kill us or cause cancer right and that's why we have been able to evolve as a species so if the if the The interior of the earth stops moving, our magnetic field dies and we are exposed to horrific cosmic rays, cosmic radiation, solar radiation. It will kill us off. That's what happens. Okay. Akshit says NATO NATO countries have together decided to raise their military budget from 2% to 5% by 2035. What are the their long-term and short-term ambitions and future goals? You see NATO the NATO nations were very happy to have military budgets that were less than 2% of their GDP. Because of that, these nations were able to become essentially welfare states and they were able to become super prosperous and and so on. Very great standards of living and so on and very lazy compared to the US very lazy lifestyles. In if you go to Italy, people in the afternoon go to sleep for an hour or two. It's called the siesta and uh you don't work beyond five and you don't work you know you don't do extra shifts and whatnot. People have a very relaxed lifestyle in Europe. It's because the government was able to spend so much more because of its tiny military budgets. Uh because the US would the US historically footed most of the military budget of NATO. And now Mr. Trump has decided that this will not happen anymore. and he has said that NATO nations must raise their military budgets from below 2% to 5%. And Mr. Trump has made them agree. The US is all powerful. So that's why the NATO nations have decided to to agree to what Mr. Trump has demanded and they have they're going to raise their military budget gradually to 5% by 2035 or so. So the long-term ambition is that NATO nations must become self-sufficient in military uh in their military department and the the spectre that is given is the spectre of a future Russian invasion of Europe. Right? So I don't think Russia has any such ambitions but okay if it makes you makes you do it do it. So overall it's the US that wants to reduce its spending on NATO. It wants the NATO nations to foot more of the bill that it was footing earlier. So that's why it has happened. And long-term as as a long-term reason for this, the Russian threat is cited. Okay. Um uh Sumit says, "W how would you rank the Sukoy 57's performance in the Russia Ukraine war? Many people around the world have questioned its ability as a stealth capacity capability. How would you rank the ba best fighter jets in the world? I would rank the F22 as the world's best fighter jet after that I'm not sure but the F22 is brilliant and that's why the US doesn't export it to anybody not even to its closest vasals right. Uh the Sukai 57's performance in the in the Russia Ukraine war I'm not sure how it's performed. Has it performed at all? I mean has it been deployed at all? maybe briefly, but it doesn't look like it's been deployed a lot. So, I can't really, you know, form an opinion based on the little that I know. Uh, now a lot of people have questioned the Sukoy 57's stealth capabilities and all that. Many of those would be from the west because they want to sell their own planes, their own fighter aircraft to other countries. Uh, but it may be that it does have some deficiencies when it comes to its stealth profile, which is okay. which is okay. Look, when it comes to India and making a decision as to which aircraft to buy in the interim until we develop our own AMCA, uh when it comes to that question, we need to be practical and pragmatic. We don't want to spend a$100 million plus dollars per piece. Okay? We can't afford to spend that much. And secondly, we can't afford to have an aircraft that has inbuilt loopholes, inbuilt uh inbuilt back doors and kill switches. That's the F-35. We can't afford to have that. That will compromise us no end. And thirdly, you the fighter plane you purchase doesn't have to be the best in the world. It has to be decent. As long as it has fifth generation capabilities which the Suka 57 has, I think we should consider it seriously. Even if it doesn't have a super stealthy profile, it's okay, right? Because at the end of the day, quantity has a quality of its own. Get a 100 200 of these and you know it'll be a game changer. So that's uh how I would see this. Uh Amisha says, "Is the moon slowly moving away from the earth? Is this true?" It is true it's moving away fractionally from the earth. So uh in the past let's say when the earth was a billion years old or so the moon was much much closer to the earth and the earth's rotation period was also much faster. So the so the earth day was about 10 hours or so. One day on on our planet was 10 10 hours only. Now it's 24 hours right? Roughly 24 hours. In the past it was about 10 hours and the moon was much closer to the earth and the moon has been slowly gradually maybe a centimeter or so per year around around that kind of figure it's moving away from earth because of of gravitational dynamics. Uh and the moon is tidily locked with the planet with our earth but in maybe a 100 million years maybe 100 million years the moon will have receded sufficiently from the earth for solar eclipses to never be full in the in the future. So right now we we have we sometimes have complete solar eclipses, right? When the where the sun is completely blocked out by the moon. In the future it won't be full or complete solar eclipses. There will only be partial solar eclipses and you will have annular solar eclipses which means that the sun is not fully blocked by the moon and there's a ring around the moon when the moon moves away sufficiently. So in about 100 million years the moon will be sufficiently far away for solar eclipses to no longer be complete solar eclipses. So it is moving away from the earth for sure and the rotation period of the earth is also slowing down correspondingly. So in the future the the earth will have a 25-hour day and more in the future. Uh what else do we have? Okay. Shaswat Wenut says, "What's your opinion on India's neutral stand in this whole Iran Israel conflict?" I completely agree with India's neutral stand in this conflict. This is not our war. There is no reason whatsoever for India to take sides in this war. Look, we have an excellent relationship with Israel. No question. We have significant technological cooperation. We have significant defense cooperation. Uh we manufacture Israeli drones in India. The Harop drone which was used to uh attack which was used to uh strike Pakistani terrorist infrastructure in May. That that harop drone is built in India by Adani right it's an Israeli designed drone. So we have a lot of cooperation u between India and Israel. A very good working relationship. We have some issues also but overall it's a very positive and excellent relationship. On the other hand when it comes to Iran we also have a reasonably good relationship. We have no significant uh areas of divergence. Once in a while some Iranian politician will make make statements about Kashmir which is annoying but it's only verbal statements. Uh Iran doesn't actually take any real actions that would be detrimental to India's interests. Right. Israel does not Iran does not have a friendly relationship with Pakistan because Pakistan is a US vasal and there's also the Sunnishia issue and so on. So that is good for us right because Pakistan is a terrorist nation our number one or number two enemy and not because of us because of them they seek to destroy us right so and and in the past we've had energy cooperation much more with Iran so we and Iran has given us access to the Chabahar port through which we can access Afghanistan and central Asia as well so overall it's a good relationship that we have with Iran and the US has has tried its best to to you know visiate the relationship. They they have pressurized India to stop buying oil from Iran which has put Iran under pressure and they've had to seek out other other partners like China etc. Right? So overall we have good relations with Israel as well as Iran and it makes sense for us to not divert you know not move away from a neutral stance in this matter and we have exhorted both nations to settle their differences on the negotiating table and don't fight don't use military means that's what our stand has been and I completely agree with this that. Okay. Um, okay. Let's see some other questions. Um, okay. I have to hunt for good questions now. Okay, let's take this one. Um, mind your own business says, "Why talk about China or US Bangladesh as a vasal? Why not India making Bangladesh aal or why doesn't Bangladesh offer itself to India like it did to China? Well, you see when you grow up you realize it's not that easy and that simple. Okay, we can talk all we want. We can talk all we want but the real world it doesn't operate on the basis of verbal talk talk. It operates on the basis of ground realities. ground realities and the basic ground reality is hard power. Okay. So yeah, we can say why not India making Bangladesh aal but what if there are way more powerful nations which will not allow this to happen. Right? You have to understand a bit of nuance and complexity. If you just do surface level analysis your whole life, you will never understand anything and you will keep asking these questions. Why talk like this? Why not talk like that? Hind the world doesn't work like that. You may be as patriotic as we want but you have to you have to acknowledge the ground realities of the world. What are the ground realities? Bangladesh was cooperating with India for about 20 years for more than 10 years as long as Shik Hassina was prime minister. Bangladesh was not an Indian vasal but it was not a Chinese and not a not a US vasal. Bangladesh was very cooperative with India and that was a great victory for our foreign policy. Then what the US did? What the US did? See now you'll ask yourself why does the US how can the US do something in Bangladesh? The US is so far away. Ask yourself this question. If the US is so far away and China is so powerful, why can't it take Taiwan? It's because the US is so powerful that even in China's own backyard, China can't take an island. That's how powerful the US is. So what the US did in Bangladesh is that they effected a regime change operation and they got rid of Shikh Hassina and implanted a puppet government, the Muhammad Yunus regime, which is actually a military government. Okay, the military is running the country. Muhammad Yunus is just the puppet, the show, the face for show. And when the US makes a nation of Assal, India has to stay out of it otherwise there'll be tremendous repercussions that you can't imagine. So and obviously the US must have given a lot of very sweet inducements to the Bangladesh military to Muhammad Yunus etc. the kind of inducements India can't afford to give because we don't have deep enough pockets like the US has. All right. So please understand these are the some of the ground realities. The world doesn't work on the basis of slogans. We can say whatever we want but what we do is always commensurate with our hard power and it's always in in measured against the hard power of our adversaries. That's how it works. All right. Mahesta says um does a leader seek to lead or is he called called to it? Well, sometimes leaders seek to lead because they know they have this leadership potential capabilities or whatever and sometimes leaders are called to lead even though they don't want to lead. I mean since we have been discussing Iran Israel I mean when let's talk about Iran and the current Supreme Leader of Iran Mr. uh Kami. So Mr. Kamei came to power after ayati died. I don't remember which year it was. Sometime in the 1990s was it? Let me see. Let's let's quickly um find out Kmeni. So he passed away in 1989 and that is when Mr. Ali Kame became the supreme leader of Iran. Now Mr. Ali Kame did not want to be the supreme leader of Iran. He strongly essentially protested I don't want to be the guy. I'm not the right guy for you and so on. But the Iranian majalis or whatever it's called, they decided you're going to be the guy. And he has been the supreme leader ever since. Sometimes you don't want it but you're called to it. But in some cases you want it, you seek it and you gain it. For example, Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump decided he wanted to become the president and he put his own money into the campaign and he succeeded twice. So here you have a leader who has sought the supreme position. He has sought to lead. On the other hand, if you look at Iran, Mr. Kame never wanted to lead but here here he is as a supreme leader. So two examples which kind of illustrate the point. Okay. Um, okay. Krishna Nak says, "Do you think the Gulf Cooperation Council countries are really standing with Iran or are the secretly happy that Israel attacked Iran?" Uh, when it comes to the Gulf, Gulf nations, the Arab nations. Okay, let's take a look at the map. Uh, which will help us um understand the region a little better. A little better. So, look at the Gulf region, West Asia. So what we have here is Iran in the east and then we have all the Arab nations Oman, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Syria, Jordan and Egypt is also an Arab nation. Right? So that's the situation. So you have Iran which is a non-Arab nation. It's an Aryan nation essentially. It's an extension of the Indian subcontinent. And you have all these other nations, Arabic nations. Um and the GCC nations are mainly the Arab nations. Iran is a Shia nation. All the GCC other nations in the GCC are Sunni nations and u Iran is is a nation that has historically ambitions of its own geopolitical ambitions and so on. U and the Arab nations kind of fear Iran, right? And there is rivalry between between Iran and Saudi Arabia uh and also Turkey to some extent for the leadership of the Islamic world. so on mult it's it's it's complicated multiple levels to this thing so and and recently in 2020 you had the signing of the Abraham Accords Accords I think it was in 2020 Mr. Mr. Trump presided over that and that brought forth some kind of normalization relations between Israel and and and some of these Arab nations and what the Arab nations want for example what the UAE wants and desires is stability in the region they don't want warfare what Saudi Arabia also wants is stability in the region they don't want warfare they don't want destabilized neighborhood they want a stable neighborhood so that they can work towards development They want economic development. They want to develop their nations further. They understand that, you know, oil is no longer going to be forever the the commodity that the world uh prizes over everything else. You're going to have changes in technology. You're going to have the advent of the electric vehicle era, lithium era, and so on. So, you can't keep depending on oil forever. So, they're trying to diversify uh their e economies and so on. And they they want to develop the region further. So they don't want warfare. So I'm sure many of these nations are not happy that Israel attacked Iran because that destabilizes the neighborhood. And I'm not sure they all stand with Iran. They neither stand with Iran nor are they happy that the Israeli attack caused the destabilization of the region. I mean flights were diverted. I have people asking me is it is it safe to go to the UK today and so on. Right? So uh so these nations are not secretly happy about what has happened and then and they don't even stand with Iran. They actually want to be left alone. They want to be left alone to to develop their economies further and and so on. So that's the deal. Uh Susan says um as per Chava index 2024 USA's hard power score is 93.32 India has 4.91. What weapon technologies does the US have that India lacks? Is it just better quantity? What American missile/ technology do we have no answer to? The US overall is a superpower in every sense. uh we have excellent missiles but as as far as I know we haven't announced interbalistic uh intercontinental capabilities of the AGI 5 or or something beyond that. So that's one capability we kind of lack. Uh I think the the longest range stated ranged or announced range is about 8,000 kilometers or so of the AGN 5. Maybe we are understating the range of the Agnifi just not to so so as to not to offend or alarm nations like the US right but maybe that's one thing we lack okay one one example of a thing we lack otherwise our missiles are supremely good we have some of the best missiles in the world when it comes to aircraft the US has far better aircraft the US has strategic bombers we lack that right the US has all kinds of whole families of fighter planes we lack that the US has these heavy, massively heavy transport aircraft, we lack that. Um, the US has extraordinarily good nuclear submarines, we don't have that. And so on and so forth. I could go on forever. So the US is far ahead of India. Way ahead of India. Okay. So it's quantity as well as quality. It's it's way higher in both in both considerations. Okay. Uh for India to to increase its hard power score, first of all, we need to reduce. So right now one of the factors that that affects our hard power score and brings it down is our um is the fact that we are not self-sufficient in energy. We have to import about 59% of our energy as far as I remember or maybe around whatever but about half or more of our energy has to be imported that is a critical problem for India. It's an Achilles heel for India. We have to find our own energy resources somehow or the other. If we can do that, that that will bring our hard hard power score higher. U another factor that that brings our hard power score down is that we allegedly officially have only only about 150 of 16 nuclear warheads. The Americans have thousands, right? So that's a huge factor that brings our hard power score down. Uh another factor that brings our hard power score down is our lack of power projection capabilities. The Americans have tremendous power projection capabilities. We have very limited power projection capabilities. So all of these factors put together. And then there's the economic factor. There's the uh GDP factor. The US GDP is way ahead of India. That's a huge factor that brings our hard power score down. Our limited military budget also brings our hard power score down and so on and so forth. So that's why our hard power score is 4.91 and the US is 93 almost 94. Right. Okay. Let's take some more questions. Um uh Rishab Shuklas says updates on ISRO's Gaganyan mission and other missions such as developing reusable rockets. I'll have to speak to somebody from ISRO. I'm not sure about what's the deal with the Gagyan mission. Um, we were actually supposed to do the first uh launches last year, but I think there there were delays because of COVID and so on. There may be delays because of technical issues. I'm not sure. As far as I know, we're supposed to do at least the first launch, unmanned launch this year with the uh heaviest rocket, the most powerful rocket that we have, the LMB, whatever. It used to be called the GSLV in the past. So, as far as I know, there's supposed to be a launch this year, but I'm not sure what the status is on that. Uh, reusable rockets, I have absolutely no idea. I would be I would be thrilled if I is rover to be developing reusable rockets. I I want nothing more than that. I mean, there's nothing more that I want than I is developing reusable rockets, but are we doing that? If yes, what the what is the status? I am not quite sure. So yeah, I'm not quite sure what what what the deal is, what's happening, what the status is. Okay, Draj Kamat says, "If Israel is not a US, then the entirety then is the entirety of the West an Israeli." Sounds a bit far-fetched. They are basically the source sole superpower, then why didn't the US help Israel during the six- day war? Well, it's a historical conflict. That's that's an old issue. The question is, you had a 12-day war just now. Mr. Trump has formally declared that this war will be called the 12-day war. So, it's now to be called the 12-day war. So, we had a 12-day war just now. And the US did not really help Israel achieve a complete victory. The US did not help Mr. Netanyahu achieve his heart's desire, which was the denuclearization of Iran, a military defeat of Iran, and the regime change in Thran. None of this happened. So, Mr. Netanyahu has not achieved what he wanted. But does it mean Israel has not achieved what he wanted? Maybe Israel is fine but Netanyahu isn't happy. H now the question is that is which who is whose W was right? The US generally has vasals all over the world. Pakistan east and west Pakistan are examples. Japan is occupied. South Korea is occupied. Germany and Italia are occupied vasals. Various other NATO nations are nonoccupied vasals but vasals by by the fact that they are part of NATO EU nations of vasals and so on so forth the question is Israel what is the status of Israel is Israel a US vasal state well it doesn't look like Israel is a US US vasal state because the US doesn't extract a pound of flesh from Israel like it does from every other nation on the other hand the US does give a few pounds of flesh to Israel whenever Israel leads that. So then the question is, is the US an Israeli vasal? That's some what some people claim. Well, I think I will reserve my judgment until I find more information. Okay. All right. Um, what else? Okay, let us take this one. Anonymous scientist says, "Can India purchase P from Pakistan by giving some money? Would that be acceptable to Indians and would Pakistan accept that offer?" You know what? If the Indian government offers some a certain amount of money to Pakistan and Pakistan accepts that offer, I'll be fine with that. I'll be okay with it. Fine. I'm sure many Indians will be okay with it. But many Indians may also say that why why buy it with our with money? It's our territory. Yeah. And maybe that's a just that's a good argument perhaps, right? Uh but if you can do a one-time payment and get rid of the problem, maybe it's worth it. So maybe there are two sides of the coin. But you know the real question is would Pakistan accept that offer? And the answer is no. Because Pakistan has masters who have deeper pockets and Pakistan has masters who need Pakistan to retain the territory. These masters essentially it's the US and to some extent China mainly the US. They they seek to use they have always sought to use Pakistan as as a factor that destabilizes India. It's counterbalance to India. The US funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India for decades. It's a well-known fact, right? So Pakistan is val valuable and PK is also valuable. Why give away an inch of territory to the nation you want to destabilize? So it won't happen and Pakistan even if it wants won't be allowed to accept such an offer. Um let us see what else we have. Um, okay. No, science dates the earth at 4.54 billion years. Hinduism says Brahma's day is 4.32 billion years. I'm not sure what Hinduism says. Okay. There are various interpretations of what one lifetime of Brahma is in one day, one day of Brahma is. So there are, see, for example, if you look at the worst website of all time, which is Wikipedia. Let's just briefly take a look at that just for illustrative purposes. never rely on Wikipedia information but I'm just taking a look at okay so Hindu cosmology Wikipedia Wikipedia okay Hindu cosmology so what does Wikipedia have to say about this yeah Hindu cosmology and tremendous huge numbers and stuff do we have something Oops it's gone um what do we have locas multiple universes Brahmandanda Brahmandanda cosmic egg uh uh okay I'm not sure which article it was I had seen in the past some article in which you have these time timelines called Hindu units of time let's take a look at this maybe this okay so you have various units uh cedurial units suranta small units of time used in the Vedas cosmic metrics Maha kalpa which is 100 years of Brahma. So kalpa is what 12 hours of Brahma which is 4.3 billion years for humans. Okay. According to Wikipedia I think that's what you have found from Wikipedia. So according to Wikipedia one kalpa apparently is equivalent to 12 hours of Brahma's lifetime and that's 4.3 billion years. So one full day of Brahma's lifetime according to this information here here here would be 8.6 billion years. I'm not sure if it's a precise match or whatever. I I don't know. And I'm not sure what it hints or what it doesn't hint. So yeah, I'm I I'm not the guy to ask these questions. Okay. I'm not an expert by any means on on on sadly our our scriptures and all. And yeah. Okay. Um, Amisha says, "Trump has now become a meme. He has lost credibility." Well, kind of. Well, he's a funny guy. He Nobody can speak the way Mr. Trump can speak, right? He has his own way of speaking. It's very hard to imitate that. And he even writes the way he tweets. Uh, the way he speaks. He tweets the way he speaks. So, he's kind of a meme. He he has a ponch for making very very very very memew worthy statements and remarks and he did that in the wake in the wake of the uh violation of the ceasefire between Israel and Iran right he was very very upset and so on but has he lost credibility I'm not sure if he has lost credibility he seems to have actually for a change uh enforce a ceasefire when it comes to India Pakist an he claimed to have mediated but it was not true but when it comes to Israel Iran it looks like he has actually actively participated from day one and he has put an end to the fighting and uh you know if he can manage if he can pull off a Nobel Peace Prize it will build bring him way more credibility so I think it's somewhere in between yes people don't take Trump as seriously as they would take other past US presidents partly because of Mr. Trump's personality and all but Trump does mean business and uh well if he makes a threat people take it very seriously. I I promise you that if he makes a threat against India we have to take it seriously. It's clear that he made Mr. Netanyahu agree to a ceasefire. I'm not sure how he pursued Mr. Netanyahu but he did pursue it Mr. Netanyahu and it looks like Mr. Netanyahu was not happy with it. So Trump when he makes when he wants to get certain things done he does get those those things done. So that would actually mean that you have to take him seriously which means that he still has credibility. Of course there is reason to what you say but I would say that he has not entirely lost credibility. Okay. Uh let's take a couple more questions maybe. Saria saids maybe the US doesn't want to denuclearize Iran to sell weapons to the Middle East. It is already selling weapons to the Middle East. Uh they recently concluded a gigantic ginormous deal with Saudi Arabia. More than a I don't know I don't know $100 billion. I'm not sure what it was. A huge deal with Saudi Arabia. Let's quickly take a look at what was the uh kind of deal they did with Saudi Arabia. Huge weapons deal. So they don't need the war to go on for that. US Saudi Saudi weapons deal. Trump. Okay. not 2017 brah. Okay. $142 billion sale. That's a gigantic deal. And Saudi Arabia, this agreement with Saudi Arabia includes investments in weapons and technology totaling 600 billion. And the outright sale is $142 billion. That's a gigantic sale for Donald Trump and for the US. So Saudi Arabia is anyway, the Middle East countries are anyway buying US weapons in large large large quantities, keeping Mr. Trump happy and so on. Um so that is already there and this happened before the the Israel Iran war before Israel attacked Iran. So um I think what the US wants is to maintain the current balance of power in the region. They don't want to create a vacuum where Iran exists today as of now. That's what it looks like. And let us take maybe one more question. Um okay let's see. Um um Yash says India does India have the potential to become a major defense exporter in the world? It does. India does have the potential for that. India does very much have that. We have the recent operation Synindhur showed us how powerful, how accurate, how excellent our indigenously designed and developed and manufactured weapons systems are. Yeah. Krishna Ragunat says, "If the partition of India had never happened, this is the final question for the day by the way. Uh, if the partition of India had never happened, would India be in a better or worse state than the current political situations that India has with Pakistan and Bangladesh?" Well, it could have been better, it could could have been worse. On the one hand, you would have a very mixed population in India, a significantly higher Muslim population in India and allegedly Muslims can't stay with Hindus. That's the two nation theory put forth by Jina and and his his his buddies, right? So if so it would all have depended on the leadership that India would have had in this in this hypothetical scenario. If India in a hypothetical scenar scenario was never partitioned but had weak leadership then it would it would have caused chaos maybe religious strife ongoing religious strife terrible religious strife but if India had a strong leadership maybe somebody like Subbashra was ruling for 20 years or more then he would have ruled with an iron hand and would would have never allowed that sort of religious strife to happen and he would have never allowed uh extremist and fundamentalist elements to thrive he would have crushed them all. So it depends right so one could put forth various scenarios just like one does for future uh forecasting. Okay with that we have come to the end of today's session. Thank you so much for the questions and I will see you in I'll see you on Friday Indian interest 8:00 p.m. After that we're going to have another ask a budget session. So thank you so much for the questions. Keep asking your questions. Keep learning, keep being inquisitive, keep raising your standards, and I thank you for your viewership, for the questions. And I'll see you on Friday. Thank you so much.