[music] Hey. [music] >> [music] >> Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the Ask Kabijit show. I hope you're all doing great. Today we will discuss any topic that you want. I'll take as many questions as possible from the super chat and also if possible the regular chat and uh before we get going as always let us see who all is there on the live chat this fine evening or day or morning wherever you are. I can see KS11. Bascar Bandit Bascar Bandit uh Gajapati Dave Hello YTPI2GC geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor. Good evening sir. Ravi moan Shubam Vavar Sabari Schneider Duv Duv Ary Manhattan real painter even tithe sir. Uh Shishir Upad Mna Kotari Adwit Ashmani Mitesh Namar Tadas Namaste Shat Bish Hello. Uh who else do we have? Wagada namaste. Ain hello Aravind. Uh Karan Nalawad Jam good to see you sir. Karan Nalawad G. Prashant Bharat Namitas once again. Vikash PJ hello good to have you. Arya X7X namaste. Um abinovish pashant the conqueror v good good evening sir crazy brain good to see you good to see you mac for J1 onlinear mahadev g i sager dani good to have you sirishra vidi nay good vidar good to have you ma'am good to see you again as always we have Amisha G always good to have Amisha G hello good evening ma'am da joti gope vikash pj Manhattan uh sukun Sukun Verer Hello Sesh Nail YT Hello Sesh Nal YT Hello sir Shan Bharat Gata Saptasi Gata Sapasati All right that's a new avatar that you have ma'am good to have you humanity survives Galawad here is Narendra from Tokyo from Toronto good morning Narendra from Toronto good to have you Rahul AK hello mvin69 good evening good to see Minimalist Maverick once again study vlogs is Dshant from Jarkand India. Chhattabish says cold afternoon here. Well, I wish you warmth. Author Santo Rana Zodiac cycle. Uh who else do we have? The conqueror once again. Goautami. Good evening. Goautami G. Uh Vitri Martinez. Hello. Uh Saga Gajati Dave Ashoto Kalyan Chakraarti. Hello. Jay Dakshit. Hello. Good to see you. Um and so many people so many other people. Nirvana Shanks Kuriasan Kuricha Clash of Clan. Hello. Naman Sudinav Mishra Tju Mata. Hello. Um Vijay Vagela Kimcho. Yes. Kimcho Majama indeed. Yes sir. The sky prime namaskar g namaskar sha smithra is here from Moscow. Vinay Ry Vin Ray from Azamar and everybody else. I won't be able to greet you all individually all of you but good to have you all of you. Thank you. Thank you so much for being on the live stream and now let's get going with the questions. What questions do we have for today? Question number one is from Mr. Bhaskar Bandit Pyat Pyat Sar. Um in the past we discussed poverty glorification in Bharat after 1947 in media in politics in cinema. uh one reason being that uh being the Naruvian socialist policies yes but was it the same for the USSR maestina or 1960s Cuba I can't think of any other nation you know great nation great as in substantial nation where you've had the glorification of poverty if you watch the movies oft I mean a lot of people are immediately start going to disagree with that he's a great guy and great director, one of the greatest of all time. Maybe he got an Oscar and all and so on. But what I saw I mean you know I saw a few of his movies at least some parts as a kid and all I saw was the abject poverty that he would depict in every movie. So that's one example. There's many other Indian filmmakers who depict just abject poverty and just misery in India. And then you have all the western filmmakers like you know what what what's that movie? Slum Dog Millionaire and lots of other movies. I remember this movie. I mean, there's this movie, okay, it's called Out of Africa. It's a 1980s movie. I probably saw it dubbed in French or something. And there's this character in the movie. What was what was the character's name? So, the character is is a waiter or a bartender. Mostly most likely a waiter. His name is Rajie. And Rajie is a waiter. Do you remember who was India's prime minister in the 1980s? It was Rajie Gandhi. So they created this fictional character in this movie out of Africa which is based on real story. In this fictional fictional character is a waiter named Rajie who played the waiter Kabir Bi. So they the west has always sought to you know denigrate India and especially with the glorification of poverty and so on. Today if you visit India, if you're a foreign tourist, you're going to visit slums. You're going to have Indian tour agencies organizing visits to slums. And even if you don't have a visit to the to a slum, they will try and look out for the for the patches of of of poverty and misery in India, they'll go with the cameras and they'll intrude into people's lives and click away, click away, click away. Yeah. So that's the that's the thing. So I cannot think of any other country, any other great substantial country where you've had this. I can't think I mean Cuba is not a great substantial country. I'm not saying it's not great. Nice people and so on. But you know, you don't see the glorification of poverty in Cuba. You can see the exoticization of Cuba for sure. Cuba is stuck in the 1960s because of American sanctions and all. And today American tourists who visit there will you know go tick tick at the vintage cars and vintage vintage buildings and so on but they don't glorify poverty there. They'll do it in Africa. Sure. But Africa is genuinely in abject poverty because of the last two centuries two and a half centuries of European colonization which still continues actually. Um if they if westerners went to the USSR well first of all the USSR never allowed Westerners to go into places where you had anything that would show the USSR in bad light. So it wasn't the case in the USSR. In China, once again, the government controlled everything. No western was allowed to go and and do anything that would tarnish China's image. But in India, we we welcome it ourselves. Please come visit our slums. Please visit our misery. Please showcase our misery. And that's there's lot of Indians who showcase India's misery. It's it's part of the ongoing saga of the Indian inferiority complex, the Indian slave mentality. First of all, Indians need to come up to overcome this. Then we can talk about pointing fingers at the west. Indians themselves like to exoticize the poverty and the misery of India. I mean, yeah, I'll not say anything beyond that because I could say much more, but then people get upset. So, we'll end there. Baser Bandit says, why is there fear around the EU of nuclear energy to power cities and to generally generate power? Why is there um why is there fear? We know it's clean, highly efficient, 2 to 5% lowenriched uranium does not pose a threat to cities and might there be alleged lobbies that push or fund the sphere. So when it comes to the when it comes to uranium, which is typically the fuel that you use in nuclear reactors, uh natur the the uranium that occurs naturally in nature, it's typically less than 1% uranium 235. So there are multiple isotopes of uranium. An isotope is an atom of an element that contains a varying number of neutrons with the same number of protons and electrons. Okay, basic chemistry or basic physics. So, uranium comes in multiple flavors of isotopes. Uranium 235, 238 and so on. 239 238. Yeah. Yeah. 238. So, uh your naturally occurring uranium is about less than 1% uranium 235. The rest is mostly 238 but low enrich uranium is between 3 to 20% uranium 235. So you you've got to process the thing and make it you know you know uh enhance the the percentage of uranium 235 to between 3 to 20%. That's lowenriched uranium. Then you have highlyenriched uranium that is up to 80%. And then you have something called weapons grade very naughty uranium that's above 90 95%. 235. So when it comes to the uranium that's used in nuclear reactors, typically um standard nuclear reactors, let's say, you typically have 3 to 5% uranium 235. Okay? And that does not pose a threat to cities. Well, even highly enriched uranium does not pose threat to you to to cities if you handle it carefully, if you are professional, if you if you get your things right. So it's not about the level of enrichment. Even uranium 238 is radioactive. Even that can pose health hazards. So it's not about the enrichment, the percentage of enrichment. It's about whether your whether the operation you're running, the nuclear nuclear reactor you've designed and constructed is safe or not. And if you look at the past what we've had nuclear reactors since 1945, probably before 45. Yeah. The first one Manhattan project. So let's say 45 onwards that's that's how many years that's 81 years now you had nuclear reactors how many accidents have we had we've had nine what three mile island we had uh cherobil we had fukushma that's what I can think of and there must have been some you know lower intensity accidents here and there incidents and it's only chernobbile that caused a major problem and Fukushima to an extent and 3m island did not cause that much of an issue. Um, so why is there so much fear-mongering about this? For example, France, what percentage of France energy comes from nuclear? I think 60 70% at least, right? Um, and France has never had any issue. Uh, let's Google this. What percentage uh what percentage of France uh energy is nuclear? Yeah, France is energy. Yes. 65 to 70%. Can you believe it? Can you believe it? Imagine that. No cur coal burning, no nothing. Just nuclear, clean nuclear, completely green. As long as you're doing it professionally, there's no issue ever. So why would there be lobbies and and fearmongers and all? Well, that's because if you have sufficient nuclear energy generation capabilities, then you become genuinely independent in terms of energy at least for electricity purposes. Yeah. And there will be people who don't want India to achieve this sort of thing. And that's why you will have fear-mongering. Basker Bandit says, "We use fishision on earth for energy purposes. Can't do fusion yet. But can say space-based fusion be done within the realm of physics as a means of energy production away from Earth itself?" Well, space-based fusion is all over the place. Every star is space-based fusion. Fusion reactor, isn't it? It's a gigantic ginormous fusion reaction. But we are talking about controlled fusion that is initiated by humans and controlled by humans. Well, uh, we would rather want to do it on Earth first. I mean, transporting the equipment and all that stuff to space and then testing out fusion whether we can ignite it or not. I mean, it's it's impractical. Um, fusion will first whenever it happens, sustained fusion reaction will be first done on earth itself. Maybe in the next 20 years, maybe 5 to 20 years. Yeah, most likely within 20 years we will have controlled fusion. Yeah, probably by by 2050 we will have the first bulky whatever fusion reactors stokamax or whatever. Yeah. Um so earthbased fusion is very much possible within the realm of physics and once we can do it on earth we can also do it on space I suppose. Yeah. And you can use that to generate energy from away from earth but it will first be done on earth. It is not dangerous as such. It's not going to cause a nuclear explosion or whatever. Yeah. So it's it's um if people are fear mongering about nuclear reactors and the potential dangers of nuclear reactors in case there's a meltdown or something uncontrolled um break up you know runaway chain reaction or whatever for whatever reason that can cause problems which is a very very very rare which is a very rare chance of occurring. Well a fusion reaction will be way less dangerous even if it goes runway and you know there's a breach of the containment vessel or whatever. Uh so it's definitely within the realm of physics. Fusion happens. We know it happens. It's just about how do we control it. So it's not a physics problem. It's an engineering problem. Getting a fusion reaction to be self-sustaining and generate a net positive power output. That will first happen on earth and then on space maybe in the future much much later. Ken Kane says why does India not why does India not have something like the Monroe doctrine or some ambitious doctrine? I mean such big aspirations during its inceptions made the US the world power today. Yeah. Why does India not have this? Well, when the US came up with the Mandro doctrine in 19 in 1823, um there was no great power in the western hemisphere. The US was the power and the other powers were the European nations that sought to influence and control the the western hemisphere, the Americas. So the US says said we will not tolerate this anymore and initially they were not powerful enough to prevent European nations from meddling in the affairs of let's say central uh the central American region or South America but eventually they got got more and more powerful over over the decades and eventually they were in a position where nobody would dare interfere in the western hemisphere in the Americas North America South America Central America. So they had the vision in 1823 that one day we will become so powerful nobody will be able to dare bother us or or you know meddal in the western hemisphere took them maybe a century to do that but they started working on it. Now what would a Mandro doctrine like thing look look for India? We could start with the subcontinent that nobody will be allowed to interfere in the matters of the subcontinent whether it's India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Maldives or Burma. Let's include Burmal for example even though it's part of Southeast Asia but hypothetically. So let's say India puts forth this doctrine. Let's call it the Chava doctrine. No one's allowed to interfere in the affairs of the subcontinent except for India. So let's say we come up with this doctrine. Today we aren't able to enforce it. Today we aren't able to enforce the Chavda doctrine because right now in the subcontinent the most powerful actor is the United States. It's not India. That's that's a fact. The US is more powerful in our own backyard than us. But let's say this is an aspirational doctrine. that in 10 years time we will operationalize this and we will prevent anybody no matter who it is from interfering whether it's the US whether it's China or whoever else maybe you know apart from alien invaders nobody else will be allowed to do this so maybe we have something like this but we haven't inunciated that maybe we haven't publicized that you know see when the US put up put up the Mundo doctrine there was no global superpower who could have squashed the US for showing any signs of ambition. There was nobody. So they did so that so so they did that. Today we have a global superpower that seeks to squash India's ambitions and and and prevent curtail India's growth. There's a nation global superpower who seeks to contain India and the next 5 years are going to be make or break for India. We are at that position today my dear friends. By 2030 we will know whether India is going to be a great power or India is going to be once again a vasal like it was for two and a half centuries during the East India Company days next five years we'll decide that so right now even we if we have an ambition such as the Monro doctrant we're going to keep it very quiet okay Mr. Then Shaoping was right when he said hide your strengths, hide your ambitions and bide your time. Work, work, work. Keep quiet. Keep your heads down. Stop boasting. Don't boast. Don't publicize what your intentions are. Don't publicize your strengths. Just keep quiet and keep working. So I think we may have something like that or maybe we don't. What whatever. I I I couldn't possibly know. But in case we have it, we we we'll keep very quiet about it. We will have to keep very quiet about it for the next five years at least. Yeah, that's the deal. Now the common public in India will be very upset. We need strong statements. We need a master stroke. We want to show them what we are and so on. No, take it easy. Take it easy. Be patient. That's my recommendation to everybody. Basar Bandit says, "What's the history of Bengal area pre-British and Islamic occupation? We know Buddhism rose. Well, yeah, it rose. But what else was going on in the past 2,000 years here? Gandhar and Pakistan land mass is often discussed but not this Bengal. So Bengal is historic Bangladesh of Bangladesh, right? Past 2,000 years, what did we have? We had the gold kingdom. Gold kingdom, gold empire. The last great king was Shashank. King Shashank. So the gold kingdom was from what? the 4th century to the 8th century, 7th 8th century around that time it was pretty substantial. It included present day Bengal which is east and west Bengal both also parts of Magad etc. So that is the God kingdom. The great king was king Shashank right. Um how many Bengales are proud of King Shashank today. I wonder how many Bengales remember King Shashank and and write about his glories and speak about his the great deeds he did. I wonder how many I wonder why. Then after the the dissolution of the of the gold kingdom, we had about a century or so in the in that region in in in our region Bengal where you had anarch you know we had little petty king chieftains, petty little warlords or or chiefs who would snipe at each other, fight each other and there was no rule of law or there was no rule of law, there was no law, there was no order, there was mats matsai is one big fish eat small fish, dog eat dog. Absolute anarchy, chaos and disaster for people. So the people got together in Bengal. They said we're going to now elect a king of our own. We will decide who's going to be king. We will elect a king democratically. So they got together and elected a king. So who comes? This was the Pala king, right? King Gopal. King Gopal who probably was an ordinary person. He was elected the king of Bengal of the region and there was the rise of the pala pala dynasty empire the pala empire and it was in power until the 12th century or something and then you have various other kingdoms that come and go etc and then you have well the more recent history so the history of Bengal is great it's glorious it was a tremendously prosperous region beautiful region beautiful art culture uh so much for great contributions to our civilization overall in the in the big picture right so much so much great uh institutions of learning vikram mashila vikram sheila was in present day west east Pakistan was it let's see vikramila university okay it's in modern day bihar so which oneapuri um ancient University in Bangladesh. Which one was it? Jagadala Mahavihar, Somur Mahavihar. Yeah. Pandit and so on. So, so what is now East Pakistan also had these wonderful amazing institutions of learning and so much more. So, I mean this region is huge and the history is great. It's it's it's great. It's it's rich. It's detailed and uh yeah it's it's hard to discuss that in in a few minutes but there's tremendous incredibly rich ancient history when it comes to Bengal but today all that we speak they speak about is what communism and uh whatever happened in the past 100 years or today our our historians will extol the glories um of of of whatever Bengales did under British occupation. But what about the Bengales who who did while Bengal while while while our civilization was free? That nobody talks about which is weird. Baskar Bandit says, "Can we expect a balconized Iran in the coming weeks with multiple groups seeking separation considering the diverse ethnicities within the existing borders of Iran? It could happen anytime. I suppose we have to keep see if you want to if you want to predict what happens, you have to keep an eye in real time on whether the Americans are building up an invasive force in the region in the vicinity. Okay. So for example uh before we we saw the US uh intervention regime change in Venezuela and the abduction of Venezuela's president by the Americans before that happened in the couple of two three months before that the Americans built up this entire um force structure around Venezuela in the region right aircraft carriers warships what not so you could see something's going to happen it was it was clearly imminent some kind of US military action was imminent and then we saw it before you had the uh the invasion of Iraq in 1991, you know, desert storm or whatever they called it. Before that happened, the Americans built up a gigantic invas invasive force in the region, right? Because there are plenty of American bases and other and bases of vasal states in the region in the West Asia region. So for example, let's look at US bases in Middle East. We call they call it the Middle East. We call it West Asia. Let's go to image. So here we have American bases in the Middle East and you can see how many of these are deployed along the the Persian Gulf, right? You can see that uh what do we have here? I'm not sure what that shows you. I mean are they claiming okay now this is and they so the Americans have this force posture in the Middle East but they also have the the added advantage of Pakistan being a US vasal state now and they can use all the Pakistani bases to attack Iran from the eastern flank so Iran is now it's facing potential American action from the south from the west as well as from the east yeah if it happens So the question is, is the US building up a force posture in the region? If it does that, it'll do it very quietly. So, so I'm not sure if that's happening. I'm hearing rumors that something like that will be happening. You know, a large transport aircraft are being mobilized towards this region and so on. So maybe it may take time. Maybe it may happen suddenly. We don't know. But I don't expect a bulcanized Iran. If the Americans or when the Americans attempt a regime change, if it is successful in Iran, it will not give rise to a bulcanized Iran. It will give rise to a unified Iran under a US puppet government. That's what we can expect if it happens or when it happens. Shubam var says is India going through a phase of dharmasut now there's no dharmas dhas well India is not a dharmic nation anymore India is a secular nation whatever the hell that means so dharma is constantly under sankut that's for sure but if you're asking about the choices India is faced with and all there's no dharmasut the choices are clear be free sovereign independent and strong or be a vasal there is no dharma in this maybe at different levels there may be various other elements of dharma sanank which we don't need to go into over here the Chinese ensure that they don't have any dharma they take actions specific actions that eliminate the possibility of dhmas by taking actions against potentially compromised u members of the Chinese communist party in the case of India we never do that so maybe uh sabarish na says India walked out of the industry post operation sindur since the US backs Pakistan a lot. Why didn't didn't the US sanction India or put pressure on India to release the water? The US doesn't care what happens to the people of Pakistan. That's why the US has also walked out of treaties unilaterally. Just recently when Donald Trump was the 45th president, he unilaterally walked out of the JCPOA, the Iran nuclear deal unilaterally because he felt like the Chinese also reasonably recently walked out of their deal with the UK about the status of Hong Kong, right? They walked out of the deal unilaterally. We don't care. We don't agree to this anymore because we don't want to by our choice. So the point is every nation has the right to walk out of any agreement it has signed if it is no longer in its interests. We are not duty bound to abide by interests by abide by agreements that harm us or are count contraind you know that run counter to our interests. No nation is obligated to put up with agreements that hurt or harm its interests or run counter to its interests unless that nation is a vasal of somebody. In that case, you can force that nation at gunpoint to do whatever. But that's not the case for us. And does it if you walk out of the India's water treaty and start building the infrastructure to divert the waters of the these rivers and so on, does it hurt American interests? They don't. No, it doesn't hurt American interests. They can still use Pakistan for all the all the purposes they need Pakistan for. Maybe it makes Pakistan more eager to serve US interests. Right. Right. It may actually make Pakistan more eager, more ammonable to serving American interests against India. So why would the the Americans do anything? It's good for them. YT says I'm from Bangalore. Bangaluru. Whenever I see there's wherever I see there's US fast food chains all across Bangaluru. You may not be wrong at all. Do you think this is a US deep state plan to make Indians unhealthy? Make sure that in the next 10 years there's more unhealthy Indians that can be which can strain the economy. Well, I'm not sure if it's a deep state plan, but yeah, it helps if India is uh riddled with American fast food chains that uh put trans fats in your body and processed foods in your body and god knows what kind of chemicals in your body and make you obese and unhealthy and uh up the risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes and obesity and Alzheimer's disease and god knows what else. Why not? It's great for the US, right? I mean, they're doing that for to their own citizens, first of all. There's no question about that. Their citizens are the unhealthiest in the world and they would like to export that fantastic American culture everywhere else. Uh but a lot of this has to do with the Indian slave mentality. A lot of this has to do with Indian India's mental colonization and the inferiority complex and slave mentality of Indians. I went and ate burger. I eat pizza. I No, not pizza. Pizza. I ate pizza. I ate burger. I ate western food. See, I'm so advanced. That's what Indians feel that if you want to show that you're hip and you're cool, then you must eat Western food, you must eat at expensive fast food restaurants that have American brands on top, you know, on on the on the board. That's what lots of Indians feel. And these foods are very easy to make, right? I mean, they're they're mass-produced like sausages. So, that's the deal. So it does you you're seeing an increase in in Indians being more and more unhealthy because of this because we've moved away from our traditional diets and that that applies to everybody actually. So I don't think it's a deep state plan overall but it does tie in with the interests of the deep state or or the United States overall. Rohi moan says it turns out that many of our top Bollywood songs are copied from Arabic and Turkish songs and even some movies without giving credits to the originals. Any thoughts on this practice? I am not aware of Arabic and Turkish songs. Maybe I can show you some examples. Okay, let's Google you see one of the greatest Bollywood singers playback singers of all time is Kishor Kumar. Now let's Google Kishorkumar Lord Shorty. Have you heard of Shorty? Lord Shorty Om Shanti Om. Who was Lord Shorty? Ras Shorty born Garfield black man also known as Lord Shorty was a Trinidadian calypso and SOA musician known as the father of SOA and the love man. Uh Ras Shorty the first. So yeah, he was a a Trinidadian singer. Now he wrote and performed the song Omshanti or Omshanti Om. Okay. Uh Kishor Kumar Lord Shorty um uh copied song. So Kishar Kumar's hit song Mary Omar Kojan Om Shanti Om from the film Cars is is known it's not widely believed it's known to be stolen from from Lord Shorty's 1974 song Shanti Om Lord Shorty said that he gave Kishor Kumar a copy of his album and then the Kurs music directors which is Kishar Kumar stole it. So and so I believe that this was Kishar Kumar song but turns out that this guy Lord Shorty when Kishar Kumar visited the Caribbean he had gifted a copy of his album to Kishar Kumar and a few months later he hears his own song transformed into a Bollywood song Om Shanti Omjano etc and sung by Keshar Kumar I mean imagine the lack of ethics it takes I I was a great admirer of Kishumar until I found this That's is just one example. Have you heard of [laughter] Elvis Presley and Margarita? Elvis Presley. Margarita. Well, I would recommend listen to this song and that will immediately remind you of a very famous Hindi song from I don't know 60s, 1960s, 1970s. Yeah. Conjoy or something Opria or yeah or Margarita Opria that sort of thing. There are so many Bollywood songs that have been lifted just just blatantly from western music, western songs, I don't know, Arabic, Turkish, whatever. See, after Bollywood became more and more West Asianized or Middle Easternized, that's when Bollywood uh singers and and musicians started copying Arabic and Turkish songs. From the 1970s, 80s onwards, Bollywood became more and more West Asian or Middle Eastern in in in culture, right? Before that, it was all stealing from the west. And I'm sure after that also, so there's so many examples of of these these these unethical practices in Bollywood. And at that time, India was like North Korea completely cut off from the rest of the world. So Indians would never know that so and so was stolen from so- and so place. the rest of the world would know but Indians would never know and as far as as long as Indians don't know these people didn't care they didn't care that they are they they are you know denigrating the the name and and and reputation of India globally they didn't care at all these people as long as they made some money from the ticket sales and whatnot in India and India was completely cut off from the rest of the world your news I mean you had one television station Dur Dashan which would transmit four hours a day two news sessions in which all they would say is what minister did said what today nothing was would be reported about what was happening outside outside the country so India was closed off w garden just like North Korea until 1991 '92 or whatever and that's that after 91192 that's when people started realizing slowly that all these songs have been copied so that's really shameful yeah what are my thoughts on this practice deplorable shameful I lost a lot of respect for people who for the great singers like Kishor Kumar and so on who did such things. Terrible. Okay. Arvin says it's said that uh the first skyscraper city was built by medieval Yemenite Arabs in the 15th century. Is this really true? Yeah. There there Manhattan of of the Middle East or something it's called, right? I forget the name. Manhattan of Arabia. Uh Shibbam. The city of Shebam. Manhattan of the desert. 15th. So it's not the 15th century. It's like 12th century or something. This is what the these buildings still stand today. They're multi-storyried buildings. And uh as you can see, it looks like some some modernday congested city or something, right? But this was built several centuries ago. Uh it's in it's in Yemen. Okay. Sheam. And when was this constructed? Um, city was founded in the 3rd century. History, blah, blah, culture, truth, rest, geography, climate, influence. Come on, man. When did when were the buildings built? Um, not sure. So, was this in the 15th century like you say? Was it before? I am not sure. I think if you if we go into the details and spend some time reading, we may get some idea. But yeah, so it's the city of Sheibbam, the town of Sheibbam. Okay. Next, Dhu Ria says, "I want to have a debate with you on the Arian migration." All right, sir. Uh, everybody wants to have a debate with me on the aran migration. I can't spare the time for everybody. And my views on the Arian mig like you say migration. So, you are a believer in the migration theory. Well, all the best, sir. Good for good for you. It's fine. Uh, if you disagree with me, that's fine. But, uh, I will not have the time to have a debate with you, sir. But uh yeah, I mean look, if you are have very strong opinions about this theory, then maybe you can write about it. Maybe you can make a YouTube video about it. And uh but we'll see, right? So I can't have a debate with everybody who wants to have a debate with me. I actually do not have debates with anybody. I don't believe in having debates because it actually at the end of the day doesn't solve any issue, right? It's just about who comes up on top. Snake is mad. I am not in that business. So all right anyway sir all the best. Ritik B says so only Russia can stand up against the US militarily. You tell me. You tell me. You all tell me. What do we see right now? The US ruled over Venezuela. They went in, kidnapped, abducted the president and his wife. Just walked out. What happened? What could China do? Nothing. What could Russia do? Nothing. What about the tanker, oil tanker that the Americans captured? Russian oil tanker in in in in the Atlantic. What could Russia do? Nothing. In Ukraine, Russia retaliated and went to war. So Russia can retaliate in a specific specific certain region which is the Russian sphere of influence within Russia's red lines. Beyond that, Russia can't even actually it is not it doesn't make sense for Russia to even retaliate. So at least Russia has gone to war and the war is essentially a proxy war that is being waged against Russia by the Americans in the west. So Russia can actually stand up to the US militarily, but only in a specific geography, not in the Atlantic, not in the Pacific, not somewhere else, only in Russia's vicinity. Russia is a hard retaliator. China China prefers to stand behind others and make statements. China prefers to respond economically or or or or you know, put export restrictions on rare earths. and so on. Those sort of retaliations which are also hard retaliations but not as hard as military retaliation. China dares not go to war with the US because it stands to lose everything. China has built up its economy over decades of tremendous hard work that has to be respected and China doesn't want that to be wiped out. even 20% or 10% of that to be wiped out which would be a huge blow to China and the US can do that and the US can't be hit on its home soil it's too far away and too risky so the Chinese prefer to retaliate through other means not military means only Russia has the has the gall has the hutsp yes has the hoodspah has the has the guts let's today to stand up to the US militarily. Nobody else does right now. Which is why like I have correctly said, Russia is way more powerful than China from a hard power perspective. Colin Kane says technology has advanced, not human nature. Ancient texts show people were as intelligent as we are today. Which is why humans keep repeating the same mistakes. Is I g that's why we should read history. Yeah, we should read history. It makes a lot of sense to read history because that teaches us about human nature. It teaches us what humans did in the past, our ancestors, our forebears did centuries ago, millennia ago. And it shows us they were just like what we are today. We haven't changed and the cycles of history repeat themselves over and over again, right? And the people for example who wrote the Vedas I would say were more intelligent than you and me. Okay? to come up with that a priority originally to come up with those original thoughts. I mean imagine the intelligence and the intellect and the insights it takes to do that. So maybe our ancestors were probably possibly more intelligent than us, way more intelligent than us, right? So that's why I agree that we should study history to understand these things you know that keeps you grounded. [laughter] Okay? Shatabish says can human need to feel appreciated in in life be instinctive or a natural brain process or an outcome of external seeding that's being told, thought, upbringing etc. The human need to feel appreciated in life. Is it something that we are taught or is it something instinctive that's ingrained in us? I think everyone's born with this need to be appreciated in some shape or form. There are many people who are desperate for approval who want everybody to approve of them. There are some people who need approval but from the right people and they don't care about approval from just about anybody else. Some people need a need some kind of reassurance or some kind of approval from a few people and some there are very few humans who don't care about anyone's approval. So the the overwhelming majority of human beings need some kind of approval at least from some people in their life. Right? Is this something that's taught? It's not something that's taught. It's something that's that that comes from deep within. I don't know if it's a brain process or what specifically it is because we don't understand the brain in that detail. uh but it is definitely something it's an instinct or it's a need a basic fundamental deep rooted human need that seems to be born with us the moment we are born right the need for connection the need for human human warmth human love you know the the need to be to feel appreciated the need for approval all of these because we humans are a social species we are ired to be social. We need to be part of an integrated network of other human beings. That's part of our instinct. It's part of our programming or deep brain programming, deep DNA programming, whatever it is. That's why it's it's something that's inborn. It's not something that we learn. Rahul says, "What are the similarities and differences between preWorld War I, PreWorld War II, preWorld War I, and now?" Um I would say that the present day scenario is more similar to the preWorld War I scenario where there's a lot of instability there. There's a lot of rearrangement of the world order. There's a cold war like situation which existed after after 1871 all the way to 1914 and then there was the Balkcon wars which is kind of the Ukraine war scenario that sort of thing. So there's more similarities between now and World War I, preWorld War I than now and preWorld War II. The preWorld War II era was this beaten nation that sought that sought justice. This this nation that was humiliated that sought some kind of redressal for that humiliation which is Germany. We don't have that situation right now. We are we have more of a preWorld War I like situation right now, right? So everything is in flux. There are multiple powerful nations right now. There's one overwhelmingly more powerful nation, the US. At that time it was the UK, right? Uh and there are emerging powers. You had Japan that was emerging. There was there Germany that's emerging. At the time Japan emerged suddenly later on preWorld War I it was more of Germany and Japan was not that much uh involved the way it was during second the second world war. So it's kind of the scenario today is kind of like the preWorld War scenario. Jay says greetings sir greetings to you sir. Okay. Um no it's not a question. Everything can be expressed mathematically. Disappoint equals expectations minus reality. Anxiety equals uncertainty times powerless. Can you guide how we can form formulas for everything in general? Look, I don't know if we can have a formula or an equation that uh succinctly and concisely and accurately uh expresses disappointment or anxiety. You are what you have put out over here is pretty interesting. But I am not sure if emotions are purely mathematical in nature. Emotions are governed by very complex I don't know what what what should I call it processing algorithms. There's hormones involved. There is neural algorithms involved. I suppose there's I mean disappointment come can come. It's not just one or two factors. There can be 78 factors in disappointment. Some of the factors will only be understood by your subconscious and you won't even understand them consciously consciously. Anxiety anxiety is is is an emotion of course, right? U anxiety uncertainty times powerless there is a if you're feeling anxious anxiety obviously it's about the fear of some unknown situation or something that's that's impending but you can't do thing about. So there's powerlessness for sure, this uncertainty for sure, but there could be other factors as well. So I'm not sure if we can, you know, have a mathematical equation or formula for something as complex as emotions. And I am not the right person to guide you for this because I have never attempted to do such a thing. So I lack the experience uh for doing this. Okay. Okay. Shushirya says, "Thoughts on jotish/astrology? Is it scientific?" I know not. I do not know because I have never studied ever jotish or astrology. I am completely ignorant about the details of jotic or astrology. So I I'm not the right person to ask this. I have never studied it. So I can't say vidy manar says extremely worried about bharat. Never felt so helpless. Well, we've had worse times way way worse times than this. Right now, what we what many Indians are worried about those who understand what's happening is that we have the light at the end of the tunnel. Keep growing at 6 7 8% per year GDP wise for 20 years and you are a middle income nation. That is the light at the end of the tunnel. After a thousand years of foreign occupation, we will finally be at the sta the at the stage where we are genuinely a great power. not superpower mind you great power because with that economic growth will also come military growth and milit military muscle and so on and better standards of living and so much more and that will precipitate reforms that could not be precipitated earlier right there's a tipping point that comes in at some point so that's the light at the end of the tunnel 20 years down the line we're going to be somewhere where we have not been before for the past 1,000 years but our adversaries don't want this to happen so they are putting immense pressure, leverage, arm twisting on us right now. Then the next 5 years is the break make or break time. The next five years will determine whether we're going to make it or whether we were going to be broken and have another 200 years of vasalhood subjugation which is why yeah I I can understand the worry but uh the worry comes from uncertainty right that we are uncertain of the outcome but there have been times where the outcome was known we were under Turk occupation for like several centuries under British occupation for two and a half centuries And things were so dire in those days. It was daily genocide, wasn't it? So we I mean imagine being ruled by ISIS for 500 years. Yeah. Many parts of India more than 500 years. Afghanistan, Gandhar, literally a thousand years now. Um, so I would say we should uh, of course, it's it's it's a it's a it's going to be a tough road ahead, but we should be positive and we should all pitch in with whatever we can individually for the cause of the great civilization that is ours. So let's be optimistic. Grant says, how do you view the Russia Ukraine war now? Was Russia successful in accomplishing their objectives? See the question of was Russia successful in accomplishing its objectives is something we should ask when the war ends. We should ask this question when the war finally ends. Whenever it ends, maybe 3 weeks, maybe 3 months, maybe 3 years, whenever, maybe 10 years, who knows? We don't know. We will ask this question only when the war ends. This is not the time to ask this question. Was Russia successful? Russia is still involved, engaged in the war. The war is ongoing. What were the objectives that Russia had in February 2022 when they launched this special military operation? Objectives, what were they? Number one, the demilitarization of Ukraine. Number two, the denazification of Ukraine. Essentially, that was it. And obviously, the unstated objective was to safeguard the Russian the the Russian majority regions of Ukraine. Right. So the Luhansk and Donk regions are Russian majority overwhelmingly Russian majority and those people live the Russian ethnic Russian people living in these regions were subjected to daily bombardment and whatn not since between 2014 and 2022. That is something the western media has never reported. So the Russians wanted to reabsorb those territories into Russia and that's been achieved mostly. So that part has been achieved. Now the Ukraine has not been demilitarized. It has not been denazified. Right? So that's not happened yet. So those objectives are still I suppose a work in pro process. And obviously another objective would be regime change in Kiev. That's also not been achieved yet. And the long-term objective is that Ukraine should never in the future be be in a position where it can be used by the West as a tool to threaten Russia. The way the West uses Pakistan to threaten India, that sort of thing. So that is still going on. So it's too early to say whether Russia has been successful or not. But thus far it has had partial success. It's not fully successful at this point in time. Vidimar says is Iran protest two US deep state sponsored? I think some of it is organic. I'm sure the people of Iran don't identify with the with the uh government that uh I'm sure that that all of the people of Iran don't identify with the government that rules them, the the the regime, right? Many people seek democracy. Many people seek an end to Sharia law. I suppose many people in Iran maybe a significant percentage of people of the people of Iran maybe they don't they don't want Islamic law Islamic rule whatever many people may want to practice a different religion pos potentially right so it's I would say there is a significant element of organis organicity or you know of or organic behavior in the protest and that obviously is is great for a nation that seeks a regime you in Iran. So they can portray their support, they can portray their efforts to change the regime in Thran and support for democracy and the aspirations of the people of Iran. So there's obviously going to be an element of US or Israeli involvement in this, but there's also going to be a significant element of of support on the ground for a change in the regime in Thran. Right. Protarano says looks like our defense deals are not necessities but just carrots to pacify and get trade deals with other countries especially US, France, Germany. Uh I'm not sure what exactly you are pointing towards. You're clearly pointing towards something. Um is the the I'm not sure. Something's happened recently. There's been some controversy. I've not looked into it. Yeah, but yeah. Look, um there's [snorts] always an element of give and take. We'll do this, you do that for us. We want a favorable trade deal, we'll throw in this for you. That sort of thing. So that is something that makes sense. But that should not happen at the at the expense of indigenous capabilities. So let's say we have a capa, we have a requirement in India for 10,000 rockets of a multiarrel launch system like the Paka or whatever. we have a requirement for at least 10,000 let's say and we decide to buy something similar from another country country X maybe 500 units so if we do that it should not mean that we stop producing the paka system at home right so as long as we buy that but we don't stop the production of the paka system at home it's fine it's like a sweetener throw thrown in towards a deal but if you are buying that small number of thing and stopping the production at home of high quality indigenous system that's a huge problem is that the case I'm not sure about that. So sometimes we have to throw in some sweeteners to get a trade deal and that is the name of the game. That that's part of the rules of the game. You have to throw in the sweetener sometimes and that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that as long as it doesn't affect our indigenous defense production manufacturing capabilities. Aninud Kumar says, "What can we do to contain the US and its global dominance?" Zero at this point in time. Absolutely big fact. Zero. K2340 says, "How was the UK so good at good at plane building during the Second World War? Spitfire. A legendary fighter plane. The Spitfire. Outstanding fighter plane for for its time. The 1940s. The Mosquito. The Lancasters. The Lancasters were bombers, right? Yeah. Can India ever achieve this level of air superiority with the domestic Indian tech? Of course, we can there you need political will. You need investment. I mean substantial investment in the sector. Yeah. And you need a reformation of the education system which I will not harp on about again because I've done I do that in every single episode. We need to reform the godamned Indian education system. System which is rotten to the core. third rate mediocre rotten education system. We need to reform it. We need to get rid of all the rot from it. We need to make it merit based. We need to make it focused laser focused on STEM on science and technology. And we need to make our higher education based mainly focused on research and development not on wrote memorization. You do that you're going to have high quality people coming out of the education system who are ready to hit the ground running in when it comes to research and development. Right? If we have that and we have proper investment in these sectors, aviation, you know, engines, jet engines and whatnot, then we're going to have a boom in Indian air manufacturing. So, how was the UK so good? They had a great education system, right? They had all the money in the world that they had stolen from other countries and they had all the resources in the world stolen from other countries. So they had good brains. Every every nation has good brains. We have better brains. Of course, we are superior intellectually from to the to the rest of the world, I suppose. Am I being too naughty by saying that? Whatever. So So that was the case, right? How was Germany so good? How was Germany so good during the Second World War? Even the first world war? I mean, Germany's technological achievements dwarf that of the UK and the US. Germany was so far ahead of its time. How so? A stellar education system, fullcale focus on industry, on cuttingedge research and development and industry. And when you have the combination of these factors, you're going to have genius level achievements. So that's what the UK what that's what Germany did, that's what the UK did, that's what China is doing right now. And we are sitting and watching them all. And so what can we do about this? Nothing at all sir. That's the problem. Okay. A died in plane crash says why haven't you talked about soldiers from the hermit kingdom fighting for Russia especially in Kursk as it is now confirmed that these not some Yakuts buryats. Am I supposed to talk about everything in this show? The Ask a Budget show. I answer your questions. So my question to you is why haven't you asked me about this before? You ask me, I'll talk about it. Right? This this this show, the Ask show, the format is driven by all of you. If you don't ask me about something, how will I speak about it? I need your permission to speak about it. You ask me, I'll answer. So here we have it. Yeah, of course there are soldiers from North Korea who have been fighting for Russia. Of course, they have been fighting for Russia. We know that. So, here we have it. I've spoken about it. Thank you so much, sir. All right. Happy New Year says, "Can you explain how can you explain how was the internet in the 2000s? How was the speed, the content, the apps and social media? How did how did people how did people look at it? How did people think about it? what what were people's feelings about it internet right so I first came across the internet in probably 9798 19979898 around that time right when I was a student and it was something fascinating for me wow what is this I did not know what see I did not know what the what it was all about obviously when the first time you come come across that you don't know what it's about at that time I I did not know how to use a computer I did not know how to switch on or switch off a computer, how a computer worked or whatever. I did not know what HTML was and so on. But then you pick it up fast, right? So, uh how was the internet? The speed was abysmal. Abyal. So, in India at that time, you had something called cyber cafes because nobody had internet connections at home, right? That only came in India, home internet connections by the late 2000s. So, you had cyber cafes where there was no coffee. It was just a computer, a shitty old computer, big one, big uh cubicle screen, you know, the the cathode rate tube monitor and that sort of thing. And it would take 20 minutes to open up a web page and they'll charge you like 40 rupees an hour, which is a lot of money for that time. Okay, so that sort of thing. Sometimes it would take 20 minutes to to just load a web page or something. And everybody got email addresses. It used to be Hotmail or something at the time. used to be Hotmail and there was something called Alta Vista and all kinds of very niche websites and uh very interesting HTML based websites. There was no audio, there was no video on it. The graphics were very minimal. It was mainly text based. So there was the late '9s. In the 2000s you had the progression of the internet and you had the start you had the emergence of something called blogging. Blogging was the big thing, the hot thing those days. If you were cool, if you were up with the times, then you had a blog and you used to blog and express your opinions about things and so on. And blogging apparently was pretty lucrative for some for some people in some parts of the world. Some people used to make lots of money from Google AdSense blogging and whatnot. And then you had the start the emergence of WordPress as a blogging platform. And you know you could host WordPress on a hosting provider, get your own top level top level domain and that sort of thing. You can do do that sort of thing. So I also played the game. I mean I I I think I decided to make a website somewhere in 2010. I learned how to do it. No one taught me. Everything I' I've learned is entirely selftaught. So then yeah, I did all that. So the content was all niche content, very democratic content, all kinds of random content. Then you had one you initially you had uh search engines like Alt Vista and Yahoo and whatnot but Google cracked the code. Okay, Google gave you page rank and and algorithmic search and whatnot and Google that's why it became so big and then it came up with Gmail and whatnot. There were no apps on the internet in the 2000s or the 1990s. Apps are a very new thing. It was just websites you know http semicolon/ whatever.com it was generally then you hadn nets andorgs that came in and today you have all kinds of tldds right uh social media what kind of social media did you have you had Facebook there was MySpace I believe I never used MySpace I suppose I have a Facebook account lying somewhere so it all all started with MySpace and Facebook and then you had Twitter coming in in the late 2000s and Then over time you had other social media coming. So that's kind of how it was and things evolved to over time. Web 2.0 people used to talk about in the early 2010s and so on so forth. Yeah. Rajit says in the history of Bengal G and Vanandanda was great. All right sir. What about King Shashank? Wasn't King Shashank great? What about king um Gopal? What about king Gopal? You had so many great people in Bengal. I am not saying that detach and vivan were not great. Please don't get me wrong. There are plenty of people who want to do that. I'm saying is that the only two people you can think of when it comes to Bengal. There's plenty more. You have to educate yourself for that. Of course, Na G was one of the greatest of all. Of course, Varandanda G was great. But have you heard of the others? Right. Please, please learn about Bengal. There's so much more to the history of Bengal. So, it's so ancient, it's so rich, so vast. Please learn more is all I would say. Arya says, "Is Hindi imposition as bad as they say or do they make a mountain of out of a mole hill? I'm from Assam. We learn both Asamese and Hindi and Asame is doing fine. It even got classical status. Hindi imposition." Well, no matter which language we decide is going to be the national language of civilization language, as long as we have this this this this specific form of democracy that that thrives on creating divisions in society, we're going to have this issue, right? As long as as we have this system where you get votes by creating divisions in society, people will always cry about imposition of this language, that language, this language, that language. Like you say you're from Assam there's Hindi there's Asamese and both and Assam is doing fine of course Assam will doing will do fine in any state if you have a national language and the local language I don't think it's going to the the the promotion of the national language will ever come at the cost of the local language or languages uh Assam's got classical status well I can think of many other languages that deserve classical status I would say all languages should be given classical status. What exactly is the definition of a classical language? What exactly is classical dance and non and quantum dance? Then there in physics you have classical and clonquantum. So which are the quantum languages [laughter] and which are the quantum dances I wonder. Yeah. So anyway, I'm I'm so glad that as has got classical status. It's a great language, fantastic language with such ancient roots. But all our languages have great ancient roots. I would say give make all languages classical all of them with the exception well okay let's not get into controversy shall we have enough of this all right happy new year says almost all the animals we domesticated are social animals I think the only exception are cats how did we domesticate them I think it's the cats that domesticated us [laughter] cats are unsocial animals cats will not hang around in big groups, right? Cats hate big groups. I may be the one of the only people who has seen this. When I was a little kid, one of the cats in our neighborhood had given birth to a litter of I don't know, I don't know, it's litter whatever it's like, you know, seven kittens. Seven kittens. And they were lucky enough to all survive into adulthood. And they used to hang out together. I still remember the scene from my childhood. Like I'm not talking about childhood. I'm talking talking about toddlerhood. Was a very little kid at the time. That's the backyard and this is the backyard fence. Suddenly from the backyard fence, seven cats emerge together. It's a seven sibling cats. Have you ever seen seven cats going somewhere together? I've seen that. Yeah. And one of those cats had these spots grayish greenish almost. Have you ever seen a cat with greenish spots? Maybe it's because I saw it in my childhood. Maybe I've misinterpreted the memory as as a cat with greenish spots, but yeah, that's what it was. Uh yeah. So, okay. Anyway, coming back to what we're talking about. Are cats social animals? They're not quite social animals. Yeah. But, uh I think it's the cats that domesticated us humans. Cats don't give a damn what people say. We don't own them. They own us. Right. And cats are very individualistic creatures. And maybe they are more intelligent than dogs, but they pretend to be stupid and they hear you fine when you talk to them. But they only act when it it serves their interests. If you say, "Here's food," they'll come. If you say, "Go and do something for me," it's going to ignore you. So I think cats are really intelligent animals who have actually ended up domesticating us. It's not us that domesticated cats. Dogs super social creatures. Oh, dogs need attention. Dogs need validation. Dog dogs need [snorts] warmth and hugs and a pack around them and so on. Horses are also social animals. Horses hang around in large groups of horses, right? Cows are very social, very very emotional, very very loving creatures. Elephants also social animals as we know, right? What else? Sheep are very social. Goats social and so on. Yeah, cats are the exception. Cats are weird and cats Yeah. Well, they have domesticated us actually. Okay. Honey Sharma says, "I am confused now between MBA or army." Well, I am not in a position to help you out with this because I don't know you personally. I don't know what your aptitudes are, what your background is, what your strengths, relative strengths and weaknesses are. I don't know. I don't know the the first thing about you. So I can't really without knowing you well I can't really tell you what's better for you personally. For some people army is a no-brainer. You belong in the army. You can tell. For some people you are made for MBA. Go that. I can tell if you know the person but without knowing you I how can I tell you? Yeah. Right. So I I am really sorry but I without because I don't know you at all personally sadly I I can't I can't tell you what's what's best for you. You're going to have what I would recommend is talk to elders talk to people who are wise whose advice you can trust and who are who have experienced life and who know you well and talk to multiple people like that. Maybe mom, dad, maybe grandfather, uncle, whoever, aunt, whoever. Yeah. grandma, granddad, aunt, uncle, cousins, mom, dad. Talk to multiple people. Seek out a range of opinions from people whose advice is valuable and and who you can trust and then I think that would help you better than me randomly giving you some some advice that that actually makes no sense. All right, sir. Hi Sharma, all the best. Do well, get the right answers. Rishi Sanmani says, "What's the root cause of conflict between Shia Sunni?" I don't know. I am I have not studied the history of Islam in any significant detail and uh yeah um there was some kind of battle. Look, I'm not even sure about that. So when it comes to the history of Islam etc. I am not the right person to ask this questions. Okay sir. Happy new year says I think Israel is the only country which is able to maintain a stable fertility rate. For the past 40 years, their fertility rate has remained between 2.8 to 3.0. Salute to Israel for having been able to maintain this high TFR. Outstanding. Good job, sir. Good job, sir. And madams. MK says, "Did the only good thing that communism and socialism do in the 20th century was challenging the West, which is the US hedgemony like the USSR, Cuba, Vietnam, etc." Well, there's very few good things that communism has given the world. Um, and socialism, well, socialism is a well, another form you could say. You know, it's along the same lines as communism, but somewhat different. So, is standing up to the west the only good thing it did? I think that does not it's not because of communism as such. It's because of the patriotism of the people of these nations. See in India the communists many of them are allegedly let's say antinationals many of the Indian communists allegedly serve the interests allegedly of certain other countries allegedly whoever allegedly pays them the allegedly highest allegedly I think that's enough allegedly but in the USSR the communist party was national nationalistic or was patriotic the Chinese communist did a terrible able amount of horrific things to their people but they looked out for the for the interests of their nation. So and Cuban communists again were were patriots. So it was standing up to the west was more about patriotism than communism. Okay. So that is an important distinction we need to make. Okay. Pratana says eggs and cholesterol. What's your opinion? Look my opinion or my advice? My opinion should never be taken as medical advice. Never. Okay. Never. I am not a medical doctor. I'm not a medical professional. What's my opinion on eggs and cholesterol? My opinion is you can eat multiple eggs a day without any issue at all. Whatever. That's my opinion which is not medical advice. My opinion is you can eat multiple eggs a day and you will not have any health issues of any kind whatsoever. Yeah. Sometimes you could even eat eat well I'll not throw out a number otherwise once again my opinion is not medical advice. I don't think eggs are unsafe. Multiple eggs a day are not unsafe. They are safe in my opinion. Pratip Kumar Roy says about crown council in the city of London. I'm not sure about the crown council in the city of London. Yeah. Rishi Barat says posture check and hydration reminder for everyone. Thank you so so much. I will take your reminder to heart. Ah thank you. Thank you sir. Um Ratib Kumar Roy says future of Indians in Europe and America. Future of Indians. Well, those who have become citizens, their descendants will continue to live there. Eventually, they will assimilate in some shape of I would say not just culturally but genetically also. Um I mean talking about I'm talking about the next 100 200 years future of India's next next two years, 5 years, 10 years. Um [clears throat] they'll they'll face some issues. Yeah, there's going to be a lot of racism against them. uh until India becomes a 1015 trillion dollar economy when in by which time they will be given some kind of grudging respect I suppose. All right. Thunderbolt says why was Socrates forced to drink the hemlock? Because he was very naughty I suppose. Uh why was Socrates forced to drink the hemlock? because uh look I don't remember the exact exact details of the story but it was not popular among the the the the elite the elite of of of Athens was it some disagreement and they decided he he had to be killed I don't remember the specific details I I I last read this like 20 25 years ago I don't remember the details there was something that they didn't like about him and that's why they said you must drink this yes we give you the the choice, honorable exit or dishonorable exit. So he chose the honorable exit. Do it do it yourself itself. Okay. Raj says, "Does Hawking radiation emit information trapped in a black hole?" No. Hawking radiation is purely democratic in nature. And I'm not I'm not joking here. Hawking radiation is black body radiation. It has a black body spectrum. It is entirely random in nature. So it's not emitting information that's trapped in the black hole. Right? A black hole, we don't know what happens to the information. That's the paradox, isn't it? A black hole only has a black hole's properties can be characterized by just three parameters. Mass, charge, angular, momentum, whatever else went into the into the black hole information. I don't we don't know. We don't quite know what happens to it. Maybe it gets scrambled and it's represented in some way on the horizon. The holographic principles holographic principle, not principles, principle. Um and we have black holes of temperature because yeah thermodynamics of black holes entropy and and and and temperature the entropy of the black hole is proportional to its surface area and there's a temperature and the temperature causes the black hole to emit radiation in the form of Hawking radiation and this Hawking radiation has a black body spectrum. It's entirely random in nature. It's like a random number generator purely and it doesn't encode the information that is potentially trapped in that is definitely trapped inside a black hole which whether it's trapped or not we don't know but it does go inside but does it come out we're not quite sure. Pratip Kumar Roy says I saw somewhere a Pakistani commented that there are no mentions of elephants in the riga which proves that rigidic people came from outside. Okay. Um I'm I'm not I've not seen what this Pakistani person says. Uh do I know about whether the rigida has mentions of elephants? I am not sure. But the absence of evidence is not the evidence of absence. This is a basic principle in not science, not merely science but in just logic. The absence of evidence is not the evidence of is not the evidence of absence. Just because a certain animal is not mentioned in a book doesn't mean that this book was not written in that country or in that land. Come on. I mean what sort of argument is this? What is this? I don't understand. Yes. Come on. Okay. Anika. Anika says, "I am worried about India's overpopulation and what they're going to suffer because of it. Wish India's leaders were stronger in the past have suffered enough. Um, overpopulation. Yeah, overpopulation is a big issue in India. See historically you know until 1947 the in in 1947 the population of undivided India was about 330 million give or take. Yeah. And today the population of just divided India whatever is left after the partitioning that population is 1.45 four five or something what billion which is good god what are we doing right and this has happened in the past 80 years I remember when I was a kid growing up India's population was 600,000 so sorry 600 million now I used to think my god how big it is and today we are more than double of that I mean the population growth has been a runaway population growth now India's TFR has come below 2.1 it's about 2.0 zero maybe 1.9 sometime in the future which means the India's population starts decreasing now if we keep bringing the TFR total fertility rate down that there's going to be a significant and rapid collapse of the growth rate of population right the population is start going to start decreasing but collapsing TFR also causes the rapid aging of the population that the median age starts increasing very rapidly And that's a disaster for our nation. That's what China is going through. That's what Japan is going through even worse. So I you are right to worry about to be concerned about India's overpopulation because it it it it imposes such a big strain on the resources of the nation right so the population does indeed need to be brought down to the pre-artition levels of 350 330 million or so something right but it can't happen over the next 10 years 20 years which will require unthinkable drastic measures it needs to happen over the next 200 years slow gradual decline of population otherwise you're going to have a situation where the average person is 60 years old 65 years old that's a disaster for a country so you're right you're right that India we we should we would wish that were were better in the past India's yeah definitely suffered enough and so on but u we are where we are you know one could wish that one did not have to live in such times but all we can do is decide what to do with the time that we have that has been given to us like Gandalf would say. Okay. B Mandav says sir resigned from government job because I didn't like it. Now what to do? Okay. You have resigned from a government job because you do not like it. Now what should I do? What should you do? Well, you see, ideally, I would say this is all in the past now. But ideally, before you take some action, you should have some plan A, plan B, plan C that I'm going to do this. I don't like this job, so I'm going to leave it. But before I leave the job, I should first determine what is my best course of action post resignation. That's plan A. If plan A doesn't work, what should be my plan B? Otherwise, what should be my plan C? That's what you should do before you leave a job. But you have left the job. Now, what should you do? Well, I can perhaps answer the question if I know you. But I don't know you, sir. Personally, I don't know what your background is. I don't know what your age is. I don't know of what your skill set is. I don't know what your aptitudes are. I don't know what your rel relative strengths and weaknesses are. Uh so without this information, I can't even begin to tell you what you should do now. So what I would say is the first immediate thing you need to f do immediately or as soon as it is possible is to get yourself an a source of income. Right? So get yourself a source of income which could be a job or maybe you have a business or whatever. Get yourself a source of income, a stable, reliable source of income. That's the first thing you do. Once you have that, you have some breathing space and then you can decide now what should I do with the rest of my life. Should I start a business? Should I become entrepreneur? Should I um take up some other job somewhere or whatever it is right? So the first thing I would say without because I don't know you at all is get yourself a stable reliable source of income first thing and then decide what to do with the rest of your life. All right. So all the best. All the best sir. We wish you the best. Fast snail says India leading leading bricks this year. How to maximize opportunities opposition opportunities? India is leading bricks this year. In what way are we leading bricks? [snorts] Is it in terms of economic growth? Is it in terms of India has decided that we will be the leader? I'm I'm not sure what you're what you're saying. India leading bricks this year. Let me try and Google uh what what this could potentially mean. India leading bricks. What is that? Okay. India assumes bricks chairmanship and will host the 18th Whoops. What is this? BRICS summit in 2026. Okay. Brazil has formally handed over the bricks presidency to India for 2026. It's a revolving presidency. It's a revolving presidency. So India is going to assume the chairmanship of bricks this year. It's a revolving presidency. It's not like we are the leader of bricks. We are the nominal chairman of bricks this year. How to maximize opportunities? We were the leaders along the same lines. If you want to argue we were the leaders of the G20 in 2023 because we are the chairmanship of whatever of G G20. Does it mean mean mean that we're actually leading the G20? No. The only leader of the G20 is the US based on its size and strength and all that. A nominal hat that you wear of president for one year that doesn't make you the leader. It just it's it's it's a ceremonial role. So chairmanship of bricks is a ceremonial role. It's not a leadership. It's not a leadership. Leadership means you are actually the strongest in the pack which we are not. So as chairman we will that's that doesn't really matter. But Kkumar Roy says that this Pakistani guy also wrote that the ancient Brahmans were ancient Jews. [laughter] They came to India and built Brahma temple in Pushkar in the name of Arab Abraham. Okay, fantastic. Jews know this. He said Buddha and Pali are u confused. Why are you confused? Why are you confused? Why? This is this is absolute nonsense. India's civilization predates the Jewish people by thousands of years. Pakistanis have this guilt. Pakistanis have this inferiority complex because their ancestors were forcibly converted. So they seek to denigrate the culture and religion of their ancestors. All converts do this. Why do we have to get confused by what nonsense these people spew? Why do we even pay attention to something a Pakistani is saying about the religion his ancestors were made to leave? Ignore these people. The MK says, "Did the US become a superpower on a platter by exploiting Britain's near collapse under Nazi attack to extract its global assets and imperial influence?" Absolutely not. Absolutely not. The US became a superpower by by working on it. How the first thing that they did was to conquer an entire continent-sized nation from east coast all the way to the west coast from the Atlantic to the Pacific. It's a gigantic land mass they conquered by exterminating the natives and and and and subjugating those that remained. And then they built a gigantic industrial capacity and they built the ability to extract resources, mineral resources and other resources from the land. Then they built a navy and a military, a massive navy, massive military and that's what gave them the ability to to to exploit the collapse of Britain. But by the time they were way more powerful than Britain, right? So it's not like they became a superpower on a platter because they exploited somebody's misfortune. No, they built themselves up into a behemoth which gave them the ability to finally exploit other people's misfortunes. Right. Okay. S Morgan says, "I would like your views on the type of government portrayed in Harabot Heinline's Starship Troopers, the book, not the movie. If you have not read it, I highly recommend it." This is one science fiction movie I have not read. Uh book I have not read. I have it somewhere, but I haven't gotten around to reading it. It's one of the books I missed reading during my childhood. I have it, but I haven't started it. And I haven't watched the movie. I've seen some some snippets of the movie, which is kind of funny, but I [snorts] know the book is a classic, an all-time classic. It's a military classic, but I haven't read it yet. So, I won't be able to answer your question. I can't venture a guess without reading it. Um, so yeah, uh, you highly recommend it and I agree with you and I will read it. It's a good reminder for me to maybe pick it up my next trip somewhere. I have a next trip coming up very soon. So maybe I'll pick up that book on the way on my trip if I can find the time to read it. All right. Run rager says okay. R says does Starink even need permission they can just beam it in case of antinational elements if the US wants right. That's something we have to actually explain to Indians. But Starling doesn't have the permission to operate in India. Starling doesn't need permission. You are right. Starling does not even need permission. They can turn on the beams. Who knows the beams are not on right now. They will not put it on because they want to actually get official permission from India and make money from Indians. I hope the government of India denies Starlink permission to operate in India. Then we will see what games they play because couple of years ago or some something like that Starlink equipment was found was was was apprehended from cookie terrorists in Manipur. Right. So the question is is Starlink being beamed over India's far east or some parts of India's far east maybe the territories that the cookie cookies have captured where I'm not sure how much government of India presence we have is Starlink available there has it been turned on over there so Starlink to answer your question Starlink doesn't need anybody's permission they can just switch on the beams and there's nothing the government of India can do about Unless unless we develop the technology required to jam sterling transmissions across the subcontinent. I suppose we can do it. My question is is the government of India doing that? I hope we are. Aner Kumar says what are the benefits of India annexing and integrating Maldives into itself and how long would it take for India to achieve this? 20 minutes. It would take India about 20 minutes to annex Maldives and integrate them. But what are the benefits? Um what are the benefits? More power projection capabilities, an expanded Indian zone of influence, official zone of sovereign influence. Uh right now what are the drawbacks? You take over a country like that, the Americans will impose 3 million sanction sanctions on you. They're just waiting for for an excuse, the Americans, right? So right now is not the right time to do that. The future we'll see. I mean if if if uh climate change theory is true and sea levels will rise as they say which they could in that case we don't need to do any things and it's a thing the Maldis may go underwater anyway die in plane crashes. Some US military veterans say that Russian military is more capable than it was before the war even calling Ukraine war as Russia's realtime military education. Is Russia's military more capable than it was in February 2022? It is. It is. They've learned. So, like you say, this is realtime military education. They're having to to to to learn on the fly in the middle of battle. Right? They are forced to adapt on the run. Battle tactics are evolving every day. It's the first time you had widescale large scale use of drones in warfare. And then both sides had to come up with very rapid innovations to to neutralize drone warfare. They're coming up with these ugly cages on top of tanks which look horribly ugly, but they're effective. The drone can't hit the tank. It'll explode a meter or two above the tank and it's enough. It's enough. It'll ensure that the the tank survives. Then what about anti-personnel drones? You can put up nets over your trenches or whatever and the anti-personal drones can't get through. Just a simple net, a fishing net kind of thing. There is that. And then there's, you know, hypersonic weapons and all kinds of tactics and counter tactics and technologies that are being used now. loitering drones, kamicazi drones, anti-personal drones, various kinds of mines and whatnot. All of these tactics are evolving in real time and the whole world is watching and I it's pretty clear that India has learned many of the lessons of the Ukraine war which was very apparent during the operation sindur uh event you know the three-day war with aerial war with Pakistan against Pakistan [snorts] and uh Russia's economy has done well it's actually grown GDP has grown and the Russian military complex is now Russian military industrial complex is now churning out whatever the Russian military needs in in in big numbers. So I agree that the Russian military is now more capable than it was in February 2022 when the war just began. Russia has this historical tendency to not do very well initially in any war. And then as time goes by, it gets better and better and better. That's what Russia has always been like. And you can see this this has happened once again this time in Ukraine. So now Russ the Russian military is battle hardened, battle tested. It it it it it is it has learned to counter various tactics and strategies and the newly evolving uh new rules of warfare and yeah it's realtime military education. I agree. Okay. Kajuron says lack of sunlight sitting all day blue light cancers. Why are we all in a race to have a life and world that is unfit for humans and optimized for machines? Are we advancing toward obsolescence? Yeah, increasingly it is so. Unless you are engaged in some kind of uh profession that keeps you outdoors for long periods of time. Let's say you are in agriculture. Uh let's say you are a civil engineer who oversees constructions or whatever you know whatever else you're an athlete or whatever. Unless you are in these occupations, most of your time human beings are indoors, sitting in cubicles in offices, fluorescent lighting, sitting 8 hours, 12 hours a day typing away or doing something on the mouse on the computer, you know, squinting at very short distances which which ruins people's uh eyes, blue light, fluorescent lighting. Yeah. Very poor diets, very poor lifestyles. Yeah. The entire world is see this has this is all the outcome of the consequences of the industrial age. where humans were forced to specialize. Humans were forced into production lines and the production line uh the the the the concept of the production line was then expanded to even software work and whatnot. So every person is like a cog in a wheel and you are supposed to specialize and do what uh do do one activity over and over and over again which is bad for your health, mental health and whatnot. Overall it makes people miserable. I know I've been there at some point in my life, right? Um so yeah we are all going towards that a world you know a lifestyle that's very poor for humans. Uh we are hardly outdoors. I don't know how many people even look at the sky anymore. And today if you if you're in an Indian city and you look at the sky you see a mass of gray. You don't even see blue skies anymore. If you look at the sky in the night all you see is a haze yellow haze or something. You hardly see stars anymore because of light pollution and whatnot and pollution overall. And in India, if you live in a big city, most people keep looking down, down, down. People don't even look at the sky anymore. They don't even know where the sun rises. They don't they don't even know that the moon has phases. They don't even know that when you see a star, every day it advances slightly ahead of where it was yesterday at the same time. People don't see that. People are not even aware of these things. So it's terrible and we need a solution for this you know. Yeah. So you're absolutely right. These are big big concerns for humanity. R says only in India restaurants give free water. Anywhere else I went uh they always had to pay for it. Um yeah even in East Asia now you have restaurants. I mean if you go to a restaurant you're supposed to pay for water, right? In India, you'll get water for free in most restaurants. Unless you go to a fast food restaurant, you know, fast food restaurant, western with a western brand on it. In that case, you have to pay for everything. If you're in an airport, if you want water, you have to pay for a little plastic bottle of bottled water. Yeah. But in India, in other parts of India, even in big cities, if you go to go to Indian restaurants, which are, you know, you will get free water. I suppose India is one of the few places left in the civilized world where where you have this. Yeah. Everywhere else you pay for water. Rajat says I'm flabbergasted by the NASAta 10.19 of the Rigida that states in the beginning there was neither existence nor non-existence formless void and singular. How can anyone have known that more than that it says that before the creation more than that Nasadia says that before the creation of the universe we don't know what existed the gods came into existence with the creation and the formation of the universe who created them who created them and the creator does he know or does he also not know it's a profoundly agnostic statement about the creation of the universe. Incredibly agnostic, incredibly skeptical. So the Hindu view of the creation of the universe is agnostic and skeptical. It says even the gods appeared with the creation of the universe. Who created them? Right? So it's incredible how profound the the the philosophy the thinking of our ancestors all those thousands of years ago was more profound than people who are in existence today. Okay. Sharon says how did a man initially set out for a religious pilgrimage come to be regarded as the world's greatest traveler? Who are you referring to, sir? A man who initially set out for a religious pilgrimage come to be regarded as the world's greatest traveler? Who is this? I seem to be at a loss. World's greatest traveler. Who's the world's greatest traveler? Ibn Batuta. Who is Yeah, we know who I is or was. Did he set out on an expedition? Okay. He's he went for a pilgrimage to Mecca but journeyed for nearly 30 years visited 44 modern countries equivalent of that and so on. I I don't know about the life of Iban Batuta. So can't say I haven't studied this life so I don't know really. I'm sorry about that. Sorry about that. Minimalist Maverick says how did ancient Russians stop Turk and Arabic invasions? The Arabs couldn't stand the cold. They never bothered to try and invade Russia. The Turks, the Turks also did not really try to invade Russia. The Mongols did and they were very successful for a couple of centuries. The Mongol yoke they called it. The Mongols could withstand any form of cold. Any form of cold. So that's why the Mongols were able to rule Russia for about roughly give or take you know a couple of centuries the Mongol yoke. And then in the Siberian region, you had these Turk tribes, the Tatars. The Russians subjugated them. Yeah. The Russians were powerful enough to sub subjugate the Tatars. Obviously, there was resistance for a long long time. Omsk and Toms in those regions, Tatar regions. And today, plenty of Russians have Tatar ancestry. Two former tennis grand slam champions belong who are Russian citizens have Tatar ancestry Marat Safin and his sister Dinara Safhina Fatar ancestry u so the Russians were powerful enough they were strong enough to to subjugate the Tatars and apart from that there weren't really any major Turk invasions of Russia um R says isn't it fishing fishy that some government supporting news channels have suddenly started talking against it. Um well I don't com comment about domestic politics and these internal matters of India so I shall desist from commenting about this but interesting Sanjay Gandhi Var Munch says check had about Alhind special obsession I don't go into these matters I yeah this is beyond my purview uh the history of Islam and had all that no that's not For me, look, I I I speak about history, geopolitics, science. I don't go into matters that I haven't studied in great detail. I don't express my opinions about it. I don't speak about those things. So, I will not sir, apologies for that. Rules-based says, why can't we have a society where every leadership rule has two leaders, one male, one female? Imagine two judges, two teachers, two presidents. Dual leadership model might be the only solution the world needs. Why does it need the solution? How do we know that these two leaders are exactly the are exactly equally qualified or exactly equally competent? Why not have just one leader for each role irrespective of the gender whoever is best? Why do we need to have this forcible duality? I guarantee that if you bring two leaders, one male, one female, one is going to be slightly better. So why don't just take that one person? Why do we need to have this these contrived contrived things? What has worked for thousands of years? Why can't we continue that? I don't want two judges, two teachers, two presidents, two everythings. Why? So I should have when I travel to some, you know, take my next flight, I should have two pilots and two co-pilots, one male, one female. Hm. So for every uh male such tender there should be a female such tender also. For every fast bowler there should be a female fast bowler. Yeah. For every boxer there has to be a female boxer. Look it doesn't work like that. This is so so incredibly contrived and artificial. We don't need that. We just need to respect merit and competence. Whoever is most competent irrespective of gender, whoever is best for a specific role should be given the role. As simple as that. That's the kind of society and leadership model the world really needs needs. [snorts] Arun Arun says, "Was Token a natural genius or did he plagiarize some ideas from European mythology?" He took a lot of ideas from European mythology. But that's not plagiarism. In India, we take a lot of ideas from the Mahabharat, from the Rama, from the Idihas, from the Puranas and so much more. Are we plagiarizing our our our ancestors? No, it's part of our heritage. We have the right to use these ideas. Similarly, Tolken used ideas from European mythology, from u Nordic mythology, from Tutonic Germanic mythology and so on. The this the this artificial Elish language that he invented, most of it is taken from Nordic languages, right? But that's not plagiarism. He did come up with so many original ideas and thoughts and uh the Lord of the Rings itself, it has a lot of these elements. But it is entirely an original work. Right? So I would say he was definitely a genius level writer. If you take ideas from your own own ancestral mythology, that's not plagiarism. And he did modify. See, genius is about taking things that already exist because everything has already been done. You take things that don't exist that already exist and you use them or repurpose them in in very innovative creative ways in in which in in in in shapes and forms that really provide new value to those who to society at large. That's what you're supposed to do if you are a creator. And he was definitely a genius level creator. Yeah, definitely. All right. Next. Anything Yuvie says very intrigued like how were you in school? Where did you grow up? And as you said you went out for higher education han in your formal education background. How was I in school? When I was in the very early school, junior KG etc etc. I was super super super super liked by teachers and um well not always like okay look I I was a pretty intelligent kid. I wasn't always very fond of school especially the education system the textbooks and all I was not fond of it at all. Um so I was an okay student. Uh where did I grow up? I grew up all over the place. I had a pretty interesting growing up experience growing up in multiple places and all. Did I did I go out for higher education? Um I did not go out of the country for higher education but I did go out for higher education. My formal educational background is is physics. Right. So that's a that sort of thing. How was I in school? I was I was you could say I was a nerd. You could say I was a nerd. But the one thing that prevented me from being a complete nerd is that I was pretty good in some sports. Like really good in some sports. Nobody could out wrestle me. Nobody could lift heavier than me. I was very strong. I was very large. [laughter] So that's why nobody could accuse me of being a being a nerd. I wasn't a bully or any such thing, you know. I was a pretty peaceloving kid. But yeah, so I I was pretty different from most kids for sure. Yeah. But I loved playing sports. I loved having fun stuff. Yeah. Okay. Minimalist Maverick says, "We are 100% arians. Of course, we are superior to everybody else." Yes, sir. We are the superior. We are Arya. And that's not a joke. We are Arya. We are the original Arya people. Us and the Persians. We have to include the Persians also in that. So us the people of the subcontinent all of it and our Persian neighbors we are the original areas and if that makes us superior to everyone else well sure indeed. Uh Mitesh says what skills do mechanical engineers need to have at the AI era? Mechanical engineers are folks who deal with machine tools and all that, right? Machine tools, mechanical engineering. You are you use machines to create machines and you tinker around and and yeah, it's fascinating, beautiful, wonderful hands-on stuff. You're making stuff using machines. And who makes those machines? Well, other machines make those machines. So, what skills do you need to have in the AI era? mechanical engineers. Well, that's a great question. I'm not really very very very very very very sure about exactly what skills you need for mechanical engineering. Uh mechanical engineering is all about doing things hands-on, right? It's about making things. Uh you should be aware of the interface between AI and robotics. Okay. Um AI and robotics are going to bleed into each other pretty soon. it's it's already happening and I suppose that's where something becomes relevant for mechanical engineers. Um yeah I have to think about this you know I have never given my mind or my thought to mechanical engineering never but yeah the interface of AI and robotics is definitely going to be of of of relevance and uh of interest to mechanical engineers so eventually it's going to be robots that will start building machines I suppose. Pratip Kumar Roy says how has Bengal Islamized and not its near by state's history. I haven't studied this in detail. What was the process of the Islamization of Bengal? It obviously happened after the Muggal era, the Muggal Empire. Um what was the process like? I yeah that I'm not really 100% sure about. I'm not 100% clear about. I think a lot of the isization happened after the British occupation of Bengal. A lot of it, a lot of the conversion process happened after the British took over Bengal. They facilitated a lot of that. Right? So a few hundred years ago, nobody in Bengal was uh a practitioner of the Islamic religion. Nobody. Nobody at all. And then the Muggal Empire I suppose made Bengal a province of its and they did some standard atrocities standard Turk atrocities in Bengal but even that did not have the effect they wanted of widescale conversion. It's only after the British took over that you had wild widescale large scale conversion but the mechanics and dynamics of that I am not very clear about so I can I can't really answer that in detail. Zer Popali says has become a new member. Well, thank you so much. Welcome to the membership of this channel. Thank you very much for being so kind. Welcome, sir. Or ma'am. Okay. Raman Balo says, "Most Mughal Mughal architecture is just is just Indian with a hint with a bit of a bl of blend with Persian. There's going to be some Persian influences. See the muggles were Turks, but there is no Turk culture as such. I mean, no architectural culture as such. The Turks originally were just were just nomads and they absorbed culture they absorbed religion from the Arabs. They absorbed culture from the Turk from the Persians right and then these muggles ruled India uh and um after the time of Shajahan there's a lot of Persian influence that they bring in now the Persian architectural style it's also very similar to the Indian architectural style also right isn't it? So most muggle architecture is definitely mostly Indian and there's going to be Persian elements in it. Cal Persian calligraphic elements, Persian styles, you know, um you know a lot of the Persian style if you look at the Persian paintings from 500 years ago. Okay, that time Persia was a Turkishized Turkey Turkish sized nation. It was under Turk sub subjugation. See, India was again under Turkish sub subjugation and occupation for several centuries. So was Persia. So was Persia. Persia was also ruled by Turks. And if you look at ancient Persian paintings from 500 years ago, you will see all their kings and other people having those Turk eyes and Turk facial features, not Persian facial features. Right? So there's a bit there's a significant blending of the styles architectural and and and uh painting and other styles of muggle occupied India and Turic occupied Persia. So to answer your question back in back to what you're asking most muggle architecture is just Indian mainly Indian with elements of Persian and other styles mainly Persian style mainly Persian there's no such thing as as Turk style of architecture and there's no such thing as Arabic architecture because the original Arabic architecture is just flat squat rectangular buildings right so it's mainly Indian and Persian for sure godliness says uh health alert I live in the west and here a lot of Indian eatables have totally different ingredients much healthier quality and quantity compared to the same product sold in India. Why? For example, a packet of chips, potato chips of so and so brand. I will not take brand names here because I don't have the time for all those any disputes. Let's say you take a brand of chips of a major brand name whatever it is. Let's say X. You take a 100 gram packet of chips in New York City and the same brand a packet of 100 gram packet of chips in India and you look at the ingredients the you know the ingredients and all you will see that the packet in the west is going to have way more healthy way healthier ingredients than the one that's sold in India. If it is let's say let's say a bottle of jam or let's say a bottle a packet a sache of powdered soup whichever brand it is let's say it's tomato soup if it's a packet in London or New York it's going to have 5 to 10% actual tomato powder actual tomato powder it's going to have way less uh artificial ingredients and way less artificial color coloring and so on in India there's going to be almost nothing which is actual tomato. It's going to have way more artificial stuff. It's going to have all kinds of artificial colors and whatnot. So the Indian packet of the same brand, same quantity and same product essentially is going to be a very different product. It's going to be way more harmful to health than the one that's sold in the west. Same brand, same same product. So why is it so? If you if you take, you know, those those chocolate spreads that you paste onto bread and all that, whatever nut based chocolate creams you have, without going into the names, the Indian product is going to be is going to have way more refined sugar and way less good stuff. So why is it like this? Why? It's because they can get away with this nonsense in India. Because the government of India doesn't penalize them. Why does the government of India not penalize them? I think we all need to ask the government of India what the hell are you people doing? Why are you allowing foreign companies to get away with these practices in India? Why why can't you lay down the law and lay down the rules, lay down the specifications and the red lines? Why is the government of India what which minister does this come under? I really wonder what's happening really. It's it's terrible unacceptable actually. Sitans Nigum has become a new member. Sitange Nigum G very welcome a great very warm welcome to the membership of his channel and thank you so much for being so kind as to take a membership. Thank you so much. Godliness says if NATO breaks UK, Italy and Poland will stand with US France will explore its own independent pathway. And what about Deutsland or Denmark? Okay. So if NATO is dissolved, if the Americans go and take Greenland, NATO cannot continue. It simply can't continue. So what happens? Everybody will be made to stand with the US whether they like it or not, whether they desire it or not. Trump perhaps wants to end NATO. Perhaps it is not perhaps it is definitely more beneficial for the US to deal with each of these nations one to one instead of dealing with a group of nations in collectively. That way the US can extract way more from each nation. The US can impose way more leverage and pressure on each nation individually in different ways than dealing with a collective. So if NATO breaks, all of these nations, whether they desire it or not, whether they like it or not, will be made to do whatever the US wants them to do. France is the only nation within NATO that has a quasa independent foreign policy. Then France will be the most difficult to break and the US won't be able to impose its will completely on France. Apart from France, every other nation will do what the US tells them. Turkey may have a little bit of wiggle room and leverage because of its fantastic geographical location. So Turkey may have some regal, you know, some some breathing space, some wiggle room. France definitely has some breathing space and some regal room. So they will be they will bend less, but every other nation will fully bend to whatever the US wants them to do. Pratib Pratep Kumar Roy says, "How to get a software developer job with multiple gap years?" Oh well, that's something I've never thought about and I've never had to think about these things. Once I was out, I was out. I was done. So, if you have multiple gap years, I suppose you will have to find some way to justify those gap years that I was doing so and so thing, which is fantastic. So, maybe I was doing some research or maybe I was doing some project for myself or something. You have to I suppose show something, you know, constructive. Uh I suppose that's what you do. I'm not really sure. I may not be the right person, but if I was a recruiter, let's say, let's say I start a company tomorrow and I want to rec recruit let's say 20 people and I look at the rums. Uh most people have the standard rum of ever since they started working, they never stopped working and they have good rums. I will hire them. If a person has like three gap years, then it will it will make me wonder what was going going on with this person. So if I am hiring an employee, I'm going to pay them well, but I want them to work. I don't want them to be unreliable and disappear. Okay, I'm taking a gap year or something that doesn't doesn't work for me, right? So for an employer, it makes sense to want a person who doesn't have gap ears or if they have gapers, they need they should have some good genuine justification for it. So I suppose from your perspective you need to be able to show good a good justification for each of these gap years. That makes good sense. And then you also should have high quality skills and you should also I suppose convince the recruiter or recruiters of the company that you are a reliable person. So if you are genuinely reliable or maybe if you had some health issue or maybe some other genuine issue then it's understandable as long as you have the right skills and the right attitude even if you have gap years which are convincing you should be able to get a job. So that's what you need you need to uh uh ensure that you're able to provide. Okay. Uh AB Chowder fanboy says a family member of mine says Judaism is better and converted. What is superior about Judaism? And they think idolatry is bad. Temples are bad in bad bad condition etc. What is super superior about Judaism? I don't know. Uh I don't think Judaism is superior to Hinduism. If somebody feels that way, well, that's a personal choice. Who am I to say yes or no? It's a I think at the end of the day, it's it's a personal matter what religion you want to practice. If somebody of their own valition decides that so and so religion is best for me then they're welcome to start practicing that religion right but if someone does that you don't need justifications now to not convert into that religion right you you do you you do you you need to look into these things yourself I don't know what is superior about Judaism I don't think Judaism is a superior religion to Hinduism ism. I don't think so. So, if you ask me what's superior about it, I'll say I can't think of anything. That's that's the only answer I have. Um, Akil GK says, why am I not able to recall events from my childhood or even when I was in the 10th standard? But other people are recall are able to recall even when they were babies. Well, I don't know. Uh, if you ask me, I can recall things. that go back to the time when I was less than a year old. I can a few things but why can't you I I don't know ask your parents did you have some kind of accident did you hit your head somewhere or did you have some kind of medical condition that may have affected your memory because if you can't remember what happened in your 10th standard that is a cause of concern I would say right if you can't remember something that happened when you were 3 years old well that's kind of to some extent to be expected everybody will have things that happened when they were 3 years old that they can't But if you can't remember what happened in the 10th standard, I think you need to consult a medical professional, right? You should be able to remember the things that happened in the 10th standard or even when you were 10 years old. That should that that you should be able to remember. When it comes to events from your early childhood, it depends on person to person. Some people can remember things that that happened when they were a year old. Some people start remembering things from the time when they were three three years old and so on. If you ask me, I can remember things that happened before I was a year old. I can and I know that it was definitely before I was a year old cuz I remember I'm sitting on the kitchen floor with my bum on the floor like babies do and I've got my cat next to me. She was a white cat, white with patches. And I remember this incident because she whacked me in the face without the claws out, claws in, but she whacked me in the face. very very softly but that was a shock to me. I I saw this blue flash of light and then when I come to she like half a second later she's standing sitting at a distance and looking at me and how do I know I was less than a year old? Because when I'm sitting on the floor with my bum on the on the floor, my cat is sitting next to me, half sitting, half standing, her bum on the floor, her front legs out like that and her face is at the same level or slightly higher than mine, which means I was smaller than a cat at the time. So the point is I can remember things that happened when I was less than a year old. If you can't remember something that happened in the 10th standard, I think you need to consult a proper medical professional and look into your personal history. what happened that has caused this this kind of condition that probably is a cause for concern and you should look into this very seriously and at as early as possible. Uh so so all the best Akil all the best please do this at the earliest. Om says if Iran falls then is it possible that the US might feel that Israel is too free and that and has US has no leverage left on Israel? Netanyahu is already thinking of getting free from US support. Will US reconsider things? What's my opinion? No matter what happens, the US will not stop supporting Israel. That is my opinion. The US will not stop supporting Israel even if Iran falls. Yeah, I don't think so. Why do I not think so? Because too many high level American politicians support Israel. That's why. Uh, a lot of it's it's no secret, it's no conspiracy theory that a lot of uh high ranking American politicians are have Jewish ancestry. And look, if you have Jewish ancestry, you're going to support the Jewish homeland. What's wrong with that? So in the west you can have dual citizenship. You can have this thing and then the US and Israel are are unconditional allies. The US gives unconditional support to to Israel. And I think that even if Iran falls whenever it falls or if it falls the Americans will not ever stop supporting Israel. The US will not reconsider things. Certain presidents may be less favorably inclined towards Israel. the US support I don't see it ending if uh or or being reconsidered if Iran falls died in plane crash says this platform is censoring my super chats well I'm sorry to hear that I'm sorry to hear that I don't know what it is about or you know maybe sometimes it's some words that that trigger the sensor maybe it's it is sometimes some sentiments that trigger the sensor I am not sure what exactly it could be but Um well yeah no surprise says thoughts on latest scramjet test crossing 12 minutes. Let me see. I'm not aware of this. Let me see. Scramjet test. Okay. What do we have? Press Information Bureau of India. Dr. What kind of a website? Can't they make a better website? These people. How do I get rid of this nonsense? Okay, let us say, can we inspect this thing? Okay, let's inspect this. And where's this element? This this one here. Let's delete that. Kaboom. That's how we can do it. So, DRDO conduct and this is from the 9th of January 2026, which is 2 days ago. DRDO conduct successful ground test of full scale actively cooled long duration scramjet engine for hypersonic missile program and achieving a runtime of over 12 minutes at the scramjet connect pipe test facility on January 9 and this was a full scale [clears throat] actively com cooled long duration standard engine so it was not a scaled down model this was a fullscale model and this achievement builds upon the earlier subscale test in 2025 April for long duration. This is a massive advancement. Okay. And this this technology has the it's capable of exceeding Mac 5 for extended periods. This is incredible. It's got a cutting edge air breathing engine which obviously it is a utilizes supersonic combustion to m to sustain longduration flight. So we have successfully validated the design of an advanced scramjet combuster as well as the capabilities of state-of-the-art test facility. This is a major milestone. I would like to congratulate very heartily uh the government of India and all the engineers involved in this matter. Outstanding, brilliant. This is a breakthrough technology. This is a quantum leap in technology. Outstanding. This makes India very dangerous once we operationalize this in the battlefield. So now we have a full scale scramjet engine that has you know achieved combustion full scale supersonic combustion that exceeds 12 minutes in duration. Now what you do is you integrate that with the missile and test it out and then you do multiple tests and you iteratively tweak the design to make it even better and in a year or two you can have that on actual missiles and what I don't know what what name we will give to the missile but it's going to have to be a very very aggressive name okay so yeah this is outstanding outstanding brilliant all right Sharma says I wish to travel the world and eat a sh and and earn a ton of money that's MBA but I also have interest in weapons and all tactical things. Army will give fearlessness for life but MBA will give money in the short term. MBA will give money in the long term as well. So look, you want to travel the world, you want to earn a ton of money. you well you can do that if you have an MBA I suppose and you know MBAs generally earn a lot of money in the travel I suppose if you're in the right industry and MBAs can go into any industry essentially but you also have interest in weapons and tactical things and army will so I suppose you can do an MBA but also learn some martial arts at the same time and maybe you can do an MBA and enter a company that designs weapons or something you can always mix and match things you know so I I think look fearlessness, army, all that is great but so you you to ask yourself which is your overriding desire. Is it to do weapons and go into the army and be fearless? Is that what is is is is the primary desire in your life or is the primary desire in your life to travel and earn a lot of money? decide what what what is the first primary overriding desire and then make that your career and make the other thing the second thing your hobby or whatever or or or your secondary thing. So even if you're in the army you can retire early I suppose and then leverage your army skills and experiences into business and so on. So yeah so yeah that that's what I would say all the best. Hanisha H S4 says, "Good evening, sir." Good evening. I'm doing well. I hope you're doing well as well. How to build better habits and be a polymath. You're my role model. I want to be like you, sir. Okay. Uh I don't know how to be a polymath. I can only be myself. And if being myself is what you regard or other people regard as a polymath, well, well, I suppose I I look I never at any point in my life decided that I'm going to be a polymath. um for the longest time I'm sure I did not even know this this word polymath existed right um re R renaissance man polymath these words I learned probably in my 20s before that I was not aware of this um so how to be a polymath I look don't try to be a polymath don't try to be this person that person just be yourself ask yourself what are the things that interest me what are the things that fascinate me and go and learn go and study those things, right? That's that's what we should do. Don't try to emulate so and so person even if uh that person inspires you, right? Uh try to be the best version of yourself. So what every person actually needs to do is to first understand who you are. How do you do that? You have to spend time by yourself, a long amount of time by yourself regularly and think about yourself. Think about go back to your childhood. What are the things that you enjoyed? What are the things that made you happy when you were a child when you were 3 years old? What made you happy? What were your hopes, dreams, ambitions, aspirations when you were three? What did you fantasize about when you were three? Those things indic are indicators of who you tr truly are because later in life we are inundated with other people's opinions and experiences and what not and that kind of becomes layers on top of who we really are. So understand who you are, understand what things interest you go and learn them in the most uh the most in disciplined way possible if if required just learn whatever and uh that's how you can be your version of a polymth. How to build better better habits. Habits are systems. Yeah. So then make a list of people you admire. Top five. And try and study how they have become successful at whatever they do and what kind of habits they have and then try to reverse engineer that in the context of what you want to achieve. Right? And that's how you build better habits. The point is don't try to build 27 habits at the same time. I want start with one habit only. Okay, let's say I want to start waking up at 5:00 a.m. every morning. Then I want to start exercising. Then then I want to start eating in a certain way. Have a certain kind of diet. Then I want to be able to study these many hours a day. This and that and this and that. You can't do all at the same time. Start with just one thing. Make that a habit first. First first two three months. Then stack another habit on top of that and make that a pattern for three months and not that way. So habits have to be built over time and slowly slowly slowly. You can't do too much at the same time. too many changes at the same time right so that's how we do it all right sir all the best harsh godliness says TFR of India is about 2.1 just in border but the most dangerous part is Hindu TFR in India is now 1.9 in comparison of 2.6 ics of so and so and also what will the what will be the actual TFR of um listen I will not go into Hindu Muslim Hindu Muslim things I I stay away from this matter I I I don't comment about Hindu Muslim matters okay illegals should not be in India I'm very clear about that no matter what their religion is if they have come illegally out if you have broken India's laws it means you are a criminal if you enter India illegally you are breaking India's laws which means you are a criminal a foreign criminal criminal. Such people need to be deported immediately. That's what I'm clear about. It it has nothing to do with religion. It's just that they are criminals. They are illegals. Apart from that, I will not comment about Hindu Muslim issues. I never do that and I want. All right, sir. Humanity survives. Thank you very much. Humanity survives. I hope humanity does survive indeed. Thank you so much, sir. Or ma'am, thank you. [clears throat] Deep learner says, "Is it possible for Russia to push a secular candidate of their own who favors democracy to counter Sha's monarchy to topple the Islamic regime?" No. To make a long story short, Russia can't do that. Secular candidate of Russia. No, there's no such thing. There's no such candidate. It's not going to going to be possible for Russia at all to do that. The only candidate right now that's viable as an alternative to the Islamic regime is the US propped the US supported shah the son of the shah the son of Muhammad Raza. Yeah. Who? Yeah. Whatever. So there is no other candidate that I can think of and who would be you know so the son of the sha as the pedigree of his father that his father was once the the puppet sha of Iran and that's why people have hope because of the lineage apart from that there's no other candidate one can think of so it's not going to be possible for Russia to do do any such thing it won't be humanity survive says who was the vehicle of Indra from the vedasawat The elephant, the white elephant, wasn't he? Right. The elephant's name was Aravat, was it? Let me see. Aravat. Uh, yeah. Multi-headed white elephant in Hindu mythology. The mount or the vehicle of Lord Indra. That's right. That's the vehicle of Lord Indra. And there's a city named after Indra. Indrauri. It's Bangkok. Bangkok is Indrauri. Okay. Zach Zam says, "So speculation that the Indis Valley civilization disappearance was due to lost trade due to Bronze Age collapse in the Mediterranean. Anything to it?" So we had the Bronze Age collapse in the Mediterranean. Which year was that? 2077 2177. Which year was that roughly? Uh Bronze Age collapse. Which year was okay? It was 11 12th century BC. 12th century BC. So if we have the late Bronze Age collapse in the Mediterranean region, Eastern Mediterranean uh in the 12th century BC, 1127, 11th 12th century BC. And some people will speculate that the disappearance of this Indis Valley civilization was because of because of something connected to this because they they lost the trade revenue that they had with the Mediterranean. That's why the entire civilization collapsed because that's the only source of revenue that they had. This is gone. We can't survive anymore. So we all collapse. Back of cards. Fascinating argument is it first? So we are taught okay that there used to be in the west of India, northern and western India all those thousands of years ago this mysterious civilization the Indas Valley civilization that existed several thousand thousand years ago and then one day mysteriously disappeared. Perhaps there was a large scale invasion by aliens from Mars who abducted everybody like the Americans abducted Maduro. They took everybody away. They all disappeared and then the cities fell into dis disrepair and became lost for thousands of years. That's what we are taught. You know something like that we are taught. We are taught that this civilization mysteriously dis disappeared and we don't know who the people were. The fact is that these people were our ancestors and this was one phase of our history of Indian history of the history of India's civilization. It's the Saraspati phase or the Saraspati Hindu phase of our history. Okay. Why did this these population centers disperse over time? Why were the cities abandoned? Because of climate change. So the Bronze Age collapse also could have been caused by among multiple factors climate change. Maybe there was this massive super elino kind of event, drought, massive drought for 50 years or something which could have caused the bronze age collapse in addition to invasion by the sea peoples and whatn not and the same pattern could have happened minus the sea peoples in northern western India el nino drought and all that. So 6,000 BC something happens in India. The Indian rainy season starts declining monotonically slowly very slowly very gradually over time. 6,000 BC the intensity of the rainy season starts declining and the great river Saraspati which used to flow from the Himalayas to the sea uh to the Indian Ocean western Indian Ocean so-called Arabian Sea Sea of Sabarashtra that river starts declining in size used to be a massive river way greater than the Sundu river slowly starts declining and from 6,000 BC to 2000 BC the river by 2000 BC the the southern half of its course it's dried out the Saraspati If this great river dries out and the other rivers also decline because of the decline in the in the monsoon, then all the great cities built in this region, they can't sustain their large populations. So the people start migrating away slowly over 500 or 1,000 years, not one day to the other, it's gone. It was a slow gradual decline and most of the people of this region went eastwards around 2,000 BC 1500 BC eastwards and settled in the Ganga, Yamuna, Nmada etc. Plains, valleys and this was the beginning of the Mahajanapad era of India and some of these people went westwards outside the subcontinent. They migrated all the way to Anatolia etc where they founded the Hittite and Mitani empires. They've went to West Asia and they brought cattle with them. Indian Zebu cattle first ever introgression into West Asia is around this time, right? So it's all interconnected. It has nothing to do with the trade loss due to the Bronze Age collapse in the Mediterranean. Nothing like that. But yeah, our historians and foreign historians have to invent wild speculative ideas to explain the mysterious disappearance of the civilization. It never disappeared. We are a continuation of that civilization. It is our civilization. Okay. R says only area where India acts as a superpower is cricket. If India were to act as a superpower in cricket, it would get Pakistan banned from cricket. We don't do that. Disappointing. Ammon Kumar Dhankar says if the universe is expanding our data collection instruments must also be expanding. We should also be expanding. Am I am I am I? So doesn't it have any effect to be [laughter] considered is my uh arc. [laughter] Okay. Okay. Okay. So if the universe is expanding, shouldn't everything be expanding? Shouldn't our instruments also be expanding? Shouldn't we consider this effect? Are these calculations credible? Okay. See, the universe is expanding and we have evidence of the expansion of the universe. Now what sort of expansion is happening? The universe is expanding at the largest scales not at the small scales. If it was expanding at the small scales also then the distance between the earth and the sun would also be increasing. The distance between the earth and the moon would also be increasing. The distance between two atoms would also be increasing but it's not expanding on the small scales. Our closest galaxy is Andromeda about 2.5 million light years away. This galaxy Andromeda is getting closer to us. In a couple I don't know when in a few billion years the Milky Way and the Andromeda galaxy are going to collide. They're going to merge together and create and form a vast combined galaxy. So the expansion of the universe is not affecting the gravitational attraction between the Milky Way and Andromeda. These two are coming together. They are the collapse is going to happen. The the the the the merge is going to happen in a you know in a couple of billion years or so. Right? So the expansion of the universe is happening at larger scales than intergalactic scales like Milky Way andromeda. It's happening on the largest scales in the in the universe and the expansion is very very very minimal. It is only visible and measurable at the largest scales. At the small scales, gravity overcomes this attract this this the attraction of gravity overcomes the expansion of the universe. So the calculations are absolutely credible. Okay, absolutely credible. We know this is happening because we can see that the galaxies far away are redshifted. They're redshifted which means that they are moving further away from us and the further a galaxy is the more redshifted it is which means that the expansion is accelerating at the largest scales. Okay. So that's how it is. It's not affecting space locally. It's not affecting space at the scale of like a few million light years. It's only at vast scales that the acceleration that the expansion is is is overcoming the attraction of gravity. Okay. Stonel Mishra says what's the celudian hypothesis? What is the celudian hypothesis? Um we know that the earth's crust is ever changing. This erosion due to wind activity. There's erosion because of the effect of sand carried by wind over millions of years. There's erosion because of water, the activity of water, the action of water on the surface of the earth. And then there's tectonic activity because of which parts of the earth earth's crust go under other parts of the earth earth's crust, right? Tectonic plates always the subduction and all that of the tectonic plates. The cumulative effect of all of this is that every few million years maybe every few hundred million years the entire surface of the planet is unrecognizable. Much of the earth's crust over time over millions of years gets pulled under the surface of the of the earth and sucked into the magma layer. it it melts and as such because of all these factors because the earth's surface is ever changing because of this if you had a civilization that let's say existed on our planet 500 million years ago it's very likely we will never find any trace of it. So what if there was a race of ancient beings who were who existed on our planet let's say 500 million years ago or a billion years ago let's call them hypothetically the celudian race what if there was an advanced civilization just as advanced as homo sapiens a billion years ago will we find evidence of them today the answer is mostly no so that's just a thought experiment it's a thought experiment it doesn't mean this actually ex happened you know but if it happened we wouldn't know about it so that's kind of the idea behind the celian hypothesis pascar Gupta says we need Indian github before anything do you think open source platforms like linux are also infiltrated by the CIA because we v Windows is 100% compromised um I don't think that's anything that's [clears throat] not compromised anything that comes from the west is compromised by the test there's back doors there's loopholes there is all kinds of stuff that's built in if it's something that comes from China the same story once again so eventually every country will have to build build its own systems yeah I don't think even open source platforms are entirely safe so I I agree with you we need this ammon says please invite Mr. Mr. Vikam Sud on the podcast. We'd love to see that. Okay, good suggestion. That's a very well very distinguished and very [snorts] accomplished gentleman. Thank you for the suggestion. I will consider it very seriously. Maybe let's do that. All right. Thank you. [clears throat] Khan Gupta says, "Free will or determinism? Was Einstein a determinist?" I'm not sure about whether Einstein was a determinist or not. Free will or determinism? I am not very sure. Uh look most likely it's super determinism most likely if you look at what we know about physics. So we know that the un the best theory that we have based on all the best evidence observational and empirical evidence we have the best theory is the big bang theory the standard model of physics in this what do we have built in essentially everything is differential equations right you had a set of initial conditions at time essentially t equal to0 the moment of the big bang expansion of spaceime and everything within it and then every particle Every quantum of energy everything its fate is determined essentially by differential equations which are just just mathematical in nature and there is a element of randomness built into it because of quantum fluctuations right but that that randomness is genuinely random. So beyond that randomness, everything else is just essentially predetermined. But the element of randomness throws in um you know a dark horse into the situation. But does it mean that we have free will? The randomness doesn't give you free will. The randomness just creates some some amount of chaos in the universe. So based on what we know, it looks like it's all super determinism and everything is predetermined. What I am saying right now was determined because of the initial conditions in the big bang. That is actually more likely than not. Ankita Kasabji. Anka G. Good evening ma'am. Good to see you. Uh Iran at the verge of collapse and imminent regime change. Who is going to replace current government? According to you, Mr. Raabhi coming to power is better or worse for Iran? Looks like Iran Iranis are eager to be vasalized. What's my opinion? See, let me give you this example. Bengal was under Turk rule for a long time, right? This this fellow Siraju Dullah, he was brutal. He was barbaric. He was super oppressive towards the people of Bengal. So when Robert Clive defeated Sirajadalah, the people of Bengal were like, "Oh my god, we are saved. Robert Clive, you are our great savior." Was it Robert Clive who defeated Suraj Dullah? Let's see. Okay. Did Robert Clive defeat defeated grammar? Come on. Yeah, Robert Clive defeated Siraj Dullah. That's right. Plus C. So when Robert Clive defeated Surajullah, the Bengali people after all this all these years of operation they felt liberated and they welcomed Robert Clive with open arms as a liberator. Little did they know he would end up being worse than anything they had imagined and worse than Siraj Dullah. Could you blame the people of Bengal for that? No. When Alexander the Greek marched into Egypt which was then a vasal of the Persian aimed Empire, the Egyptians welcomed Alexander as a liberator. Little did they know Alexander would further vaselize them even worse. So you see when you have the situation in Iran today where the people are laboring under what they perceive as the oppression of the regime of the ayatas they're tired of those those rules they are tired of the Islamic law let's say and whatever else they want freedom democracy in that case they may see Mr. Razaphi as a great savior. Many of them the young people would not be would would be tired of they may perhaps regard what they have been taught by the ayatas that Muhammad Ravi was a US wasal. They may have they may think that this is propaganda designed to mislead us right because they don't like the theatas that sort of thing. So so maybe the people of Iran are just tired of the of this regime and they want to be liberated. They want freedom. They want human rights. They want democracy and they are not quite aware that in the shape of human rights and democracy which is this big Trojan horse going to have vasalization. So that is genuinely a possible situation when it comes to Iran. Um but if there is a regime regime change in Iran most likely 99.9% it will be uh the son of the sha the current Mr. who will be the new leader of Iran, the new Sha or whatever you want to call it. The the Americans may may ask Iran to have an election and then they will elect this guy and that's going to start a new a phase of vasalization of Iran. Yeah. Okay. Amay Deshmuk says, "Do you do we have free will as physics doesn't allow?" Look, we don't know for sure, but as far as physics is concerned, probably we don't have free will. probably the universe is super deterministic in nature most likely if if what we know about physics is correct but um does it mean that's the case? Look, physics science can't really explain much of the universe for us. Whatever the best theory we have, the back big bang theory, the the standard model of physics, it can explain about 4% of the universe and that too not very well. 96% of the universe it can't explain at all. So we we are a long way away from understanding the universe. Believe me, we are a long way away. Ani Rud Kumar says what's the future of democratic India for the next 100 years? Will we retain this democracy or shift to a monarchy or split up against into smaller nations? We have no idea whatsoever. I am not Nostra Damus. I don't know what's going to happen in the future. I wish I could but I can't. I don't know. All I can say the next 5 years are going to be a period of time that will either make India or break India. If India is able to survive the next 5 years as a sovereign nation without bending to the will of more powerful nations, then India will essentially become unstoppable and keep growing until it reaches its maximum destiny. Otherwise, India will become basalized for the next god knows how many years. I don't know about the future of democratic or undemocratic India. But I I can tell you the next five years are the make or break time for India. And democracy or not, I don't care. I don't care what system of government is it is as long as it is beneficial for the people and the civilization. I don't care whether the cat is black or white as long as it catches mice. Okay. Okay. Uh Gajjapati Dv says how sending aloo piaas diesel dal mut chana tomat electricity to Bangladesh is helping India while Hindus are being attacked and alive there daily what are we missing missing here I'm not quite sure electricity to some some extent it makes sense we are supplying a significant amount of Bangladesh Bangladesh's electricity the group is supplying this electricity Bangladesh I believe is refusing to pay or whatever but this gives us leverage over Bangladesh if we stop it Bangladesh goes you know substantial portion of Bangladesh goes without power and they have no way to replace that. So that gives us leverage over Bangladesh. I don't know about Alupia's tomato diesel whatn not giving that to Bangladesh I'm not sure how selling that to Bangladesh helps India while Hindus are being unalived there I'm not sure how it helps India but I don't know yeah I I don't have the answer to that how it helps India okay Jay says sorry for the question equation I read that in the book uh which equation where you are trying to create equations about uh emotions and all look you don't have to be sorry for that I I don't know how to do that and I have never studied that I've never tried to do that. It doesn't mean that you have to be sorry for it. Please don't ever be sorry for thinking and trying new things. Try new things. Try things nobody has tried before. Okay? Do it. Don't allow someone's criticism or someone's perceived criticism detract you from from trying new things. Don't ever do that. Try different things. If you read something from a book, try it. Okay? Follow your curiosity. How do you care what someone's opinion is? You do what what you feel is interesting. Follow your curiosity. Don't be sorry. Don't ever be sorry. Okay. All the best. Do well. Rajat says, "What is the future of physics?" Standard model, dark standard model, dark matter, quantum gravity. Um, what's the future of physics? Well, if you were to ask me what I would what I want answers to, I want answers to dark matter and quantum gravity. No, first of all, I want answers to dark matter and dark energy. Dark matter is it merely an artifact of the equations? If we have modified gravity, if we modify the equations of gravity, if we combine, if we have modified Newtonian dynamics, does that resolve the question of dark matter? or is it actually some class of particles that we that that interact purely gravitationally? So that's one question. Dark dark energy, we don't even can't even begin to understand what that is. Is it quintessence? Is it something else? That's another question. Yeah. Uh quantum gravity. Yeah, it would be nice if we can reconcile quantum mechanics with gravity because [laughter] uh we all try that. What's the future? I don't know what's the future. Right now, we are we are stuck. We are stuck. All of us are are stuck. And the string theory has held us back for 50 years. We have hit a brick wall. We don't know how to go through it. Um the big question out there, the first question we have to resolve is is gravity. What on earth is gravity? We need to make a breakthrough in gravity. A 100 years since 1915, we have we are following the same equations, the Einstein field equations. There has to be a better there has to be an improvement over this because the ancient field equations obviously run into problems at the center of certain objects called black holes right the equations blows up they blow up and throw up infinities infinities are not actual infinities they are a symptom of an issue that the equation fails there so it clearly is telling us we need an improvement to Einstein's field equations but uh where is that so yeah maybe that's the future Okay, I am Koshik says, "If God created us, what's the purpose of these galaxies, black holes, etal particles are we made of and where is it getting energy?" So maybe there's there was there's a creator. Maybe there's a creator. Okay, the creator has a very powerful computer bigger than this universe. And this creator has coded the physics of the game game physics coded and then created a simulation in which we are living. So what's the purpose? We don't know the purpose why we have all of this. The creator has decided if there's a creator. The maybe the creator is a programmer who is living in a hyper universe beyond what beyond our universe and our universe is actually inside. It's a simulation inside a large hypercomput and maybe the creator is running a simulation to learn something or maybe for his or her or its entertainment. So look when we talk about god we we go beyond logic right a god or gods I don't know what goes on in their minds right we are just mere humans. So a creator is like a programmer who has decided for whatever reason to create a game with a specific set of rules that only he or she knows and why did they do it? Well, we have to ask them. We can't answer that. See? [laughter] Okay. Okay. R says if why does Usbakistan love India? All Indian travelers online says Usbakistan treats them with love if they are Indians. I haven't been to Usbakistan. I'm not quite sure. I don't know. But I am I'm I'm not opposed to this. I welcome this very much. Thank you Usbakistan for if you are being so nice to Indians. Maybe I should visit soon I I don't know maybe I'll go and find out. How about that? Yeah. H very interesting. Okay. Chanaka. Thank you very much Chanaki G. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Um Firefly says still hopeful for MMA given given how boring 2025 was. Oh, mixed martial arts. I haven't really kept up with mixed martial arts the last year. Kamzad, what was Kamzad up to? What was that last fight? That was the most, how to put it politely, the most boring fight you can ever imagine. And he retained his title and all. I I'm not sure what really happened in 2025. MMA obviously it's a more exciting sport than just wrestling or just boxing because you have all the elements put together. Um, it depends on the fighters. It depends on the rules and all that. I'm still hopeful for MMA. Yeah, we need exciting champions. That's what we need. So, we have Connor is still around, is he? I don't know what he's doing. Uh, it's kind of boring, a little boring without Francis Inanu. Khabib has retired. So, yeah, we need some new exciting champions or or fighters that will make things interesting. Yeah, Hersh S4 is a new member. Thank you so much, H S4. Welcome to the membership. Thank you very much. Okay. Raguir Singh says, "Are the protests in Iran due to foreign powers or people are just fed up of moolas if regime changes? Is it 100% that the new leader will be pro- US any good hopes?" First question, are the protests in India in Iran due to foreign powers or are the people just fed up of the moolas? The people I would say a lot of the people are tired of the moolas. A lot of the people are tired of the laws, the Islamic regime, the Islamic laws and all that. A lot of people people are most likely genuinely tired of this. And that is a condition that foreign powers will rush in to exploit and they will obviously put some fire onto the fuel. So I think the protests in Iran are due to a combination of two factors. One, the people are genuinely fed up. Second, foreign support in some shape or form, covertly. Okay. Now, if the regime changes, is it 100% likely that the new leader will be pro- US? 99.9% pro- US- leader. 99.9%. The son of the former Sha. Yeah, most likely that guy. Subish Na says the young people around across the world are getting addicted to social media a lot including the US and as you said sir continued and US is on the verge of becoming a hyperpower nation by the time these genz's will be their leaders what will they potentially to what will they potentially potentially where's the continuation I'm looking for the continuation what will they potentially Give me a second. Let me find it. Huh? What will they potentially do to keep these future kids mentally strong and make them think big unlike today's visible leaders and the deep state leaders so that the US maintains its global hygemony unlike Indian leaders who don't? What will the US do to keep these future kids mentally strong? Look, in any cohort of of kids, let's say Gen Z are addicted to social media, okay? And let's say Gen Z is uh let's say 50 million in the US. Hypothetical number I'm throwing out just for the sake of the argument. So let's say Gen Z is hypothetically 50 million in population in the US and overall Gen Z is addicted to social media. It doesn't mean that every Gen Z person is going to be addicted to social media. Even if 5% aren't addicted to social media, that's two and a half million people right there. That's a big chunk of the population. And some of them can be very viable leaders, right? So you will always find highquality people in any group in any population group, right? Um and when it comes to the elites, they will ensure that their kids are not addicted to social media, right? they will set different rules for their own kids and so on. So yeah that's how it goes. So even if overall Jenz is addicted to social media most of them there will be some genzi who are high quality who are not addicted to social media who have been trained properly or who have decided to be different and who have higher standards and so on. Uh, and that's how and I'm sure that that that that that the elite, the American elite people, you know, they will train their own kids differently and that's how they will maintain their global hedgemony. So, I'm sure they've got a proper plan laid out for these matters. Okay. Right. Um, Kiki Sashan says, "Thank you, sir. It means a lot." Uh, well, you're very welcome. Have you asked a question? I'm not sure if I've taken it. But uh thank you very much. Your support just not you. You Susant and everybody else all of you my viewers your support your your questions your your viewership all of that that matters a lot to me. That means a lot to me as well. I am very privileged to have all of you as my viewers. So thank you all. Thank you to all of you. Thank you very much indeed. Emerald meets Ouburn. Emerald meets Auburn. Well, that's quite a combination. That's eyes meet hair, is it? Okay. [laughter] Emerald meets Auburn says, "Final year engineering undergrads shifting to applied quantum physics with ISRO and overseas research. I may have admits abroad and an ISRO job option. My field isn't strong in India yet. Go abroad or take ISRO. despite the trade-off. Okay. Final year engineering graduate undergraduate you're moving shifting to applied quantum physics with ISO and overseas research. You may have admits abroad. You also may you have an ISRO job option but your field isn't strong in India yet. So maybe next 10 years you may not have good job opportunities. So should you go abroad or take ISRO despite the trade-off? You're a young person. You're starting off. You have two options. One is foreign admits. One is an ISRO job option. The salary will be less like significantly less. ISRO doesn't pay well. And your field applied quantum physics applied quantum mechanics isn't strong in India yet. That's the field of your interest. ISRO is about rocket scing. It's about aerodynamics. It's about you know space aeronautics and rocket engineering, rocket propulsion so on. It's not about applied quantum physics. Yeah. So what should you do? I always I always recommend to young people the first 20 years of your adult life focus on yourself and on maximizing um your growth opportunities and the experience you can gain the first 20 years at least of your adult life. So let's say your adult life starts at 20 until at least the age of 40. Be selfish and focus on yourself. Gain as much experience as you can make as much money as you can. Acquire as much skills as you can. Acquire as much experiences in diverse parts of the world and so on as you can first 20 years of your adult life at least. That's what you should do. Don't make any trade-offs. Always take the best options. Okay. So let's say by the time you're 40 you have tremendous experience in various domains. You have a tremendous skill set, a very robust skill set and you have made millions of dollars. You are a wealthy person. How about you then think of let's say you come back to India and contribute in some way. Yeah. So I would say take the best option that's available to you from a selfish perspective. Right. That's what I would say. [snorts] Achintan says, "What if we were united during the 8th century and had reconquered Persia after the Arabic invasion?" Well, then things would have been different, I suppose. Yeah. Uh see, we would not have reconquered Persia. We would have liberated Persia after the Arabic invasion. In that case, we had never conquered Persia before. India, Persia, never tried to conquer each other. Never. Ever. Um [clears throat] so what if we were united in the 8th century? Maybe the Gupta Empire, let's say hypothetically, was still the most powerful empire. It was still united. and we decided that we will kick the Arabs out of Persia and liberate Persia. In that case, the world would be very different today. Very very very very very very different. That's the answer. Chanaka 77 says Hindu population dropped to 75% and projected to be less than 50% in the next 50 years. How to save our future Hindus from horrible fate by hands of Islam? Isam. Look, look, I don't discuss Hindu Muslim matters. I don't So I'll not take this up. I'm very sorry. I do not as a matter of policy discuss Hindu Muslim issues. There are plenty of channels that do that. I will discuss history, geopolitics and science. I will not go into this matters. So I am very sorry that you have asked me this question and you paid for it but I will not be able to take this question. I apologize sir. Shashank says, "Why does your map show Kashmir intact, not mine? Why does Okay, you mean the map that I put on the screen?" Um, [clears throat] why does this map show Kashmir intact? Um I suppose it's because I am running this out of India and in India Google is behaving itself and showing uh Kashmir as part of India. But if you change the IP address to that of of a non-Indian country, you're going to have a different version of Kashmir shown from Google itself. Yeah. So I suppose that's the answer. HP Patel says why does the Indian government still use Mr. Gandhi's image on currency despite his anti-Indian role and shouldn't second October be removed as public holiday well the Indian government still uses Mr. Mr. Gandhi's image on Indian currency because the Indian government still regards Mr. Gandhi is the father of the nation. The great Mahatma who liberated India from from British occupation through entirely nonviolent means. The government of India still regards Mr. Gandhi as a great hero as a savior. Right? And that's why you have statues of Mr. Gandhi. You have you know um the honoring of Mr. Gandhi on the 2nd of October every year without fail and so on. So that's why we have the situation. Okay. Um, Dorji says, "Uh, small thank you. I love your channel and content." Thank you so much, Dori G. Thank you so much. I really appreciate your your your support and your wishes, your your your your support and your positive wishes. Thank you so much. Thank you so much very much. Thank you very much indeed. Abira Sharkkar says current large language models don't perform well on queries regarding non-public research data. Do you think future stages of AI maybe ASI will overcome this gap? Okay. Current LLMs don't perform well on queries regarding non-public research data. Well, I would not know about this. I've never tried that thing. Interesting. Uh see, I suppose large language models are trained on public data. If some data sets uh research data sets have not been made available to the public, if they are confidential, then LLM will not be trained on those. At least LLMs that will be made accessible to the public will never be trained on those data sets. And LLMs that will be trained on these confidential data sets will be made available to the government and to the military. Okay? And in the future if you have a stage of AI which is an AS even AGI stage but it's not been trained on those data sets then maybe it will disregard such research because it will not be aware of it. But if you have AG or ASI then it may be able to replicate this rearch research on its own. So it will not need that. So if you have ASI it will have answers to everything. It will not need to rely on the training data. Even if some data is it has never been trained on but it's available somewhere this ASI will be able to replicate the data and maybe improve upon that without ever needing to access that. Uh Goo XXS says will India break into pieces if regime changed well if there's a regime change in India anything is possible that's why a regime change must not happen. Hersh for says, "How to deal with fear of missing out?" Fumo. I'm not sure. Fear of missing out. What is fear of I'm not very clear about fear of missing out. But let me see what Google has to say about what is FOMO. What is fear of missing? Let's first see that. What is FOMO? Anxiety that others have are having rewarding experiences from which you are absent. often fueled by seeing posts on social media leading to a constant urge to stay connected updated on whether what others are doing. Uh pervasive feeling that you're missing out on fun opportunities or information important information. You feel dissatisfied in um or you compare yourself with others. Social comparison, need for connection, anxiety and stress impacting behavior. What triggers it? Social media events, financial markets and so on and so forth. A nagging feeling that you should be doing something else. Worry that you made the wrong choice by not participating. a sense that others are living a better or more satisfying life. How do you deal with this? I couldn't possibly know. Um I don't know. Let me think. I can only think about this theoretically because I haven't experienced this. I don't experience this. I don't have this issue. Uh I don't compare myself with others. I don't care what the others are doing. But how do you reach the stage where you don't care what others are doing and you just do what is best for yourself and what you think I mean whatever you're doing how do you do that how to deal with for I I I I'm not sure I'll have to think about this in in in some detail it's not something that I experience uh so I can't answer from experience and I haven't really thought about this cuz how would you deal yeah I think I'll have to think about this in detail without venturing an answer If I answer something right now, it may not be correct because I haven't thought about it. So I am sorry I don't have the answer right now. Please try asking this maybe in a week's time. I will think about it. What is the root cause of this and so on? It it is obviously something deeper inside in your psyche. There's some deep rooted causes why people feel this way and I will also think about why I don't feel this way. See so I'll think about it sir. I don't have the answer right now. I I'm sorry for that. Okay. uh mangoserit okay says do you think anything like Venezuela can happen someday to India if let's say any of the political parties is in power it can happen yes it can happen someday if we are not careful yeah it can which is why we have to be careful we the public we the voters we the leaders of India everybody has to do whatever it takes in our own in our different capacities to ensure sure that such things don't happen because if we are not careful this sort of thing can happen to India also Narendra Reddi says how to choose a life partner most important decision how to choose a life partner see a life partner is somebody who's going to be with you all your life so it has to go beyond romantic or sexual attraction that obviously is a factor right you will not want to marry somebody towards whom you are not physically, romantically or sexually attracted. Obviously, you will want that. But that cannot be the only factor. You should be able to spend time without getting annoyed with the person. You should be mentally compatible. Your ethics in your moral morals should be compatible. Your worldview should be compatible. You should be able to learn from each other. Everybody has some traits that are not the best. So you should be able to tolerate each other's flaws. You should be able to sit with with each other for hours in silence. That's really hard. Are you comfortable sitting with one person with sitting next to one person for one hour without saying a word? Are you comfortable doing that? It's very very uncomfortable with a lot of people. So these are some of the questions you to ask yourself. Okay? It's it's somebody with whom you want to spend the rest of your life. So these all these factors have to come into consideration not just how pretty or handsome the person is it has to go beyond that way beyond that you have to be fundamentally compatible and that's not easy to find but of course it's possible right okay uh so so so Narendra all the best all the best sir shed light on Tavistock Institute crown council committee of 30 300 sovereign city of London if true where's the money that was stolen from colonized empire Paris couldn't send with correct spelling. I don't know about any of these. I've heard Tavisto I mean the crown council. I've heard I I got this question earlier today. Committee of 300 sovereign city of London. I I don't know. I I I genuinely honestly haven't read about these things. Um so I won't be able to answer this question. Maybe it's something I should look up read about. Yeah. Yeah. So, so right now I don't have the answer but uh maybe I'll look into that. All right. The richest Pakistani says untouchability sati child marriage in Hinduism. Is it true? Look sati it happened sometimes. Very rare thing it happened. Untouchability in some parts of India at certain points in time. There was some of that in the past 1,000 years. Before that, I can't think of any any widespread practice like that. Today, you have do you have untouchability in India? I mean, go to any city in India. Go to a restaurant. Does anybody care who's the waiter, who's the server, who's the cook? Go to a train station, go to a train, go to a public transport in India. Doesn't even care what the cast of the person next to them. So, no one cares today. Historically it may have happened here and there but it's been you know blown out of proportion. When a society come under come comes under foreign occupation for a thousand years all kinds of defects creep into society because of the leadership which is oppressing the society because society can't function the way it has evolved naturally to function. Child marriage well you had child marriage all across the world but yeah Hinduism is evil. So look they've had Every every society has pecularities but we do not uh okay that's I'll not give examples what's the point I'd rather not uh D Kamat says uh rather I would say that physics probably proves that consciousness is non-physical free will must have a source which is non-physical physics doesn't prove that consciousness is not non-physical physics doesn't have a definition of consciousness Okay. The issue is physics does not have a definition of consciousness. We don't have a definition of consciousness from the perspective of let's say information theory from the perspective of quantum mechanics from the perspective of general relativity. We don't have a definition of free will from be of consciousness from beyond physics for from for example from the field of of of neuroscience or whatever. Yeah. So we don't have a scientific definition of consciousness. That is the issue. If you can't define something, how can you prove it's physical or non-physical? When you can't even define it. If you want to talk about something in physics, you have to first define what it is. Only then you can prove or disprove something. In physics, we can't even define consciousness. That is the first issue. So if you can't define it, it's not actually something you can even talk about. That is the issue. That is the issue. We all know, all of us know trivially that consciousness exists. And yet it's not so trivial because we can't define it. That's the issue. That is the most perplexing issue. It's something profound. So profound that anybody recognizes it the moment you see it. There's a cat, of of course it's conscious. There's a crew, of course it's conscious. There's a ant, of course it's conscious. There's a cow of course is conscious another person of course that person is conscious the moment we see it we recognize it instantaneously that's conscious but we can't define it rigorously from a physical or scientific perspective we can't define it we can define it from a philosophical perspective there are all kinds of things written about it but from a scientific perspective we can't define it which makes it incredibly mysterious and profound kartikaya says I used to think that maga was Naga is more rational and has some moral values left, but they are defending murder of an innocent white single mother in the hands of an IC agent just because her hair is colored. Well, yeah. Well, it is what it is. The US is a police state and the police has well essentially unlimited powers. Yeah. and and these things happen and obviously when something like this happens uh and there's a political dimension to it like the color of your hair then you have this happening and uh yeah so they are saying that this was self-defense or something which doesn't I haven't really seen this but apparently it doesn't seem to be the case um so yeah this is this is essentially tribalism tribalism and Yeah, what can I say? It is what it is. Hersh Patel says, "What are the root causes of corruption in India? Has it existed since ancient times? Despite good salaries, officials demand bribes and rich contractors deliver poor roads. Why does this persist? Has it existed? Has corruption existed since ancient times?" Absolutely not. Look up the shasta what it says about corruption. Intolerable. It will not tolerate corruption. You think we had corruption during the empires of Kaneska of the Guptas of the Cholers of the Marata Empire. Do you think do you think we had corruption? Corruption was never tolerated in India. Never tolerated in India. Now why do we allegedly have it? It was institutionalized by the British. The British created the the Indian administrative system, right? to administer the country to administer the occupation and extraction and oppression of the country. How do you administer the oppression of the country? You create a set of rules in the country. And the in the Indian coolies, the bureaucrats of Indian origin, they will run the country for the white masters. Now the Indian bureaucrats are are instructed to have two sets of rules for everything. If a white person needs something, then the Indian bureaucrat will do it immediately. If an Indian person needs something, demand bribes. Slow down the process. Make it hard and feel the power that you have. So this gives the Indian bureaucrat the the the the sense that I have I am a privileged Indian. My master is the white man and I can oppress those low low Indians, Hindus. And this was institutionalized. The British created the the the British uh judicial system, right? If a British person needed a contract had had a contract dispute, it went to the court to the British British judicial court. The the the case would be resolved rapidly. If an Indian person had a court case, ah it would drag and drag and drag. After the British left, there was no white man to serve. Only brown people coming for redressal or or problems of solution of their solutions solutions of their problems. So I suppose that's how it continued, right? It became institutionalized I suppose allegedly. So what's the solution? No comments. Um, Karthikaya says, "I only learned now after watching Star Talk that the sun is white in color." I'm not sure how many videos are available of the sun taken from the orbit from orbit around the earth. Maybe a an astronaut is in orbit around the earth on the ISS, the International Space Station, and they record their space their spacew walks and whatnot, right? In some of the videos, you'll see the sun. Check out the color of the sun from space. It's always pure white. The sun is a pure white star. But why does it appear yellow to us? H Why does the sky appear blue? It's because of rail scattering. It's because of an effect that you know we know that the sun the white light is made up of you know the different colors altogether right vibio or roic whatever. So um the atmosphere of the earth it absorbs some some wavelengths and scatters some wavelengths depending on the angle at which the sun comes you know the sun's light comes into the atmosphere. So most of the time yellow no the sky scatters blue and and and uh so water also looks blue and the sky also looks blue right but in the evening and early morning the sky looks red because of the amount of of uh atmosphere that the sun's rays come through the sun's light comes through so it's because of the the different angles at which and the the the thickness of the atmosphere through which the light is scattered And the the atmosphere does contain dust, grains and whatnot. Right? So because of this you have the sun appearing usually yellow in color. The sunlight appearing yellow in color and in the evenings and mornings appearing red or deep orange in color. But the sun actually is a white star and you can see this in videos taken from orbit. It's pure white. Financial advisor for you says how is Portuguese conversion different from what we have going going on now in the northeast. Is it any different at all? Should we affiliate ourselves with Hindu organizations as mandatory to prevent conversions? See, Portuguese conversion was pretty brutal. The Portuguese converted by force. They destroyed Hindu temples and built churches on top of them. They imposed laws that made it almost impossible to remain Hindu and they burned Hindus alive and did all kinds of horrific atrocities. What's happening in the northeast is is coercion. It's a different kind of coercion. um they use different methods. They can't use the inquisition today, right? So they have used other other methods. See, they have targeted people who live in isolated regions, who live in hills, tribal people and so on, who don't have the depth of culture and civilization that people who don't live in isolated groups generally have. So that's why the missionaries always target tribals and forest dwellers and hill dwellers first. And when it comes to the far east of India you know uh Nagaland and so on and Mizoram and so on these people they have been dwelling in hills and all for a very long time and they the missionaries find them easier to convert. So they have converted them by making them feel inferior that you people are backward and your religion is backward you're cannibals or you're this or that and our god is superior and we will give you wealth. will give you prestige and so on which makes it very easy easy for such people to convert and then you start making life life difficult for those people who are Hindus and they will also slowly break over time which is what's happening to the uh to the mate Hindus of of Manipur now slowly they're also beginning to convert uh so it's different so the Portuguese conversion was just brutal impossible it was just slammed through what's happening in the northeast and what's happened over the past uh 60 70 80 years at the hands of American Baptist missionaries is very It's very devious. Yeah. But at the end of the day, it has the same effect of creating population groups that are that develop extr territorial loyalties. So should we do this or that? That's entirely up to you. But yeah, Krishant Bordoy says you think 20 years later US will confront us militarily. No, the US doesn't want 20 years later. If they want to confront us militarily, they will do it in the next 5 years. 20 years later later is too late. It's too late. It's like trying to take your wicket after you've scored 200 runs. No, no, no, no, no. You do it when you on three not out. So the US will not try to do that to confront us literally 20 years later. It'll be too late. By the time we'll be able to stand up to them. If they want to do this, they can they should they will most likely do it in the next 5 years. Okay. Rajat Gupta says, "What's your opinion about consciousness? We experience world through the first person POV point of view." I know about world. All I know about the world is through me. Do I only exist? Can we disprove it? What you are talking about is soypism. Uh cypism is the idea that the only mind that exists in the universe is your own mind. Whatever you exist, whatever you experience, you experience through your sense organs transmitting electrical messages, impulses to your brain. Okay? So your brain doesn't experience things directly. Your mind doesn't experience things directly. It experiences things indirectly through your sense organs and the electrical messages those sense organs send to your brain. What if your sense organs are hallucinating this information? And what if the entire universe that you are experiencing is just an illusion created by your own brain? What if you are the only entity, conscious entity in existence? Well, that's that's kind of the solistic line of thinking. Um, so yeah, everything you know about the world is through me. Do you only exist? Well, that's a philosophical question. Um, can we disprove it? We can't disprove it. [laughter] See, philosophy is logical. So, what's my opinion about consciousness? What is my opinion about consciousness? Well, it does exist. Um, consciousness obviously exists. What's the source of consciousness? I'm not quite sure. I may have some idea. I mean, I may have a hunch. I may have some intuition about it. But those in that intuition is obviously non-scientific because we don't have a definition of consciousness. Maybe maybe it's likely that there is a consciousness field across the universe. Maybe it's a it's a maybe. This is a philosophical thought. This is philosophical music. It's not scientific musing. Philosophy is a science is a subset of philosophy. I am thinking philosophically here. I'm not thinking in terms of science because consciousness the discussion around consciousness is not within the realm of science. It's within the realm of philosophy. So maybe what if there's a there's a consciousness field that permeates the universe. Just like we have 17 different fields for each of the subatomic particles, you know, fundamental particles of of the certain model. What if we have a consciousness field? Maybe what if it's something that you know our current science can't detect or or can't even define. Yeah. And maybe some some configurations of of matter maybe they focus the consciousness into something that actually [laughter] that uh that that that that that you know that occurs locally in in one location just like excitations in the field are particles you know in various fields are particles in quantum field theory. Maybe that that could be one theory that we can think about but we don't have an answer about uh consciousness as such. Okay. Um An Divu says, "Sar your geostrategy shows were amazing. Have you considered reviving it on Indian news channels rather than YouTube or going to Rumble?" Um I haven't considered that. Indian news channels. Well, if you go on an Indian news channel, you have to abide by the rules and um the constraints that uh they face because of their funding and what not. I'm not sure what's the point of doing it on some news channel. Will they even want me because I will have to abide by their editorial lines and all that which I'm not sure I want to. Oh, Rumble. I'm not sure if anybody will even watch Rumble. I'm not sure if Indian knows about Indians know about Rumble. I may have like three people watching me if I do it there. Uh we'll see about that. Maybe I can restart it eventually. Maybe we'll we'll see. I'll think about it. But uh thank you very much for your feedback indeed. Thank you. H Patel says, "Why does India still store about 290 tons of golds of its gold reserves overseas even under the current pro-India government? I think we stored a tremendous amount of gold in the Bank of London and so on during the uh time when we had this financial issue and we opened up our economy in the early '90s, right? And the storage of gold in these bank of London and whatnot is a legacy issue and the current pro-India government has been repatriating the gold steadily back from from the bank of London or Bank of England or whatever it is slowly steadily over time. So earlier it was much more now it's only 290 tons of whatever and I'm pretty sure we will repatriate that also back steadily over the next let's say weeks, months or whatever. I agree with you. It should be done. it should entirely be repatriated to India. Why do we need to have even one gram of gold in a foreign bank? So I agree with you and uh that's what should be done and I'm sure it will be done soon. SJ boy says please tell us more about vasilization probability whose Pakistan's Iran's India's watch India I think the probability is low but not zero maybe I don't know next 5 years is the break make or break time what's the probability of facilization I would say 25% or something yeah and one hopes it doesn't happen because it's going to be the make or break time for India because the US is going to put all of its might all of its leverage on India to attempt to vasalize India because it doesn't want India to to rise as the next China and it wants access to the huge Indian market to plunder the hell out of us. Yeah. So Sahil Singh says thanks for your efforts in explaining things so nicely. How to master English communication like you? How do you master um how do you master playing tennis? You play tennis. You get better, a little bit better every day. How do you master playing the guitar? You start as a complete beginner. You keep playing, let's say, practicing 1 hour a day. In 30 days, you're going to be way better than a beginner. You keep doing it for 3 years, you're going to be an intermediate to expert level guitarist. How do you get better at something? Not by reading about it, but by doing it, by practicing it. So if you want to master Portuguese communication, you want to master Japanese comm communication, you want to master the English communication, practice it. Do it every day. If you want to master becoming a good communicator in English, verbal communication, stand in front of the mirror and speak for half an hour every day or grab two or three of your friends, put them in chairs and speak to them half an hour every day. And every day ask for their feedback. What have I done that can be improved? What are my strong points? What are the points that need improvement? Get the feedback even though it's uncomfortable and try and implement what they're saying and and make things better. So that's how we do it. Sir, all the best. Karthikar says, "Your practical and sensible idea of buying Greenland by the US by paying a million dollars per resident a few few months back was discussed in the White House as per rumors on X. [laughter] What on earth? I remember saying this many months ago. Just pay each of these residents a million dollars. I think it's a practical and sensible idea. If you are the US, just pay them a million dollar each. That's what $60 million peanuts or 60 $6 billion or whatever. There are 60,000 people on in Greenland. 60,000 times 1 million. That's that's 60,000 million. That's 60 billion. That's nothing. The US can afford it very very much afford it. So was it discussed in the White House. All right. I'm well glad to be of service. Sir Donald. [laughter] Okay. Sed Singh Raj Prahad says you are a secretive person. We don't know much about you. What's your routine? When were you born? Where do you live? Married kids? How to meet you? Is all classified information. You see I actually am alien invader. I am a leanian. Everything about me is classified. It is not for public consumption. You see, you have to keep some sense of mystery about yourself. [laughter] Oh no, no, no, no. Mystery, mystery. Pawar says, "Is the event horizon physically real?" No. See, let's say you are an astronaut and you are falling towards a black hole and you cross the event horizon. If it's a if it's super massive black hole, let's if it's a small black hole, you will know immediately before the event horizon comes at you something is going wrong with you very badly wrong with you and very painfully wrong with you. You will start becoming spaghettified. But if it's a big massive super massive black hole, very gold ancient one, then if you are crossing the event horizon, you won't even realize it. There is no signpost over there. Hi, you are now crossing the event horizon. Nothing like that. So it's not physically real. There is no such boundary or membrane there that you feel when you cross nothing. But it's very physically real in the sense that once you cross that the escape velocity exceeds C the speed of light and you simply can't return. And then as you fall further towards the center of the black hole you start experiencing not so pleasant things. And well there's nothing you can do once you cross the horizon. All right. Hor Patel says in breaking the mold, Raguram Rajan argues that government should prioritize R&D or manufacturing to capture greater value citing Apple and Foxcon. What I what's my opinion about this? I don't take anything Mr. Rauram Rajan says seriously. That's my straightforward and simple opinion about anything Mr. Rauram Rajan says. I don't take this gentleman seriously. Okay, that's it. Um, Ritiagi says, "Can you explain Einstein's idea that past, present, and future all existed once?" I'm not sure Einstein ever said that. Did Einstein ever said that? I don't think Einstein ever said that. Let us see if Google can tell us. Did Einstein ever say Did Einstein say that past, past, present, and future all exist at once? Did Einstein say that? Good Lord, he said that. So he said that the distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion. That seems like a wise crack or something. Okay. A view supported by his theory of relativity. The concept of a block universe where all moments exist in unified space time through our consciousness. Though our consciousness perceives time is fleeing. I'm not sure what Google's AI is saying over here. So in in relativity we do have you know a fourdimensional universe. Um and one of the dimensions is time right past, present, future. when there are word lines of particles and all I'm not sure if it says that Einstein did say this right and we know that there's something called the simultaneity of the the relativity of simultaneity which is something that emerges out of special relativity the relativity of simultaneity which means that if I am sitting here and I observe two things happening simultaneously two stars going supernova at the same time simultaneously and you were sitting somewhere else like 20 million light years away for you that those two events may not happen simultaneously. So from that perspective maybe past, present, future are not exactly the same thing for everybody depending on where you are. Do they exist all at once? Not necessarily. I'm not sure if he was making this as a uh if if he did say this. Google is saying he said that um but I'm not sure he was being entirely serious about this. Yeah, there are people I mean even scientists great scientists sometimes make jokes or make wise cracks that don't exactly are to be interpreted literally or seriously. So in in relativity you can have two event events happening for one observer from their perspective s simultaneously or for another observer that may not happen simultaneously but that doesn't necessarily mean that past present future all exist at once that that is not what it means. Okay. Uh Firefly says what does the elimination of perceived evil? No. Why does the elimination of perceived evil result in simply more evil? Like you mentioned Bengal in Egypt. Similar happened when Julius Caesar was killed. I mentioned Bengal in Egypt. The elimination of perceived evil. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I mentioned Bengal. Uh Sirajadullah was ousted and the Bengalists thought that Clive was the savior but he was actually more evil. Egypt. They thought that the Persians were evil. But then Alexander ended up being more evil. Julius Caesar was killed because he was going to be the dictator. But then you had his his adopted son Augustus who became exactly what they did not want Julius to become. Is that always the case? It's not necessarily always the case. Sometimes the elimination of perceived evil is the elimination of real evil. It's not a rule of thumb that it is always like that. Right? I mean when Krishna, Lord Krishna killed K's mama, it was genuinely the elimination of evil. The evil was perceived but it was also real, right? So it's not always the case. It's not a rule of thumb. Sometimes it can go wrong like that. Maybe in Kalyug that's what happens more often than not. Uh Rajat says, "Can right-handed neutrons be DM?" Why not left-handed neutrinos? DM is dark matter. Neutronos are not dark matter because we can detect neutronos. Neutronos are not dark matter. Yeah, dark matter is something that can't be detected except for through its gravitational interaction. But there are some theories of dark matter having a weak component, you know, part of the weak sector. Yeah. Like axons or whatever. But I don't really put too much. I personally am not a big fan of those theories. Of course it's that's a personal opinion but neutrinos are not considered to be part of dark matter. We can detect neutrinos. We have experiments super kamio and what not that do detect nutrinos. So now kiran mory says India has lot of oil and gas in the Anderman in and nicobar but Indian government doesn't make it public because US try to control it. We we don't talk about these things. No no I I know nothing about this. We do not talk about this. A Rahul says why Aiawaska and other cultural Indian psycho psychedelic alternatives are illegal in India and most of the world. They have been used for spiritual purposes for ages. Um ayawaska it's some kind of a ritual ceremony with some psychedelic ingredients that is conducted by shamans in the Amazon rainforest, right? And it causes you to have visions and have some physical things and you you you experience things that obviously exist only in your inner universe and obviously it's a very strong psychedelic experience and so on and I is it illegal in most of the world I'm not sure whether it's legal or not in what part of the world I suppose in India everything is illegal because India simply blindly copies the west if it is illegal in the west the west must be right they are White people they do things right. So we will simply copy them. Simply copy them. That's what we do in India. So if the west bans marijuana weed, we in India should ban it. West is doing it. It should be bad. We had this tradition for thousands of years that people consumed marijuana on specific days or nights like Shivatri and so on. But no, we have to ban it. So India is a nation of slave-minded people, slave mentality. in India simply blindly copies the west in so many things is ayawaska harmful to society is it addictive it's not addictive I don't think if somebody does goes through that experience once they want to go through that again I don't think it's a very very comfortable experience as far as what I've heard so I don't know I don't know why India does a lot of what India does has no logic behind it you know it's just slave mentality bordoy says ruling part is asking Hindus to have four kids no thoughts no thoughts sorry sir no thoughts I don't even know if it's true or not but no thoughts a Rahul says was analyzing present society through game theory who's the real designer of the status game or who gains most out of it possible hidden players I you must have tremendous mathematical skills if you can analyze society through game theory society has so many variables I would imagine you need a supercomput incredible amounts of computing power to analyze society through game theory. I'm not sure how do how doing it. I don't know how to do it. I have some understanding of game theory. I have some actual understanding of game theory. I don't know how to analyze society through that. Maybe you can play toy games, you know, two people, two person, three person games and uh use that as a model for the larger society. Perhaps you can do it that way. you know, reduce complex nplayer society to a, let's say, three-player game or something. That sort of thing you can do and then you can extrapolate those the the results to society at large. But that doesn't always work correctly, right? Um, so the question now you're asking is who's the real designer of the of the status game? I think status games are inherent to human society. If you are an observer, you know, if you are a deep observer of human society and interactions, you will realize that every human human interaction at some level is an is a status interaction. You may not see it that way. You may not believe in high status, low status, but probably the other person believes in that. Most people do. Who gains out of it? Possibly hidden players. Who gains out of it? High status players always gain compared to low status players. And why do people have high high status? Because of various perceived qualities, things etc. Maybe they've given more value to society which gives them high status. Maybe they have things that society desires which which gives them high status. Maybe they have power which gives them high status. Then those people always have the advantage in in these games. Possible hidden players. Well, of course, there are hidden players and hidden variables and so on, but with unless you explain the parameters of the game and how many players you're dealing with and what the rules are, I can't really tell you what exactly you're discussing here, you know, if you're if this is a game theoretic discussion. Okay. Uh Rahul says, why are Indians passionate commenters not doers? Because this is what is ingrained into us through our education system. Talk talk. Argue, argue, argue, criticize, criticize, criticize, nit, nitpick, nitpick, nitpick. Don't do anything. Okay? If you want to have a class in physical education, you have to write essays about physical education and talk about physical education and point out flaws in the other guy's essay. But don't actually do physical education. If you want to have if you want to be regarded as an expert in let's say ODC dance, you need to get a PhD in ODC dance by writing long long thesis about ODC dance. Not by being an actual highquality performer of ODC dance. It's all about talk talk talk in India. The entire education system dumps this inertia, drills this inertia into your heads. All you have to do in India to be regarded as an expert in something is to talk talk talk talk and criticize and point out flaws and do nitpicking. Okay, your experts can talk the most complex things, the most complicated language. Can they actually solve problems? Most of them can't. It's entirely because of the education system. Entirely because of that. Okay. Way of Tombbur says, "I loved reading a book you had recommended, A New History of Life by Peter Ward and John Kushnik. Can you suggest more books which go into deep time?" Um, deep. >> Um, don't recall any any of those right now. Yeah. Yeah. Right now I don't have any recommendations. I I have to think about it. If I can do the I can think about something I may post it on social media or something. Check Check it out. Um yeah, right now I can't think of any. Sorry about that. Uh Fastnail says thoughts on Scientology, inspiration from Hinduism. Scientology, inspiration from science fiction. I don't know about inspiration from Hinduism. Inspiration, the inspiration for Scientology seems to be entirely from 1960s and 50s science fiction. I don't see personally any inspiration from Hinduism unless it is tangential or indirect. It's just pure science fiction the way I see it. Yeah. Ab Shark says, "How do Modi or CEOs avoid burnout when busy?" I don't know. How do you avoid burn out? How do you avoid burnout? What is burnout? Like your brain is overworked and it genuinely needs a break, right? How do you avoid that? You how do you avoid burnout? I suppose you do you balance things that you do. So let's say for example if you are writing a book you just keep on writing writing right you get burned out right after writing four hours a day about one topic you genuinely get burned out mentally and if you do that for two months on end every day four hours you write then you may get burned out. So what do you do the rest of the time? Do something else totally different. Maybe play guitar. Maybe go for a jog. Maybe spend 1 hour lifting weights or something. Do something totally different which is also positive, which is also constructive. So that's how you can avoid burnout. If you're a CEO, you have multiple responsibilities. So spend two hours on this, spend two hours on that, do some you have to simply balance things out effectively. And if you can do that properly, if you're really good at that, you will avoid burnout, I suppose. And that's what Yeah. Mr. Modi actually needs only I believe four hours of sleep. So I think he has plenty of time to balance things out. Uh yeah says the Indian army has shot down a Pakistani drone. Let's find out. Yeah. Let's see. Indian Oops. Indian ar Indian army Pakistani drone. Okay. Multiple drone incursion attempts. Okay. Months after operation the Indian army opens fire on Pakistani drones. Okay. So the Pakistanis are back to their old tricks. Okay. We will I suppose we will deal with them. Yeah. Whipple power says are black holes optimal data compressors. We don't know what happens to the data. If it's compressed and then it's given back in its original shape and form. Well, in that case these are optimal data compressors possibly. Uh but what happens to the data? Is it actually destroyed? Does it come out in a completely incomprehensible and in uncorreable uncorrelatable u form? So can't really say if black holes are optimal data compressors. Do they just destroy the data? So let's say a photon goes in with a certain kind of polarization or a particle goes in that is spin up. What happens with the information that it has spin up? Does it come out in some some shape or form? It can come out in the shape of Hawking radiation which is black body radiation completely random radiation. So does it mean the data was scrambled or is the data just simply destroyed? We don't know. I've heard people say that the black hole information paradox has been mostly resolved. I'm not sure how it has. So I can't really say that black holes are optimal data compressors. If we can resolve the black hole information paradox satisfactory satisfactorily and explain in what shape or form the data is scrambled and then thrown out again in a way that's retrievable then we could potentially say that the black holes are really optimal data compressors but I am not sure we are at that stage right now. So at this stage in in time no readyy always ready says can you please do at least one geopolitical episode per week? Well, if everyone wants that, I'll be happy to do it. So, I'm doing one geopolitical episode, which is also half geopolitics, half history, which is what I did on Friday, which I generally do on Saturdays. Um, I I I can do it. I'm I'm happy to do it if if everybody wants that. Yeah. So, let me know in the comments below or in the in the super chat. I mean, the the regular chat if that's what you want. If you want, I'm happy to oblige. I am at your service. I'm at your disposal. Absolutely. Okay. Brahma Mosqua says, "Brahamos, is there a possibility of ousting the Americans of the Garcia and diminishing all?" No. No. Can't even dream of it right now. Can't even dream of it as of right now. Right now, don't even dream of it. Don't even think of it. Keep quiet. Do your thing. India needs to quietly quietly increase its strength, economic and military power and hard power. right now. Don't even think of challenging the Americans in any shape or form. Absolutely not. No possibility. Okay. Uh a Rahul says, "I realized many of my passions were manufactured by PR and money to look cool." Yeah, that that happens to a lot of people. Everybody in some shape or form is is is you know falls prey to this sort of thing. So who shapes these trends and why do we become labor or freak? Why do we become labor or freak for freak for fake prestige? Who shapes these trends? The corporations and governments shape these trends. The west is purely capitalistic. The west means it's run by the US. The US corporations want to maximize shareholder value, want to maximize profits. They shape these trends. They sometimes seed the trends 20, 30 years in advance, right? And they make these things cool and they target the youngsters who still aren't experienced enough to to recognize this for what it is, right? and they then end up being the labor for pre prestige. The younger you are, the more susceptible you are to these things. We are we have all been through that. So these trends are shaped. They're seeded by the big big big billion trillion dollar corporations. That's that's who does that. Fast snail says Professor Sax in an interview with Arnab said things you say 100%. Good job, Professor Saxs. What can I say? [laughter] Okay. All right. All right. Okay. Uh Rajat says, "I said right-handed neutrons, not left." I thought you said left. Okay. You said right. Okay. Uh please Google. Uh right-handed neutronos. Rightanded neutrino dark matter. How is it dark matter? Let's see. Okay. Why chain? What does he say on archive? The ceso mechanism with three right-handed neutrons has one and one as a well motivated dark matter candidate if stable and the other two can explain barrier asymmetry by the thermal process. We explore the possibility of additional of introducing additional particles to make the right-handed neutron dark matter in thermal equilibrium and freeze through of the PDF. Let me see the introduction. The heavy right-handed mayorana neutrinos are widely considered a key ingredient beyond the stand beyond the standard model of physics. They explain not only the observed tiny neutrinoes by the so okay okay I will not go through the process of reading everything heavy sterile neutrinos that don't interact by the weak force like normal nutrinos. Oh the heavy sterile neutrinos could be the elusive dark matter. Okay. Okay. It's an idea. Okay. We'll see. We'll see. I I don't consider neutrons to be a serious dark matter candidate. I think we are clutching at straws right now at this point in time. You know things are not working out. We aren't able to make breakthroughs. So we are now clutching at straws and saying sterile neutrons and so on so forth dark matter. Okay. All right. Uh Rahul says why are religions trying to portray themselves as scientific? This why do religions have to try and portray themselves as scientific? Cultural traditions don't need science validation but people are afraid. I think it is only some religions that are I no actually it's I think yeah there are multiple religions that are trying to portray themselves as scientific look religion and science are different things some I would say religion should try to portray themselves if they can prove if they can that they are philosophical not scientific science and religion don't mix but religion can be philosophical If it it takes some amount of intellect to understand that religions that good religions are philosophical but not scientific. What's the difference? If a religion is philosophical, it's a great religion. Philosophy has logic. Philosophy is is is is logically sound. Okay, religion if it is philosophical, it is logically sound. It is logically self-contained. It doesn't break its own logic. But non-filosophical religions are just about they believe in this, have faith. There is no further explanation. Right? Philosophy has logic. It has rules and those rules have to be self-contained, self-sufficient. Um [snorts] and science is a subset of philosophy. So religions if they can should prove that they are philosophical in nature. They should not need to they don't have to prove that they are scientific. But people the overwhelming majority of people don't understand the difference between science philosophy and religion and religion can be philosophical. It doesn't have to be scientific. Brahma Mosqu says ousting um M of DG in the ousting somebody of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. How and when? Are you saying ousting the US of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean? How and when? Not anytime soon. Not anytime near soon. No, not possible today. Not possible anytime soon. So let's not discuss that. Is it not possible? They're too powerful. Too powerful. Okay, next question. Krishnant Bordaloy says Masur Basud Azar said he will attack India. Thoughts? Haha. Try try buddy. Try try try that's all I'll say you. No need to go that go that route. Okay. Sergeant Skylon. Hi. Long long time no see. Long time no see. Good to see you. Sergeant Skylon sir or ma'am. So I suppose it's it's a it's a gentleman, right? Maybe maybe you'll never know this is but yes, long time no see. Good to have you back. Good to see you. All right, that brings me to the end of today's live stream. We have almost touched 4 hours. So I end this I hereby I herew with end this live stream the 321st live stream of the Ask a Bijit show. Thank you so much. Thank you very much everybody for all your questions. Keep learning, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards, and I will see you in next week's live streams. Look forward to seeing you then. Take care.