Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Heat. N. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the 258th episode of the Ask a Biji Show. I hope everybody is doing fantastic. This is a super chat live stream. I've turned super chats back on today. Yesterday I did not take any super chats. So super chats are back on but before we begin with the questions let me see who all is there on the live stream on the live chat I can say GK Juman poor man Chhat Kashab Shivasai Vicki Manohar Siddesh Patil Tushar Kalborgi global citizen Samarati Unabonga Anand Anand Chandak Avin Hunter Canvi anonymous scientist Hola Sonia Sha Samripati again geopolitical from Indor Shivasai unknown Basant 007 Rahul Dunak IC ICMBBS Ashish Karan Amar Singh Devil Pratam Sony Dilling Pengu from Assam Hello Junai who else do we have Sar Sharma Anam Chandag MB Br SK Nois X NC Punit Jashan Sudair Shubagarwal Shiva Daran Sit Jal Sanchari Sai Sasank Anu Diptasen Duv Durya Nitin Kumar Mystic SK Mloin from Superbad Vishal Patro Adwit Meta Priyanka Javalia Niha Sharma Edtopia Maj Hail 06 M50 Chutan Narraadya Shrians Shreas Mishra really now um who else jwal Bandekar Bhoji Dr. Ritwick Patnak from Odish from Bhineseshwar. Oh wonderful good good Rahul Takar Prashant Kumar Rudra Avdar and so many other people. I'm going to stop the greetings over here and let's take some questions. So Vidi G is there nationalist is there Arya Dwan and so on so forth. Okay, thank you so much all of you for being on the live stream. Let me take some questions now. Uh super chats today. So Pratam Sony says see you as mentor. Thank you so much. As every country has its character. Can you tell five p prominent characters of the Indian civilization? Every country has its own character. Five prominent characters of the Indian civilization. Or we have Lord Ram, we have Shri Krishna. Um we have Vishnu Gupta Chanaka that's three. Uh we have Chhatrapat Shivaji Maharaj and we have the great Chola Father Sanju Rajendra and Rajar Raj Raj Chola. I think that's five. I could give 50 more. I'm sure tremendous people were we produced tremendous people. But there we have it. At least five prominent characters of the Indian civilization. We have the people who wrote the verses, the schlokas of the rigida, men and women and so many other people. I mean I could go on but yeah five. If you say five here you have five. I think I give you six. Devil says during the invasions many people won, many died and many went into exile. My question is what struggles did the Dalit people face at the time? I am not a historian of Dalith history. I have no idea. I think we all faced struggles together as a civilization and it is a very foreign imposition on us that we want to slice our civilization and our population into ethnic into into uh opposing groups and we want to deconstruct Indian society and then look at struggles from a very particular group's position. We all face struggles together. But the British and the Westerners have taught us to see us ourselves not as a unified civilization but as separate opposing groups. And that's why we want to look at what did this group face and what did that group face and I my group has been oppressed for 10,000 years by the white Arian invaders. All that nonsense these are all lies. These are lies that are devised to to make us fight ourselves, fight each other. And they have told your teachers, your professors, your textbooks, they have put all these lies into your head that so and so group was oppressed by so and so other group in India for thousands of years. And India's India's culture is is a is a foreign imposition. Sanskrit is foreign to India. Hinduism is foreign to India. And there was a cast system that was used to oppress lower casts. All of this has been created by outsiders to make us fight each other. So that's what I have to say about this matter. I have nothing further to say about this. Ashish Karan says, "Why does breakthrough research require billions of dollars, hundreds of personnel, etc. and not in basement of geeks or small scale whatever? Are we at a point in history where lowhanging fruits in research are mostly plucked? Have mostly been plucked. Maybe maybe not. When it comes to technologies like AI, you need tremendous amounts of power to power the GPUs, electricity. So power is going to be a bottleneck when it comes to AI to further development in the scale and complexity and power of AI systems. So when it comes to AI and AI is the very most visible example and robotics is another most visible example of u you know technological breakthrough research. Um so it looks like these days everything is like massive massively supercaled everything requires billions maybe trillions of dollars etc. But there could be technological breakthroughs that could happen in someone's basement and what those could be I don't know but it could happen you know there's always a cycle of this you know when when some technology takes off and it becomes bigger and bigger at scale and then something else comes and upsets everything you know so yeah at this point in time it's like that the technologies that are so visible they require tremendous investments uh that's why they happen at the scale of governments and companies and countries and super corporations but I'm Sure some other things will crop up sooner sooner or later. ICMBB says if Chunk Kaishek won how would India's ties with China be different? You see if you want to see what kind of ties we would have with the Chinese government if Chong Kaishek won all you have to do is see the attitude of the Taiwanese government towards India. The Taiwan government considers itself to be the legitimate government of all of China. by the way and they claim Indian territory just like the Chinese Communist Party they claim Arunachal Pradesh they claim oxai chin they claim so so and so so forth other territories so the if the if the if the quam in Tang won Changai's party I think we would have had a similar set of issues with them so the problem is not China the problem is us actually that we allowed them to capture Tibet we should not have allowed the Chinese to set food in Tibet. We should have defended Tibet at our own expense. We should have done that because that was vital for our national security. So it would have made no difference if Changek won. He would also have had if the Ku Tang also would have had a very similar approach with the Chinese Communist Party. When it comes to um India, anonymous scientist says, "How bad are Israeli strikes in Iran? Will there be a regime change in in Iran? I have just briefly seen what happened. It looks like they've done a decapitation strike strike on the top leadership in the military and the various nuclear nuclear scientists etc. I have just barely glanced at the news. So I don't know that this is not a breaking news show that we do here. This is a deep analysis show that we do here whether it's the geo strategy show or or or or the Indian interest show or this Q&A show. So I've just barely glanced at what happened. I don't have a deeply properly informed view right now of what's happened. Maybe I will have a better understanding tomorrow of what's happened. Uh will there be a regime change in change in Iran? I hope there is no regime change in Iran. There are lots of these idiotic 30 IQ Indian right-wingers who are celebrating right now. Yes. Israel, our great our great friend full support Israel has struck at Iran. this Islamic nation, those idiots have no idea what Iran represents for us because when right now you have a regime that is run by the ayatas and moolas in Iran and they force their women into burkas and so on so forth. My my position on this is very clear. This is an internal matter of the Iranian people and the Iranian nation. It has nothing to do with me. If the Iranian people are apparently unhappy, let's say, then they should take it up with their government. We should not interfere in this matter. It has nothing to do with us. But remember, before the regime of the ayatlas and the mulas, the current regime, before that, you had the regime of Shah Muhammad Razelvi, a democratic Iran where women could wear short skirts and everybody, nobody would bother them. Great. But what was the geopolitical out outlook? They supported the US. They supported Pakistan in 1965. They supported Pakistan in the India Pakistan war 1965 and they were a US vasal. Do you want a situation where where even Persia is a US? Right now you already have Pakistan a US and Trump is going all out in favor of Pakistan. Now imagine that problem being magnified 10fold with with Porsche also becoming a US facile. Imagine that scenario. Do you want that scenario to exist to to occur? I don't understand this idiotic 30 IQ Indian right-wingers who are jumping and dancing that Israel has hit Iran. It will be a disaster for India if there's a regime change and a pro- US regime comes to power in Iran. It will be an absolutely absolutely unprecedented disaster for India. So that is my position on this. I would like the regime of the moolas and the ayatas to continue in Iran. At least they they are not anti-India. NTN 888 says sir prefers dictatorship monarchy over democracy every dictator state got bad rights censorship no media freedom. Is this not worth high development etc etc etc. Uh tell me something sir ma'am whoever you are. If you look look back at Indian history. Yes. When was the last time we had we had a great ruler in this country? Possibly it was Chhatraatwaji Maharaj. Last time we had a great ruler and obviously the various Peshawas who came after him. Tell me something. Were they democratically elected by the people of India? Did they allow the people to vote against them? These were monarchs in other words dictators. Was Raj Rajola democratically elected? And did he transfer power to his son Rajendra Chola democratic democratically after the people voted for Raj Rajendra Chola? What utter nonsense? This was a dictatorship. Nobody dared question the king the emperor. What about the great uh Kumar Gupta, Chandra Gupta, Scand Gupta etc. of the of the Gupta Empire were they democratically elected did they transfer power after getting the people's votes but India did tremendously well during the during these times right what about Kaneshka the Kushal the great one of the one of the greatest emperors we've had was he a democratically elected emperor what about Lord Krishna when he was king of Dwara did the people vote him to power what about Lord Ram was he a democratically elected uh leader. So when his father Dashraat is handing over the throne to his son, did he ask the people for a vote? What are you people dreaming of? And what are what what world are you living in? We've always had dictatorships in India and it's always turned out well for India. The current present system is is is the problem and that's why we have this this low standards all over the place in India. And if even if you want to change something, you can't. And you see obvious problems that that are that are terrible for India. A 100 million Bangladesh is Rohingya's cookies and Pakistanis in India. You think a dictator would have tolerated that this incredibly gigantic national security threat? So I would say you you know yeah you you can sometimes have bad dictators like K like Jalasand like like uh Mahapad Manand etc. But as long as the Indian monarchy is guided by the constitution which is dharma it is a very low chance of happening and so on. So that's what I have to say about this. Yes. Uh really now says no concern about Korean evation after Ju crash. Well that's how it goes. Hardik Jooshi says okay thank you so much. How safe is anymore? I don't mean fatally but things going wrong in close calls. also thanks for teaching how to think or instead of what to think. Yeah, you're welcome. Um, look, I think overall flying is safe. I travel I I fly all the time and u day before yesterday I was in an Air India flight. Day before yesterday and day before day before yesterday also I was in an Air India flight. Uh so look overall I think India is one of the safest countries for flying and I hope that what's happened this this extremely sad thing that's happened at least it will prompt a much deeper scrutiny by the government of India and the regulators etc into the aviation saf safety standards and procedures and protocols that we have in the country which will obviously have the effect of making flying even safer in India. So overall I think we should not be worried. We should not be scared. Overall India is very safe. I think it's safer than most countries and let's not worry about it. Okay. Literally officer K says once again Israel is uh full support sir full support right Indians Indians love Israel. Let me show you something. Indians love Israel unconditionally. Indians give full support sir to Israel at all times. Right? Let me show you something. Let me put something on the screen. And Indian right wingers are right now dancing on the aisles because India because Israel is a hit Iran. So this is a tweet by the Israel Defense Forces. Okay. Uh aha ahuh. Now if they put it out after after my tweet after my tweet see the map of Isra India put out by our Israeli friends. Oh, they've put out this map of Iran being allegedly a global threat, blah blah blah blah blah and so on. Now, let's look at the map. Let's look at the map of India. They've put out. They've given Kashmir and much more to Pakistan. This is something Israel does over and over again. Once I pointed this out and the Israeli ambassador had to apologize and to pull the map down. The Israeli ambassador had to apologize and pull the map down after my tweet. But once again, they are back at it, right? And oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh they have also showed Arunachal Pradesh is part of China. Well well that's so nice of our Israeli friends. That's so nice of our Israeli friends. Let us see. Oh yes Arunachal Pradesh is missing. They have given Arunachal Pradesh to China. They've given Kashmir and maybe some part of Punjab also to to Pakistan. That's lovely. And there there is no undermands for us apparently and so on. So this is what Israel does. It's not the first time the the Israelis have done this. They do this over and over again. But Indians will keep worshiping Israel. I have nothing personal against Israel by the way. Absolutely nothing. There's a lot to admire in Israel about what Israel does. But to to imagine that they are some super friend of ours and what world are you living in? Yeah. So this is not a silly mistake. This is a pattern. It's a pattern you see over and over again with Israel, especially when it comes to comes to the maps of India. So I don't know I I keep on pointing this out but Indians will never learn. Indians are I I don't know what to say about Indians. So here we have it. Uh Dr. Ritik Patnak says what if the look what if what if the Axis powers won World War II impact on India? Would India become a vasal country under German Japan with Subbash Bos's puppet prime minister? Look these what if scenarios you can make any kind of story from a what what if scenario. Of course you can do a proper forecasting like I do in geostrategy etc. But what is the point is my question. What is the point of exploring these fictitious scenarios alternative history scenarios. What's the point? Yeah. So if the axis powers world one were World War II maybe we would be speaking in Deutscha. and so on. Yeah. And would India become vasal country with Subash Boet PM? How dare you call Subash Boet PM? How dare you? Look, it's an exercise in futility. What's the point? I don't get it. Maybe he would be speaking German or maybe he would be speaking Japanese. Yes, Japanese and so on. Uh Aries Manticor says in case of World War II, do we stand alone objectively or are we forced to treat the whole world as potentially adversarial? With neither side willing to accept us, we focus on becoming a silent third world power. In the case of World War II, there's no point of thinking anything because the world will end. You people don't understand what World War II means, right? World War II means the end of the world. That's what it means. It means nuclear exchange between the US and Russia. That's what World War II means. There is no standing aside. Everybody dies. no taking sides and blah blah in World War II. Once the nuclear exchange happens, it's over. Over for everybody, no matter where you are. Okay. Basar says, "My question is in this super chat comment." Well, I don't see a question, but thank you for the 40 bucks, sir. What can I say? If you have a question, please ask, right? What's the point of this? Uh, Geopol says, "Does I22 still exist?" I think it still exists on paper and maybe it will be taken up at some point in time. The um Yeah, but um what is the I2U2? It is the No, it's not the IP, iMac, I2U2. It's India, Israel, USA and uh UAE. I think that's what I2 was and I think it still exists but I'm not sure if if there is work being done on that and if I'm not sure if it's an active thing that we engage in. So I think it pops up from time to time but it's not something that is active actively pursuing being pursued right now. That's the guess. That's the sense that I get because I've not heard of I do YouTube for a while and I'm not it's it's slipped past my you know my mental horizon for some time now. Vicki says do you think Israel is our friend seeing our map? Well you tell me. Who am I to say? I can only show you the map then. Now you people decide. You people have a brain right? You people are capable of thinking yes. Now do I have to tell you do I have to chew the food and then put in your mouth? Really? You tell me Vicki will a friend do that for to you. You tell me. Advatas sha back in Iran. What would it mean for India? It means disaster for India. It means a pro- US wasal back in power in Persia. And pro- US means pro Pakistan. Which means that both Pakistan and Persia will be will be anti-India. Do you want that? No, thank you. Um really now says how come ancient China had haram and slaves dharma. China was not a dharmic nation as such. The emperors never followed dharma. They always followed confusionism. They always followed legalistic practices that started with hang possibly. It's been a while since I read Chinese history. So I may be a little blurry on that. But the Chinese emperors were never Buddhist. or Hindu whatever they never practice that. It is the Chinese people that practice that. Chinese kings did become Buddhists and they fought each other for the privilege of of hosting one some of the Indian u gurus who would travel to China. But the emperors the top the top dog would never be a Buddhist. There would always be confusions. And in Confucianism there is no god. There's no morality. So there we have it. Sharma says, "Many white men are really into Latinos. A man being into a Latino instead of a Latina." Okay, whatever. Whatever rocks your boat, guys. So many white men are really into Latinos. And brown men are notorious for being into white women. Me. Okay. Sharma is into white women. Good for you, bro. So are men hardwired to seek out genetic diversity? I think that could be Yeah. valid thing. Genetic diversity makes sense. It it gives you uh hardier offspring and so on. So yeah, it it could be a genetically hardwired thing that you well men are genetically hardwired to be promiscuous actually. Okay, that's that's a fact. It's it's something you know from historical evidence. What did the Yamaya do? That's what they did. Kill all the men and take all the women. That's that's what the Turks did. That's what the Arabs did. That's what every every rapacious culture did. So I think men are hardwired to do that and and women are hardwired genetically to do something different to settle with one partner and uh when it comes to a civilized existence I think the way of the women wins because a partner that gives you a stable society. Uh but what you're saying makes sense. I think men could be hardwired to seek out genetic diversity. It makes sense from a genetic perspective to have a partner that's way more different than you genetically which ensures that you will have very hardy offspring with with good traits from both sides. So yeah it makes sense I think. Okay Gro says aim in US news was fake why was it spreaded he has not reached the US who is saying that he's been invited to go to the US I think he will go there. Parasi says why is India not focusing on AI? Well, did you watch the Indian interest episode that I just did? We are super focusing on AI. We're going to have machine guns and all kinds of weapon systems that will have AI integrated into them. So, I think it's happening. It's not all over the news. It's not front page news and all, but India is taking AI very very very very seriously now. Trust me, it is. We are taking it very seriously. Maybe not at the LLM level and chat bots level, which is but at the military level. And when you when you do stuff at the military level, you don't talk about it. Okay. So, so Nan Chabra says, "Oh, Namj Nam Chabra says, I think China having Pakistan under its influence is a good thing. That way, India has to prepare for essentially the same weapons in case of a war." No, it's not necessarily a good thing. I mean, I know what you're trying to say that okay, we don't have to worry about this weapon, that weapon system, etc. will only have one set of weapon systems all over the place. Uh but let's assume that China has actually some some very sophisticated weapons. Do you want them to do you want the goddamn Pakistanis to have those? Do you want them to have those? Really? It's it's not a good thing from that perspective. Um but uh overall it's not something we can control. So the Pakistanis we're going to we'll see they're going to have a mish mash of weapons. They will have some Turkish weapons. They'll have some American weapons. And then they're going to have some Chinese weapons. Um, and the Americans will keep helping them in in a variety of ways. Uh, refurbishing their F-16s, giving them uh, bailouts from the IMF and the World Bank and whatnot. And the Chinese will sell them J35 fighter planes and various advanced radar systems and whatnot. That's going to continue. Uh but from the perspective of imagining that the Pakistanis will have only Chinese weapons, it's not correct. They will also have Turkish weapons. They'll also have American weapons which actually makes it a nightmare for India to to have to contend with the possibility of all these different kinds of weapon systems being used simultaneously against us. But we can take care of it for sure. Tanmay Pant says communist historians say that Delhi's sultanate Delhi's sultenates Amir Khasra is the person behind Hindi language or Khariboli isn't prat rasoproto Hindi see the Hindi language or the Hindi language it is an Indian language but unfortunately it has been infused with all these foreign words turic words and Arabic words so many words I can tell you which are of for example the word Hindi word mullayim Main it means bland in Turkish. The word the word which means I don't know what some organ it means liver in Turkish. The word tawa for that that flat surface on which you cook. It's a Turkish word and there are so many Arabic words across Hindi. So all Persian words also I have no issue with Persian words because it's a sister language, daughter language of Sanskrit and so on. But all of this happened because of of the amalgamation of of the languages. So in in the the the Turk courts would have people who would speak local languages, prait based languages like protohindi etc. Proto Aawadi etc. and and and there would be people speaking Turk languages like Chagatai etc. There will be people speaking Persians of people speaking Arabic. So all of this eventually got mixed up in one single language. It evolved like a mongrel language. So it has the grammatical structure etc. and and lot of vocabulary of a of a prait language Sanskrit derived language abranch language with lots of words that came from other foreign languages. Um but I would not say airro is behind the Hindi language. I mean he wrote some poetry in the Hindi of that time. If you try to read it today you won't understand a goddamn word of it. Right? Um so communist historians will give all kinds of credit to to to foreigners. That's what they have always done. But we don't need to take them seriously. Ron Senpai says we see a pattern of that Europe glorifies Egyptians even though we have evidence of more complex civilizations in the Amazon rainforest in the civilization era of India and so on. Why? I'll tell you why. The west glorifies cultures they have destroyed. Okay. They will only glorify those cultures that they have destroyed. They will glorify those cultures that they have reduced to to specimens in a museum or in a zoo. A few months ago, maybe a year or so ago, I watched this Marvel movie called Multiverse of Misery. Multiverse of Madness. Okay. In which there was this scene, I think it's one of these Marvel movies. I think it was multiverse of whatever in which there's a scene in which Thor they've depicted Thor as as a loser alcoholic kind of person. Thor is Indra by the way. Okay. So they've depicted Thor going into a conference of all the gods. All the gods in the world. There are Polynesian gods and there are Egyptian gods and there is there are Scandinavian gods and Thor meets Zeus. I mean are you people crazy? How can you meet yourself? Thor is the the the Nordic version of the Greek god Zeus. Zeus Peter was Jupiter in Rome and Zeus Peter was was named after Dors Petro a Sanskrit name and that's the representation of Indra. Anyhow all the gods are represented over there in that conference of of the gods Egyptian gods and some obscure gods are there etc etc but you will not see a single Indian god there. Why? because they hate Indian gods because we our gods are still free and our culture is still not destroyed. So they will extol the virtues of all the cultures they have destroyed but they will not do that for Indian gods. Uh Amazon rainforest that's another example but um they they destroyed the cultures of the Amazon region so thoroughly that nothing survives. We don't even know the names of their gods and so on. They destroyed it so thoroughly. Spaniards. Ah, the Spaniards were such utter barbarians. Anyhow, Sik Mundus says, "How far is the future? All Indians are middle class or up and have no more fear of Islam or Gazwa, whatever. Take ASI into consideration." Uh, listen, I do not answer questions about religious strife, the Hindu Muslim stuff and all that. I am not the guy for that. I'm not the guy for that. There are other YouTube channels that that discuss this threadbear. I do not discuss all these religious strife issues, Hindus fighting Muslims and the threat of this religion and that religion what not. That's not my cup of tea. I will discuss history, geopolitic science. I should actually put out a disclaimer today also that I will only take questions about history, geopolitic science, but I don't I don't take up those questions. Okay? So, apologies for that. NCurit thank you very much sir thank you here Kumar Patel says what mistakes made by US what mistakes by by US made Russia India China sovereign that's not US mistakes Russia was always sovereign uh China was also sovereign they had a brief 100-year period in which there was interference but overall they were sovereign and uh the British handing over power to a set of crooks in India was nothing to do with the US at the time the US did not have the power to interfere here So there you have it. Sergeant Skyan says, "What should India do about the I think India should develop the TEAS program? Take it to its logical conclusion. Right now we have we have various versions future versions of the TEAS that are being developed. The TEAS should should form as should should serve as the as the framework for a whole set of aircraft families for the future, right? Uh and the AMCA is going to be an offshoot of that. All the lessons that we have learned from the development of the pages will be incorporated into the AMCA development. So it'll be much faster, much much better and so on. And I think the I think the the mark 1B or whatever mark 2 or whatever it is is going to come out. We need to keep developing that. That's what we should do. Arismantic core has says that China has been testing our patience for a long time now. Should we as a country begin a process to permanently decouple from the China? China and US lobbies have long molded us into subservient slaves. Our bigger project problem when it comes to mental colonization and molding Indians into subservient slaves. The bigger problem is not China. It is the west. It is the west. It is the fact that we all it is the the fact that we all speak the English language and we see English speaking culture as our culture. That's the big problem. That's how we are so badly influenced by the west. And China is a much bigger power. So you can't say they have been testing our patience. As a much more powerful nation, they will do what they want. So the solution for us is is that we should become as powerful as China, eventually more powerful than China. That's easier said than done. So permanently decoupling from China, I agree we should do that. I mean why are we technologically dependent on China? Why are we dependent on China for rare earth minerals and and rare earth magnets and so much more? It gives China such a big leverage over us. Now they have stopped supplies of rare earth magnets and all that to India. We only have supplies until mid July. After that our our electric vehicle sector will will shut down. I don't understand why we have been so shortsighted. So we need to permanently decouple from China. We need to have multiple sources of everything. We have our own rare earth elements in India but we have done nothing to extract them. So we have been caught napping and it will take us some time to decouple properly. But you're right. NC Punit says suppose Iran gets nukes you know is fat in the world order but it will significantly change the world order Iran will not be that easy to bully them and overall it will kind of destabilize the region to a certain extent it'll cause tensions all over the place I would like Iran to be safe and stable and secure and I want it to continue to exist the way it is right now but I would not be a big fan of Iran getting nukes Then we would have two um neighboring nations that would have nukes. Three actually, China, then Pakistan and also Iran is going to significantly complicate issues. So we don't want Iran to get nukes, but Iran could could be in a position right now where they may have nukes. They probably have enough file material for at least 10 nuclear warheads, maybe more. So yeah, maybe it stabilizes the region. Maybe it's good for Iran. It's definitely good for Iran, I would say. Um, Grock says, "Why US didn't do something Central Asia to capture rare earths? The US doesn't belong in Central Asia. Central Asia is a region where you have which comes under Russia's sphere of influence. Russia sees Central Asia as part of its exclusive sphere of influence. The US have been interfering in Central Asia for quite some time. You know, there's an American University of Central Asia in Bishkek, Kygythan and so on so forth. But when it comes to extracting resources, the Russians won't allow that to happen. So, uh, Ankita says, "What will be the fate of Iran in the future according to my analysis? Is it going to be transformed into another South Korea as speculated predicted by some experts? I would not want to see that happen. I hope it doesn't happen. Um, okay, let's consider the scen consider the scenarios. Let's say the Israelis attack Iran and try to decapitate the leadership. Iran will have no option but to try and strike at Israel, which starts a hot war in the region. Um, if the Americans try to interfere, the Isra the Iranians can hit every single American air base and military base in the region which starts a big conflagration in the region. Big regional conflagration and oil prices skyrocket and it's a big mess all over the world. We could be on the doorstep of that scenario right now. Okay. But then what happens? Can the US and Israel come together to destroy Iran? It's possible. You may even have a limited nuclear exchange here. Uh but if Iran they they decide they will destroy Iran and they destroy Iran and then they put up a puppet government of some sha or something in place. If that happens then it's it's terrible for the region. So if Iran is to fall it will probably lead to a nuclear exchange limited nuclear exchange in the region which would be horrible horrible. I think that uh I hope that sane minds will prevail. But yeah, right now we are at a 50-50 position right now. If Israel continues these strikes, I think Iran will respond significantly very vigorously and then you could be on the brink of allout war and that all-out war could end with the destruction of Iran and the and a regime change in the region which would be terrible geopolitically for the whole region and it would be a disaster for India as well. And if this happens then they will convert Iran into another vasal state like it used to be before the ayatas came to power and then they will say yeah then in that case Iran could eventually become a South Korea-like country slowly decaying and being destroyed and yeah but I hope it doesn't happen. I hope it definitely doesn't happen. So what is my prediction? I think it's too early to predict. I think it's all 50/50 right now. Aditya Ragul Ragul says talk about Iranian Muslim families in Hyderabad Bang Bangalore who don't look like Indians more cockasoid that enjoy dual citizenship a Ali Akar Miraa is other mirazis who migrated during 1800s 1900s I am not aware of these people I don't I'm not aware of this history don't know there have been see I can tell you this that lots of India and Persia neighboring countries for the longest time and there have been lots of Persians who migrated to India and lots of people Indians who possibly would have migrated to Persia uh and so on. I mean Kmeni's ancestors were from Lacno I think at least one of his ancestors lived in Lacno for a significant period of time and so on. So when you are neighboring countries this sort of exchange happens it's it's normal for that to happen. Um so that's what I can tell you. I'm not aware of all these individuals that you have named. That's not part of um my focus in historical research. It's not something I'm interested in. So, I won't be able to answer in specifics about this because I'm not aware of it. Okay. Shivam Bakshi says, I understand China is collapsing population wise, but will they manage to maintain a growing economy with AI and robotics? They will try their best to do that. They'll try their best. Uh see the population is decreasing which means your population is aging soon enough. You will have a population that where the average median age is in the 60s maybe 65. The average person is 65 years old. Imagine that everybody's old. So very few people are having kids. That is a disaster. But then you have technological superiority. You're technologically very advanced. So you can marry AI and robotics and have robots do all the work for you. So it doesn't matter whether all your population whether the majority of your population is old people. Doesn't matter. But how long can you ma maintain this economy and all that? You can have the robots do all the work for the people and you can have robots fight wars. You can have robot dogs and robot eagles and robot whatever else is tyrannosaurus rexes fighting wars for you. But eventually what happens? Your population is going to collapse and it's going to die out possibly. Then what do you do with it? So I think it's a long-term disaster scenario for China actually, right? But yeah, for the for the time being it's it's a huge threat for India, China. Until the end of the century, it's going to be a big threat. He's manticor says world war 2.5 could be AI based before nuke exchange. Um no AI based war that that is that's not world war 2.5. The next world war is going to have if it happens it it could end up in a nuclear exchange which will disrupt the world. And you already have AI systems being used in warfare. Uh many of the drones could be autonomous and so on. You know the anti-personnel drones that you are seeing in in the Ukraine conflict. Many of these are autonomous drones. So you already have AI uh that's participating in warfare. So that's not world war world war 2.5 or anything. So yeah, kapay developer kapay developer says P crash of plane past 10 years data minus okay it's of the order of 0.008 uh the probability of VVIP and commercial plane etc etc etc. VVIP well I would not call Mr. Rupani a VVIP he is a former chief minister um but I know what you're trying to say so the probability of both the events happening of of both independent happen events happening simultaneously is of the order of 1.6 6 * 10 - 8 which is astronomically minuscule. Interesting. So I know what you're trying to hint but let's not get into the territory at this point in time. You're trying to hint that there could be sabotage or something but I think it's too early for us to reach such conclusions even though what you're showing over here well I don't think they can be denied. Sarang says grateful. Okay. Thank you so much sir. Thank you very much. Uh okay. All you are saying you don't have a question. Well well thank you so much. I really appreciate it. I really appreciate uh the contribution and the very very kind words and I appreciate your viewership. Thank you so much. It really means a lot. Thank you. Barata says Vedas describes Sarasati in its grandest form. Multip disciplinary science studies hint at a grand river. They don't hint. They've demonstrated there was a grand river in northwest India only about 9 to 18,000 years before. Today good coro corroboration for some Vic mandelas being that old let me show you what the deal is the Vedas the rig Va let's not talk about all the Vedas let's talk about the riga the rigida talks about the sarasvati in its grandest form if you want to know what it says let's go to Google okay let's go to Google invasion mit shavda So, where is it? Where where is it? Um, what what Okay, I should just quickly go to the first link. medium.com. This is an article of by me from 2017. So, where is where is Saraswati? Saraswati. Saraswati. Um, Saraswati. Okay. The Saraspati river is extensively mentioned in the Rigida, India's foundational literary text. It is referred to as the greatest of rivers. Glorious, loudly roaring in the mother of floods. This clearly refers to a mighty river in its prime, not a river in decline. This falsifies the Arian invasion theory account that the rigida was composed after a perpetated arian invasion of migration circa 1500 BC and indicates it was composed closer to 5,000 BC when the river was last in its prime per the results of this study that I've mentioned about that I've mentioned circar a uh and so on okay so the point is that the river the great Sarasbati was last in her prime came around 5,000 6,000 BC about 8,000 years before today and that's the point at which the Indian rainy season the monsoon starts declining slowly gradually monotonically and eventually it declines to such an extent that by about 1500 AD uh BC by about 1500 BC the Sarasati is largely dried out it's made a huge puddle which is now the run of Kutch and and so on and eventually also the Tar desert so the river was last inner prime around 8,000 BC. It indicates that the rig weather was composed closer to 8,000 BC than to 1500 BC and I it doesn't mean that it was composed 18,000 BC. Okay, you you can't extrapolate that sort of thing. So my what I can say is that it was composed closer to 8,000 BC than 2500 BC. Beyond that I cannot say anything else. So I would not go in and venture that maybe the rigida was written at 18,000 years before today. That is I think perhaps stretching it too far and that would be well it could equally well have been written at around 6,000 BC or 7,000 BC. But what's clear is that it's the world's oldest literary text. No question about that. Kavia says Christian missionaries are targeting Indian states like Kerala Tamil Nadu and northeast state for conversion after independence. They did that. Yeah. After independence. Uh why were these states targeted as they were less affected by Mughal brutality. Why did they target these states? For example, the far eastern states, northeast states, Nagaland etc. These were remote states where people lived in the hills and all that tribal populations. Tribal populations have historically been far easier to convert to Christianity than populations that are not tribal and not nomadic. uh also you will find that populations that are uh in poverty are easier to convert by Christian missionaries just by offering rice bags. The Chinese and the Japanese wrote about this. The Chinese in the 1800s wrote about rice Christians. So the Christian missionaries, the American British Christian missionaries would have this practice in China. They would create conditions for famines in China and then they would offer bags of rice to Chinese peasants as inducements to convert to Christianity. The condition was that we'll offer you this bag of rice but we will offer you only if you convert to Christianity. So you were not being made to convert of your own free will. It was a inducement. You had no choice otherwise you die. So that's the tactics these people have historically used. And in India, the British created horrible famines and horrible poverty and the Nuvian regime took a long long time to do anything about these things. So it was so easy to convert poor people to Christianity, people who were starving and so on. And maybe Kerala, Tamil Nadu, maybe all of these places, they already had certain issues there. That's why it was easier to start over there. Um yeah. So I I'm I'm not sure if there's a connection with Mughal brutality, but yeah, that's how historically the pattern has been. Vic post says any good book or source on raw training. You will find no books on raw training. These things are not to be written in books. But if you want to read nasty stuff, read the CIA field manuals, etc. CIA field manuals, PDFs from the 1970s and 80s from the time that they were running all their operations in Latin America and so on. Very nasty stuff. Uh Vidi says, "Does Israel missow India's map to signal the US?" Nah, they don't have to signal anything to the US. Absolutely not. They're signaling something to us and to the rest of the world. They don't have to signal anything to the US. Okay. Cancer says US is crooked. Was the USSR also like that before? Big fan. Thank you, sir. Every big power is going to act hypocritically. They're going to say one thing, do another. They're going to always prioritize their own interests. It's never going to be about what's right, what's wrong, but what's best for me. So, the USSR also did such things. No question about it. But overall for India, the Russians were always better. They were always more reliable. So that's how it was historically. Strike 47 says, "What are your views on Israel then? I'm unsure of how to perceive their relationship with India. From what I have seen, they've always been loving loving and I have so many Jewish friends. Why do they show wrong map?" Okay. Okay. Okay. Look, personal relationships have nothing to do with in geopolitical relationships. Please, Indians, why are Indians so naive? You go to the US, you will find so many Pakistani taxi drivers who are so nice, very pleasant to talk to, and they'll become friends of yours. You go to various restaurants, etc., you will find Pakistanis all over the place. They'll be very nice people. You go and live in London, you will have many Pakistani neighbors. Especially those who settled down in the 20th century, they'll be nice, really nice and very cordial and very well behaved and all. Does it mean Pakistan loves India? Because these people are nice to you. I personal experience and interpersonal relationships have nothing to do with nationto-nation relationships. Absolutely nothing. Now, look at it this way. If you watch yesterday's live stream that I did, episode 5 of Geost Strategy, you will see why Trump love loves Pakistan so much because he is in the process of investing about 65 he's in the process of investing lots of money in Pakistan and there is about $65 trillion worth of of resources to be extracted out of Pakistan. So Pakistan is willing to give up their their resources to Trump for plundering and that's why Trump loves Pakistan so much. Now Trump loves Israel very much. Trump is a huge supporter of Israel and the US is Israel's number one ally and Israel's Israel is also the US's number one ally. So it's a mutual partnership these two nations have. So Israel and US are each other's number one ally. US has a top vasal in the Indian subcontinent which is Pakistan. So if US is favorably inclined towards Pakistan and Israel and US have this alliance of number one ally then the question is what is Israel's relationship with Pakistan? They don't have diplomatic relations but have you seen Israel ever do a thing against Pakistan? They will talk. Talk talk is cheap. I want to see actions. What actions? Give me give me an example of some hard actions Israel has taken in the past about Pakistan against Pakistan. I'll wait. I'll wait forever. Right now, Israel has been very good for India. We have a good strategic partnership. Right. Uh we have various defense agreements. We we are developing various technologies jointly and all. So it's great it's a great partnership overall but Israel has this history of showing the wrong Indian map. There's also the question of Manipur. A large number of of cookies cookie infiltrators have become Israeli citizens by claiming to be of Jewish origin when there is 0% Jewish DNA in these people and they love eating pork. But they have succeeded in becoming Israeli citizens. And Israel had this had this conversion program going on in which they would officially baptize or whatever it is the Israeli the Jewish religion does to make someone officially Jewish and they have brought in a lot of cookies who are now living in is in Israel and these cookies who are now Israeli citizens are have been caught supporting the the cookie terrorism in Manipur and recently I know that the Israelis had had had brought in some Indian influencers to Israel on a tour of Israel. Okay. And they had these Indian influencers meet a cookie rabbi to talk about Manipur. Now that's direct government interference in Indian Indian affairs. Indian internal affairs, right? A cookie rabbi was brought to meet the Indian influencers and and talk about Manipur. Who the hell is that cookie Israeli rabbi to talk about Manipur? What business does he have doing it? So there are many issues in the India Israel relationship. Overall it's a great relationship but there are issues. So my friends, you may have a couple of Jewish friends. I'm sure you have good relations with them. It doesn't mean that everything is great. Of course, India also doesn't always vote vote in favor of Israel when it comes to various resolutions. India typically abstains or or votes against Israel when it comes to various resolutions in the UN about Palestine and so on so forth. So you to understand it's a complicated relationship. It's not all all all love and happiness and all that full supports are like Indians do. Indians what can I say that's so incredibly immature. Uh and so that that's the deal. That's what I can tell you. Rahul Ladu says make in India didn't succeed as much as we expected. What policies should India imp implement now? Rephrase. Make in India is working. It it takes time. There are lots of problems in India, lots of internal problems. But we cannot say it did not succeed because until today it's not brought all all the results that we wanted. We're going to keep on persevering. We're going to make it work. Right? So what policies should India implement? We should make it easier to do business in India. First of all, it is pretty difficult even for Indians to to do to conduct business in India. All kinds of regulatory roadblocks and red tape and allegedly corruption allegedly etc. Right? Land acquisition is such a problem. If you are a foreign company or a foreign entity or investor, you want to invest in India and if you want to acquire land, it's a nightmare for you. You go to China, they will roll out the red carpet for you as if you're a VI VVIP. In India, they they will ask you to fill up 78 forms in triplicate. So all these things need to be dealt with, right? So if you do all of this stuff, then it'll be easier for foreigners and etc people to invest in India. And that's one of the big things we need to do. Kapay developer says, "How does one counter leverage both from an individual and national perspective standpoint?" You counter leverage by having leverage by developing leverage of your own. So that's what you do. So for example, what leverage does the US have over India? They have East Pakistan and West Pakistan. Both are their vasals. They have other nations that also belong to them. They have unleashed mayhem in Manipur via via uh via Myanmar because they are running a proxy civil war in Myanmar. So they have so many points of leverage on India. So what can India do about this? Now India doesn't have the leverage right now of running similar operations in the US backyard. It's not possible, right? So but if India wants to counter this, then India needs to become more powerful such that we can also do such things to the US. Then they will behave. So when it comes to China, okay, the Americans have imposed all kinds of tariffs on the Chinese. So that's the leverage they have over the Chinese, right? So how did the Chinese respond? They have restricted exports of rare earth minerals and magnets and all that to the US. Then they control about 95% of the world's supply. That's a huge leverage they have and that's why the Americans have brought the Chinese to the to the negotiating table. They said, "Okay, you have leverage now. We need to find a solution." Now the Chinese have imposed these restrictions on India also but India doesn't have leverage over China. So what you have to do is you have to develop your own leverage over other countries. If you become a much much larger market that everybody needs and that's a leverage you have over others. If you have a massive navy then you can bully other nations by saying that look my navy will turn up to tomorrow tomorrow morning at your doorstep with these many aircraft and these many soldiers then what will you do and so on. So you have to develop your own different ways of applying leverage on other countries. That's what you do. That's from a national perspective. Now you can bring it down to the individual perspective also. So that's what you do. Sir MK says, what would the what could the UK have done differently to remain as an empire superpower? Second, what was responsible for Germany becoming a technological power in the 20th century? What was the cause for Germany becoming such a technological power in the 20th century? Educational reforms. They completely revamped. First of all, in 1871, this artificial new nation of Germany was created for the first time ever. Before that, there was no Germany ever. Then they wanted to become a massive European power. So they created the kind of education system that was focused on science and research and technology and they made it completely meritocratic and they they they ensured that the system produces identifies the best talent and rewards the best talent and they also became a major industrial level uh industrial nation because of which you would need to source the best uh brightest talent from the education system. So all of that caused this great technological blooming in Germany and that's why it become a great technological power. The roots go the roots of this success lie in the 19th century. What could the UK have done differently to remain as an empire superpower? Um they should have ensured that Germany did not doesn't rise. That's one thing they could have done and many other things like uh yeah at the end of the day they were overstretched and the US suddenly emerged as this great power and there's nothing they could have done to prevent that. So I think the UK's time was done essentially. He's manticor says speaking of unofficial foreign lobbies in India isn't it suspicious that bureaucrats of DRO and HOL keep messing up projects and deals into 2014 even after which it could took 10 years to straighten up. Well if there is any such thing it would be kept under wraps. It would be classified information. Um so I can't really comment much about that but you know what it's true that we've had so many problems and the current government of Mr. Modi has has probably had to take years more than a decade to straighten things. I'm sure they still in the process of straightening straightening out various things and I'm sure there still is a lot of foreign influence within India in various ways. Okay. But I am not aware of any specifics. So I cannot say speak about that. I cannot comment about that. Rahul says since making India did not succeed as much as we expected. What policies should India implement now? I think I answered your question. I answered your question that India needs to implement various reforms which will make it easier to do business in India which will make it easier to have contracts enforced. which will make it easier to acquire land in India which will make it less cumbersome a process to to set up a company and and run a company there should be red less red tape there should be less alleged corruption and so on so forth these are the things India needs to do okay Krishna thank you very much sir Hersa says as innocent simp simple men's slashed like vegetables in today's time should men convert their personality to alpha what's your thoughts experience You can't change your personality. You you have the personality you were born with. Um today's world in India especially is terrible. The laws are all biased against men and men are victimized. No question about it. That's true. It's true. So what should men do? Well, you have to be careful. You have to be careful you don't get exploited. You have to do your due diligence when marrying somebody. Today the old system of getting married has been thrown out right especially in big cities you just find some girl and you get fall in love with her and you marry her and then very often you may have to face certain consequences in the past the the families used to do the due diligence about the the anticcedence of the person you are proposing to get married to. So they would look into the person they would look into the person's family they would look into the person's ancestry and see the kind of behavioral traits they've demonstrated over time. That gives you a very solid idea of what kind of person this this could be and so on. It's gone now. So that's a problem. What should you do today? You should be as careful as possible. But you can't really change your personality. That's faking it. You won't be able to fake it forever. Krishna says, "Is Iran with a with nuclear weapons a threat to India?" That's always a possibility. Any nation in the neighborhood with nuclear weapons could be a threat. Which is why it will be best for us to have a world in which Iran doesn't have nuclear weapons. Mayang says in USA Hindus are rich class why don't they use their wealth to counter anti-India anti-Hindu sentiments by using their wealth because Hindus by nature are not a political politically oriented people Hindus don't unite the way the Abrahamics unite Hindus are very different from each other I mean you take 10 Hindus they'll be as different from each other as as as you know any other people in the world um so it's never been the nature of Hindus to unite politically and Hindus have so many differences different they have different kinds of cuisines they have different kinds of lifestyles they have different kinds of languages they have different approaches and attitudes to life and so on so forth so the Hindus are very different it's a very diverse country we live in that's why it's so hard for Hindus to unite and that's why Hindus don't unite outside of India inferno JS says Trump versus Biden who is the lesser of two evils for India looks like Biden was the lesser of the two evils doesn't It look like that today. It does. Uh Putin's ideology says cancer. Is he a communist? Does Russia Russia love Lenin? Putin is not a communist. Putin is a nationalist. I don't think he's a big fan of Lenin. Uh but he loves Russia and he's a big nationalist. Um, Sergeant Skylin says, "Lol, did Purfam not meet with Rama regarding the same gods not being able to meet with each other?" Yeah, I am not aware of that's this is not my cup of tea. Who did meet whom and all? Um, was Perfuram an incarnation of Lord Vishnu? Apparently, did he meet Rama? Okay. Well, this is for you guys to discuss, okay? This is not for me. I'm not taking these questions. Valika says, "Vadika, what a nice name. If they would have shown a Hindu god in the Thor movie, Indians would have gone crazy and some controversy would have happened." Well, that's also true. Indians love controversies. Indian love Indians love to to be upset about things. Indians love to Yeah, I'm sure Indians would have protested that you do not show or god right. You are right about that. Proud Udia says, "Can Balo get free now? US wants its resources." We'll see. We'll see. I've seen you somewhere. Um, if the US wants Baloi resources, Balojasthan will not be free for the next 1,00 years. So, Sony says, "Suppose you want us to give, suppose you want to give us five habits for raising our standards long-term. What will it be?" Um, physical fitness. You need to have a physical fitness routine. Lifting weights, not just walking and running. Okay. Walking is great. Walk a thousand 10,000 steps a day like they say. But you need to lift weights like three, four times a week at least and get get strong. That's one. Eat good food. Don't eat food that was that did not exist a thousand years ago. I'm I'm saying but even I do that. But okay. Um so good diet. What else? Pranayam and yoga is great. So that's number three. Um read read and think. Don't read what's in your curriculum. the curriculum books will will rot your brain. Read books beyond that. I know it's tedious. It's time consuming. It's it hurts your mind to read. But read, please read. And fifth, I would say u make money. Find ways of making money. Making money is good. It's not bad. It's not evil. Indians hate somebody making money. But I would say go and make money and get rich. Get as rich as possible and use it for for something good for society. So that's perhaps five things you could do. Jurgen says why the US and Israel allowed Pakistan to have nuclear weapons. They didn't they know that Pakistan is an unreliable asset against India. Pakistan is bad for India. That's why they allowed this to happen. The Israelis had this plan. They had this plan with India of destroying the Pakistani nuclear reactor sometime in the 1980s. But the last moment the Israelis pulled out of it. And I now believe that the Pakistanis actually have US nuclear bombs. I don't think the Pakistanis have the IQ to develop nuclear warheads of their own. Okay, you can see what they've done with other technologies. They don't have the brains to do it. I think the Americans gave Pakistan American nuclear warheads. I think that's what the the Pakistanis have. Uh Ashish Shakespe says, "What would happen to the world if Abraham Lincoln were alive today? How might the world be different? Many consider him to be the one of the greatest presidents." Please understand one thing. Abraham Lincoln was not some kind of saint. Read his life history and read some of the nasty things he did. How many Native Americans did he string up because they were they were brown and so on. But he was good for the US. You know the the the American South seceded from the union. Do you know that the American South seceded democratically from the union of the United States? They opted to partition the country and create a separate country and they did this democratically and Abraham Lincoln acted undemocratically by invading the south and starting the civil war. Please don't just absorb whatever you are to taught without thinking. And now people will say that I'm trying to revise history. Everybody loves somebody who just conforms with all the accepted so-called knowledge and wisdom. I am not one of those people. You have to look at the world critically. What does it mean to to look at the world critically? It means that you have to question everything. Only then can you actually find truth in the world. Otherwise, you will only absorb lies. Abraham Lincoln did nasty things also. But of course, without him, the US would not exist in the shape and format that it does today. That's why they consider him to be the one of the greatest presidents but he was not a saint and so on. So what would happen if the if he was alive today? Maybe the US will act exactly the way it's acting right now. Arismanticor says some US experts claim Christianity is spreading silently in Iran. Experts which experts isn't it? Atheism is there any basis for this? What should Iran do to avoid South Korea's fate? Iran should go back to Zoroastrianism. you know, Iran should ensure that it doesn't become a US vasal. Otherwise, it will end up in the same way that South Korea is ending up right now. Um, I don't know about this Christianity thing. I I'm aware that of the claims that there is atheism that's spreading in Iran. Many Iranians want to go back to the roots, but they don't know how to. So, maybe India can help with that perhaps or not. We'll see. Uh, but I am not aware of what the real truth is inside Iran. Abishek says, "Was Nehu's power transfer a smart move knowing that India was weak and the West had nukes? Had Moses's path worked? Could India have been a target?" So you're saying that, you know, keeping your head down and remaining weak is a smart move. Which west had nukes? Only the US had nukes? Only the US had nukes right at that point in time. And if Moses' path would have worked, then India would have been a powerful country in a few years. Of course, that would possibly have made India a target. But if India if India then played its game well, if if India played its card right, then India could have been multi-aligned instead of becoming a US Vasal or or a US vasal. So transferring power to a person who is going to take your country down the road of weakness is never a smart move. Never. Okay, I don't know how to read this name. Uh, in my opinion, this thing between Iran and Israel was long expected. How do you think we should move in this game? Um, kudos to the PRC as the US will use their great ally and self-service perceived slave as a ground staging ground against Iran. What's the question? How do you think we should move in this game? India should stay out of this game. This doesn't concern India. Of course, if is if Iran gets destroyed, it does concern India. But India is in no position to get involved in this matter. So it's very simple. What should India's position be in this? India should urge both sides to go to the negotiating table and stop fighting. This is not a time for war. This is this is what we should tell Iran and Israel. But we are in no position to get involved in this matter. So we should stay out of it and we should urge peace. We should urge restraint. That's what our position position should be. Hardik says what mistakes is India making economically, politically and culturally right now despite the the economic rise. Culturally what we the mistake we making look economically, politically, culturally I can't answer the same time. I'll take the cultural question. What India should do is reform the education system so that the quality of the Indian population rises. The mental quality, the the critical thinking ability, all of that. Right now, our population is a bunch of sheep who don't think but who think they know everything. We need to reform the education system and we need to bring our culture back in the forefront in in the thick of things. Right now, we are a secular nation, right? It's a disaster for India. It's killing our culture. The education system needs to be reformed so that we teach our culture to our children, our children. We need to stop emphasizing foreign languages. We should have our education only in our mother tongue. We should make Sanskrit the national language of India, the civilizational language of India. The primary the the main language of education should be Sanskrit and the mother tongue should also be taught and English should not be taught otherwise you'll end up like me who who a person who can speak better in a foreign language than in our own languages. So that's one thing we should do and there's so much more that needs to happen. Uh culturally we need to become you know we need to decolonize and that's a whole big thing I can't answer in in two three minutes or five minutes but yeah start with the education system it needs to be reformed and nothing is being done right now which is very disappointing. Shiva Rajput says why doesn't India use strong narrative warfare like Israel especially when Pakistan openly burns frags of India US and Israel threaten our security etc etc all that yeah we can certainly use more strong narrative warfare like isra struck at at Iran and then put out proper well-crafted well narrated uh perspective on Twitter and social media all that we tend to like these big conference rooms with where and there was also quite effective our our generals and and uh you know military leaders putting out the thing but it makes sense to go on a on social media and do a social media PR blitz that's something we can learn from Israel for sure so I agree with you sir anonymous says I'm doing well sir thank you I hope you're doing well also should we patent our inventions or not since there's a chance they could be copied best way to preserve inventions well I haven't invented anything as such I am a theoretician not a practical guy so I don't know but you It makes sense to patent your inventions. Otherwise, people will copy them. You know, the world is full of plagiarists and if you make something good, the chances are 100% that the moment somebody sees it, they'll copy it. So, the best thing is to patent all your inventions and if somebody still copies it, take them to court. That's it. Nikl says, "Your thoughts if is the recent German defense budget push is it more aimed towards securing its own position in Europe than to fight with an external enemy?" I think there's an element of both. So, Germany has historically been the engine that drives the European economy and has historically been the major European military power. Now after 1945 things went very sideways for Germany and it became occupied by the US and it's still being kind of in the center of things economically and militarily for NATO and the EU. So this defense budget push could be aimed at kind of towards restoring its old position as the Reich that was at the center of Europe. Yes. And u also if you have the spectre of an external enemy then you it helps you bolster your case for a budgetary hike. And as it's actually Trump who is pushing pushing for a budgetary hike military budget hike for the European nations. No more freebies for you guys. Your budgets were used to be in in used to be less than 2% of your GDP. Now it has to be 5% of your GDP. So maybe the whole of Europe is going in that direction now. But yeah, there there could be some element of what you're saying over here. Okay, I'm going to end this in a few minutes now. So, please stop asking more super chat questions. Please stop it. Okay, I'm going to take whatever is there and nothing more. So, it's ending soon. US has been harping about China doing aggro terrorism. Was there any instance of a measured aggro terrorism terrorism being done on India by Pakistan and its impact? I am not aware of any agot terrorism as far as I know done by Pakistan on India. That's an interesting question because because it's something that can certainly be attempted by Pakistan but I have not researched this and I'm not aware of any such instances. If there are such instances and somebody knows about it, please put it in the comments below. Shubam says, why is it that India is often criticized for his actions while Israel taking even bolder steps faces little or no backlash? Isn't this clear double standards? Indians love to complain complain about double standards. The world is filled with hypocrisy in double standards. Of course, you are right. Of course, it's clear double standards. And that is exactly the way the way the world works through double standards. Rules for you but not for me. That's how it works. So why is Israel never criticized? Because it is it is the primary number one ally of the US. And it is run by white folks. It has a majority brown population, but it is run by white folks, Israel. And we are a nation of brownskinned people. So we get criticized and they don't double standards, but that's the way the world works. Vive says, "Are there more lost cities like Dwara?" Thoughts? Thoughts? I can give you facts. Kavari Pumatnam on the east coast of India near Pondicherry at a at a depth of about 100 meters below the ocean they have discovered the city it is most likely the ancient Kavari Pumatam of the Sangam era and there's many more like these on the east coast on the west coast there's a whole gulf of Kamat archaeological complex a network of sunken cities at a depth below the sea level such that the cities were last above sea level at least 10 12,000 years before today and the cities are laid out in a grid structure like Manhattan goosebumps yes uh Vamshi Kalam says we are not a major power hypocrite though we are not a major power yet so that's why we are not a hypocrite nation see we are not a major power there are only three major powers the US China and Russia we are not comparable to these three nations right now and that's why we are not in a position to be hypocritical. Hypocr being see the ability to be a hypocrite is a privilege that comes with power. We still don't have that much power. We are we are a rising power for sure. We're the fourth most powerful nation but we are like China is about three times three and a half times more powerful than us right now. So okay B Mandav says we say that all knowledge was stolen from India and westerners use that knowledge to advance them. Why can't we use the knowledge now to advance ourselves or this is a lie? See we should use all this knowledge to advance ourselves. All the knowledge of the world is available essentially for free online. Right? So why can't we reacquire all the knowledge and use it to advance ourselves? because that takes hard work and for that you need a good system and so on. So it is not the fault of the Indian citizens, it's the fault of the Indian government if things are not going well and if we are still lagging behind in certain sectors. So yeah that's what I can say. It's not a lie. It's not a lie at all. All the knowledge was stolen from us. It has been digested and now they are teaching the same knowledge to us. There is something called pranayam. You know what the west calls it? They call it either cardiac coherence breathing or box breathing. and they put it on Twitter and and X and social media as if it's something they have invented. So they have stolen the knowledge, they've digested it and now they're repackaging it and rebranding it in different ways and they're presenting it as their own invention. So that is not a lie. It's absolutely true. The point is if we want to stay ahead of everybody, we have to create more knowledge. For that we need a good education system which is not there. So it's all the fault of the government of India. Abininov says sorry no Brashan Kumar says Indians are naive and soft so they become easy target being naive makes you the best target in the world Indians are super naive what the way the world works full support sir full support so easy to fool you if you have that attitude full support for whoever so yeah that's why it's so easy to target Indians uh aismantic horses Europe is being slowly consumed by illegal migrants. It if it reaches an extreme will the Christians do another crusade or which trials will the Vatican relocate and this should be the neo neo Euro tribe war. I think the Vatican will relocate to India. They are trying their best to completely convert India. Right? There are industrial scale mass conversions happening in Punjab in various other parts of India. The government is is acting like like what's her name? Gandhari. I selectively blind. Right? So the Vatican I think they they they are losing Europe. The Europeans have are done with Christianity. So the Vatican wants to relocate to India. Maybe by 2100 the Vatican church will be based somewhere in India and our descendants will be doing all that whatever that is. Vic post says is Mossad and CIA better than RAW from outside? How do I know sir? How do I know? I am not a member of either of these organizations. So I don't know how they work. And if I was in one of these three organizations, then I would have intelligence about the other two. But I am not. So I I cannot answer the question. Okay? I know that you would love me to say or or raw is better than there are all these Indian YouTubers who do that. I am not one of those. My answer is very simple. I don't know. Okay. Lak Lakshi Akil says, "I am fond of Arabian civilizations, especially Petra, the world wonder, and Hegra built by Bedwin, Nabbachian Arabs, early Arabic speakers and ancestors of northern Saudis and Jordanians. Do you know that these were polytheistic cultures that built all this? Do you know that? You know that?" Yeah. They have wonderful architecture. Petra is beautiful. Of course, they say don't be there at night because apparently stuff happens and so on. The Arabs had wonderful culture. Even now, many of the Arabs have wonderful culture and so on. You have to be open-minded. I think there are lots of wonderfully nice Arabs in the world. Okay. And I think India and Arab and the Arabic countries are building a very good set of relationships. So and so on. So yeah, you're right. Petra is wonderful. Hegra, I'm not sure but okay, I'll check it out. Okay, Vidi says, "What is Israel trying to signal to India by mis showing India's map? India, Israel is telling India that you know what you guys don't vote for us in the United Nations sometimes. Sometimes you vote against us, so we will do this stuff to you. You are naughty, we will also be naughty." Uh VS says, "Please explain why the F-35 aircraft is a useless piece of crap. Also, do you know any books to understand US deep state or MIC? Read the devil's chessboard. Okay, read that. The devil's chessboard by by forget the name. That's one book you can read which is very interesting. It's about the threeletter agencies of the US. Why is the F35 aircraft a useless piece of crap? They spent so much money to make it. It was delayed over and over and over again. it it off over overshot all of its um constraints, all of the budgets or and they still could not make it work and it is it is o overly large. It doesn't have a good radar cross-section apparently and it crashes all too often and so on. So overall, it's not a good it's not a good plane. The F22 Raptor is probably the best plane in the world. The real high quality plane they have is the F-22 Raptor. The F95 is crap. The F-22 is is a piece of art. It's a work of art and they don't export it to anybody no matter how much you're willing to pay. The F-22 is the real deal, not the F35 garbage. Uh Dwanch says on the your views on the death of Robert Clive amassed great riches through corruption, became the world's richest guy. Then his slit his thought, mother of suicide, a man who conquered a lot of India. How did he do that? Can he do that? I haven't studied Robert Clive's history, life history. The the past 1,000 years of Indian history. I haven't studied it in great depth because it is a history of misery and foreign occupation and I have never been interested in individuals like Robert Cly. I have rather preferred to study world history. So yeah, see recent recent Indian history is not my forte. The history of the Indian freedom struggle and the history of Mr. Gandhi and Mr. Ambedkar and Mr. Nu and the details of their lives and Clive and all not not my thing. Sorry. Uh what's the process of denuclearizing a country? First we do regime change. You install a regime that is a puppet of yours and then you get the nukes. That's the the process of denuclearizing a country. Or just Singh Kashapa says, "Has there ever been a real proper gene study that studies that proves the RN invasion migration story and is R1 A1A not found in South India?" The Aran invasion migration theory has nothing to do with genetics. My dear friends, let me tell you why. What is the central claim of the Arian invasion migration theory? It has two central claims. First, Sanskrit is foreign to India. Second, Hinduism is foreign to India. Okay, Sanskrit and Hinduism are foreign to India. These are the central claims of the RN invasion theory. How can you prove or disprove that with genetics? If you take my DNA, can it tell you what language I spo speak? What my mother tongue is? Can it tell you what my religion is? It can't. If let's say I I become mad tomorrow and I convert to a foreign Abrahamic religion for example will my DNA change because I converted or let's say from tomorrow I decide to speak a Russian only will my DNA change because of that DNA has nothing to do with the central claims of the Arian invasion migration myth so no matter how much DNA research you do it's not going to change anything right and is R1 A1A not found in South India they find there is plenty of R1 A1A in South India even in the far east of India all across India it's all over the place okay right Pashankumar says top economist says M would weaken in is it if it rises what's University of Mexico what's M I'm not sure I'm sorry I'm sure you're trying to put some flags there but I am not able to see them here sorry millin says many Boeing jets failed still. Why do airlines buy it? I think they used to buy Boeing jets back in the day and all those orders are still coming in and the performance issues and the recent issues of Boeing are are a rather new thing just in the past few years because the standards have declined. Uh Rahul Ladu says your thoughts on madam president issuing inquiry on XCG. I have no idea and I don't talk about internal politics internal politics. So not my cup of tea. Tjis says, "I hope you're well, Tjis. I I heard about you had some health issues. I hope you're doing well, sir. Do well. Can AI lead to extinction of humanity?" Well, if you if you give AI agency and if that AI is is super intelligent or even AGI, then it can lead to the extinction of humanity. If AI decides that we are a nuisance and a burden to the planet and we give it agency, which means the tools to make real world changes in the world, then yeah, it can lead to the extinction of humanity. So if you give AI access to real world systems like weapons systems, like decision-m systems, like big red buttons and all that, yeah, it can certainly lead to the extinction of humanity. Dir says, "What should India do to stop Trump's parks, Trump's Pakistan assistance? Can we still break it apart despite his business interests there?" What should India do to stop Trump's Pakistan assistance? Nothing. We cannot do anything. He is hellbent on on investing in Pakistan. He has about $65 trillion to extract from there which includes cryptocurrency investments which includes rare earth minerals and oil and gas and whatnot. So he is investing his own money into Pakistan and once he has decided to do that what can we do about it? So one thing that can dissuade Trump from investing in Pakistan if if is is if Pakistan becomes super unstable. I'm not suggesting anything here. I'm just saying. Okay. Uh Dra, sorry. Danch says, "Always wanted to know your thoughts about Jim Corbett. He was a poacher. He killed tigers. Reading him out. He looks like a naturalist, but history is often distorted. Also, do you like going to safaris?" I have never had time to go to safaris. Sorry. I would love to. I would love to see lions and tigers, but I'm always busy doing some work. Jim Corbett was a poacher. He used to kill tigers. Evil guy. United Alliances India can use IVF method to stab stabilize TFR ratio or we can do it the good old fashioned way. Okay. Uh Nikl says recent large increase in German budget. Do you think the reason behind this is to secure Germany's position in Europe after America shifts its focus? America is likely to shift its focus to the Indo Pacific. Yes. And therefore if that happens and America says gets gets tired of Europe then the Americans want to leave Europe in a big shambles they don't want Europe to ever rise again because when they think of the rise of Europe they they mentally see those marching jacks and the Hugo boss uniforms of the of the third Reich right so they don't want this to happen so they want Europe to be in a complete state of disrepair and shambles when they leave which is why they are pushing in millions and trillions and gazillions of im of certain kinds of immigrants into into into Europe. That's what the Americans their their end game is, their their exit strategy is. Uh but yes, Germany wants to increase its budget. So maybe they're thinking that thinking could be that if America kind of takes its focus away from Europe, then maybe we could have the next big Reich and we could be the next big power in Europe once again. Maybe maybe it's a possibility. Uh Kuro says can or should India create a branch military branch like USMC Marine Corps for rapid response inv or invasion? To my knowledge India only has three naval infantry battalions that may be outdated. Chinese by the way has seven brigades. I could not agree with you more sir. India should have a marine corps. India should have expeditionary capabilities. India should have amphibious landing vessels. India should have these things. India lacks these things. We have the Marcos which are marine commandos but they're not a Marine Corps. We should have a Marine Corps. You are completely right. And yeah, I'm I'm glad you brought this up over here today. India should have expeditionary capabilities. Mistal class ships or whatever. We can buy them from the French if if required and so on. Amphi amphibious landing ships which in which big ships in which you can you know have amphibious tanks and whatnot. All kinds of things you can bring in for a landing operation. Let's say tomorrow morning we decide that we will land in Karachi with uh 10,000 troops and 500 tanks. I'm just giving up throwing out draft numbers. So after suppressing the local air defenses and other defenses. Yeah. So yeah, we should have these capabilities, amphibious capabilities, marine expeditionary capabilities. You raise a very good point. I agree. We should have it. MK says, "Despite having the largest empire in global resources, why was Britain shaken and on the defensive against Germany in World War II?" Germany was hit hard in World War I. Germany was hit hard in World World War I. German Germany was humiliated in the treaty of Vai but Germany Germany was not destroyed. So there was an inter war period between 1918 approximately to 1939 the 20 21 years in which Germany rebuilt. The rebuilding started with the coming to power of the painter and he transformed the German economy and all that. And uh what happened is that Germany had a tremendous education system focused on science and technology. And that's why they were able to leverage that, weaponize that and and create this gigantic high-tech military machine, the best technology of its time. And they just turned out turnurned out airplanes and metas smmiths and fauky wolfes and and and henkels and shookas and the tiger tanks and whatnot and ubots unasi boots in so many large numbers. So that's why Britain was shaken and on the defensive. They had never expected Germany to put up this all of this. You know that's what happened. Um, Purusham says, "What's what was the point of attacking Russia's bombers?" Well, to decimate their air fleet, their their strategic bombing capabilities. It's it's a worthy aim for an if you're an adversary of Russia. I mean, if you if you can take out 30% of the strategic bomb fleet, I mean, this is a huge huge achievement. It makes Russia look weak in front of the world. It undermines the morale of the country. It shakes the confidence of the leadership in the military. Come on. What's the point? Are you kidding me? Anul says, "How to develop iron will? By putting yourself regularly in difficult positions and doing things that are uncomfortable for you and still doing it. You do it over and over again, then you'll develop an iron will." Nanda Kishar says, "How much does it cost for a private dinner for you? I am not available on rent, sir. It costs way too much. It costs I'm not available like that for a private dinner. Uh sorry Vun says Jind from Adogra from Jammu Jen sir do you think making Jammu province a separate state and making Kashmir province a permanent union territory can be good. I think it is the right way forward. It is the only correct way forward. Make Jammu province a separate state and make the valley of Kashmir this little thing a permanent union territory. That is the right way forward. Ladak can be a separate union territory. It already is. But why merge Jammu with the Kashmir Kashmir valley with Kashmir province? Make Kashmir a separate permanent union territory and make Jammu a separate state. That is the right way forward. I completely agree with you sir. Okay. Aditkumar says what's your thoughts on 500,000 Chinese students coming to the US this year is announced by Trump. Did he bend the knee to Xi? We'll see. It's an ongoing situation. Trump is the master of the art of the deal. He's the big biggest, baddest, greatest negotiator in the world. It's all transaction, transaction, transaction for him. So, we don't know what it means thus far. We'll look into it and we'll see what it really means. Will he actually allow half a million Chinese students into the US? I I doubt it. We'll see about that. Trump won't bend the knee to she. He's got too big of an ego for that to happen. So, we'll see. Okay, ladies, gentlemen, friends, all of you. This is the end of today's live stream. It went way past what we expected one and a half hours plus. Uh so I will end it over here. Uh thank you everybody for all the questions. I really enjoyed this. It was good fun. I think I'm glad I switched the the the super chats back on again. I think it was better. Okay. So I will have another live stream tomorrow. Tomorrow Saturday I think it is. It is. We're going to have a proper live stream tomorrow. Long one. Uh and I'll take your questions again over there. So, I look forward to having you on that live stream. I look forward to taking your questions, answering them. And as always, keep asking questions, keep learning, keep thinking, keep questioning, and keep raising your qu your your standards. I'll see you very soon. Thank you. Bye-bye.