Heat. Heat. Good evening and good day everyone and welcome back to the Ask Abijit show. We are doing episode uh 3:40 today and obviously we are discussing the events that are ongoing in the Iran conflict, the West Asia conflict, the Iran conflict and unfortunately the situation is escalating. it significantly escalating and I'll take uh as many of your questions about this matter as possible and and other questions as well other topics if that is what you want uh so we shall do that but before we start the proceedings let us see who all is there on the live chat tonight this fine day this fine evening Buddha goes nuclear uh Chit Sharma Chandra Gupta Chandra Gupta once again Bhavia Bhavya Singh Chib Anoop Mochi X Gaming Adita Acharia Ritik Pawar S KR Rohan Biri says happy guri parva happy guri parva to all of you thank you very much Rajesh Babu is here from Kerala good to see you sir good to see you pascar bandit Pyth good to see you as well geopolitical dub is here from Indor always good to see you sir singh um Shishti Siliguri good to see you Rahul Dunak hello good to see you sir Sam Bramanik Putin is also here. Uh Umar Maheshwari Namaste G. Uh Sherlock Sherlock Adit Ashwini Sherlock once again. KYU IPK1s right angle. Uh Muffet Abishekla live. Cintillating kids good to see you. Soldier boy Akit Sharma Ashbini Omar Nigkar. Hello Omar Nigar. Pranjal Mna Kotari good evening. Ankit Bazad. Okay. Shiv Kapoor good evening. The Patak Arpit good evening. Uh GK GK87. Are you Singh Pranam Sarji Mlevin good to see you. Mlevin says who wants to go on a Dubai trip? Well I'm not sure it's very advisable right now. Okay. Da Paw Priyud Om Pranjal Prair Putin good to see you. Jashir Ram G Vince like swing AG okay random skull good evening Jri Krishna Nishan B good evening Himmanurajit uh DI Shrian Vijay Vagila good morning good morning to you Donald twink okay uh Nepu nipuran saran okay tanesh pandes parush sparush xab Good evening ma'am. Priyanchu Puli Hola and so many other people. Shria Smithra is here from Moscow. Good evening to you. I suppose it'll be evening soon in Moscow. Uh Karan Singh Pund, happy Navaratri. Happy. Yes. Happy Navatri. Okay. Uh and everyone else. Okay. So good to see you all. Thank you so much for being on this live stream. Sam Winston, Dr. Strange, uh Gree Sahil, Tanmay Singh, Swastik Kohi, Anurag Singh, Satyendra, uh and everybody else. Okay. So let's get going with some questions. Okay. What are the questions that we have thus far? Let's see. Right angle says 5 MWGCMR for Indian army energy independent your view. I'm not aware of this weapon. 5 megab JGC MMR. What is a 5 megawatt GCMR? Let me try and find out what that is. Um okay. Um five megawatt mega watt G C MR R what is that? Um okay gas cooled micro modular reactor. Okay. As part of and so on planning for 5 megawatt hour gas cool reactors of offer advanced flexible decentralized clean power. Um what's my view about this? I I would say it's great. Yeah. For Indian army. Okay. Okay. So, I haven't really looked into into the details and specifications of this uh of this micro modular reactor, but I think uh any kind of technological progress and advancement is good news. So, I welcome it very much. Putin says patriots like you and Singh talked about US influence in northeast. Okay. I'm not aware of vehab Singh but if Singh has spoken about this I I commend that. Thank you Singh for speaking about this. uh about the US influence in the Indian Far East, the northeast and we have been proven to be 100% correct after the recent NIA arrest. My respect and trust in you is now 10fold. Well, thank you so much sir. So what is um Mr. Putin etc talking about? That's the question right. Um what do we have? So here uh give me a second. Okay let's put this on the screen. Right. this this piece of news that's recently uh emerged uh where is this this one here? Okay. So this is from India which is a news agency Delhi and this is from the 16th of March. Today is the 19th of March. This is 3 days ago. So what happened? What happened is that the National Investigation Agency of India arrested seven foreign nationals, six Ukrainians and one American for allegedly providing terrorist training in Myanmar. They received 11-day custody for illegal entry weapons and drone training and importing drones from Europe. Now I have been so when we are talking about terrorist training in Myanmar. If you are familiar with the map of India you will know that Myanmar is right next to Manipur. And you will also hopefully know that Manipur is now right now a disaster zone. A disaster began in Manipur in May 2023. Okay. terrorism, cookie terrorism, large scale, widespread cookie terrorism, targeting the indigenous people of Manipur, the mates and the Nagas. And now it looks like everything is fine. The media is not talking about it. It's not ended. These people have taken over more than half of Manipur and they are terrorizing the locals. And over the past three three or so years, they have launched all kinds of horrific attacks on the innocent unarmed indigenous people. Yeah. Including drone attacks. Drone attacks. Yeah. Now, what kind of terrorist training was this individual with this individual? So, first of all, who was arrested? Uh, seven foreign nationals. Once again, let's go to the screen. Seven foreign nationals were arrested. six six Ukrainians and one American. So these Ukrainians were part of the well you could say they were Ukrainian armed forces personnel. Now the question you could ask yourself is yourselves is this Ukraine like they say Slava, Okarini etc. they are fighting a war for survival against Russia, right? and they are roping in civilians to serve in the armed forces including 50y old 60 year old men and even pregnant women have been dragged into the war to to put on the uniform and fight against the Russians right so when you have highquality Ukrainian armed forces personnel in in India why are they in India aren't they supposed to be fighting for their homeland but no they are in India They're crossing over into Myanmar and training terrorists, cookie terrorists. So what does that tell you first of all about the Ukrainian angle? It tells you that Zalinski has subordinated his nation and his people to the interests and the whims and fancies and geopolitical games of his masters, the United States and whoever else it may be. Okay. So here we are. So that's what's happened. Ukraine is no longer an independent sovereign entity. It never was. It serves the interests of the United States. Zalinsky doesn't care what happens to his people or to his nation. He's pressing middle-aged men and pregnant women into the war. But he has highquality trained mercenaries who are creating trouble in India, in Myanmar. H that's what's happening. That's the number one. Secondly, there's this American guy who has been arrested. Now, who is this fantastic American person who's been arrested? It's Matthew Wandik, a private mercenary. Okay. This this individual, he fought in Libya to overthrow through overthrow the the government of Muhammad Gaddafi in 2011. We know how that ended for for Libya. Disaster for Libya. He's also been involved in other war zones in Venezuela, in in Iraq, in whatever else. Okay, so this is the guy. Now see Libyan revolution. So he was part of that conflict. He created all the trouble in Libya. I mean he was he was part of that that entire thing. Now what else do we have? He is the founder or co-founder or whatever of SI International. This Matthew Van Djk person Matthew Aaron Van Djk Sons of Liberty International. And this is a tweet from Sons of Liberty International from 20 from 2019. Christian persecution they claim is set to rise sharply in 2019. Okay. And obviously they will claim there's Christian persecution persecution in India as well. That's what the US government has been doing for a long time. And they use this as the pretext for to create trouble in India. Okay. And uh yeah so that is something that happened. What else do we have? We had a statement by the government of Ukraine. Let me uh try and dig that out. Where is this statement by the government of Ukraine? Um, give me a second. I will pull that out and let's put out the statement by the Ukrainian government. A press release they have put out. Give me a second. Okay. Ukrainian press release. Okay. This one here. This one. Press release by the embassy of Ukraine to the Republic of India. Um, taking into account publicly available information in the case concerning the detention of six citizens of Ukraine, including media reports, blah blah blah blah blah, the embassy of Ukraine in India expresses serious concern regarding the presence of circumstances that point to a possible orchestrated and politically motivated nature of this case and so on. So they are claiming that our guys are innocent and you people are doing this for because of political motivations. Okay, their guys are terrorists and mercenaries and they're they're arming and training cookie terrorists in Myanmar with the objective of destabilizing Myanmar as well as India. And this is the kind of press release they've put out and this is from a few hours ago today. Now after this entire matter happened, the fantastic ambassador of the US Sergio Gore he tweeted this yesterday just wrapped up an extremely fruitful meeting with national security adviser Ajit Dwal covered critical security and geopolitical issues strategic cooperation between the US and India continues to advance. So he met with India's national security adviser Mr. Dwal Mr. Ajit Dwal very interesting generally this guy any an ambassador of the US typically meets with Indian not typically doesn't typically doesn't meet the the national security adviser of India that yeah something has happened yeah clearly we know what happened an American terrorist enabler has been caught in India so I have been saying this for the longest time I have been saying this since 2023 when there were no Manipur experts now everybody is a Manipur expert right every YouTuber every journalist everybody Everybody is a Manipur expert. In 2023 there were no Manipur experts. At that time I had said this what's happening in Manipur is not a local law and order problem. It is not some ethnic clash between Manipuri tribes. This is a geopolitical issue and the objective is to destabilize India. The objective all of this is part of project K cookie land for Christ. I have been saying this since 2023. Now you can see and a lot of people said that you are imagining things this is just some tribal clash and all that nonsense where are those people today everything I've said is now slowly coming out in the open right uh so what is the deal in Manipur and what is the deal with Myanmar across Manipur across the border of Manipur to the east shall we pull out the map because we do that where's the map okay let me put the map on the screen um In case some of you are not aware of the geography, it's possible. So we're talking about India's far east also called India's northeast which is a misnomer but whatever. So here you have the state of Manipur which is a disaster zone absolute disaster zone. East of Manipur we have this large nation called Burma. Myanmar and in the north of Myanmar you have this territory large territory that is essentially not no longer administered by the government of Burma. It is the wild west you could say right there are there's a civil war going on in Burma between various armed ethnic groups Christian insurgent and terrorist groups fighting against the government of Burma and also fighting against India. And if you go to the east of Manipur and Nagaland and Misoram, you have this big territory where you have the cookie people. Cookies. The cookies aren't Burmese by the way. The cookies don't speak the Burmese language. They don't practice Burmese culture. They don't even respect Burmese culture. They're fighting against Burma. They're fighting against India. They are fighting against Bangladesh also, right? and they want to create an artificial Christian nation a sort of Christian Pakistan to cut off India's access to the far east to to East Asia to East Asia and that is completely in line with American objectives and the Americans also want to destabilize China if it can be done so this cookie terrorism and project K and cook for Christ it is a meth a method of killing two stones with two birds with one stone China as well as India mostly India the Americans now have this containment policy towards India to contain India not allow India to grow and rise create you know create all kinds of troubles trouble on various part in various parts of India and outside of India borders border regions to to constantly keep India off balance and maybe balkcanize India maybe break off the far east of India from from the union of India yeah these plants have been around for a very have been around for a very long time and the past 70 80 years the whole region has been Christianized apart from some small parts of Manipur that is also now going the mates are also now many of them are converting to Christianity and the government of India is waiting and watching and they have some some there of their own geopolitical games multimodal project for that we will sell off Manipur essentially or let Manipur go to the dogs or the cookies rather that sort of thing so that's what's going on in Manipur it's a disaster zone and no single government is responsible for this disaster The root cause of the disaster is that there's the presence of lacks of foreigners on Manipuri territory. Cookies who are not Indian who have never been Indian. They are not even Burmese. They have come from east of Burma. They've come from China's the Chinese occupied Yunan region. That's where they are from. They're not even Burmese. But now they they're claiming that they're Indians. They claim they also claim that they're Jews. By the way, there is that angle also in this. They eat dogs. They eat pork. But they claim to be Jews. Yeah. So since 1949 when Manipur joined India became part of the union of India, the government of India has had this policy of settling cookies in Manipuri territory and Nizaram is very much involved in this whole matter and because of this this these these policies the the the current problem exists and even in the past 10 years it looks like lacks more cookies have come into Manipur and the government probably was snoozing sleeping So you can't blame any one government for the disaster but you cannot exempt the current government from the responsibility of from partial responsibility at least of this disaster and it's an ongoing disaster. Indian citizens are affected. Yeah. Lacks of Indian citizens are affected and looks like so now that this is this step has been taken the American terrorists have been arrested, the Ukrainian terrorists have been arrested. What? Why has this happened now? Maybe the government of India has now decided we will change our tactics, change our strategy. I don't know. Or maybe it's just a bargaining tool. The Americans of Nikil Gupta, so we will arrest one American guy and we'll swap one by one for one. Is that the simple game you're playing? Or has the government of India now decided to rescue Manipur? Time will tell. So that is the situation. Manipur disaster, ongoing disaster in Manipur. You have drones flying over you know towns and villages and dropping bombs on people. It's happening right now. You have large parts of Manipur where you have terrorists walking the streets with AK-47s, M15s and God knows what and there is no Indian government official anywhere in sight. It's like that it's no longer part of India. It's like cookand has actually become a de facto nation if not a djour nation. That is how badly the government of India has dropped the ball in Manipur. They may have their own geopolitical agenda to play. Some kind of god knows what little little agenda they have, but hopefully things change now. This is a good sign that the American and Ukrainian terrorists have been apprehended. And the the the chief minister of Misoram last year last year had stated that more than 2,000 American and UK personnel had passed into had crossed into Myanmar from Misoram from Misaram's territory. Now if you are a foreigner and you want to enter Misoram or Manipur, you need an innerline permit. Even if you are an Indian citizen who is not from Manipur or Misoram, you need something called an innerline permit, a document and definitely foreigners need that. So how did these foreigners reach the play this place come with drones military you know dual use or or military use drones and cross over into Myanmar? Is the government of India sleeping? You can't blame Nehu anymore for these things. Anyhow, that's the situation. I'll keep an eye on it on this. That's what I do. Yeah, I've been speaking about this very clearly since the beginning of the problem, May 23, when there were no Manipur experts. So, I'm going to keep an eye on this. Okay, I'll keep you guys keep you guys and girls, ladies and gentlemen, informed about what is actually truthfully happening. Not the not the BS propaganda and and and all the chat GPD analysis that you see from other other so-called experts. I'll tell you what's actually happening. Okay. Adcharia says how was North Korea able to get nuclear weapons? Did they make this on their own or did they get it from Russia and China? China or Russia. And how was the why was the US not able to stop them or chose not to stop them unlike Iran? Yeah. So look Iran. Yeah. Good comparison. North Korea versus Iran, right? It's an excellent and very pertinent comparison. North Korea versus Iran. Today, the situation is that Iran doesn't have nukes, so it's being pounded. It's obviously fighting back and it's doing a pretty damn good job of fighting back. But still, if it if Iran had even 10 nukes, the situation would be very different today. Maybe nobody would have tried starting a war against them, right? But they don't have nukes. uh their their supreme leader Mr. Kamei had issued a fatwa against nuclear weapons. He was a he was a moderate relatively speaking right and that's why Iran is in the situation that it is today. It's taken tremendous damage maybe trillions of dollars worth of damage Iran has taken. Yeah. So it's fighting back. It's really hitting hard at at its enemies but it's also in the process taking tremendous damage. But look at North Korea. It has nukes. It has the means to deliver the nukes to the relevant places. And that's why nobody dares touch them. Right? That's the difference. Now the question you're asking is a pertinent relevant question. How did North Korea acquire nuclear weapons? And why did the US not stop them? So the US probably was keeping an eye on North Korea but obviously it's very hard to penetrate North Korea and know what actually is up there up to right. Um and it is said that it is Pakistan that shared nuclear technology with North Korea. That is the that is the currently accepted version of events. the Pakistanis helped North Korea somehow the the AQ Khan uh gang or coty or whatever. So the mythology about Pakistan's nuclear program is that there was this rogue nuclear physicist whose name was Abdul Khad Khan. He was working somewhere in Europe maybe in the Netherlands or whatever and he somehow acquired blueprints of either centrifuges or whatever and he brought this blueprints back to Pakistan and that's how Pakistan got a nuclear program and they were able to acquire a new you know to to produce a nuclear weapon. That is BS. Okay. I am 99.9% certain that the Pakistani nuclear weapons are American weapons on loan. Pakistan is the custodian of those weapons but it has it doesn't have the the the the permission to use these weapons without American approval and it's the custodian which means most likely those weapons are in the hands of Americans who are on Pakistani territory that's most likely the case but the mythology if you extend it is that Pakistan gave North Korea uh nuclear technology and the knowhow and the means to make nuclear weapons so what really truthfully happened I don't know for sure Maybe the Chinese helped North Korea. Maybe the Russians helped North North Korea. Maybe the the North Koreans with a little bit of inputs from China and Russia were able to eventually make their own nuclear weapon. There was some Russian help you know non military uh nuclear knowhow something was uh provided by Russia to North Korea. So what actually happened? It's kind of murky. most likely with Chinese and Russian help, Chinese and SL or Russian help and with local expertise that North Koreans were able to produce nuclear weapons and they tested nuclear weapons uh I don't know maybe 10 20 years ago for for the first time when was the first test I don't remember maybe 15 years ago or so you can look it up exactly when it was and the initial maybe one or two of the initial tests may not have been completely successful maybe there were some fizzles or whatever but eventually by testing more times they were able to make sure the design worked properly and then they were able to, you know, develop ICBMs, intercontinental range ballistic missiles that can deliver the the the package wherever they want to the relevant nations of North Korea's interest, which obviously means the United States. Yeah. Continental United States. So why were the US not able to stop them? Well, the US were in no position to start the Korean War all over again. Okay. The Korean War ended in a stalemate. uh it ended without actual an actual ceasefire or armistice. So technically the Korean war is still on and the US was not in a position to even if the North Koreans were on the brink of on the verge of of acquiring nuclear weapons and maybe hypothetically let's say the Americans knew about it they were not in a position to invade and stop the North Koreans because the North Koreans have Chinese support and Chinese assistance. The Chinese would never have allowed this to happen. Right? So that's essentially what happened. That's how the North Koreans acquired nuclear weapons. Exactly how it happened is kind of murky. I don't believe the mythology that Pakistan transferred technology to North Korea. Uh the truth is uh probably something else. But that's overall how it went. Riddik Paw says they took out the second most important person after Kami Ali Larijani. Now most of the wise leadership is gone. How can Iran feel this leadership vacuum? Right? They have uh killed assassinated Mr. Kame. They have now assassinated Mr. Larijani who was the second most important or second most powerful person in Iran. Right? And they have assassinated a lot of the top leadership of um of Iran. Um so you could say that most of the wise leadership the older leadership is gone and Mr. Kame he kind of welcomed the the the the death the martyrdom he did not he chose not to hide he was in his house when it was destroyed by American or Israeli strikes right and apparently Mr. Lari Jani also did the same. He did he chose not to hide. He was at his daughter's house or whatever which is a probably a well-known place right it's not a secret place and that's where he was also killed apart along with some other family members I suppose. So it looks like the older leadership the wiser leadership okay looks like they have chosen to embrace death martyrdom whatever you want to call it. Iran is a Shia Islamic nation. This is the culture of martyrdom. They embrace martyrdom and martyrdom gives them more power, more more energy. It gives them it gives the people of Iran, those who believe in Shia Islam, the determination to fight back even harder and with more with more vigor, with more determination, I suppose, right? Uh so you could say that most of the older, wiser leadership is gone. How can Iran fill this leadership vacuum? Well, Iran is a nation of how many million people? 90 million. Uh let me say the population of Iran. So there's no der of people right let me see population of Iran what is it 90 93 92 93 million people that's a big population a couple of let's say 50 guys die 50 of the top leaders die what's going to happen nothing's going to happen they'll find more leaders see first of all Iran the IRGC the Iran the Islamic Republican guards thing IRGC u they have you know reconfigured the nation into a mosaic system. So Iran has 31 provinces. Each province is now going to have its own leadership, its own uh command and control structure, its own uh reserves and stocks of ammunition, weapons, ballistic missiles, drones, munitions, whatever fuel. and they are fighting 31 independent wars against Israel and the US and whoever else, right? And each province has its own command and control structure. So even if you take out the top guy, the second guy, the third guy, whatever, they're going to have this this whole command and control structure and more people will be promoted. One of the things that happens, you know, warfare obviously is a horrible thing, but typically when a nation is at war and let's say in in in on the battlefield you have you have let's say a regiment or whatever a brigade, a platoon, a brigade or regiment and the commander is killed. What happens? Do they stop fighting? Not at all. That's instantaneous field promotion of the senior most next senior most guy. instantaneous field promotion and generally that gives you better leadership because the non-field promotions are typically bureaucratic in nature but when there's a battle going on and your top guy is dead you're going to promote the most capable person so that you all survive it maybe it's done by rank or maybe it's done by by capability. So typically when you have multiple field promotions two three guys die and you keep promoting that's when the most capable leadership emerges someone who can you know win your battle for you or or die in the process. So when you have a nation of 90 billion million people assassinating the top 50 people the top 100 people if you have the right structure is not going to make any difference whatsoever. Typically in a stagnant society, a sedentary society, a society that hasn't seen war in decades. In that sort of society, you have something called the overproduction of elites. And these elites who are overproduced by these stagnant sedentary societies. They take up all the positions of power and they over time the system becomes a rent rent seeking system. When you have this sort of situation where the elites are being taken out by the enemy and you have field promotions essentially, that's when the problem of over production of elites is taken care of. It's sorted out and you have the best most capable leadership rising to the top. So this is actually a good problem for Iran to have. And it's it's a bad thing. It's a terrible thing for the US and for Israel because the moderates, they've killed them all. They've killed off all the moderates. Ali Kame the Ayatah, the supreme leader, he was against nuclear weapons. He was in favor of negotiations and some settlements. That's why you had the JCPOA and the joint comprehensive plan of action, the Iran nuclear deal that Trump eventually walked out of unilaterally. Ali Kame is what is who is the person who made this possible. Right? So those who are in favor of negotiations, those who are in favor of moderation, those who are against nuclear weapons, they have been killed by the Americans and the Israelis. So who rises to the top now? is the hardliners, those who don't want negotiations anymore. No more negotiations. And the US apparently has tried on at least three occasions to open back channels with Iran since the war began and try to find some way of negotiating with Iranians and and you know going for a ceasefire, a face saving ceasefire. And the Iranians are saying go to hell. No negotiations, no talks. The war goes on and if Iran is is in a position to re to to to rebuff American overtures for a ceasefire, it tells you the Iranians believe they're going to they're going to prevail. So yeah, that is what it is. Basar Bandit says Pyth to you as well. All well yes here. Yes sir. Are we reaching closer to a time about Shir Shinszu AB's statement of Japan having nuclear capabilities considering the current events are a measure to contain China? China. China I think we are coming closer. See it was not Mr. Shinszo Abbe who said this. It was Shri Kissinger. Henry Kissinger a few months maybe 3 months before he tragically passed away. Shri Kissinger had said that Japan is um it it could become a nuclear weapons power within within the next five years and he said that in 2023. So we still have a couple of years to go right and it's I think it's highly likely that within by 28 or so Japan could become a nuclear weapons power. Now in what circumstances does it become a new see we know that the current war was about you know about containing China the the West Asia the Iran war the Americans and is the Israelis wanted to do a regime change and install a puppet but the Americans wanted to acquire complete control of Iran's energy resources so that those that can be denied to China. The same was the case with Venezuela to acquire to to to steal the energy or to control the energy. Right? So one of the angles in this war is China to control China contain China that obviously has not worked out very very well at all. It's been a disaster. And now that the Americans are in a situation where they are where where they are depleting very rapidly their resources, their reserves of whether it is cruise missiles, whether it is munitions or whatever interceptors, missile interceptors, all that stuff. They're going to have to fall back on the cap, industrial capabilities of other nations like European nations, also Japan, South Korea, etc. And since the Americans are on the back foot and they're running short of very critical munitions and uh weapons, the Chinese will now feel emboldened and they'll feel that you know what we have we now can see how the Americans can be defeated and we can use those lessons in Taiwan and let's go for Taiwan that sort of thing. So the Americans will be very very cognizant of this possibility and that's why they could very well give the green signal to Japan to nuclearize. Now, what kind of nuclearization could it be? That's a question. Will the Americans have Japan develop and test and then deploy its own nuclear weapons? Japan is very capable of doing that. Or will the Americans use the Pakistani approach of making the nation of Japan the custodian of American weapons under American control? Most likely the latter. But yes, this could very well happen sooner rather than later. Basar bandit again. Hindu to everybody. Hindu wish you a very happy Hindu. No. Observation. A number of viewers on live stream has increased in follower account to post 2024 election for the first time. Requesting everyone watching to like and check your subscriptions. Thank you very much. Very kind of you sir. Yes, everyone please like like and subscribe. Check that you subscribed. my subscribers are being auto have the past couple of years have been automatically unsubscribed in large numbers uh by whatever process I don't know uh but now it looks like things are kind of on a better yeah somewhat better for the channel so please check if you're subscribed or not lots of people I'm told are not getting notifications a lot of people I I hear are not able to comment at all so there's all kinds of problems but it is what it is so anyway Please check that you're subscribed and please do like the the the the video. I never ask anyone to like, subscribe, all that. Please do that. Thank you. Thank you. Basar bandit says as usual temporary nation Pakistan did horrible ghastly things in Afghanistan. 200 to 400 lives lost in air strikes. Is this a step to avoid fighting with Iran? what what possible retaliation of guns are likely to do apart other than the Taliban, Pakistan, Baljasthan, Liberation Army etc. So let's uh quickly give me a second. Yeah. So the the Pakistanis these cowardly Pakistanis they launched an air strike on Kabul. It the the the bombs struck a hospital which was a drug rehabilitation center. Okay. where people who were uh uh hooked on drugs, what's it called? Addicted to drugs, they were being rehabilitated and apparently between 2 to 400 patients were killed in this Pakistani air strike. These are innocent civilians. Right now before I I even discuss that, I want to show you something really really I would say really interesting. Give me a second. Yeah. So this is a tweet. I I want to show you a tweet by someone. Okay. Uh give me a second. Yeah. Okay. Here we go. This is a tweet by an account called Mossad commentary. It's got a million subscribers. It is based in Israel. I am I am not claiming this is the account of Mossad itself. It's a Mossad commentary account. It's based in Israel. It's unofficial which means that it could or could maybe it is official, maybe it's not, but they're claiming that it's an unofficial account. But it is very much an Israeli account. So here's what this Israeli account says. The Kabul site is not a drug rehab center. Again, but to be clear, this was a Taliban weapons and ammunition storage site, not a drug drug rehabilitation center. How does Mossad know this? How does Mossad know or this Israeli account know that the uh that the hospital that was destroyed by the Pakistanis was not a drug rehab center. It was an Taliban weapons and ammunition storage site. How does this is Israeli account know that Pakistan's arms forces launched operation Gazaboo whatever overnight on March 16 carrying out precision air strikes against Afghan Taliban regime facilities ti t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t tied to terrorism. Israel is claiming that that this Israeli account is claiming that Taliban are terrorists and Pakistan are are are not terrorists. They are fighting terrorism. Targets included two sites in Kabul and four in Nangar where ammunition deposed etc etc used to support terror proxies were reportedly destroyed according to Pakistan's information minister. So these guys are paring Pakistani propaganda this Israeli account. Now Israel is a nation that Pakistan does not recognize as a nation. So why is an Israeli account that claims to be unofficial Mossad paring Pakistani propaganda portraying the Taliban as terrorists? The Pakistanis as those who fight terrorism when we know and the whole world knows that Pakistan is the global epicenter of terrorism and this air strike on a hospital is another example of Pakistani terrorism and this Israeli account is trying to whitewash this Pakistani crime. What's going on? Full support, sir. Yes, India. Full support. Full support. Keep it up. Full support. When will you people wake up that there are no allies that India has? There are no friends that India has. I'm not saying Israel is an enemy. I'm saying that Israel is a nation with its own interests. As as it should be. My point is why do you give full support to other nations? You should give issue based support to every single nation apart from your own. Full support should be only to your own nation. We have a tremendous amount of shared interests with Israel. On those issues, we will give support to Israel. But they don't give unconditional support to anybody. Here the Israelis are supporting Pakistan. who is our ally so to say it's Afghanistan not Pakistan and we know we have suffered at the hands of Pakistan for decades Pakistani terrorism funded and financed by whom the United States who gives unconditional support to Israel and see who this Israeli account is supporting Pakistan Pakistan now the question is u is this a step to this this Pakistani terrorist strike on 400 people killing them. Is it a step to avoid fighting with Iran? Um what is Pakistan trying to they're concerned about Afghanistan. They're concerned about the Taliban. The Taliban are pun nationalists. The Pakist the Taliban claim a large piece of territory that is currently occupied by Pakistan which is Karakunwa which is historically pashon territory. So it needs it should be logically by be part of Afghanistan and that's the big territorial dispute that you have and the Pakistani military is concerned about that and maybe if the Pakistanis get involved in you know along in in the next few days or weeks in the Iran war then if there's an ongoing war with Afghanistan also which is escalating then they can blame things on that and also there could be the BRA mangle Pakistan is a US puppet a US wasal and the Americans want Bagram. So maybe the Pakistanis are trying to soften up the Afghanistan government in order to hand over Bagram if possible to the Americans. That's also a possibility. Okay. So now what possible retaliation the Afghans are likely to do apart from Talib Pakistan, Balojasthan, Liberation Army, etc. The Afghans will retaliate through all kinds of different means including asymmetric means including non-conventional unconventional asymmetric warfare tactics all kinds of things like that. Uh this matter is not going to die down. The Afghans will extract a complete revenge on Pakistan. Maybe if not in one strike over a period of maybe it will be spread out over hundreds of strikes over Pakistan. But the Afghans will extract revenge for this and hopefully this is the beginning of the end for Pakistan in some shape or form or the other. Okay. Putin says congratulations on 953 K subs not noticeable increase. Thank you very much sir indeed. Uh yeah things seem to be going in the right direction very slowly very gradually but one welcomes that. So thank you very much and it's all thanks to you all. Thank you. KYU says, "I work in a non- techch MNC role. I want to boost my income by learning finance skills. Can you please suggest genuine courses for future upcoming job roles? I seek guidance. Uh do you want to boost your income by learning finance skills?" Finance skills and you seek guidance. You want genuine courses for future upcoming job roles. Um, finance skills. I I am not a finance guy. Um, yeah, I I am sorry, but I am not the right person to ask this question. Oh, I'm not a finance guy. I don't know what courses are available, what courses exist or not. I suppose you could go to websites like Udemy or whatever. UDB probably is is a good uh place. It is also Corsera and you can search for various finance skill related uh courses on those platforms. That's where you would find any and I'm sure you will be able to see how many people are enrolled on each course and what is the star rating out of five or 10 or whatever on for each of the courses. So if you have a course where you have let's say 10,000 people enrolled and it's uh uh it's let's say above four star rating out of five ID above 4.5 rating then you can be pretty sure it's a good course. So that's how I would suggest you do that's what I would suggest you do. I am not an expert on learning finance skills and I am definitely not aware of any courses for finance skills. So I'm sorry I can't help you directly but please go and do uh try what I'm saying. go to Corsera or or or Udemy and I'm sure there are high quality courses available there. All right, sir. All the best. Sait Javad laa has become new member. Well, thank you very much and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Right angle says if we use microp pyrolysis technology we have 3 years diesel. Um okay, what is microp pyrolysis? LissIS means breaking of something. Um, hemolysis is nasty. That's the it's a bad kind of lysis. Hydrarolysis is is is the dissociation of water into hydrogen and oxygen. So, what is micropyrolysis? Pyro means heat. Pyro pyrochnics. Pyro means heat. Okay. What is micro py pyrolysis? Micro pyro microwave. No, it's micro pyrolysis. Micropyrolysis. Come on. Here we have it. What is this? Uh, efficient thermal degradation process that uses microwave energy to heat materials, etc., etc. Okay, talking about diesel. Diesel micro pyrolysis diesel decompose waste plastics, tires, etc. into high value liquid fuels like diesel, gasoline and kerosene. Um, okay. Interesting. Okay. I'll not look into the details but yeah interesting. So I looks like it's a interesting and uh useful technology. I hope the government looks into it. Yeah. If somebody from the government is watching please uh take note of this. looks like it's a promising technology that can potentially solve at least some part of India's u you know requirements for energy says thoughts on the recent van dyke arrest by the national investigative energy um agency I spoke about this in detail u it's a good thing uh that it gives me hope that maybe the government is now serious about uh you know redressing addressing and redressing the sit the situation in Manipur. Yeah. Well, let's see. Hopefully, and it's obviously going to be a message to the Americans and maybe it is an outcome of the ongoing turn of events in West Asia possibly. See, the situation for the US is bad in West Asia. It wants to leave this war, but it can't without losing face. So American prestige has has taken a big hit. America the kind amount of leverage the US has over other nations is less now. So maybe it's a good time for the for India to maybe address the situation manipur and send a message to the Americans. Yeah. So maybe that's what it is. Wy BKT has gifted one membership of the channel. Thank you very much. It's very kind of you sir ma'am. Thank you. MK says, "MU N's a good place for people interested in geopolitics." What's a mun? Mu n's a good place for people interested in geopolitics. I don't know what an MU is. If you could give me the full form, what is that? Let's see. M geopolitics. What's MUN? Model United Nations. It's a waste of time. absolute waste of time. That's how I see it. Uh but yeah, you don't have to rely on what I say. Please do your own research and due diligence. From my perspective, it's a waste of time. Jagadah Mahavira says, "Show us the doomsday agreement. The has USA ability to nuke every country if all allies and non-allies corner us if they are cornered?" There's no doomsday agreement or document or whatever. But that's what the US will do. Okay? They don't publish these documents. Those who know know about this. These documents aren't published. They don't put out a PDF on a US government website. There's no agreement with other nations. This is a policy or a strategy or you could say a fallback option. Last what's it called? Deadman's switch kind of thing. There's no agreement that's available. There's no PDF available. There's nothing available. Nobody publishes this sort of stuff. But that's what will be done. Yeah. Okay. Deep learner says only war in town now. Re I have no idea what it means but okay. Okay. Anoj says what do you think? Who can be more threat to India's national security and sovereignty between China and the US in the future? To be very honest and straightforward, both are big threats. The Americans seek to create all kinds of problems for India. They seek to contain India. They have effected three regime changes in India's immediate neighborhood, East and West Pakistan and Nepal. They are currently fueling the flames of the the the the U civil war in Myanmar which has by design spilled over into India and made a mess of Manipur created the Manipur disaster. The Americans play all kinds of subnational diplomacy games and engage with various anti-government political parties in India. They do all kinds of things such as this and they fund the industrial scale demographic re-engineering efforts that are going on in India. Christian conversions and other conversions also they're pouring billions of dollars every year, maybe tens, maybe hundreds of billions of dollars every year into India for these activities. The Chinese don't do any of this. See the let's say America wins they'll break up India into 50 pieces and also destroy India's culture and civilization. If the Chinese win they will simply break India into multiple pieces but they will they don't care about Indian culture or civilization. They don't care about that. They'll be satisfied with breaking India into multiple pieces. The Americans won't be satisfied with that. They will also after the break India into into pieces they will seek they seek to further annihilate India's culture and civilization. So who's more of a threat? I think you you need to decide on your own who is more of a threat. But obviously China is right next door and we have a big u enormous undemarcated border with China. So China from that geographical proximity perspective is more of an immediate threat from that perspective. But it's not like there's no geographical proximity with between India and American vasals east, west, Pakistan, Nepal and so on so forth. And India is super compromised and penetrated deep inside within India itself by the Americans. So who's more of an immediate threat? Make your own decisions. Ary, thank you very much. Aryat Nlesh Ranjan Shivas says is LNG including LPG, CNG not available from Russia? The Russians also produce LNG LPG whatever. What was what was Nordstream 2? What was Nordstream 2? Let's Let's see. Nordstream 2. What was that? It was a natural gas pipeline from Russia to Germany running through the Baltic Sea. So natural gas is LNG, which is LPG, CNG, whatever you want to call it. Same thing. So the Russians can certainly they certainly do produce this in very large quantities and I suppose they could bottle it up and send it in large quantities to India as well. So that's an option certainly but it's a far away option. So if you put let's say if you if you put LG uh cylinders let's say onto a ship and you make it sail from Russia to India it'll take 25 to 30 days for the ship to eventually reach India. If you are importing LNG from Qatar it'll take like what 5 days for it to reach India. So it's immediate you get it immediately like almost immediately. I don't think it will take five days, maybe three days or whatever it is, right? So you you'll get it immediately or or almost immediately when it comes from Russia, it takes a long time. But it's certainly a fallback option for India for sure. Yeah. So I'm sure it will have to be activated now because there's a disaster ongoing ongoing disaster in in in in the Gulf. What kind of disaster? Uh the Paris airfield has been blown up and so on. Let's take a look at this. Let's take a look at what's happened. uh here and Trump has tweeted or or posted about this statement from uh President Trump on the South Paris gas field. Israel out of anger for what's taken place in the Middle East. Yes, of course, naturally out of anger has violently lashed out at a major facility known as the South Paris gas field in Iran. A relatively small section of the hole has been hit. The US knew nothing about this particular attack. Obviously, the Israelis don't tell the Americans anything. And the country of Qatar was in no way, shape, or form involved with it, nor did it have any idea that it was going to happen. Unfortunately, Iran did not know this or any of the pertinent facts pertaining to the South Paris attack and unjustifiably and unfairly attacked a portion of Qatar's LNG gas facility. No more attacks will be made by Israel pertaining to this extremely important and valuable South Paris gas field unless Iran unwisely decides to attack the a very innocent in this case Qatar in which instance the US with or without the help or consent of Israel will massively blow up the entirety of the south Paris gas field at an amount of strength and power blah blah blah. I don't want to authorize this level of violence and destruction because of the long-term implications it will have on the future of Iran. But if Qatar's RNG is again attacked, I will not hesitate to do so. That's what Trump has said. Okay. And as you can see here, there's a disaster going on. This is uh Russ Lafan in Qatar. So the Israelis first hit at struck at the Iranian par South Paris gas field and in response to that the Iranians struck Ras Lafan in Qatar. It's a huge huge complex and Russ Lafan and South Paris are the same gas field. See look here. So South Paris is in black and the Russan the the Qatar Northfield is in orange. They are part of the same gas field but the black part is uh is within Iran's territorial uh waters and the orange part is within Qatar's territorial waters or or exclusive economic zone actually exclusive e economic zone not territorial waters. So if you blow up one it obviously will destroy the other. If Trump says I'll blow up South Paris it's also going to completely destroy the North Qatar gas field. So the the question is why did Israel do this? The Israelis are hellbent on escalating if the Americans allegedly are trying to deescalate and and find an off-ramp. The Israelis are trying to make sure this never happens. And you can see some frustration from Trump as well. And Trump knows that if he if he destroys South Paris, it will also destroy Qatar's gas field because it's the same gas field divided into two by an imaginary line. Right? That is what is going on. An ongoing disaster. This war is escalating. It's escalating. This is the opposite of deescalation and hopefully an end to the war. It's going from bad to worse. Who gave the Israelis the brilliant idea of destroying or or trying to trying to damage a very one of the world's most important gas fields. And this is going to have an big impact on India. In India, people cook using gas, natural gas, LNG. In India, it's called CNG or LPG or whatever. Lots of vehicles run on on on these gas cylinders, right? And India doesn't have strategic reserves of this LG, LPG, CNG. We have strategic reserves of oil, petroleum, but not of LNG. So if the supplies through the Gulf of Formos stop, India won't have cooking gas and that's going to be felt immediately and there that's why India, the government of India will have to find alternative sources from which to procure LNG. One possibility is Russia. Uh I'm sure the government of India is exploring very urgently all the possibilities. Yeah. So Russia is definitely a possibility. Do they see the Russians generally sell oil through pipelines? Nordstream 2 is an example. Do they have the ability to bottle the oil? I mean the gas to liquify it and bottle it and ship it. I suppose that's not a high-tech thing. I'm I'm sure it can be even if they don't have the the facilities, they can set it set it up quickly. I'm sure. But yeah, one thing is for sure. Wherever India gets its LNG from, the prices are going to be higher now because it's going to be available at a premium. So the Americans and Israelis have created a global disaster, an absolute global disaster. The world is never going to be the same again. This is a permanent change that we are seeing in the world. Now they've created created a global disaster for the entire world's economy. This is going to cost India a lot of money. Lot of money. Billions of dollars. Tens maybe hundreds of billions of dollars. Will the Americans and Israelis pay reparations to India? Did India do anything to harm these two countries? No. We are being harmed by these people's actions. And not just India. Everyone's being harmed by them. The Japanese, the Chinese, the Indonesians, our neighbors, all of them. Absolute disaster. Okay, team talk says, "I just watched all of Professor Jang's videos on game theory, and I must say his views and your views are pretty similar. It's like you in Chinese body." Really? Really? Okay. Interesting. Is it I mean, are our views that similar? Well, that's that's really interesting. Okay. Thank you for letting me know. Thank you. Vishal R says, "Isn't this the ideal time for Russia to exhaust the air defenses of Ukraine and build more pressure on the US to support two wars? And can the US seize Kara Island by putting boots on the island there? I think it's a good time for Russia to to to achieve its military and political objectives in Ukraine. If Russia makes big advances now as they are certainly capable of then it's going to put immense pressure on the US to it's going to have to you know like you say a support to wars so the question is when is the rasputita season that is the big question let's let's find out what is rasputita I I'll tell you it's it's the it's the mud season in Ukraine and Russia rasputita season. So it's spring and autumn. Okay. In spring you have throwing snow. Autumn you have heavy rains, mud season. It's it's twice a year. So this happens in October, November and also April May. So April, May you can't really make big advances. You can't really launch big campaigns, military campaigns because your tanks, your your vehicles etc. are going to get bogged down in the muddy terrain. April, May, we're in March right now. So, if Russia wants to do something, it's got about 10 days to go, maybe a week or 10 days. Doesn't look like they're they're about to try something. Uh yeah, so maybe now is not a very good time to to to to to make a big offensive, but they can certainly exhaust air defenses and so on. Putin has decided to weaponize time. He wants this war to drag on drag drag on as long as needed so that Europe is is is uh Europe's supplies are exhausted. Supplies of munitions, supplies of patients, supplies of whatever else are exhausted, depleted. That's what Putin is doing. is weaponizing time and doesn't look like he is in in any hurry to do something right now despite the ongoing war uh that Iran is u is facing right now. The next question is can the US seize the Ka island by putting boots on the island there? Well, first of all, let's see where is this Kar island. It's a very important island for Iran. Okay, so let's see if the geography gives us any clues. Here's the map. Where is Ka Island? So we don't talk we are not talking about Kashma island which is here. This is Kashma. We're talking about Kha Island. Where is Kara Island? This is Ka Island. Now it's as you can see it's very close to the coastline of Iran. Shall we see how far it is? What's the distance? The distance over here it's about 30 35 km from the coastline. So you can't see it if you're standing on the Iranian coast, but it's just like 30 35 kilometers away. Now we need to take a look at the topography of Iran to get a better understanding. Give me a second. Do I have that map? Relief map of Iran? Give me a second. I'll put that up. Okay. So now that we have we understand where Ka Island is, the question is, is it defensible? Can the Iranians defend it? So, here's a relief map, exaggerated relief map of Iran. Okay. And if you see this, you will see that Kar Island is located to it's not being I don't think it's shown here, but it's close to a very mountainous part of Iran. Okay? It's close to a to a very mountainous part of Iran that Iran can most likely defend. So if Iran has uh anti- anti- ship missiles, anti-aircraft missiles etc. uh you know hidden away in the mountains, it'll be almost impossible for the Americans to uh to target those all of them successfully. So I think it will be the Americans may be able to take the island. Will they be able to keep the island is a is a big question. I think it will be very difficult for them to keep the island to defend the island, hold on to it. So I think even that is a pretty suicidal position uh proposition. Yeah. So Tendra says Israel attacked South Paris. How will Iran retaliate? How should other or all Gulf countries defend themselves after this? Any reaction from Russia expected? So I think I kind of discussed this but we can discuss it all over again if you like. I mean not all over again but yeah. So clearly this has happened. Donald Trump put out his uh big statement etc. And how did Iran retaliate? Iran retaliated like like I put it on the screen. Let's say well let's do it again. Um here we have it. Iran retaliated by targeting the Ras Lafan um area of of Qatar, right? The Ras Lafan complex. And this is the situation also ras aluja. So Iran can hit uh can can target the various installations that you have in Qatar, in Saudi Arabia, in Kuwait, very big targets, pretty pretty much sitting ducks. And now the American most of the American interceptor missiles have been exhausted. Most of the TH systems are offline. There are only two I think both were both the radars were taken out. So it's almost impossible for the Americans to defend Qatar, Kuwait, whoever Saudi Arabia. So if Israel, so Israel, what it is doing is trying to provoke Iran into hitting more Gulf nations so that the war escalates and the Americans can't extricate them out themselves out of this situation. Israel is trying to escalate the war. Brilliant. You're doing a great service to the to the entire world, Israel. Great job. Right. So Iran will retaliate if Iranian facilities are hit, oil facilities or whatever. Iran has lots of targets to choose from. No one's going to stop them. No one's going to be able to stop them. Uh how should other Gulf nations defend themselves after this? All they can do is ask the Americans, request the Americans to to safeguard them, to protect them. But the Americans look like it doesn't look like they're in a position to help them. The thing is if the Gulf nations launch start start launching strikes at Iran, then they become legitimate targets. Right now, Iran is saying that we are only responding to uh provocations. We are not targeting the civilians and infrastructure and so on of the Gulf nations. We are only doing a tit fortat response. So in the Gulf nations, whatever missiles or drones the Iranians have launched, they have been until now launched at American military installations or what Iranians or or what the Iranians consider to be legitimate targets as a tit fortat uh response. But if the Gulf nations start hitting out at Iran and targeting military facilities or something, then Iran will retaliate much harder against those countries and target their infrastructure much more, which will be a disaster for the Gulf countries. So that's why Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Kuwait, anyway, it's not a big power. Saudi Arabia also is taking out of this because the Iranians launched a strike on a Saudi airfield and destroyed five American gigantic refueling planes, but those were American assets, not Saudi assets. The Saudis are kind of staying out of it. They also have a military, but they're staying out of it. And the same goes for the UAE and so on. So I think these nations should it would be in their best interest to stay out of this as long as possible and not start responding. Gorovnis Sunnis says happy guri padwa and new year to you and all others in the chat. Thank you very much Gorov. I wish you and all the all the viewers a happy guripadwa and a happy new year. Right. Angle says government says it will take 10 years to fence the Indommyanmar border. Till then if we deport cookies they will come back. Consequence for India if we touch cookie now. Well this is a problem for the government of India to solve. Look solutions they have to find. I can propose solutions. Others can propose solutions. Citizens can propose propose solutions. But it is the government which is elected by the people whose job it is to solve the problem. If they were able to allow a few lakh cookies to come into India over the past 10 years allegedly, then I'm sure they can find ways and means of deporting them from India and it doesn't have to we don't have to wait until for 10 years until the whole border is fenced. I am sure we have something called the Assam rifles in Manipur. What is the job of the Assam rifles? It's a paramilitary force. It's not it's not the Indian army or the Indian military. It's a police force who wear army uniforms. It's a paramilitary force. What is the job of the Assam rifles? Is it not to safeguard India's territorial sovereignty and integrity and to make sure that foreigners don't enter Indian territory? What's the job of the BSF? Don't we have sufficient forces deployed in Manipur? Can't we leverage the presence of these forces to ensure that all illegals are deported? Why do we need to have fencing of borders? I mean, it's necessary, sure. But even while the border is slowly being fenced, our paramilitary forces can do their job for a change, right? And these are foreigners. These are illegals. they have to be thrown out. So the this is a problem of the government's own making. These people come into India in large numbers. They're allowed to settle down. They're allowed to set up new villages. Map data over the past 10 years shows you an explosion of thousands of new villages over the past few years. So we know which villages are new. And we know that the cookies aren't Indians. Deport them all. Even if they have acquired somehow Indian documentation, deport them all. The government has to find a solution. And they can't say that this it's too complicated or whatever. Find a solution. Get rid of the foreigners. Deport the illegals. Deport the cookies. Deepport the Rohhingas. Deport the Bangladeshes. Deport the Pakistanis. What are you waiting for? Are these people necessary in India? Is it necessary for for us to have this to to keep supporting these people and their descendants in India? Is that why we pay taxes? You dug us into this mess? You dig us out of it? Yeah. Anoj art says India is India really competent or just great marketing? Well, I'm not sure what is the specific question. Competent in what? Competent in uh sky sky skydiving. competent in uh in in in in mountaineering, competent in missile engineering, competent in satellite engineering, competent in uh scuba diving, competent in what it it helps if you are a little more specific, you see. Yeah. Are the people competent? Is the government competed? Is some corporation competent? Is the military competent? Is the cricket team competed? Is the hockey team competent? What is the question? India is so big, so vast that I can't make general statements. Please be a little more specific. It will help me and that way you'll you'll also get an answer. Buddha goes nuclear. Why can't we move people from the central region to boundary regions and change demography in our favors? Soviet Union used to do it successfully because India is a democracy. In India, we do it to hurt ourselves. In India, we change the demography not in our favor but against our favor. We allow foreign mission rays to pump in billions of dollars to change the religion of Indians on an industrial scale. We allow tens of millions of Bangladeshes to come and squat in India to change the demography of our cities, towns and villages. We allow god knows how many Rohingyas to come into India to change our demography. We allow lacks of cookies to squat in our territory and acquire Indian documentation and become government servants and what not. When operation sundur happened, we suddenly discovered tens of thousands of Pakistanis who have been living in India for decades. We are doing the opposite of what you are suggesting of what you are recommending. What you are recommending is what India should be doing. But why can't we do it? You have to ask the government of India who have been in power for 11 12 years now. You have to ask them. I don't have any answer. I am lost for an answer. I I don't have an answer. Really, we should do these things. We do the opposite. Right. Angle says, "Should India go for 1,000 pages instead of 114 Rafals at $40 billion? Why India going with US engine for MK2 project? Did the US send us faulty engines? Your views? Thanks." Okay. The US has I don't know if the engines they've sent to India are faulty that they've sold to India are faulty but India India has uh paid them a big amount of money for a number of engines and they're not delivering those those engines they are delivering like two or three engines a year or something let's say you they're supposed to deliver x number of engines per year they're not even delivering x2 or x3 they're delivering a small small number of engines per year so that they're essentially choking and killing the the program Right. Why is India going with the US engine for Mark 2 project? Well, because we don't have an engine of our own and maybe the Russian Saturn engine is too large. Maybe other engines are I don't know. There are all kinds of engines available but none of them is a sovereign engine for us. Right. Uh we are now going for a combined joint project with the French uh company Snakema. No, Safar. And in a few years we're going to have an indigenous engine which is co-developed with Safar. But that's a few years down the line. In the meanwhile, I hear that there is some good progress with the cavary engine. U we have developed our own single crystal blade uh turbine turbine blade technology. Uh single a single crystal made of a certain alloy of metals and that solves the problem for us. And we also have successfully tested the afterburner technology for the cover engine. So two big problems solved. The only question is what is going to be the the how long how many hours can an engine be run before it has to be serviced or or hold that's the only question even if it's 50 hours I think it's a good enough engine I would say and what's the size I think the size also it's not too large or the weight also isn't too much I think the cavary engine is close to good enough right so that's another option we have if we can make it work Looks like we are on the verge of making being able to make it work. But what about uh foreign engines and the money and all the those questions? I don't know about that. Um so the first question you ask is should India go for 1,000 pages? No. India should slowly phase out fighter planes. Look at the situation in West Asia. There's a war going on. Look at the situation in Ukraine. There's a war going on. Which weapons are effective? Are the Americans flying fighter planes and bombing targets and all that? Nothing. Nothing. The war is being fought with missiles and drones. Drones are unmanned munitions. They fly like planes. The Shahed drones and whatnot. That's the future of warfare. Why would you purchase a or or build an expensive fighter plane, train a person to fly it, invest millions of dollars or cres, tens or maybe hundreds of cres of rupees to train one person, put the person in a fighter plane, you fly it over very dangerous enemy territory where there's a high chance of getting shot down and lose the lose the whole package. Why would you do that? For the same amount of money, you can build maybe 10,000 drones, right? Or maybe 100 ballistic missiles. So I think that makes more sense. Uh we should certainly continue developing our fighter jet, fighter engine program, jet engine program and all that fighter jet program, jet engine program. Uh but those will be more valuable in wars when when we have proper stealth technology. Uh yeah. So I think the in in in wars in the current in the in the 21st century fighter planes are relevant only when you have suppressed all enemy air defenses. It's it's stupid to send human beings in fighter planes over contested territory in today's day and age. So I think India should invest tremendously in drones and missiles. Missiles of various kinds. Whether it's cruise missiles, whether it's supersonics, hypersonics, ballistics with various kinds of warheads, cluster warheads. Learn from the Iranians. The Iranians are far ahead of India when it comes to ballistic missile technology. It's clear now. We have the range 5 etc. It's got whatever range 8,000 10,000 km maybe more. We don't know. That's great. But do we have cluster munitions, cluster warheads? Do we have the maneuvering warheads all that? I think the Iranians are ahead of us in these things. Learn from the Iranians. India should uh give up various fantasies. It has the fantasy of having this massively powerful surface fleet of ships and aircraft carriers. That's a stupid fantasy. India should invest in autonomous kill vehicles, underwater kill vehicles and submarines. When it comes to aerial warfare, invest in drones. flying munitions, missiles of various kinds and do have should we should have aircraft, fighter aircraft, but those are to be used only when the enemy's air defenses are completely suppressed. That is the new way of warfare and that's what India should do. Prattana, good to see you sir. Russians cooperated in the arrest of these guys, the American terrorists, the Ukrainian terrorists. Yes, but this that raises even more questions. What the hell is the government of India doing? Is the deal already done for the sale of northeast? Okay, I don't know about any deal for the sale of the northeast. But the question that you asked, what the hell is the government of India doing? It's a very pertinent question. What the hell is the government of India doing? You have allowed Manipur to go to the dogs. You have allowed allowed money you have allowed Manipur to become a disaster zone. What kind of strategy or policy does the government of India have? Who is what kind of jokers are advising the government of India when it comes to Manipur? I just don't get it. I don't know even now what's happening. We arrested this American guy and the Ukrainian Ukrainian mercenaries, but what are we going to do with this arrest? Are we going to put them, you know, release them on bail very soon? Are we going to trade them off for this this guy that nil or whatever guy the Americans have arrested and then that's it then Manipur goes back again to the dogs or are we going to actually address the core issues in Manipur and India's far east there's a misaram issue also okay I'm not sure what the government of India is doing the government of India has some interest in the kaladan multi multimodal project which is like 78 years behind schedule and for that little thing are we going to allow the whole region to descend into chaos you to cooperate with cookies. Is that the deal? What is the deal? I don't get it. There's no logic to what the government of India is doing. Maybe they have some logic, some brilliant logic of their own. But do they even understand the region? Do they understand those people in this region who are still on India's side? But if they're treated like this, you're going to push them across the brink. I mean how long can people suffer before they say enough is enough right? So I don't know what the deal is the government of India has dropped the ball when it comes to the northeast to Manipur this industrial scale religious conversion happening in Arunachal and other parts of under the BJP government. So I don't know what what we are doing really I have no idea no idea whatsoever. Chetan says end of indigenous religion is equal to end of Indian civilization and when well it's happening right now in India's far east it's happening in Manipur for example it's happening in Arunachal Pradesh 50 years ago in there was not a single person who practiced Abrahamic religion in Arunachal today it looks like that's become a majority of people when it comes to Manipur uh in the 2011 census Hindus were were short of the majority But today I think Hindus would must be a significant minority in Manipur now significant minority and the Hindus were the mateies lots of mates lacks of them have in the past few years converted to Christianity. So we have essentially currently the past 10 years or so we are witnessing the further erosion of Indian culture and civilization in India's far east and that's happening in Punjab also that's happening in various parts of India also maybe in 50 years there'll be no Hinduism left if things go the way they are going right now under this government says ICBMs in megaton thermonuclear bombs are a must for us G made a blunder by agreeing to US demands to stop further nuclear tests thoughts India has been very aminable to various kinds of American demands. I think India should have done 2030 tests. I think it's important. See the Chinese it is said don't have sufficient nuclear test data to produce better bombs. That's what the Americans claim. India's only done six tests. One in 1974 and five in 1998. So if you want to develop better bombs, we need to perform more tests and gather more data. So um I think it it was best done during Wajpay's time when Mr. Waji approved the first you know the second batch of tests in 1998 five tests we should have done a few more maybe we should not have stopped with five when the Pakistanis did did their respon responded by doing their test six tests we should have conducted immediately several more rounds of tests I would say today it's very difficult to do it because of American pressure but if there's a nuclear test somewhere India should immediately go ahead and do it ICBMs are non-negotiable able. It's a must for us. We should we India needs to have ballistic missiles capable of targeting any location on the planet. It's important for our survival not because we want to destroy the world but because we want to have a universal deterrent against anybody and obviously with that we need to have the right packages the right deliverables which is thermonuclear and other kinds of bombs. So we need to have ICBMs. We need to have MIRV capability. I think we have that now. And not just five MIRVS per warhead per per missile but 10 ideally also MV maneuverable re-entry vehicles and yeah various kinds of thermonuclear and non-therrmonuclear warheads. So for that you need to do some more testing. So right now India is obviously not going to be able to test unless somebody else tests. If somebody else tests then we should be ready to do it on as soon as possible. I would say India needs at least 20 20 more tests. Yeah. Just to have a reasonable amount of data of various kinds of yields and configurations of uh nuclear weapons. Mae talks says, "Do you think this war started by Trump because he lost tariff case in the US court and court ordered to refund billions of dollars to US importers?" Well, no. This war was started by Trump. It was not started by Trump. It was started by Israel. The first strike in this war was landed by was launched by Israel and then the Americans joined in because as their secretary of state Marco Rubio says they knew that Israel was going to launch an attack and we knew that if Israel launches an attack, Iran will hit at us will strike at us and that's why we also struck at Iran. So this war was started by Israel. The Israelis dragged the US into it which tells you a lot about the relationship. Who's the boss in the relationship? Israel is the boss of the US clearly from the way things are going. Yeah, that's actually what happened. Tommy Verseti says Veretti Verseti. Okay, what are the next what are the best next steps for Iran taught in long term? Short-term, medium-term, Iran, all it has to do is survive. It has to survive. It has to survive in the sense that the US needs it needs to make the US pull out of the war eventually. You see, if the war continues without an Iranian defeat, the Americans at some point at some stage will have to pull out because they can't just sustain a war like this unless they seek to keep escalating further and further boots on the ground and so on, which is going to be a disaster for the US and then they will feel like they have to escalate even more. So, what where does it end? Uh anyhow so Iran what it needs to do is it needs to survive. It needs from an Iranian perspective, not that I want this to happen, I don't want this to happen, but from an Iranian perspective, the straight of hormones needs to remain closed, right? So that the so that the global sentiment against the war mounts so that the global pain mounts there will be pain for India, China, Japan, everybody, all the nations whoever depend on oil and uh hydrocarbons from hormos. and the Iranians can allow certain nations to keep u to to their ships to transit hormones like it's allowing for India. So yeah, so what Iran is doing is exactly the right strategy from a game theoretical perspective. Yeah, from a great game theoretic perspective. So next best steps, keep hormones closed. It's bad for us but from Iran's perspective, yes, keep hormones closed. allow selected nations uh to to transit hormos to have their tankers transit hormos. Um keep on hitting out at the American military bases in the region. Keep on well doing what they're doing with Israel and keep fighting. The longer this war lasts, the better it is for Iran, right? They are also weaponizing time here and eventually Israel is a small nation. it may take too much damage you know and they may either sue for peace or they may take the next step uh which I hope doesn't happen so that's the next best steps for Iran Spider-Man says if it is worse in Manipur why news channels don't talk about it well yesterday I was on republic 9:00 p.m. yesterday uh at least Arnab Gowami is one person who is speaking about it about what's happened about what's happened like the the arrest of the American guy American guy and the Ukrainian mercenaries who are training terrorists cookie terrorists so Arnab was speaking about this I don't know about other it looks like other news channels are keeping quiet quiet about this now you are asking something else of of course that if the situation is still bad in Manipur why are news channels not speaking about Because now things are bad but the cookies they have taken over large parts of Manipur. Okay. In 2023 when you had this this entire thing erupting the cookies were doing ethnic cleansing in places like Churachpur etc. they were killing and expelling non-cookies. Now they have taken over all this territory. Now the the the problems are low inensity problems. It's not like towns are burning, cities are burning, but kidnappings are happening, murders are happening, all that is happening. But the media it looks for sensation sensations elsewhere, right? It won't keep covering Manipur for 2, three years. For 3 years, it's been 3 years now. Almost 3 years. Almost 3 years. Yeah. So the media it has this news cycle. They want to keep covering other things and many of the channels they have their own agendas which I will not go into. Every channel has its own agenda. They want to keep certain things away from the news. They don't want to cover certain things. Many channels you should see where the funding comes from that will tell you what their agenda is and that sort of thing. Okay. News updates says because of you I started loving geopolitics. You started this trend in India when nobody is even talking about this. Although on some points I don't agree with you. I think our government is too of CIA. We are already a vasar. While it's impossible for any two people to agree on anything, that's fine. It's fine. You don't have to agree with uh with me on everything. You can of course feel free to disagree and have your own opinions which is good. Which shows that you are a thinking person. And uh thank you very much first of all for for your very nice uh comment here. U see before me you had geopolitical experts and analysts in India. They used to call themselves strategic affairs experts. The great late Maru Fazar was one of them who I used to personally follow. Sadly, he passed away very recently. He is he was he is one strategic affairs expert that I used to follow personally when he used to appear on times now and other channels and typically well yeah he he's a person who I greatly respected a true Indian patriot left us too soon. So we had strategic affairs experts in India but this term geopolitics I suppose I introduced it it in India and now everybody calls themselves geopolitical experts. Earlier it was strategic affairs experts and what I have striven to do is to explain things as simply as possible. I believe in simplifying things as as much as possible. I don't want to show off and use complicated terminology and try to sound intelligent or whatever. I want to make things as easy to understand as possible and that's what I've striven to do from day one and u I'm glad that uh that it has helped you. I'm glad. So thank you so much about India's government being a stool of the CIA. we are already a vasal but I'll tell you what technologically we are a non-s sovereign nation completely non-s sovereign technologically we are also deeply penetrated at various levels in India um yeah so we have these issues I'm going to re revisit India's sovereignty once this war settles down or stops hopefully yeah and we will revisit the the revisit the question of whether India is actually a sovereign nation or not or are we partially vasalized at least I will revisit this sooner rather than later thank you very much prataradana says Trump cut healthcare etc but asking Congress for $200 billion for the war well you see that's that's what the US does that's what American presidents do America's main export to the world is war and obviously you have to fund wars. wars are also profitable if you are um US corporations that are part of the military-industrial complex and it's it's a pretty complex system in which you may you you burn money to make more money and your friends make money and that sort of thing and that works in a war that's going well but in this kind of war where which is not going well for the US you're going to have to ask Congress for money so yes Trump has cut healthcare and all that and he's asking Congress for $200 billion. Yep. Power says, "Is is power a zero sum game?" Power is not a game. Power is is is is what you seek in a game. Okay? Power is something it's it's an objective. It's something you want to acquire. It's something you want to maximize. Okay? It is it is what you are after in the game. Power is not the game. Power is like a substance. It's like cash. It's like money. It's what you are after the game. You can configure a game in various ways including zero sum games but not all games are zero sum games. It depends on the context. All right. Mama bucket VFX. Good to see you. US registers alien go alien.go alias government domains. Really? That's that's fascinating. Does that happen? Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. That's very interesting. Um give me a second. Let me let me see. Alien.gov. Let's see. A L I E N. G O V. What is that? Aliens.gov domain registered after Trump's vows. Trump wows UFO file, etc. Very interesting. So maybe they're going to launch a website with all their disclosures about supposedly having contacts with aliens. We'll see. Interesting. Prattana says, "Will GCC, Gulf Cooperation Council countries jump into the war after the recent escalation? It still is not in their interest to jump into the war because Iran has demonstrated it is more than capable of fighting a war simultaneously against eight countries. That's the kind of homework Iran has done. If the GCC nations jump into the war, they're going to be targeted by by Iran. Iran has stockpiles, very large stockpiles. I don't know how many ballistic missiles they have left, but they have essentially an inexhaustible supply of drones. It's going to be a disaster for the GCC nations. This war will escalate further and the GCC economies will be finished. Their entire economic models will be finished. Doesn't make sense. Ankita Kachab, good evening ma'am. Fatahu has rendered Israel missile defense systems ineffective. Failed to intercept despite firing multiple times. A big leap in the technology of warfare. Absolutely. Absolutely big leap. It is clear that Iran is a global leader in ballistic missile technology and and and missile technology and the kind of the different types of warheads they have designed and developed are remarkable. So the first couple of weeks, 10 days or a couple of weeks of the war, the the Iranians u used up their old stockpiles of missiles like like you know missiles that are like 20 years old or 10 years old or whatever and now that those are exhausted and the objective was to make the Israelis and Americans use up most of their stockpiles of interceptor missiles. So that's been used up mostly. That's why a lot of the Iranian missiles are now hitting the targets way more frequently than earlier. And that's why Iran has to now launch less missiles per day. Now you have these newer missiles. Some are solid fueled, some are liquid fueled, mishaher, fatu, etc. Right? Um, so these missiles now have very interesting profiles if I can use the word interesting for such a devastating technology. You have missiles that are making these doing these very complex maneuvers while you know before they hit the target. You have missiles that that whose whose warheads over you know they deploy a cluster of submunitions when a single missile releases 60 different submunitions. How on earth do you intercept that? It's guaranteed that you will fail. And even if it has just one warhead and it's maneuvering, then you may have to launch four, five, six interceptors to perhaps have stand a chance of intercepting that. And these missiles not only maneuver, but they release flares and whatnot, which totally confuses the intercepting missiles. So essentially what you're saying is entirely correct. The Iranian newer ballistic missiles, they are almost impossible to intercept. The Israeli missile missile defense systems seem to be helpless against these missiles despite launching multiple interceptors to take down one incoming missile. And I'm wonder I'm curious. I'm wondering and I don't mean to be disparaging at all but I am wondering what happened to Israel's iron beam system. uh one day before the war began, one day before the Israelis began the war, Prime Minister Modi was in Israel and the Indian media was reporting that Israel is offering the iron beam system to India. So what happened to the iron beam in the context of the ongoing war? Why hasn't Israel been able to use the iron beam system that costs allegedly less than $10 per shot to take down the incoming missiles? What happened to the iron beam? Was it just hype? Because because the iron beam is a directed energy weapon. It's a laser. So that acts essentially instantaneously at the speed of light. So that should allow you to intercept missiles even if they are like less than a kilometers away. So I really wonder what happened to all of this. So it looks like um either the iron beam system has been destroyed by the Iranians or it was overhyped but whatever the case be may be the Iranian missiles have essentially rendered the Israeli missile defense systems more or less ineffective. uh 3 weeks into the war. Absolutely. Girishi says, "We received a tip off from SVR channel about these peoples. Russia has a major interest in Burma military government which the US wants to change." Well, one hears that the that there was some kind of tip tip off from Russian intelligence to India about these these foreigners, you know, the American and the Ukrainians uh crossing over from India into into Myanmar and providing terrorist training to cookie terrorists and Myanmar is terrorists. Uh yeah, that's what one hears. But it's not like India did not know about this. In 2025, the chief minister of Mizoram, Shi Lu Humi, had stated that more than 2,000 foreigners of US and UK origin had come to Misoram and were involved in these activities. So it's not like it was unknown. India was India knew about this for a very long time. Looks like India has for some reason in the past chosen to disregard this and I'm not making the story up. Shri Aluaji said this. Do I have do I have a link to that? Let me see. Give me a second. Uh let me see if I can find the link. Mr. Luoma had made this statement in 2025. Give me a second. Hopefully I can dig it out. Lu Kumar, the chief minister of Mizam. So what do we have? Okay, this is a news report from 2025. Give me a second. Let me put this on the screen. So here it is on the screen. This report is from the 11th of March 2025. Today is the 19th of March 2026. This is more than one year ago. Misoram Chief Minister Laluar says agents from the US and UK are providing arms training to terrorists in Myanmar. He had previously called for whatever extr territorial cookies unity. Luoma was referring to the case of UK national Daniel Nui arrested in June 2024 at the Ling Pui airport. He was found possessing one live ammunition was and was booked under whatever arm arms act and he was later acquitted by a court. So the Indian court acquitted this guy who was providing terrorist training to terrorists in Myanmar and he was caught possessing live ammunition. Why was this guy acquitted? So this has been known to happen at least since 2024 at least probably from much before and if the chief minister of an Indian state publicly said this it means the government of India knew about this. So my question is why was no action taken in 2024 in 2025? Yeah you have these agents from the US and UK doing this on a routine basis apparently. Why was the government of India sitting in what was it waiting for and why has this action been taken only now for some reason and is this going to be the the limits of the action that we have taken and what about these people who have been arrested will they also be acquitted big questions here I really don't know what the government of India is doing really honestly Sergeant Skylan says USI Israel really after Pakistan or just lip service? Are the US and Israel really after Pakistan? Do you think Israel and the US are see US for the US Pakistan is a valuable asset. Why will be the US why will the US be after Pakistan or against Pakistan? Pakistan is a super valuable asset for the US. The US can get the Pakistanis to do all kinds of dirty work for them while the Americans keep their hands clean. Who was David Headley, American terrorist? He's one US national who was a terrorist. But who are all these other Pakistani terrorists? They are Pakistanis. They do terrorism. It's funded and financed by the US. It's aimed at India, but the US keeps its hands clean. The Pakistanis do all the dirty work. Why will the Americans go after Pakistan? And about Israel, you are wondering whether Israel is going to go go after Pakistan. Let me show you something once again. I did this earlier, but let me show this again. The Pakistanis launched an air strike on an Afghanistan on a on a building in Kabul which killed 400 patients who were undergoing drug rehab rehabilitation. This is an account from Israel. It's based out of Israel. Okay. It is the unofficial account of Mossad, which maybe it's not Mossad, maybe it is, but it's unofficial, but it's definitely based out of Israel. And this account is claiming, it's supporting the Pakistani terrorist activities, the Pakistani air strike that killed 400 patients. These guys are claiming the Kabul site was not a drug rehab center. It was a Taliban weapons and ammunition storage site. How does the Mossad Ortis account know about that? And why are the supporting Pakistan? Pakistan's armed forces launched operation Gazab blah blah blah overnight carrying out precision air strikes against Afghan Taliban regime facilities tied to terrorism. So this Mossad account alleged Mossad account is claiming that Afghanistan is a bunch of terrorists and Pakistanis are people who are fighting terrorism. So when Israel has this approach towards Pakistan, do you think they will go go after Pakistan? I have said this for a long I've asked this question for a long time. Pakistan is a US vasal. It's a US asset, valuable asset for the US. The US offers Israel unconditional support which means the US is Israel's unconditional ally. So US Pakistan this relationship, USI Israel that relationship. What is the relationship between Israel and Pakistan? That's a big question I've always asked. And by the way, the name Israel does figure in any informed discussion about Manipur. Tanmay Mukharji has become a new member. Well, thank you so much Tanmai G. Welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Brianka Biswis says, "Visited VECC today. The scale and complexity of those cyclones and accelerators is overwhelming. I'm also working on a small project on GM detectors. Okay. What's VCC? I don't remember. Let me um Google that. What is variable energy cyclone cyclone center? Is it? Let me see. Is it variable energy cyclone center? Let me see. Variable energy cyclone center. VCC. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I knew it. Yay. It is in Kolkata. Is it in SINP? Saha instead of nuclear physics. Okay. Nice. So, the cyclone is well a pretty ancient instrument. It's one of the first ever designs for a particle accelerator. and you have a magnetic field which causes your electrons or your your charged particles to go in circles and then you yeah you pulse it and you have a certain frequency and you use that to have it go and smash into a target that sort of thing it's something you learn in college I suppose in basic nuclear physics college um so cyclones are actually pretty simple instruments okay uh so VCC is variable energy cyclone center probably at SIP in Kolkata or maybe associated with SIP Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics. Uh what's a gem detector? What's a gem detector? Let's find out what's a gem detector. GM detector, gallium, etc. Is it a gas electron multiplier detector, gaseous ionization detector? Okay. Okay. You're working on a small project on GM detectors. Gas electron mult. Yeah, this is I haven't heard these terms for a very long time. Interesting. Interesting. Particle physics, nuclear physics. So, yeah, I'm glad. So, my point is this, if you're a student, is very inspiring to actually visit one of these centers and see the instruments that you've been reading about, but you finally get to see one. It's even better if you can see one in operation. So, in India, we have a few of these accelerators. You have a cyclone in Kolkata. You have something called a pelletron in the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai. I'm not sure if we have any other accelerators in India. Uh but yes, it's always it's always fun. It's always inspiring as a student to visit one of these uh centers and see the actual instrument that you've been study been studying and reading about. And you're also working on a small project on gas uh GM detectors. So outstanding. keep going and uh all the best. Thank you for sharing this very interesting story. Voyagi says, "What are the lessons of caution that China will or would have learned from the 2026 Iran war?" Like some analysts are saying that China knows that American weapons can can at will air bomb without being detected. Okay. What are the lessons China will be learning from the ongoing war, Iran war? One lesson that you need large numbers of cheap munitions, drones. China has the industrial capability capacity to manufacture millions of drones. Millions. Not thousands, not tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands, millions of drones. And they will do this. They will manufacture and stockpile millions of drones. That guarantees victory. Guarantees victory. Number two, missiles, ballistics, cruise, missiles, and so on. Third, take out the interceptors. Take out the THAAD, take out the Patriot systems. that will render the the defenses of the Americans blind. Fourth, take do what Iran is doing, but at the take it to the next level. Iran is launching volleys of missiles and drones, waves of missiles and drones. The Chinese can take it to the next level by launching saturation strikes. launch a a wave of a 100,000 drones. Then launch another wave of 100,000 drones, then launch another wave of 100,000 drones and mix. And while the drones are landing, send 500 ballistic missiles or cruise missiles. The Chinese have the industrial capacity to produce these things at scale. What can America, what can anyone do when faced with that sort of onslaught? It will take out aircraft carriers. It will take out entire islands. It'll take out all the island chains. It can take out all the American ships. Everything. It's it's it's a mathematical certainty that if you launch enough projectiles, they will go through defenses. That's what the Chinese will do when it comes to Taiwan. The Chinese can't take Taiwan intact. They know that. But they want Taiwan. Maybe that's what they will do, right? And the Chinese also know that if a war happens, the Americans will will will will target China's oil fields, strategic oil reserves, industrial areas, and so on. And the Chinese will have to find ways of safeguarding that. So the Chinese have seen what the American strategy strategies and tactics are, what has worked, what's not worked, and they can see what the Iranian strategies are and what's worked and the Chinese can take it to the next level. So this these these are the lessons of war, caution, etc. that the Chinese will be in the process of learning and that's something India also has to learn, right? and the importance of having high quality satellites, military satellites, satellite imagery and and and satellite positioning systems. India doesn't have a satellite position position positioning system anymore. The government of India has allowed NAI to become defunct defunct. We had something called Navic, right? A regional satellite positioning system. The government of India has allowed it to become defunct. It'll take at least a year or two for us to have an operational u satellite positioning system once again. What if there's a war between us and and China in the meanwhile or us and Pakistan? What happens? I wonder what happens. Wonderful. Praradana says it's amazing how many of our YouTubers are on the MOSAD payroll. Only YouTubers, not journalists. I don't know. I'm just speculating. Amazing, isn't it? WBKT says, "Your opinion on on MC21 and PD14 engine tech sovereignty." I don't know what these things are, but I can find out. What is MC21 and PD14? MC21. What's that? Yakovv. It's a Yakovv aircraft. Um, are we manufacturing it in India? We uh let me just see variance and operators etc. Proposed variance. Is there anything to do with India India? Okay. I don't know. Maybe there'll be something to do with this in India. The Sukoy super super Sukoy thing we were going ahead with, right? Are we also going ahead with the Yakovv MC uh 21? What's the engine? Is it the PD14? Okay. PD14 engine. PD14 engine. Is India going to operate this or buy it? No idea. Uh so I'm not aware of whether India has any plans to acquire this aircraft, manufacture it in India, maybe manufacture the engine. I don't know about this. um if we do good as long as we are able to manufacture it in-house in India and about the engine if we can acquire the technology if we can purchase the technology great for us but I don't know if we have any plans for that Jooshi says what seems to be the direction of the US Iran war now Iran leadership seems to get decimated but they are targeting energy sites and not US bases anymore ceasefire soon no ceasefire soon no ceasefire soon Iran doesn't want a ceasefire Iran has given terms for for a ceasefire. Iran is given the kind of terms that will never be acceptable to the US which essentially is a way of saying we don't want a ceasefire. Iran says that the US has to pay huge compensation to Iran. huge compensation and Iran India and the US has to pass a bill or law in Congress that prevents the Americans from ever waging war against Iran again and America has to withdraw from all the military military installations it had in the Gulf region and I suppose something else as well. These are the terms some of the terms that the Iranians have put forth for a ceasefire. These are never going to be accept acceptable to the US. There's no ceasefire coming anytime soon. I hope I'm completely wrong, but I don't see it happening. I hope I'm wrong. I'll be happy if I'm wrong, but I don't see a ceasefire coming. Iran's leadership is decimated. Doesn't make any difference to Iran. Iran is going to be just fine. They're going to have new leaders, perhaps more capable leaders, definitely more hardline leaders. Okay? In India, we feel that a nation can only have two or three leaders. No, a nation can produce thousands of leaders. In a nation like India, you have thousands, tens of thousands of very highquality leaders who are never allowed to rise up the whose potential is suppressed by the existing elite. It's called the phenomenon of elite over production in Iran. That problem is being solved by the Americans and the and the Israelis. So the fresh young blood is going to come up now. It's like what you have in in warfare in battle on on battle. What happens when you have a battle going on and your dealer gets killed? Your commander of your of your regiment or or or your brigade gets killed. You have an on the spot field promotion. The most capable person is made the leader immediately, the commander. And these field promotions, they typically give you the best leaders. Field promotions happen under under terrible stress. When you are being shot at where your commander has been killed, that's when you have to elevate the most capable person to the position of leadership. Not the most senior person necessarily, the most capable person so that you can all survive and you can win the battle. So that's when the best leadership emerges. Iran is in that position now where they will have to promote the most capable people, not the most senior people. That's where new leaders truly emerge. Iran is going to be fine from that perspective. The leadership is decipated. Makes no difference. They're going to be fine. They're targeting energy sites. They're targeting all the all the weak points and pain points of their enemies. They're doing a great job of that. Yeah, they've done their homework. Rishab Rashit says, "Good evening. What's is scope X and Bill Gates trying to go to do about solar geoengineering? Is it really related to southern weather change?" I don't know about scopeex, but let's find out. Scopeex. What is ScopeEx? It's a game on Steam. It's a game on Steam. But is there something else to Scopex? Scopeex. Um, SC suspended. Oh, Scopex. No, no, no. I'm not playing a YouTube video. No, no, no, no, no. Scope X with a capital P. What is that? Let's see. What is this? Uh suspended Harvard stratospheric geoengineering research project. Scopeex Harvard stratospheric stratospheric. Okay. What is this? It's something that's suspended. So I don't know. I'm not going to open the thing and start doing research about this and try and understand what it is. Looks like it's suspended. Um, so yeah, I don't know. It's a suspended project. It had something to do with Howard, not Bill Gates. So I don't really know. So yeah, I don't know. Pratik Kumar Royce says, "Did you see Durand the Revenge? It came out today. I haven't seen it yet. I do plan to vis to to watch the movie. I would not mind watching it uh very soon." Um, okay. I hear I heard there's a scene in which they show that the Pakistani nuclear codes are under Israeli control. That'll be interesting. That'll be interesting if that's the case. I haven't seen it. I shall watch it uh at some point in time and I shall share my views at that point once I watch it. Okay. Barat M. Kulkarnney says, "US gains from GCC oil loss but loses petro dollar inflow kind of." Yeah. Um yeah, so the US is said to be at least on paper the world's largest producer of of oil. And if the GCC nations are are are impacted badly like they are right now and they uh and their exports fall because of the closure or partial closure the selective closure of the state of Hormuz then long-term the US will gain if this situation persists for months then the US exports will rise significantly and make up for the loss of exports from Hormos. So the US will benefit in that p from that perspective but the petro dollar inflow will be lost. So then the oil that the Americans will will sell will obviously be sold in in dollars. Yes. Uh but long-term if the Iranians are able to prevail then it doesn't make any sense for the GCC nations to in the future long-term keep selling oil in US dollars. If the Iranians prevail and destroy the American bases permanently in the region which means the Americans can't arm twist the GCC nations in that case things will change and the petro dollar system could collapse in that case. Surabi says watched Durand 2. The movie is the goat. It has exposed Pakistan and its operators in India like no other. It showed ISI ties with Israel. Explain. I can only explain once I watch it. I haven't seen it. I don't know what the ties with Israel are but it's very interesting. I'm hearing this Israel angle. Very interesting. Very interesting. I shall watch it at the earliest but I haven't seen it so I can't explain anything at this point. Push says Japan and South Korea are under permanent US military occupation. Indeed. Indeed. Like I have explained to the world still they have better infra education etc. Does becoming a US benefit India that way? I have answered this question so many times. Let me answer it again. Japan until the m until the early 1980s was the world's fastest growing large economy. It was the world's second largest economy. It was on track to surpass the US as the largest economy. Okay, at that time Japan was a very high income nation. Then the Americans imposed the Plaza Accords on Japan. They tweaked the Japanese economy and Japan went into a very slow decline and today Japan is a middle inome nation. It's no longer a high income nation. Would you believe it? And Japan's total fertility rate has declined drastically. It has become so bad that in a 100 years there may be no Japanese people left. So temporarily for a few years you can enjoy your better infrastructure educa education education system in Japan it's high quality but it is extremely stressful for people and it's one of the contributing factors of Japan having such a low TFR today okay so long-term Japan is finished sadly tragically that's what happens when you're a vasal temporarily through three generations four five generations You enjoy vasalhood. You have a high quality of living. You have great infrastructure. But 40, 50 years down the line, your children are the last of of your lineage. Or your grandchildren are the last of your lineage. After that, there's no lineage left. You you're done. You're finished. Your bloodline is over. All the bloodlines are over. Then the Americans will bring in immigrants into Japan and they will take over Japan. People from Bangladesh, Pakistan, African nations. etc. In a 100 years, there'll be the new Japanese. South Korea, same disaster, TFR loss. South Korea is not producing babies anymore. In 100 years, there'll be no South Koreans left. Do you want that for India? Does that somehow benefit India? Becoming a US vasal. While you are useful, you will enjoy some perks of vasalhood. But sooner or later, when the overlord decides your time is up, your time is up. You're finished. Anabil Sarkar says, "Have you watched Durand 2? Love your content." Thank you for loving my content. I haven't watched it yet, but I shall watch it as soon as I can. Okay. Prataradana says, "Government lost the support of a lot of young people. Example, FE in India, defense, technology, independence, ISO, Manipur, Bangladesh's education, UGC issues. Hopefully they wake up. Hopefully they wake up. Hopefully they wake up. Yes. uh fake in India uh defense and technological independence or lack of independence. Yeah, ISRO India has just allowed ISRO to slip. The government has dropped the ball when it comes to space space exploration. It's not some luxury activity space exploration. It is the future of humanity. If we don't invest in space today, then our future generations will be left behind like nothing you can imagine. So space the government doesn't seem to think it's important. ISRO is exists as a luxury project. It looks like for this government manipur disaster beyond imagination. Bangladesh is tens of millions of Bangladesh all over India. Maybe increasing education UGC. Yeah. all these issues. So I hope the government of India wakes up. I hope they wake up. Pratip Kumar Roy says what is this World Economic Forum? The WF is this uh economic organization controlled at the end of the day by the Americans. uh that has the objective of uh uh helping nations with see there is the IMF there's the world bank there's the world economic forum they all play different roles the IMF and world bank issue loans to countries and vasalize those countries economically and obviously the world bank and IMF are owned by the Americans at the end of the day okay whether directly or indirectly they are owned by the Americans sometimes it's very indirect but at the end of the day they are owned by the Americans sim similarly The WF is, you could say, a manifestation of the deep state that that owns the Americans. And the WF its objective is to penetrate the cabinets of various countries and to shape the economic policies and the futures of various countries that it is it's able to penetrate. So essentially, it's another vasalization tool that the Americans or the deep state have. Okay. Kumar says how what or how can we sabotage US infra and important projects we don't talk about such things no we don't discuss such things we don't do such things either Jose Fashik says can we make straight form like a choke point in the Indian Ocean well you can't create geographical choke points you can only uh leverage them or use them if you have them nearby. So let's take a look at the geography around India. So let's go to the map. H so in our neighborhood we have at least three choke points. Okay. So this is India and the Indian Ocean region. Okay. Now what choke points do we have? So one is Hormuz of course which is in our neighborhood. It is not far from India. So you could say it's it's part of our uh area of interest. That's a straight of Hormos. Secondly, we have Babal Mandib and the Indian Navy has operated in this region to ensure that there is no piracy. So this this strait is another geographical choke point. It's called the Bab al-mand strait. That's between the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden. Then we have the straight straight of Malaka over here. That's another very important choke point. Then you also have the sunda strait right? Where is the sunda straight? This one here. What is this uh straight called? Uh whatever it's called. This is another another choke point that is an alternative to the straight of hor to the straight of Mala. So these are three choke points in our neighborhood and India if it wants has the ability to blockade all three if the Indian Navy is capable enough. Indian navy is definitely capable enough to blockade Mala which means that it can also blockade hormos if it wants and even Bab al-mand the Indian Navy is the most powerful navy in this entire region right so if required we can do this but ideally we don't want to ever do these things we should not be in a position where we have to take such measures but we can if we have to so how do you blockade a straight or a choke point you use n you can use naval firepower. You can use submarines. You can lay mines there. You can use missiles. You can use aircraft anti-access area denial strategies and so on. You can create A2A bubbles. That's another thing. That's how you blockade. That's multiple ways of blockading choke point. Aw. Okay. No question. Thank you very much. AW. Thank you. Kakashi says Shabbah Sharif in the US met pro-Israel Jewish lobby who praised him for removing Israel critical clauses in OIC statements also what is Mossad doing in the in India's far east or northeast yes so I remember that when Aim Munir was in the US he has made multiple visits to the US met with Donald Trump right um the American warlord. So when Shabbat when Aim Munir was in the US, the Pakistani embassy or consulate whatever it was had organized a dinner in the honor of Aim Mun, their dictator and one of the attendees was an Israeli military officer. So there was an Israeli military presence at least one person at least maybe more in that dinner hosted by Pakistani diplomats Pakistani embassy or consulate in honor of the Pakistani dictator that was reported by the media. Okay. Now I don't know about the story about Shabb Sharif meeting Jewish lobby or whatever but uh not very surprising. I I am personally not surprised if that is the case if if that really happened. Um what is Mossad doing in the northeast? Well, I think the government of India needs to look into whatever the Mossad is doing in the northeast. See the disaster in Manipur, it is caused by cookie terrorists. Okay, these cookie terrorists, these cookies, these cookies are not Indian, they are not Burmese. They come from God knows maybe the Yunan region that's currently occupied by China. They are not Burmese. They don't speak the Burmese language. They don't practice Burmese culture. They don't respect Burmese culture. They don't practice Indian culture or respect Indian culture. They are handin glove with foreign elements whether it is the church, whether it is various intelligence agencies. Okay. These cookies, some of them claim to be Jewish. we are one of the Jew lost Jewish tribes or something and Israel has been offering these individuals citizenship of Israel. So they so Israel, Israeli rabbis or whatever, they baptize these people into Judaism and then once they become Jewish, once they're officially Jewish, they are given Israeli citizenship. Then they are settled in conflict zones in Israel where there is high levels of conflict between um Israel and the Palestinians. So So these cookies are settled in those areas. Okay. And there's been allegedly racism against the cookies in Israel. And uh at least one cookie individual was um was murdered for whatever reason. Uh that sort of thing. And the cookies claim to be Jews, but they have no Jewish DNA whatsoever. Okay. And cookies eat pork and dogs. They eat dog meat. They eat pork meat, pig meat. So how can people who love eating pork become Jews? I wonder. But anyway there seems to be some utility that they have. Okay. Um yeah and when this violence broke out in Manipur the cookies terrorizing the natives there was a lot of support for these cookie terrorists allegedly from Israel. Maybe it is the Israeli cookies who were supporting it these cookies possibly. But there's at least one instance where there was a group of Indian influencers who were invited to visit Israel. Okay. Including an Indian politician. And the Israeli government brought a cookie rabbi to meet these Indian influencers to explain Israel's position on the Manipur issue or whatever. Now that is direct blatant interference in the internal affairs of India by Israel that one incident. So yeah it's a good question what is Israel's involvement if any in Manipur in the disaster that's happening in Manipur ongoing you know on in the ongoing disaster in Manipur and I think the government of India also needs to look into this very carefully. An says why is Jinism despite being ancient Vic religion not that widespread as compared to its contemporaries Hinduism and Buddhism these things eb and flow there was a time when Buddhism was widespread across the subcontinent wasn't it was the major religion or the major branch of Hinduism the branch it was the major branch of the dharmic umbrella within the subcontinent Buddhism it was elevated to that status artificially by Ashok Kamaria and so it it was prevalent for a few centuries and then it naturally declined in in in any civilization changes happened naturally there was there were times when Janism was a very big deal uh one of Ashok's grandsons I forget his name he built tens of thousands of Jane temples in various parts of the subcontinent. So Janism was prevalent for a long time. It was very prevalent in in the southern parts of India for a long time and then eventually it also declined but it's not gone anywhere. It's still there. There are fewer people who practice janism today. Maybe in 2,000 years there'll be way more. Who knows? We never know. These things eb and flow naturally. Sometimes there is an artificial component to that when you have imperial patronage for one of the branches of dharma. For example, Buddhism got imperial patronage from from Ashoke and that's why it spread so much. So there are various reasons for this. I don't know specifically why Janism declined and it has only few lakh or few million followers today. I don't know exactly specifically what happened but these are natural civilizational processes. Pratip Kumar Roy says just realize the Bohemian Grove owl statue altar is similar to the original Illuminati symbol. Okay, I have no understanding of these things but let us see what's the original illumin. Okay, first of all, what's the Bohemian grove owl? Bohemian grove owl statue. What is that? Let us see what it looks like. Okay, this sort of thing is it? Yeah, it looks rather woo creepy this thing here. Okay, so this is the alleged uh thing. This is the alleged picture of the alleged statue. Now, what's the original Illuminati symbol? Let's see. Original Illuminati symbol. What is that? So, that's a pyramid thing with an I, right? But is there an owl somewhere? Is this the thing? Okay. Okay. So I am not any kind of expert in these matters so I don't really know but uh okay interesting interesting thank you for sharing this interesting piece of information sir. Prar Dhana says government now allegedly starting the DME pilot project really dimethile ether really let's see uh a week after we discussed that last time over here on this show I think the last episode or the one before that dimethile ether India um okay very good do we have any news. So 3 hours ago some news has come out. We discussed this about a week or so ago, didn't we on this channel? So it's possible that somebody in the government may be watching this show. Ask a show. It's very possible. Okay. So it suddenly has emerged in in the last 3 to 5 days. So I discussed dimethile ether on this show in one of the last one or two episodes. I I didn't come up with it. Somebody in my audience pointed out that DME is a great potential fuel source. So that's why it was discussed by me at the behest of one of my viewers. It was discussed on this channel I think a week or so ago and now in the past 3 to five days it's in the news that it's emerging as a great alternative to LPG. Well, I'm glad. I'm glad. I'm glad. I thank whoever my viewer was who pointed this out and I thank whoever in the government has noticed it. All right. I'm I'm pleased. I'm happy. Good. Anur Das says US getting pounded. India's chances of sovereignty high. Let's let's not count our chickens before they hatch. US is getting pounded but we are still technologically very badly dependent on the Americans. Whether it is airplanes, whether it is uh Boeing, whether it is um automobile engines, whether it is laptops, whether it is phones, mobile phones, whether it is semiconductors, whether it's the internet, whether that's social media. We are very very badly dependent on the United States. Our people, our government has simply just dropped the ball on these things. We are one of the biggest importers of arms in the world. But overall I would say that the US is getting pounded by Iran and the chances of our sovereignty slipping further are lower. Sure that that that much is good. Yes. Yet user says the Indian rupee keeps on falling even against small countries like Thailand, Sri Lanka. Do you think it's bad for us given we are increasingly an import based economy? Is it bad for us? It's good if you're an export based economy. If you're an import-based economy, it's not good for you. Yeah, the government needs to do something to shore it up. Maybe it's a maybe it's a strategy to have the Indian rupee decline. Forget about the prestige of having a high value currency, but maybe it's beneficial in some way. I'm not sure what it is. Uh but yeah the Indian rupee is right now what 93 or something as a compared to the dollar. It was 90 a week ago. So it seems to be dropping compared to the dollar. The dollar can be manu can be manipulated artificially. We know that the Americans do it all the time. But what's the current rate? Indian rupee to US dollar. Uh let's let's uh do it the other way around. US dollar to Indian rupee. 93. Sorry. You see 93 and 21st of February it was 90.73. So that's a month ago, right? Okay. A month ago it was 90.73. Now it's 93.14. So you can see it's it's declining. Sure. Yeah. Is that overall bad for India? I'm not really sure. It will have to there are lots of factors that you have to consider into that. But overall yes, there is a decline. significant visible decline. Al- Kashikari says, "How come the US overlooked Iran's chokepoint weaponization strategy? Is this overconfidence or stupidity on their path?" You know, overconfidence and stupidity are essentially two sides of the same coin. It's the same thing. Uh overconfidence, it can be a symptom of stupidity. Uh so what's happened? See when the Americans got into this war at the behest of Israel looks like they were operating under the assumption that the war will be over in a couple of days. They thought I think it looks like they thought that if they assassinate Kame and the top leadership the Iranians will come begging for a ceasefire and they'll be they'll come begging for surrender. We want to surrender. stop the war. That's what the Americans imagined most likely. They had no idea what was coming for them. They had not dreamt in a thousand years that Iran would put up the kind of fight it is putting up, right? They thought it'll be like Venezuela. We go in, we take out Kamei, we kill their leadership, we drop a few tons of bombs and that's it over. We get what we want. So that is stupidity multiplied by our confidence. Yeah. Isn't it? Yeah. Nadit warm says how probable percentage wise is it for this war to go nuclear? I would say right now I would give it a very low probability maybe like 1% or 2%. Right? the longer it goes on. See, the question is who is more likely to resort to the use of nuclear weapons? Is it the US? Is it Israel? There's only two nuclear powers involved in this. Pakistan isn't and Pakistan is a is not really nuclear power. It's a it's a it's a custodian of American nuclear weapons now. So, it's the either the US or Israel that could take this war into the nuclear dimension. The US will not see any of it m its major red lines crossed. All the major red lines have already been crossed essentially for the US. All their military bases in the region have been targeted significantly maybe completely destroyed some of them. Who knows? We don't know. It is being the news is being suppressed. So we don't know. So those red lines are crossed and the Americans obviously haven't responded in a nuclear manner. Obviously not because see US territory is not being threatened and so on. So the US is less likely significantly less likely to even think about nuclear weapons. But Iran, Israel, Israel, Israel is being targeted by the Iranians on a daily basis in retaliation to whatever the Americans and Israelis are doing. And the Iranians are able to now hit Israeli targets way more frequently and precisely than in the first couple of weeks of the war. even though the Iranians are now launching less missiles per day, but still the missiles are going through because the Israelis have run out of of most of their interceptors. So the longer this continues, the more pain Israel is going to have to take. And if the Israelis escalate somewhere and the Iranians hit the Muna for example, the negative nuclear uh res research facility, then that's a red line, significant red line for Israel. If the Iranians are able to take out Israel's missile silos, because Israel is a small territory, if they want to launch nuclear missiles, there's only a few places where their silos are, and they're quite visible if you know where to look. If Iran takes that out, then Israel could get desperate and maybe launch a nuclear strike. So I think right now, as of today, the percentage probability of of this war going nuclear maybe like 1 or 2%. And I hope it doesn't go above that. But overall, I would say Israel is way more likely than the US to think about using nuclear weapons. Roarana says, "Jenz is consuming a lot of pro-Israel US media. Iran is being portrayed as the fun funer of terrorism in the world. Can you recall how terrorism game started for the youth of Bat? Well, how did this entire business of terrorism start? It is asymmetric warfare that was turned against nations. Oh, when I was a kid, the out. When I was kid, the the Soviets invaded Afghanistan on Christmas Day 1979. In response to that, very quickly, the Americans started training the mujahedin in Pakistan and the mujahedin were then pushed over into Afghanistan with indirectly supplied American arms, ammunition and funds via Pakistan. And the mujahedin fought the Soviets over a period of a decade and they learned all these unconventional guerrilla tactics of guerrilla warfare tactics, asymmetric warfare tactics and so on and they they eventually uh outlasted the Soviets and the Soviets retreated withdrew from Afghanistan 1988 or 89 whichever year it was and then Pakistanis realized we have this we have overproduced mujahedines now let's take this over capacity we have and funnel it into Kashmir. So that is the start of terrorism in Kashmir. But in the 1980s the Pakistanis were already using terrorism in in Punjab in Punjab right. So that's kind of where terrorism starts using asymmetric guerrilla warfare tactics against unarmed people civilian people civilians of India terrorizing the people trying to destroy this their way of life that is terrorism. So Pakistan is the originator of terrorism. When I was a kid, like now I say I in the 80s I lived in Europe and there was this uh there was talk of terrorism. There was this li civil war going on in Lebanon at the time. Okay. General Michel was one of the guys and there was this Abu Nidal group that was one of the original Middle Eastern terrorist groups. Let's see. Abu Nidal group. Abu Nidal organization founded in 1974 Palestinian militant group. So they were from their perspective freedom fighters but eventually the Americans in the 1980s designated them as terrorists. But the game of terrorism essentially starts with Pakistan. Okay. It starts with Pakistan. So the Abu Dhabal organization was fighting for the so-called independence of so-called Palestine. Okay. Maybe from their perspective, from their worldview, they were correct. They were fighting for independence. Okay. Um but what Pakistan did visav Indian Punjab and and Kashmir was terrorism. They pushed in terrorists to strike at civilians. So that is how the game of terrorism started worldwide. Started with Pakistan. Essentially Iran what what does Iran have to do with terrorism? Iran obviously seems to be on good terms with Hamas and Hamas is a terrorist organization. Well, if you want to draw parallel, the US is is on good terms with Pakistan, the global epicenter of terrorism and the Americans funded and financed Pakistan terrorism for decades. So if Ian is a supporter of terrorism in some sense, then the US is a far bigger supporter of terrorism in a lot of other senses, right? But you have to learn how to think in order to in order to be able to see this parallels. Gen Z, what can I say? They'll consume whatever media is available to them, right? You can't blame them. Can't blame them. So yeah, even the Indian media is portray a lot of the Indian media, much of the Indian Indian media is portraying Iran in that manner. Kakashi says if India is sovereign then why doesn't the US oppose India publicly like it does Iran, Russia, China, CUV, CU whatever else is India anti-imperialist like this countries? No. India is trying to walk the tight rope. India is trying to balance things out like every weak all weak countries do that they try to balance things out. They want to be on all sides. They want to be multi-aligned. They also want to be on good terms with the Americans. Right? So India is not doing the kinds of things that Russia or China are doing. Being totally upright and completely uncompromising when it comes to American attempts to infiltrate them. When Xiinping came to power, it is said that lots of Chinese compromised Chinese officials were rounded up and taken care of. Russia does that from time to time. Anyone who is in the least way compromised by the Americans is taken out, is taken care of. Does India do that? So why would the US oppose India the same way it opposes Russia or China? Right? India is perfectly fine with being infiltrated and penetrated by the Americans at various levels. India is perfectly fine with that. So, so then you are absolutely right to ask whether India is genuinely sovereign. Right now, India is on my list of sovereign nations. I made that list. I revised I made that list in 2024. I revised it on the day Iran was attacked by the Americans and the Israelis. But I have not revised or or or revisited India's position on the list. Once this war is over, hopefully soon I shall revisit the entire list and the entire system of rankings. And if the war doesn't end in a few months, I'll do it anyway. Right? But your question is very relevant. Is India genuinely sovereign? I think it's a very good question to ask at this point in time. Krishant Boraloy says, "It's my 20th birthday. Wish me happy birthday. Big fan from Assam. Love from Assam. Currently in the theaters watching Dunda 2. It's inter law. Brilliant movie. Well, I'm glad you got got to saw this brilliant movie on your 20th birthday. I wish you a very happy birthday. I wish you a long and successful and prosperous life. Do well. Do succeed in whatever you whatever you're doing. All the best and enjoy your birthday. Kakashi says, "Are Sahil states sovereign or Russian vasals?" Most of them are dependent on Russia. They used to be French vasals and even now many of these Sahil nations um they their currency even now is controlled by France. Okay. So from that perspective they can't be sovereign. They are not economically sovereign. The Sahel nations let's let's take a look let's let's look into this in a little more detail. Okay. Sahel nations. Sahel nations. Okay. What are the nations? Key Sahelian nations. Seneagal. Moitania. Maliaso. Nijair. Okay. Let's say nijair. Nger currency. It will be the ner. I'm sure this the west African CF the Frank and that currency. Okay. The west African CFA Frank. It's issued by the Bank of France. Okay. It is issued by the Bank of Sefote Africation. It is issued by whom? It is issued Central Bank of West African States. Oh, really? And okay. So right now it is based out of da da in synagal but some in some shape or form or the other this is all controlled by France. Okay obviously they'll try and hide it as much as possible. So historically the Sahel nations whether it is Nijer it is Bokina it is whoever else Sagal Mitania and so on so forth they were all vasals of France they were all colonized or occupied by France and the French withdrew but they they still kept these nations vasalized and today some of these nations are turning to Russia for help. So they will therefore in that case no longer be vasalized by France. They may be you could say semi- sovereign but semi- sovereign with the assistance of Russia. And if the Russian assistance is no longer forthcoming they will again get vasalized by somebody else. So these are these are semi- sovereign semi-asal states. I would not consider them to be Russian vasals but I would consider them to be not completely but significantly dependent on Russia. So obviously Russia will also extract some benefit from it. So not sovereign you could say semi- vasalized states. Anan Singh says seems the US is not as powerful as you said. Is that so? So I'll tell you what I'm I'm sure this gives you great amount of joy that I have turned out to be not entirely correct. But the thing is this the world is an evolving place. I have put out a system of rankings right hard power rankings. And the last time I calculated that the US had a hard hard power score of 94. It is the it was the world's most powerful nation from a hard power perspective. What are the components of the hard power formula or recipe? You have things like population area. You have things like uh GDP. You have things like uh military expenditure. uh various aspects of sovereignty, energy independence, uh number of nukes and so many other factors. All of these combined together you can create a a score for each nation. The US had a score of 94. When I calculated this in 2024, today because of the US bungling of its Iran campaign, if I recalculate this, the hard power score of the US is going to decline and Iran's hard power score is going to rise. So the world keeps changing. My dear friends, if I said something two years ago, it may not be applicable anymore and it should not give you a great amount of pleasure. It should make you think that why have things changed? Okay, I you know it it obviously pleases you if somebody is proven to be wrong. I have not been proven to be wrong. What I said in 2024 was correct for 2024. Today the Americans have the firepower but they have messed up very badly with their strategy, their tactics, their assumptions and their execution and most importantly their military doctrine. So you may have the world's most powerful military, but if you use it incorrectly, you're going to still lose and then your hard power score suffers. So it is the US's own fault that it hard its hard power score will now decrease when I calculate it again. Anyway, I'm I'm glad that this pleased you an Singh. That's all right. Black Panther says when the US is fighting two wars Iran and Russia even now China can't take Taiwan now then what is best time I think China should actually if I were to put on put myself in Chinese shoes I would wait for this war to go on for a few months for a few more months and the US to to corner itself even more to dig an even deeper hole for themselves Because clearly Israel wants this war to continue. And as long as Israel is fighting, the Americans can't move out. For some reason, the US has to be involved wherever the US, wherever Israel is involved. So if I was the Chinese leadership, I would want this war to go on for a few more months at least so that the Americans their their stockpiles of munitions and whatnot, weapons, etc., etc., etc. are depleted even further. But I would not want to wait for let's say let's say 6 months to one year, maximum 6 months. By that time the Americans may start producing more munitions on an emergency basis. So that process of restarting production at at large scale that takes typically a few months to begin maybe 6 months. So I think the best time for China is 6 months from now, four to 6 months from now. If the war is still going at the time, 6 months from now, that is the right time probably to take Taiwan or depending on how long it will take for the Americans to restart large scale production of munitions, missiles, etc. Whatever the time is, whether it is 4 months, 6 months, or even 8 months, maybe even 1 year, whatever is the time it takes for them to restart. wait that long and then make a move on Taiwan. May that may be the best time for China. Pratipar Royce's favorite Dragon Ball Z character. I've never watched Dragon Ball Z. I don't know. I know some people who have watched it. What is Goku or something? Was it Goku? What's the character called? Dragon Ball Z. I I have never watched Dragon Ball Z. Uh what's Dragon Ball Z? Let's see. Dragon Ball Z. What's that? Um, yeah, there's this character called Goku, right? Goku, Z warriors, etc. So, I have never watched it. There are people whose entire childhood was spent watching this. I'm not one of those. Okay. Aloud Kumar says, "Benefits and cons of anxenex in Northern Mum." What's Mum? Myanmar in short-term long-term benefits of annexing northern MM is what? Myanmar. Um, look, if you want to annex northern Myanmar, you need to first of all plan the operation very very thoroughly benefits. Benefits you can acquire the resources of this region. You can reintegrate Kabo Valley with Manipur and this area this big area is full of lots tremendous amounts of natural resources including rare earth minerals. So that's a benefit. Cons. What are the shortcomings? What are the drawbacks? All the tribes that really live in this region are cookies and various Christian converted tribes. The people who lived in this region historically were Hindus and Buddhists. Today you have a bunch of wild cookies and a whole bunch of tribes that have been in the past 50 or 100 years converted to Christianity. They they're all aligned with the US. Some of them are some of them are aligned with China. They'll fight you. If you enex them, they'll fight you unless you know how to pacify them thoroughly. Learn from the Americans. if you want to learn how to pacify somebody. But that that that's a messy nasty process. If they were culturally and civilizationally aligned with us, then the next session could have been done peacefully. But these are all converted to Abrahamic religions mainly Christianity. So it's going to be mess. Uh that's one drawback. Another drawback is China will oppose you and they'll fight you. So Argabal says if China moves on Taiwan while Russia escalates and the Iran Israel conflict is Iran Israel US conflict continues for two three months. How would the US military handle sustained multi-theater pressure? Why Chinese tech is called cheap? I would say Indians especially Indian influencers and YouTubers and retired mer mil military personnel these groups of people in India they love to make fun of Chinese technology. India should be very careful to not get overconfident about China. The Chinese technology that is exported to Pakistan may be trash. The Chinese technology that is that Iran is using right now, it's world class. It's better than what the Americans have. For example, the Iranians are using Chinese BU satellite positional techn satellite positioning technology. The Americans are unable to jam that and it's more accurate allegedly than the GPS that the Americans have. Okay. The Chinese also have extremely high quality satellite imaging technology that gives Iran almost realtime satellite images of of the targets. And the Chinese I believe their drones are high quality, probably worldass, maybe even better than Iranian drones. Their missiles, we haven't seen them. They also could be very high quality. We should not take China lightly. Indians love to make fun of China. You know that may come back to bite you in the backside. Don't don't be overconfident about about anybody. The Chinese have the world's best industrial u capabilities better than the US. Let's not take China lightly. Uh now if China moves on Taiwan, Russia escalates, Iran conflict continues to three months, how would the US military handle sustained multi-theater pressure? They will not be able to handle sustained multi-theater pressure. When it comes to an eastern theater, maybe China making a move on Taiwan, the Americans will force the Japanese and and the Koreans to enter the war, South Koreans, which means the Korean conflict resumes after decades because North Korea will then make a move on South Korea. That's guaranteed. So the Korean war reerupts and Japan is dragged into the conflict. Okay. And if that and and I think Russia will sit it out, but they'll go on high alert in the eastern zone. So the Americans will drag Japan and South Korea into the conflict, which means Japan and South Korea at some point in time get very badly damaged or destroyed. The Americans are fine with sacrificing their vasals. But even then, if the Chinese have scaled up their production of drones and missiles, I wonder how long even that that lasts. If the Chinese have sufficient stockpiles, they'll be able to defeat South Korea and Japan, both and the Americans. If they have the numbers of missiles and drones, it's just a mathematical game at this point. If you have more missiles and drones than your opponent, you win. It's just a numerical thing. So the Americans won't be able to as long as the Chinese are willing to take damage to win. They'll win. The Chinese thus far have been extremely risk averse. They're just buying time. They want to produce as many drones and missiles as possible in in whatever time is there before the next war. Right? So I think China wins that and Indians need to be very careful about Indians need to stop making fun of China. China is is not that bad. China is technologically far ahead of India by the way. Our Rajun Rajar says why we made arrest of the infiltrators public. Good question. We could have kept it a secret so that no one will ask them back. That's a good question. Why did India make this uh public? The arrest of the American terrorist and the Ukrainian mercenaries. Why did India make this public? If we had kept this quiet, then the Americans can't put pressure on India in public. Can't ask for them back. The Ukrainians can't make those statements. So why did India make this a public thing? India made this a public thing for some reason. That's a reason. It's a India is sending a message to Trump. Clearly India is sending a message to Trump and to the Americans. Now what is the message and what are we looking for? I don't know. Is there's this guy called Nikil Gupta allegedly an Indian national who was arrested by the Americans. Right? He was made to confess that he was involved in some kind of attempt to kill an American terrorist Guratman Singh Panun or something. So does India want that guy back in exchange for this American terrorist? Is that all we want or is India actually is India actually you know does India really want to begin the process of ending the manipur disaster. So I don't know what the deal is but for some reason we are sending a message to Trump and to the Trump regime that that's why this was made public. But what is the long inner game? Maybe some YouTube row agents will know about it. I don't know about it. Pratik Kumar Roy says do you believe in God? Is there God? Well, I have never seen any evidence of God. I have never I have never witnessed or experienced any supernatural activity. Okay. So, I am by training a scientist. I'm by tra by by nature I'm a skeptical person. But I'm also a very optimistic person. So, I don't know. I have never seen any observational evidence of God or any supernatural element in this universe. So I don't know from that perspective if there's God or not. But I am very hopeful. So you could say I'm a hopeful agnostic. Agnostic in the sense that I don't know if there's God or not. I I'm not easy to convince. I don't blindly believe things. So I but the universe is so vast, so immense that I think this the very scale and immensity of the universe is so so huge that if you say that I am an atheist, you're an idiot. If you are, if you have some intelligence, then you cannot be an atheist. The universe is being an atheist means you're claiming I know everything that there's in the universe and I know that there's no God because I I I've seen every inch of the universe myself. Only an idiot will make such a claim from my perspective. Maybe I'm the idiot for thinking it for seeing it that way, but whatever. So, the way I see it, atheists, okay, let's not talk about atheists. My point is I am am an agnostic. I don't know whether there is a god or whether there isn't a god. But I'm hopeful that there is a god. I'll be the happiest person if god does indeed exist or gods do indeed exist. I'll be the happiest person. Right. Okay. V for valor says thank you and to everybody watching this also. Thank you. Infernojes says, "One, do you have a plan to leverage AI to solve answering FAQs in your live streams? Two, despite India's screw-ups, what soft signals keep you hopeful?" Okay. Uh, do I have a plan to leverage AI to help to solve answering FAQs in my live streams? How do I use AI to answer FAQs? Um, I'm taking this these questions live, right? um how can I use AI in that? Uh when I one way I could potentially use AI is when I have uh even that's not actually fair for the viewers but it's an idea. So when I have these uh live streams in which I take pre-selected questions, live streams in which I select questions that you have asked in the comments with the hashtag askit in that case what I could do if there's like 300 500 questions people have asked. I could copy paste them all and dump into AI and tell the AI to select the most interesting 30 questions for me or whatever. But even that's not a good idea because then the AI will decide on its own what is interesting, what's not. it won't have my taste and my decision making baked into it. Right? So I don't see any way of using AI of leveraging AI and uh yeah this ask a show is entirely AI free entirely AI free there's no feasible reasonable way of integrating AI into it and even when it comes to selecting questions it makes sense for me to go through all the questions and manually select what I feel are the most important most interesting questions and the questions that will whose answers will give the most value to my audience even that cannot be handled by AI right so there's no way of leveraging AI as far as I can see uh despite India's screw-ups what soft signals keep me hopeful what soft signals keep me hopeful while India's huge potential keeps me hopeful mostly it's that it's India's huge potential it's The potential of the people, young people of India, it's it's that that keeps me hopeful. The potential is immense, immense. And India has historically produced highquality leaders. Not in the past 100 years. The last highquality leader we had was Subash Chandra Bos like worldclass highquality leader. And I apologize to those of you who are offended by that because you had some other leader in mind. But okay, the way I see it, the last highquality world-class leader we had was Subashra Bose. After that, we have not produced any great leader. Um but historically we have produced like some of the greatest leaders the humanity has ever seen. So that's another thing that keeps me hopeful. Yeah. And we have come a long way in the since 1947. We have also gone backwards in many ways since 1947. So it's a mixed bag. But these are the things that keep me hopeful. Zir Kat says the current government through its excuse me what? Okay. The current government through its GE no etc. policies has effectively killed more Hindus than orang facilitating the erasure of Hindus. Okay. Um I don't know if statistically it is correct or not. Um Orurange it is New York Times said that Orurange killed 5 million Hindus or 10 million Hindus which obviously is a very conservative statement. If it's New York Times, the actual number will be maybe 10 10 times that or at least five times that. Um, so if orang let's say killed let's say 25,000 Hindus or 25 million Hindus million million have the those money been killed in India the in the past let's say decade I'm not sure about that. uh maybe those money have may have been converted out of Hinduism. I don't know about we don't have the statistics for that also. So I'm not really sure what the statistics in data is but there definitely are areas of concern for sure. Sagi Kachara says not able to send super chat. Why is that? Is the system not allowing you to send it? Is the YouTube system not allowing you to send? I'm sorry to hear that sir. I'm very sorry to hear that. That's beyond my control. This is the platform right? the YouTube platform. Um, sorry, I'm sorry to hear that. I apologize. Aditi Takar says, "Do you think Indra Gandhi was better PM than Modi in terms of geopolitics?" Well, she did, you know, give the Indian army the go-ahhead to to bifurcate Pakistan to to vivisect Pakistan. Um, so that was a very decisive thing to do. uh it was also under her ages that India tested the first nuclear weapon ever 1974 but then put the nuclear program in cold storage right so that was perplexing why why didn't India become a full-fledged nuclear power after 1974 why not do like 20 30 more tests and operationalize the nuclear deterrent why not that was a huge huge uh lapse I would say incomprehensible lapse. Uh she did give the Indian army the go ahead and cleared the path for them for our great Indian army to destroy and defeat Pakistan and break off East Pakistan and converted to Bangladesh. Great. Tremendous. But then we sign she signed the similar agreement. Similar agreement giving back in the territory we had captured Hajibir pass and so on. That again is perplexing. It's like a couple of steps back. So she did uh play the game right with the USSR against the Americans. So many good steps but also many missteps about the current prime minister. I think I will make a public assessment only after there is a next prime minister a few years down the line. Too early to make pass judgment when the he is still prime minister. Right. Right. Panjal Chasia says CIA agent Scott in Manipur. Is the government waking up? We'll see about that. I discussed this in on mult multiple occasions in this liveream. So I'm sure you must have seen that. Uh so I've answered the question. I hope the government is waking up. I hope so. Risha Pawar says ob importance of objective of war and its impact on war psychology. For example, operation sindur which happens only four days. Besides we were on the stronger side that US lacks. that US lacks. What does the US lack? Okay, now I don't know what is US lacking. I'm not sure what you're asking there, but importance of the objectives of war and its impact on war psychology. So what is important when you are about to go to war is having crystal clear is to have a crystal clear understanding of what your objectives are. Understand this. War is a continuation of politics by other means. War is the continuation of politics by military means which means that the objectives have to be political. Politics is not the continuation of war by other means. So you don't go into war and then let the military outcomes determine what your objectives are. No, before you go into war, your leadership, your political leadership needs to very clearly define what constitutes victory, what needs to happen so that we can declare victory. Right? So, it's very clear to know exactly what your objectives are, your political and military objectives. That way the armed forces know exactly what they're supposed to accomplish in what in what time. Also when that clarity is there, you can go into war with full force. If your clarity if your objectives aren't clear, your military actions are going to be muddled and confused. Right? So that's why the objectives have to be very clear, crystal clear. Operation Sundur happened only 4 days. we on stronger side and so on. Yeah. I don't know. I'm not sure what US is lacking but okay. Okay. Old tank says is it possible that IRGC is compromised with MOSAD and CIA as GCC oil and gas destruction is benefiting US? No. No. GCC oil and gas destruction is happening every time it's happening in response to attacks on Iranian oil and gas infrastructure. Only when there's an attack by Israel or the US on Iranian infrastructure is Iran launching an attack on a GCC nation's oil and gas infrastructure. It's happening only in response to that. And if the Iranians if the Israelis or Americans launch attacks on Iranian infrastructure and Iran doesn't respond then Iran is losing it loses credibility. It loses the advantage. It it starts falling back in the war. So Iran is doing whatever it's doing in response. It's not compromised by MOSAD or CIA. Absolutely not. That's that much is clear by now. Maybe there were Mossad or CIA assets in the IRGC maybe in 2025. I don't think there's anyone left today. Okay. Anoj says, "Don't you think Iran can also be a security threat in the future if for any reason our relations get bad? India's Shia Muslims seem to blindly follow Iran's religious leaders, they can create unrest. Look, I'll not go into religious matters. Okay? And u historically Iran has never caused any actual problems for India. Iran has historically historically means 19 since 1975. You geniuses, some genius is going to come and say, "No, but in 1965 this happened. In 1965, Iran was ruled by an American puppet." I'm talking about post 1979. You will drag out Nadisha also who was a Turk not Persian. So those geniuses please go and talk to somebody else not to me. But since 1979 Iran's government has not taken any action that is detrimental to Indian interests. Their leaders have from time to time made statements that annoy India. Sure. But they have never taken any action that is against India's interests. That's one thing. As long as India and Iran don't have a common border, relations won't get bad. When you have two big nations with a common border, that's where you have tensions. Right? I don't see Iran being a security threat to India in the future. I don't see it happening anytime in the in the foreseeable future. Ranjan Singh Raat says, "Is your course in on geopolitics and history available?" Well, the last time I checked it was, is there any problem? If there is a problem, please let me know. I'll look into it. Sagnik Acharia says, "Seems only way to is to rectify this chaotic democratic system at the core, but the inevitable outcome of that is sanctions and isolation. War maybe." You see, in order to rise, you have to first go through a period of pain. It is clear that this chaotic democratic system is ai system where you have an elite class of people whose interests aren't aligned with the most of whom have interests that aren't in line with India's national and civilizational interests and these people are rent seekers who will never allow society to progress the way it should so progress who will never allow the full energy and potential of India's people and youth to unleashed. The system is a parasitical rent seeking system. This so-called democratic system, that's what it is. If you dismantle it, there's going to be a period of chaos, maybe sanctions, maybe isolation, even war. The alternative is you never transcend this system. You know, war, chaos, it's not always a bad thing. It often leads to the rejuvenation of a nation after a period of pain. So I'm not saying I want war. I'm not saying saying I want chaos. But we certainly need to transcend this system and replace it with a better system. Otherwise this country will never achieve its potential. You have to also understand that. So what's the way out is the question. Skeptical potato says in the TV show The Expanse, a terrorist group redirects asteroids to impact cities on Earth, a stealth coating was used to make the asteroids invisible to telescopes. Is this possible in the near future? It's not possible in the near future, but it is it could be possible in the distant future. Uh this entire scenario is perfectly in line with the laws of physics. So there is nothing in the laws of physics that that go that prevents this from happening. Right? This is allowed as per the laws of physics. So you can have spacecraft that can go and drag satellites after out of their current orbit around the sun and redirect them towards the earth's orbit. You can certainly have some kind of coating that makes asteroids almost impossible or de facto invisible to telescopes so that you don't see them approaching. Maybe you coat them with with a thin layer of carbon, black carbon which makes them almost impossible against the darkness of the sky so that you cannot see them until they are right right in front right upon you. It's definitely possible but it's not possible in the near future. It may be possible in the next maybe 200 years, maybe 100 years, not possible in the near future. Impossible. Market whisperer says, "Why are Indians reactive and not proactive? It's the norm, not the exception." Which means it's part of our culture. How can we fundamentally change this? See, the the past 1,000 years, we were under foreign occupation and we developed various various uh behavioral patterns to help us survive. Okay. For a long time we resisted and fought but especially after 1857 when we were to when our war of independence was completely and brutally crushed. That's when the the the the British re-engineered reconfigured our society created an elite class that was a class of collaborators with them and for the rest of society we just had to somehow survive. So lots of Indians became fatalist, fatalistic, passive, reactive, leave it to the gods. We'll just continue to exist and all that. So when a nation is under foreign occupation for a very very very long time, this is what happens, right? How do we fundamentally change this? By Yeah, that's a good question. Uh we have to change our system of governance. We have to probably go to war a few times and win a few times. uh we have to change our education system. A lot of things have to be changed. Right now also the Indian society is very very passive in in in in in the face of foreign infiltration. Oh, our government should take care of it. Our society is very passive in in face in the face of uh rent seeking, alleged corruption so on so forth. We have become very passive, right? We are fundamentally a very orderly society, very civilized society and sometimes you can become too civilized. So that's kind of what it is. So many changes need to happen for us to transcend this this particular uh set of characteristics we have acquired. Vikram says is if Christianity is declining in the west why are they not trying to revive it there and rather trying to gain grounds in new countries. A Christianity it gains ground in its specific circumstances. Um see in the west what's happened is that the west is very educated. The western countries everyone's educated. Everyone can see that Christianity whatever it claims is not true. It claims to be a religion of love. It claim claims to be a religion of whatever miracles and all. And everyone can see that it's not what it is. Right? Their priests their priests have been exposed doing all kinds of horrific Epstein- like things all across the world. The west has seen through that. But in a country like India, you can't speak about that otherwise things happen, you know. So in places like India and in third world countries there is still a lot of fertile ground for the spread of Christianity. So in the west they are doomed. They are finished in the west. That's why they want to stay relevant by by now using third world countries as the hosts for their religion. Minimalist Maverick says India used to give money to Russia for Russia to send weapons to Afghanistan since 2014 status on that. I have no idea. No idea about that. Why is India not giving any support to Afghanistan against Pakistan? Very disappointing. What do you want India to do? Get involved in the war? No. Afghanistan is doing a tremendous job of fighting against Pakistan. They're doing a terrorist terrific job against the Pakistani terrorist regime. India will not give any overt support to Afghanistan. Whatever support India will give will not be communicated to you and me and the world. It will be done quietly. Okay? I'm pretty sure we are uh offering moral support or something or the other quietly to Afghanistan. So let's not be disappointed. Vikram, thank you very much. Vikram, thank you. Pratip Kumar Roy says in a recent video, Khanser Khanser told that this is the best time for Pakistan occupied Kashmir, US, Iran, Pakistan because every everyone is busy. Cancer is cancer crazy or what? We have lost our Navic. Navic capabilities. NAV vic. Navic. What is Navik? Come on cancer. N A V IC. Navic satellite system. The Indian regional navigation satellite system IRNSS. Let's say India goes to war against Pakistan to take back P. The Americans what is the first thing they will do? they will switch off GPS for the Indian military. So we had a backup for that. We had the IRNSS or Navic system but the government of India a bunch of geniuses they have allowed this system to become defunct. So now the Navic system is no longer proper properly operational and if the GPS is switched off our missiles will no longer get satellite positioning inputs. So they will not be able to strike the targets accurately. The Indian military also will not have GPS so they won't know exactly where they are. This is the genius level achievement of the government of India today. Do you think this is the right time to take back P? Has Khanser not thought about this seriously? Okay. Eublic of India says Scott Bessent said the said the US may lift sanctions on Iranian oil stuck in tankers. Isn't easing sanctions during a war contradictory to its strategy? Scott Besson said the US may lift sanctions on Iranian oil struck stuck in tankers. Okay, I'm not aware of this. U I'll have to look into it. Lifting sanctions on Iranian oil stuck in tankers. Okay. So I I'm not I am not aware of this. I don't have information about this. So I will easing sanctions against Iran is obviously contradictory to the strategy. easing sanctions, lifting sanctions on specific tankers or whatever may be a different thing. So, we'll see. Ghoulibar says, "Sad to see a cookie synthesizer in one of your podcast spreading lies talking about someone from JNU. Big fan of yours though. You know, I've done more than a 100 podcasts, right? And I have done all my podcasts in good faith. And after hosting more than 100 podcasts, I have learned some lessons. Some of those people, a few of those people who I invited, I regret inviting. A very small number of people I regret inviting. One of those people became a member of parliament and I regret inviting that one person. Yeah. I had no idea that person would uh go and become a member of so and so political party and so on. Yeah. So yeah, there are some people who in retrospect with the benefit of hindsight I should not have invited but at the time I did it in good faith and I had no idea what what actions the person would take in the future. Yes. So we all make mistakes and we we learn from those mistakes. Yeah. Ritvikuanchi says 20,000 and the six captured foreign individuals went to train these cookies from Indian land that means we are compromised. Somebody took the money and let them go. Same allegations about BSF taking money to let kungos in. What can I say sir? What can I say? these these allegations about BSF. You can look up the news archives and there are multiple instances, multiple reports in the news of BSF personnel being arrested for taking uh money to allow Bangladeshes to cross into India. Let's let's see if I can find something. So, it's not me making claims, it's it's the news. BSF personnel arrested bribes that's bribe right graft charge Kerala graft charge once again BSF commandant arrested for receiving bribes from cross borders to smugglers there are so many stories like this news reports like this have come out right M crossber border bribes. Yeah, there are so many so many so many such stories. I mean ask yourselves this one question. Who is in charge of making sure Bangladeshes don't cross over into India? It's the BSF. We also know there are tens of millions of Bangladeshes in India. How did they come into India? How did they how did they cross over into India? Yeah. So there are clear it's there's no question that there are huge problems and lots of allegedly compromised people when it comes to various branches and institutions in India. Yeah. Now when it comes the Misaram CM, the chief minister of Misaram last year he said a year ago he said that US and UK personnel were crossing over into Myanmar from Misoram and India and training insurgents which means terrorists and so on and he was talking to about he was talking about a case from 2024. So this has been an ongoing process of Americans and British personnel training cookie terrorists in Myanmar supplying them with drones that are then used on Indian citizens in Manipur also against Burma possibly. Why has India been allowing this? What kind of stupid absurd geopolitical game is the government of India perhaps involved in? Or maybe the government of India is not involved in it. But are they not aware of this right? What is happening? Is this not a monumental failure? Seriously, I just don't get it. Ritikui says, "Do we have alternative to LPG for the cooking cooking gas?" Uh well there is a substance a chemical substance called dimethile ether dme that seems to be an excellent alternative to uh cooking gas and it can be produced without having uh hydrocarb without having petroleum or whatever. So you can produce it in India I suppose in large quantities. So it's a good alternative but we have to produce it at scale for it to be a proper replacement for LPG. I'm sure it can be done uh on a war footing if required. So I think the government of India should should go for it. Market whispers with every country going bullish on drones we should also concentrate on cheap and effective anti- drone technology. That might be the differentiator. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Every see drones are not difficult to manufacture. They they are not very high techch equipment and they are pretty cheap to manufacture. Pretty cheap, right? Which means that even a non-h high-tech country can produce can mass produce drones at scale without spending, you know, tremendous amounts of money. Which means that if you are at the receiving end of maybe waves of drones then you will have to to to produce effective and cheap anti- drone measures counter measures at scale and that obviously will be the differentiator. So what we can do is we can look into what the Ukrainians have done in terms of drone anti- drone counter measures. They have come up with anti- drone solutions that are cheaper than the drones that are coming in and now they are going to be sharing that with the Americans to potentially uh counter the Iranian shahed drones. So India so the Ukrainians have developed these this technology these these counter measures over the past uh four years or so that they have been involved in this war with Russia. So India needs to instead of trying to reinvent the wheel just look into what the Ukrainians have been doing. There are reports about their their counter measures in the media and so on just look at that study that and instead of trying to reinvent the wheel start off from what the Ukrainians have been doing and take it from there. So yes, I agree with you. We need to concentrate on cheap and effective counter drone technology at scale. Messi aim me aim says Messi aim what indicators would signal that this war is transitioning from a contained regional issue into a global war with direct involvement from other nations. What indicators the the involvement of other nations in the war are is an indicator. So if more nations get involved, let's say Azarbaijan gets dragged into the war, right? Let's say um Pakistan gets involved in some way in the war. Maybe the Americans rope in some European nations and then the Iranians take some action against them. Let's say the the Ukrainians get involved in some way. They are let's say the Ukrainians start providing the Americans with anti- drone counter measures and then Iran says that's enough and they launch a missile strike at Kiev for example they can then then Ukraine gets directly involved maybe maybe the Israelis you know launch some very heavy strikes on Iran using some fancy weapons and then Russia and China get involved. So these are signals that that tell you that this is escalating from a regional contain contained regional issue into a more global war. The indicators are more countries joining the fry. Mihir says what do you think of Anduril YQF44A Roadrunner etc. Also do you think India should join FCAS or GCAP with Hall H out of AMCA production? Uh so many acronyms you've thrown at me here. Um, okay. What is YQF44A? Let's see. YQF-44A. Okay. So, that's a unmanned combat. Okay. Thing. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Looks very futuristic and scary and obviously looks very expensive. So, it's a UCAV, right? Unmanned combat aerial vehicle. So, I'm sure the technology is some of the best in the world, but if it's an American product, it's going to be extremely expensive to produce. Um, but it's obviously a good alternative to having a human being on on a fighter plane. So, Anduril is obviously this company that produces these weapon systems and so on, right? I think it's a very high-tech company which and its objective is to is to make big profits, right? And profit from war. So it's part of the American military industrial complex. It's one of the newer members of the American military industrial complex and yeah uh road runner I'm not sure what it is. What is FCAS or GCAP? Let's see. FCAS what is FCAS? Future combat European combat system. I think India should stay out of all foreign ventures. What's GCAP? GCAP global once again it's a foreign thing India should stay out of these multinational things and all India should develop its own technologies okay I should India should stay out of FCAS or GCAP or whatever the hell it is India should develop its own technologies in enough of India depending on others okay even if these are multilateral multinational things where every nation will share some of the technology Absolutely not. Stay out of it. Develop our own technology is what we need to do. Anishh Barha, hydration reminder. Thank you so much. Thank you for the reminder. Let me have some more hydration. Thank you. I needed that. Thank you so much. Zir Kamat says Isra is themselves probably want US presence reduced eliminated in the region. I think there's a backdoor agreement between them and Iran. Well, that is a speculation. Obviously, nothing is impossible and we'll see about that if that's the case. I I don't know. I don't know. Re e public of India says at this point Trump's objective seems crystal clear. Taco Trump's objective is a taco. What is taco? Trump always chickens out. That's taco. But Iran is in no mood to give them a face saving exit. What's my view? Oh yeah, absolutely. Trump wants to exit this war. It's gone very poorly for the United States. There are two issues with this with wanting to exit. Number one, they can't exit while Israel is still fighting. Somehow the Americans, they have to serve Israel. That that's become amply clear by now that the United States does whatever the Israelis want them to do. It's almost like the US is an Israeli vasal. So as long as Israel is fighting and escalating, the US can't exit the war. Secondly, Trump is trying through backdoor channels and all trying to open a negotiating thing with the with the Iranians and negotiate some kind of face saving exit and Iranian saying nothing doing. We are not interested in a negotiated exit unless you accept our terms, our humiliating terms and those terms the Americans can't accept. Number one, shut down all military bases in the region permanently. Number two, pass a law in Congress that permanently prevents the United States or any future president from waging a war against Iran. Number three, pay huge reparations for damages to Iran and so on. The US can never accept those those terms. So Trump wants a face- saving exit. Iran doesn't want to give him that. That tells you Iran is confident they're going to prevail in this war. Imagine that. Imagine that. Abishek says, "Can International Committee force the US to stop war?" No. There's no nobody can force the US to do anything. International international committees can request the US to stop the war. They can exhort the US strongly recommend to the US to stop the war. They can't force the US to stop the war. No one is powerful enough to do that. Sai Krishna says, "Hypothetically, if the US nukes Iran, can the radiation spread to the Gulf radiating cloud? Does Iran have dirty bomb?" If somebody nukes Iran, then the radiation when a nuclear explosion occurs, there's a huge release of radiation, radioactive particles into the atmosphere. And it that the that radioactive cloud of radiation and particles rises high into the atmosphere. There's a burst of gamma rays and all that's the initial thing and all but eventually there's the radioactive um um fallout of the explosion. the particles that rise high into the atmosphere like kilometers into the atmosphere, tens of kilometers into atmosphere and then the cloud disperses and spreads and and travels around the world with the air currents. So this cannot be contained in one country. It may very well reach Israel and and fall in in along with precipitation and rain in Israel. It could move eastwards and come into Pakistan into the Gulf region south. It will go anywhere. Eventually it will reach the whole world in some shape or form and for a few months rainfall will be dangerous. Right? So in 1986 when there was uh the Chernobyl event uh the Chernobyl reactor was breached and a cloud of radioactive material was unleashed was released from Chernobyl. This cloud spread across Europe. Now I was a kid living in Europe at the time and for a few months we kids were prohibited from playing football on the grass or running on the grass because precipitation, rainfall, snowfall, whatever would bring radioactive particles with it and the grass surface would be irradiated to some extent. So that sort of thing will like be even more relevant when if if there is a nuclear explosion, the detonation of a nuclear device. So that can't be contained in one country. It'll spread out. That's bad. Does Iran have dirty bomb? I don't know. But they have file material. They have at least 60% enriched uranium. Lots of it. Maybe hundreds of kilos of that. And they may also have sufficient maybe a few kilos of 90 plus% highly enriched uranium which could be enough to produce a handful of proper non- dirty nuclear warheads but they definitely have more than enough nuclear file material for lots of dirty bombs. Mata says hello from Brazil. Hello good to have you. Why aren't we cooperating more? Areas of possible cooperation and trade and business, agro business, satellite technology, it renewables and biouels etc. We should cooperate more. We are developing nations. Brazil is this very large nation, the largest nation in the Americas in in South America with tremendous natural resources and tremendous potential for growth. Brazil, India, we are both members of bricks. We are both global south nations. We are both nations who don't seek to have war with other countries. There's a tremendous amount of potential for mutual cooperation between India and Brazil. I would say we should also cooperate in aviation technology. Brazil has this fantastic company called Embrier that produces high quality aircraft. Why can't India manufacture some of these aircraft that it needs under license from Embreer? Right. Uh renewables absolutely biouels, it absolutely satellite technology yes we have ISRO we could launch your satellites for you we could jointly uh co-develop satellites co-produce satellites cooperate in space exploration and technology agri business absolutely trade this this the potential is unlimited right I I'm not sure why we are not cooperating more I I would love to have Brazilians come to India for tourism. I would love to have Indians go to Brazil for tourism. Not just Rio the Janeiro, Sao Paulo. What about Manawus? What about other parts of Brazil? Brazil has such wonderful uh tourism potential. Indians should tap into that. So I think there's tremendous amount of potential. I'm not sure why we aren't cooperating more. I think uh the two governments need to get their act together and interface better and uh create more avenues for people-to-people cooperation, businessto business cooperation and so much more. One issue is that we are so far apart from each other. We are on opposite sides of the planet. That could be one of the issues because both the populations aren't exactly very rich populations, very wealthy populations. Um Brazil's per capita GDP is higher than that of India. India's is lower. So both are uh you could say low lower income nations and that could be one of the reasons but I'm sure that the two governments can work together and facilitate more cooperation needs to happen. Yes. So Matias so thank you so much for your comment. It's great to have you as a viewer and I wish you the best and I look forward to there being much more cooperation between our two nations. Thank you. Have a nice day. Hitesh says India is managing a lot of strategic autonomy right now. Till when can we keep this up? Won't there be a point where this approach stops working in our favor? India is managing a lot of strategic autonomy right now. How long can we keep this up and uh will this approach stop working at some point of time in our favor? You can have strategic autonomy as long as you have leverage over other nations. What kind of leverage? Well, you can you have a great big population. Other nations want to trade with you. That's leverage. Let's say you manufacture wonderful things that the world needs. That's leverage. Let's say you export highquality services the world needs. That's leverage. Let's say you have a very powerful and scary military. That's leverage. Let's say you have nuclear weapons. That's leverage. So, as long as you have leverage and that leverage keeps increasing, that's as long as that happens, this approach can keep working in your favor. But if some more powerful nation decides that your leverage isn't worthwhile now and they don't want to um cooperate anymore and they decide and they clearly know they have way more leverage than you then that stops working. So it depends on various factors. Okay. Right. Uh Roshan Raja says amused by your knowledge in physics. Quite a podcast I came through today. Thank you for expanding my thoughts beyond my ability. Well, you're very welcome. Which podcast are you referring to? I've done lots of them. But anyway, I'm glad that uh it was useful for you. Thank you. Okay. Nodit WMA says, "Why haven't Gulf nations thought of a rail corridor bypassing Hormos? Can start from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Oman, sidings from Bahrain and Qatar. I'm not sure why they haven't thought of it. Maybe the US had some kind of role to play in this. Maybe they would have have Let's see. Have they always ever thought of a rail corridor? Have the Gulf nations ever thought of a rail corridor bypassing Hormuz? Not sure if they have. They have planned etc etc. GCC. Okay. Okay. Okay. proposed, proposed, proposed, proposed. So why has this never been done? I mean, they're still planning and proposing it. I'm not sure. Maybe they were complacent. Maybe they were advised that it's not necessary. Who advised them? I wonder who did. I don't know. It's a good idea, right? The thing is even if you have a rail corridor bypassing hormones, you can't carry petroleum on railways, right? You need to have pipelines. What they would have needed is actually what would have been useful would be pipelines bypassing hormos. Ideally underground pipelines overground pipelines can also be targeted by missiles and drones. But thing is even if you have underground pipelines and if you have a high quality uh missile with a with a penetrating warhead, it can destroy underground pipelines too. The problem is all of this is too exposed and too vulnerable. Even if they have a railway, the railway line can be destroyed in multiple locations, right? And if you have cheap drones, you can keep on destroying the railway line. Even if it's if you if the Gulf nations keep on repairing it. And how long is that sustainable? If you have a pipeline, the pipeline can be blasted in multiple points, then what happens? Even if you have an underground pipeline that can be destroyed with penetrating warheads. So you see, even if you do all these things, you still can't bypass hormones. If your adversary is determined to block you to block your oil transiting this region, what happened? Okay. Right. Goullibar says, "Tell clearly is Israel an enemy or 60% convergence, 40% anti-India. Give a detail in neutral perspective or is this subject topic interestbased friendly an enemy as well? Look, Israel is a nation with its own interests and those interests aren't 100% aligned with India's interests which is obviously natural. No two nations have interests that completely align. Okay. Um now is this subject topic interest based friendly and enemy as well? I don't know what that means. My point is Israel isn't necessarily an enemy of India but Israel has its own interests which in many instances don't align with India's interests. Okay. And of course as such it will pursue its own interests and India will pursue its own interests and wherever the interests converge and align we will work together. On other things we will not work together. For example, let me give you the example of Armenia. India and Iran have been working together to support Armenia. Israel has been working to support Azarbaijan, Armenia's mortal enemy. So, India and Israel are on opposite sides of a conflict in the Caucasus region. You see that? That's an example of where India and Israel our interests are they don't align. They oppose each other. So India is providing weapons and radars to Armenia that can be used in a war future war against Azarbaijan which is Israel's ally. It can destroy Azarbaijan's potentially destroy Azarba Aarba's oil infrastructure which would be a problem for Israel. So you see there are such things that we have in the world. It's it's a complex world. Okay, Big Smoke Gaming says, "We cut Russian oil under pressure. We lost our discount then paid a premium to buy it back. Are we sacrificing the long-standing Indorussian relationship?" We aren't sacrificing it. We are under pressure by the Americans. And we have multiple times in the past buckled under American pressure. We were buying oil from Venezuela in the 2000s. When the Americans told India, stop buying Venezuelan oil. We said, "Okay, sir, we'll stop." We buckled under pressure. We were buying oil from Iran, our neighbor. And the Americans said, "Stop buying Russ Iranian oil." We said, "Okay, sir." And we stopped completely buying Iranian oil. Right now, we were buying Russian oil. Trump comes and says, "You will stop buying Russian oil." So, we reduced our purchase of Russian oil. We did not stop buying Russian oil. We reduced our purchases of Russian oil under American pressure. Now when there's a problem, we have gone back to Russia and we buying more oil. So clearly see it doesn't tell the world that India is unreliable. It tells the world India is weak. And weak nations are by nature unreliable. Not because we have a character defect but because we are weak. Right? So India seems to be believe that American interests are very important for us and uh India seems to believe that we really need America America's cooperation in various things for us to survive and that may be true. Maybe America has that much leverage over us in a variety of ways. Right? You will not see Russia forcing India to sacrifice our relationship with America. But America always does this with the other countries. So this tells the world that India is a weak nation not strong enough to stand on its own like Iran or Russia or China. India doesn't belong in the same league as these these nations and clearly India does not. Pushha is a new member. Thank you very much. Welcome to the channel's membership sir. Anumita Roy Chadri says thank you so much for your dedicated detailed and unbiased take on geopolitics. Thank you very much. You are very welcome indeed. I really appreciate uh your message of support. Thank you very much. Gulibar says F-35 hit and damaged Czech news or panilo. You look sad today. Where you crying crying? I look sad today. I'm not sad. I'm good. But anyway, thank you for the reminder to drink water. They must bring more water. Now, let's check the news. What happened? F35. Let's see what happened. USF35 struck by Iranian fire. Makes emergency landing. IRGC releases video. Suspected Iranian fire. Possible Iranian strike taking fire over Iran. So, isn't this a stealth aircraft that is invisible to radar? How did it take Iran and fire the fantastic F-35? What happened? Where is Trump today? He for the for months he was taunting India claiming that India had lost four fighter planes then five fighter planes then six fighter planes then seven fighter planes. He was having a jolly good time taunting India with these wild claims. Where is he today? How many aircraft has the US lost in this war? Anyway, thank you for bringing yeah for notifying me of this news. Pratik Shenoi says Israel wanted to destroy Pakistan nuclear weapon program even had asked India for help in the 1980s and Pakistan openly hates Israel but you said they are friends when why did they go from being enemies to friends listen I've explained this in great detail that there is no open evidence of this there's no open evidence of this you have to follow a certain chain of logic let me repeat the chain of logic to I think what you want is a document that officially announces that Pakistan and Israel are friends and allies officially signed by the prime minister of Pakistan and Israel only then you will say that okay you are right you have to understand subtle clues too right Pakistan is a US basal it's a US dog slave puppet and America it seems it's an Israeli asset And it gives Israel unconditional support. So then the question is what is the relationship between Israel and Pakistan? Pakistan says Pakistan says that it hates Israel. Israel in the 80s 1980s wanted to destroy Pakistan's nuclear program. That is like last century. Today what's the deal? When the Pakistani dictator comes to Washington DC, there is an event arranged by the Pakistan embassy or considered for him in his honor and there's a Israeli military presence there. How is it possible? Tell me. This was reported in in the media, right? When Pakistan launches an air strike three days ago on Afghanistan and on a hotel in on a on a hospital in Kabul killing 400 people, an Israeli account with 1 million followers on Twitter comes to Pakistan's aid and says this was not a hospital, it was a Taliban arms and ammunition depot. Why is Israel supporting Pakistan in this in terrorism? Right? Do you see that there's multiple clues that that point in that direction? Do you see that, sir? Right. You have to look in look at these subtle clues. In geopolitics, you will not see everything in black and white. Two nations, if they are cooperating, they will not issue a certificate. We are now officially cooperating. They'll keep it under wraps as far as possible. Pakistan is supposed to be the policeman in Gaza under Trump, right? The Trump peace board or whatever board of peace Pakistan is going to send soldiers there, right? Board of peace. Who who is going to be helped by that? Is it Trump who's going to be helped by that or is it Israel who's going to be helped by that? Look at all the data points. Learn how to analyze things. Learn how to understand subtle clues and see in what direction the clues consistently point. Please learn these things. It'll help. Deep learner says, "Wasn't there a Hamas link that came out in the Bahalgam attack?" In that case, there seems to be an Iranian involvement in terrorism in India. Hamas operates independently of Iran. Okay. Now, there was no Hamas link in the Pulgum attack. What happened is there was some kind of meeting of terrorists in Pakistan occupied Kashmir and some Hamas terrorist or leader or something was present there. So that was the extent of the involvement of Hamas. Hamas is clearly anti-India. They have common cause with the Pakistanis. See Hamas is a is a bunch of Sunni Muslims, right? It's a Sunni Muslim terrorist organization and Pakistan is a Sun Sunni Muslim nation. Israel is a Shia nation but they support Hamas because Hamas is anti-Israel and Iran is also anti-Israel. So that is the kind of connection there is. It's not an ideological or religious connection. It's a it's my enemy's enemy is my friend that sort of thing. Iran does not fund or finance Hamas as far as I know. The funding and financing goes to the Ansarah faction in Yemen that is the Houthis and to various Shia elements in the region not to Hamasbah yes not to Hamas so if Hamas has some involvement with Pakistani terrorism it doesn't mean Iran is involved Namit Mahara hello hello indeed hello good to have you Namit other says Donald Trump admits Iran's high IQ in the war and says they are powerful in his latest press statement. His tone seems to be changing dramatically. Is the US losing its edge in the war? Isn't it obvious the past 20 days or so? The US is is is failing. It has failed thus far to achieve any of its objectives. It has been shocked and stunned by Iran's resistance. Iran obviously has taken tremendous damage. It's losing god knows how many thousands of people, but it's fighting. And the Americans and Israelis together, their combined efforts are unable to defeat Iran. It's stunning for sure. And Trump has been claiming every single day that Iran has already been defeated. They have already lost. They have already lost, but they still have a nuclear program. They have already lost, but they've closed the state of Hormos. They have already lost. We already won but they are still around fighting what? So his obviously his ch his his tone will change right? Obviously the US is it losing its edge in the war? It's been losing its edge in the war since day one. Vir Kumar says the past few days have exposed o over dependence on LPG gas. Is this an opportunity to completely revolutionize the space? Are there already technologies that can support this? one there's one alternative called uh dimethile ether if it can be produced by India in at scale in large quantities it can uh replace that so let's see once again dimethile ether production process how do you pro how do you produce this uh indirect synthesis methanol dehydration and direct synthesis from sin gas the indirect process which is most common involves producing methanol methanol from natural gas or biomass mass which is then degraded to create DME. Okay. So from biomass. How about that? From from biomass. How do you do it from biomass? So you convert biomass into sing gas CO plus H2 via gasification and so on. uh so India produces tremendous amounts of biomass which is essentially you know organic waste of various kinds so I suppose you can produce DME at scale from that of course we have to create a whole process and system for that but it's possible so it's this is so India definitely can treat this challenge as an opportunity to revolutionize the space I think DME is a great example of how we can with what we can of of what we can replace uh LPG gas with then of course we can also look into other things like induction cooking or whatever and so on. Yeah. Omnai says if a country is a even allowed to reproduce or they genuinely not want to have children and your view on yondhatu video I have no idea who yan ihhatu is. If a country is a vasal they most like see in most cases vasal countries don't even know the the people of the country don't even know in most cases that they are vasals they'll reproduce and do everything normally nothing will change for them for the common people until things change and things will change in a way that don't they don't understand uh so Japan is a great example South Korea is another example okay I have no idea who Yonden I hatu is but let me see what that is yonden ihhatu. What is that? I have no idea sir. I have no idea what that is. Nope. Ghoulibar says you have experienced one near supernatural unexplained thing and you you know it. Okay. You seem to be a longtime viewer of mine. I have experienced one thing I can't explain once. Only once. Yeah, once you got me there. You got me very good. Yes. Yes, indeed. Once. Once in my life. That is probably the one experience I've had. Yeah. Shakpx says, "Would you watch review Durand 2?" I do plan to watch it the earliest review. I'll see about that, but I'll I'll certainly watch it for sure. And yeah, if I watch it, I will I will share my views about it for sure because I'm sure in the future live streams I'll be asked about this. So if I watch it, I certainly and I do plan to watch it then I'll certainly share my my views about it. Okay. Al AI prod Japan had prime ministers. Anyway, uh I don't know what was was said, but I can't watch it here live. But let's see what did Trump say. What did Trump say in front of the Japanese prime minister? Pearl Harbor joke. Really? Seriously? Let's see what BBC has to say. Uh Trump compares attack on Iran to Pearl Harbor. In meeting with Japanese Prime Minister in a prime meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Sai Takahi at the old office, Trump was asked why he didn't inform allies about his plan to attack Iran. Trump responded by raising Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor during Bulvo to saying who knows better about surprise than Japan. Okay, so that's the kind of thing Trump has a tendency to do. Okay, Rahul Para says, "Are Iran units run by Mossad targeting GCC?" No, not that I know of. Pratip Kumar Royce says, "How to generate a regular stable income source of income through trading? I've some I've seen some people with only profits and no loss. How is this possible?" Well, I am the wrong person to ask this question because I don't uh do trading. you know trading as in stocks and shares and what commodities, metals, minerals etc. Yeah, I I am not into trading so I have absolutely no idea whatsoever about this matter. Uh there may be some people who are absolute experts at it and who have only profits and no loss but I don't know how they do it. So yeah I I don't know I don't have the answer to your question. I'm I'm afraid. Sorry. Godliness says in operation Sindur we won because India was able to outperform Pakistan in its defensive and offensive operations. Same is with US they are outperforming Iran in every front that of tens of thousands of kilometers away they win. All right sir thank you for your for sharing your opinion and your perspective. All right. Mayur goer says had scanned 200 no idea of super chat had scanned 200 no idea of super chat what does it mean I don't know what's your opinion on India not supporting Afghanistan after hospital bombing of Pakistan we should send a a cash missile regime reg regiment I think the Indian minister of external affairs issued a statement a very strong statement uh condemning the cowardly action by Pakistan Right. So, Vid uh offered diplomatic strong diplomatic support Afghanistan. Akash missile regiment and all it's too early to do such things. Yeah. Afghanistan is very capable of fighting Pakistan on its own and if they genuinely need some support in the future, we will not provide it or we may even provide it. Who knows? See, Afghanistan has seen tremendous strife in the past. The Najiboulah government was had excellent relations with with India and then the Najiboula government fell to the mujahedines and India did nothing. So India has a long long long uh history and record of not interfering in Afghanistan no matter what happens. But we will invest in Afghanistan and help the people of Afghanistan. So I think it's unlikely that India will do anything about this. But Afghan this the the Afghanistan government Taliban government is pretty capable of fighting Pakistan on its own without our help and if we send a cash missile missile regiments if the if somebody get if somehow some of our enemies get hold of it they may be able to understand our technology better so it's not a great idea probably Sharma photography says if every Iranian commander is independent doesn't it make easy to flip Well, you don't choose commanders randomly, right? Commanders, you think you you pick them out of a hat? You have commanders who are ideologically steadfast and ideologically vetted. Okay, there's a process in Iran to ensure the right people rise to the top. It's not like you some bring some random guy and make him commander, right? Please, please, that's not how the world works. Godliness says first the state of hormones and Iranian oil come under Trump's control. He can charge more tariffs on oil. Also raise the cost of shipping on hormones. Be the big mafia. It's high risk high reward for the US. Well, let Trump take the strait of Hormos under his control and take Iran and oil under his control. Very easy to say, very hard to achieve, right? So, it's not happened. That was the objective from day one. How much of it has happened? Nothing has happened thus far. It may happen tomorrow. It's always a possibility. It may happen in 3 weeks time, maybe in 2 days time, maybe in 4 months time, whatever. We'll see about that. But uh what is the amount of what's the price Trump is willing to pay if he wants to achieve this? Shut down the world's LP the state of hormones and 30% of the world's petrochemical supply. for months. I'm not sure if that's what he intended, right? And there's no indication that he is anywhere anywhere close to achieving any of these objectives. Okay. Arismanticor says, "If you ask me, we should return what our neighbors give to us with cruel interest. Subconventional operations should become the norm. No more moral BS." Well, that's what Vishnu Gupta would have said. Vishna Gupta Chaneka would be completely in agreement with you. But India is the last nation to do Chanakini properly. Right? It is our adversaries who are better practitioners of Chanakini than us for some reason. Yeah, I agree with you. I agree. Says, how do you assess the profession of CA chartered accountant? A very useful profession and uh I suppose a lucrative profession. Yeah, you make a lot of money if you're a charted chartered accountant. And is it very difficult? I'm not sure. It's just arithmetic that you're using. I'm sure it's more than just arithmetic. Must be pretty complex and you have to understand a lot of laws and stuff, legal stuff and all. So I think it's and I think the I recently met a number of CAS. Okay. Uh when was that? Sometime earlier this week, I met a number of CAS and I learned that the CA exam is one of the most difficult exams in the world. Right now, it's got like a less than 10% passing rate. Earlier, it was like one or two% passing rate. So, it's very hard to crack and once you become a CA, I think you are pretty much guaranteed a good income and a good career. So, I think it's great. People need that, right? The business world, the the the corporate world, the government, everybody needs CAS. So, I think it's good. Yeah. Yes. Activa says, "Guys, do subscribe and like. Make this channel India's biggest channel. Thank you. Thanking you sir for this." Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. I really really appreciate um your sentiment and your message. So guys do what Activa says. Do like and subscribe and make this channel India's biggest channel. Thank you so much Activa. That's so kind of you. Thank you so much. Marathon Gabby runner says sir you a sovereign person in your family. Pause. US Russia Iran. You a sovereign person in your fam family. Pause. I am not sure what you're asking, sir. I wish I understood in that in which case I would have answered, but I'm not exactly sure what you're asking. Anyway, thank you for the message. Aries Montikor says, I believe the ISRO has found out that the current Navic has been compromised in several launches to support Navic are being sabotaged by third parties. Government of India and ISRO are recalibrating to fix this. We will get our Navic back. I hope that we get it back at the earliest. Look, it's possible there have been some elements of something being compromised. We know that some rocket launches failed and most likely I am very strongly inclined to believe that these were sabotaged. Okay? And yet we have to plan for these problems. We have to plan for things being sabotaged possibly. We have to plan for somebody compromising some of our assets. We have to factor these unlikely eventualities into our planning process, right? Why do we have only one production line of PSLVs or GSLVs or whatever? Why don't we have redundancies built into the the process? Why don't we have thorough vetting of people and proper supervision of everything? Why don't we manufacture our own atomic clocks in India? Why do we rely on imported atomic clocks? There are so many issues that have led to to the problem that we are facing right now. So government and so are recalibrating. Yes, sure. Great. We know that. We know they will recalibrate. They will fix it in a year or two. But that one or two years will be in a problem right will be compromised and instead of recalibrating can't you plan for these problems 10 years in advance or 5 years in advance so that you recalibrate before it happens that is the problem we are reactive not proactive that is what frustrates me I know we will get the Navic back eventually but another thing that frustrates me is our low ambition of having a regional Navik only limited to subcontinent Why don't we have a global navic system? Why don't we have it? Why don't why doesn't India have that ambition? It doesn't cost a lot. It costs less than one month's laroja. I'm sure just low ambition and low standards is what frustrates me. But yes, thank you for the message of optimism and positivity. I know you're right. We will get the Navic system back in a year or two. But overall it's this attitude and this approach that is disappointing. You see Rano Nahapana what a great name. What a great name. Nahana what a great man he was. Yes the great Mahakhatraba Nahapana. No one remembers the guy today right? One of our great kings in western India. Yes. from 2,000 years ago, one of I think his capital city. So, so Nahapana was a Mahakhatra. Okay. A western satra. His ancestors were skitians. He was Indoskeian. He was the lord and protector of Sumnath. And his capital city was called Minanagar. What is that city called today? It's called Karachi Nahapana. Okay. Turks providing numerous drones to Pakistan. What to do? You can't do something about that. But what we can do is we can produce our own high-quality drones and anti- drone counter measures to deal with any eventuality coming from Pakistan as a consequence of Turkish drones. That's what we can do. hacking monks said says I'm sorry I can't help you with that as an AI I am pro programmed to provide answers based on my training data which unfortunately based on Iran's capabilities that's what the American AIS must have told that military right that is so funny good one good one love Uh, Pratip Kumar Royce is iron man or Batman. Well, you know, I used to be a big fan of Batman. As as a when I was a kid, I watched the original Batman series. Okay. Uh, 1960s series. There was so much fun. It was like a lot of humor in there. Original Batman and Robin. Uh, you want to see what it looks like? I'll tell you what. Original 1960s Batman. Yeah. Adam West. Adam West Batman. Right. There we have it. This one. This was a fun series. It was such fun to watch. It was so humorous. It had great villains, super villains, characters, and all. And if you watch today's Batman, it is so dark and depressing. I can't stand it. So I love the original Batman and if you ask me today 21st century version of Batman or Iron Man I would go with Iron Man. Okay. Pratep Kumar Roy says can we make something like nuclearpowered sentinel robots and use in wars? Maybe a nuclearpowered robots would be very difficult because nuclear reactors are very very bulky. Uh but um but you can make uh electric powered robots, sentient robots. No, I don't know about sentient robots, but robots and use them in wars. Yes, you know various kinds of robots are available today. Humanoid robots, dog robots, quadruped robots, snake like robots, mosquito robots, bat robots. You can make robots and use them in wars. I'm not sure about nuclear power. I don't think we have the um I don't think anybody has the technology to to make nuclearpowered robots as of today but yes robots certainly possible. Vibhas Singh says living in Dubai nowadays is now in news for all weak security internally. Is this a permanent damage or with time is it something that will dilute with time and everybody will be business as usual? You know what? Things aren't looking great. Unfortunately, sadly, tragically, for Dubai, Dubai, the economic model may collapse if this war drags on for months. See, what is Dubai? Dubai is a gigantic resort city. It's a resort. What's a resort? A resort is a small habitation thing which can cater for, let's say, 20 guests. and they have a staff of 200 to cater for the whims and fancies and needs of those 20 guests. Right? So that's a resort. Dubai is a city-sized resort and the majority of the population is those service staff who come from India and other countries and who cater to the needs and necessities and and luxuries of the guests which are the high income people who come from various parts of the world expats. Now that economic model needs stability, security and peace to exist. When you have the situation of war with Iran which is not going away anywhere and when Iran is in a position to target Dubai whenever needed and the UAE whenever needed, they that's bad for the economic model of Dubai. If this war ends soon, I'm hopeful that things go back to normal, business as usual, and people on if they feel safe, they will return to Dubai. But right now, everyone wants to escape Dubai, right? People have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars for private jet for chartered planes to escape from Dubai. I hope that if this war ends soon, then things will soon be BAU. But I am not that hopeful about that, unfortunately. things don't look very good. If this continues even 2 3 months more, it will be the end of the whole economic model. Yeah, sadly which will be tragic for everybody. But yeah, uh Ashish Mishra says, "I aspire to serve India as a great leader beyond ideology, but I'm an introvert. Please guide me. Will you be my Chanaka mentor?" Um, look um, you aspire to serve India as a great leader beyond ideology. But I'm introvert. Okay, it doesn't matter if you're introvert or not. If you have the leadership qualities, you'll be able to make it happen. But you have to first find out what your strengths and weaknesses are. Do you have what is called leadership qualities? See, we all have hopes and aspirations and so on. But our hopes, aspirations, dreams may not always be in line with our actual qualities. So the first thing you have to do is to understand who you are, what your qualities are, what your strengths, weaknesses, all that are, right? That's what you have to do. And if you find that you indeed have let's say leadership qualities, see what is there? What is leadership about? The core essence of leadership is service. Leadership is actually service. Okay? It's not shouting at people and yelling at people and being tall and having a loud voice. That's not leadership. Leadership is service. And the more people you can serve, the better a leader you are. Lead service at scale is the best leadership. But of course in you know leadership is also about communication and setting an example all of that. So leadership is is set of skills that very few people actually have. Okay. So you first decide whether you have that or not. Determine whether you have that or not by putting yourself out there in positions where you can serve where you can serve people and serve the nation right so you to find that out and if you are able to actually be in a position where you are able to lead and serve then reach out to me and let's see if I can be your mentor. We'll see about that. All the best Ashish. All the best. Argabal says if drones can drain US missiles how defend bases subs greater than carriers China at Tyangong space station BYD NIO underestimated Bur with snick future will Iran surv what exactly is the question how many things are you putting in this one thing if drones drain US missiles how defend bases you can't defend the American bases are mostly most likely destroyed the American bases in West Asia are most likely destroyed. Okay. The Bahrain base, fifth fleet base gone. Most of it is finished. Subs greater than carriers. Yes. Yes. Subs always trump carriers. Okay. Carriers are huge enticing floating targets. Carriers are done. They're obsolete. Yangong space station BYDO. I have no idea. Underestimated Burvestnik future. Burvestnik is this Russian cruise missile. Nuclear nuclear fueled nuclear powered cruise missile. Yeah, it could be a game-changing weapon. Will Iran survive? Looks like it will survive. Okay. Arismanticor says, "Israel can do genetic tests to determine if cookies had Jewish ancestry. The clearly the cookies are being willingly used as a proxy and fortine for the US. The cookies don't have Jewish ancestry. Let me show you. Cookies, genetic tests, Jewish ancestry. What is this? Okay. Cookies. Okay. Let's see. Genetic studies on the cookie chin miso population ban bashid. Uh mixed findings regarding Jewish ancestry. There is no paternal links to Middle Eastern populations. some evidence of metitochondrial atro what nonsense absolute nonsense there's no traces metchondrial DNA near eastern lineages middle eastern Usbakistani Jewish profiles really okay I was not aware of that but it's what traces traces you can find traces of I mean you can find traces of neanderal ancestry in a in a human being okay. I'm sure you'll be able to find traces of Neanderthal ancestry in me. Little bit of scrap of DNA somewhere. You may be able to find traces of um what Dennis ancestry in me. A little bit of DNA scraps. You may even find traces of dinosaur ancestry in people. Who knows? So they have done tests and they don't they could not find any evidence of Jewish ancestry in the cookies. Okay, that is what it is. Okay, Ari says unrelated a bit. Your thoughts on love in office? Love is love. If it happens, it happens. Whether it's office or wherever, it's okay. I have nothing against somebody falling in love in office. Perfectly fine. I have Why would I have an issue with that? Uh that's my thoughts about it. Love is love. If it happens, it happens. Go for it. Aayush says, "What are your views on real powers that control the world? How deep is AIPAC and other lobbies old rich families involved in US politics? The real powers that control the world, it's called the deep state and we don't know who they are but they do exist clearly, right? And they transcend borders and they are based in the west somewhere wherever maybe in multiple countries, right? We don't quite know who they are." Uh when it comes to the Israel and the US relationship, the USIsrael relationship, clearly Israel is the top dog, the Israel has been able to drag Israel has been able to drag the US into this war with Iran. They initiated the war with Iran and the US had to then enter the war and the Iranian Israelis are escalating the war now and Trump is upset but he can't do much about it beyond put posts on truth social. Israel clearly is the dominant partner in this tango with the US and AIPC is this uh pro-Jewish pro-Israel lobbying organization or something. Uh clearly they are uh strongly embedded in US politics in a bipartisan fashion and they are obviously very influential. Clearly Guribar says podcast with TRS was half the area R restricted podcast with TRS was half the area R restricted. Which area was restricted? Area R. I'm not sure what you're saying. Podcast with TRS. Yes, I have a podcast that has come out a day or so ago with with Reanir on the Reanir show. and not sure which area was restricted. Honey Sharma, good to see you. You said even if Israel uses the nuclear bomb, the Iranians will fight handto- hand. But why didn't the Japanese fight the US or at least resist them resist them in 45? Because Japan did not have this decentralized leadership. Japan, good question. Japan had a single point of failure, the top leadership. Okay. And when the top leadership surrendered, the whole population of Japan surrendered. Japan had the societal structure was that it was deeply obedient to the emperor. What the emperor said was the word of God. If the emperor said do this, you would do it. Right? So the emperor's word was the word of God. If the emperor gives an order, the entire population of Japan would obey. So after the Americans tested two nuclear devices on the people of Japan, the emperor said, "We surrender." And the entire population of Japan obeyed. Now see Iran. Totally different. There is no emperor. The supreme leader if he dies, he's a martyr. He's a shahid. And that makes Iran the Muslim nation and the Americans the zalim. And Iranian culture is Shia Islam culture. It's the culture of martyrdom shahadat. And they have declared jihad which means every Muslim fights and they have this concept of mosaic warfare, decentralized warfare. Even if all the leaders are killed, the people will will keep fighting and they will seek martyrdom. That's a difference cultural difference between the two nations. See that's why but excellent question that uh that force me to drill drill deeper into these concepts. Excellent question. Pratar Dhana says Russi medical aid to Iran. What medical aid? Are they offering medical aid to Iran? I'm not sure. Medical aid really Russian medical aid to Iran. esteemed kind people. Russia sends massive aid to Iran. Really? Russia becomes first country to say send aid to Iran. Sends 13 turns of emergency medical supplies. Interesting. So medical aid seems to be in uh quotation marks. Well, we know. We don't know. Okay. Interesting. Interesting though. Yeah. Could be something else perhaps. Who knows? Fabin Thomas says most of what he said has played out. Given these things our government knows too. Why don't we act on it to get leverage? Why did we give in into the US? I I don't know maybe look I don't face the constraints that the government of India is under right. I don't know the secret things about the world that the government of India may be privy to and maybe the government of India does things differently because they are aware of things that I'm not aware of. I discuss things that I see in the public domain. I don't have access to classified information. I don't have access to intelligence that you know is is is secret and sensitive. So maybe there are things that I'm not aware of. uh clearly like much of what I have said is kind of you know turned out to be true and kind of played out the way I've said and obviously the government of India will know the things probably much better than what I know. Um the only thing I I can imagine is that there are constraints India faces that I'm not aware of and maybe the Americans have various forms of leverage over India that I'm not aware of. Maybe India is compromised at at certain levels that I'm not not aware of. I don't know. I don't know. So clearly there are things that I am not aware of. Some things I'm aware of that India is penetrated by the Americans at various levels. One very open example is so many government officials have families and children who live in the US and who are American citizens. There is clear that is clear blatant compromise. So if your children are American citizens, where will your allegiance lie? Will it lie with India or with the US? And we have so many officials like that at various levels in the government. That is a clear example of India being compromised and penetrated. Then there must be so many other things that I'm not aware of. So you see yeah says F-35 has been hit by a SAM. It's a big deal. A surfaceto-air missile. Let's let's check again. F-35. Is there some more news that's come out? Okay. So it's been hit by a surfaceto-air missile most likely. Right. Uh what do we have here? There's a video of it which I'll not play here. Um so Iran has taken out uh an American F-35. The crown jewel of the American Air Force, the F-35, the most expensive flying trash can in the world. Hm. And the Iranians have taken out one of these with a surfaceto-air missile. It's not a big deal. It's a huge deal. Yeah. And they they want India to buy F-35s. Would you believe it? Okay. Golibar says, "Mind sharing the unexplained thing?" That's a long story. It's It's too long to be shared here. Maybe in the future I'll do it. It's a long story. It it'll take proper setup and explanation of parameters and dimensions and whatn not to actually for you to understand what that unexplained thing was. It'll take a long time to explain to for you to be able to understand why it was unexplainable. Right? So not not today but I will one of these days. Omnak says Yonden Lu video from South China Morning Post. Okay, let's see. Yanden Lu video from South China Morning Post. Yon Yonden Lu video Yanden Lu condemns America and you Israel. Okay. Who is this person? Chief editor Yonden Lu condemns America etc. Okay. There are lots of videos of this person. I'm not sure which video you would like me to see but yeah. Okay. Anyway, thank you for the recommendation. Thank you. Godliness says, "Happy Hindu New Year to you and all your viewers. May this new year bring prosperity, health and wealth for the followers of the Samatan Vic Dharma." Thank you very much and I thank you for your very kind wishes to me and to everyone else and I wish the same to you godliness and to all our viewers. Thank you. Bhav Singh says guide me on gold and silver prices. I am not the guy to guide you on this. I am not an expert in gold and silver prices and all that stuff. I'm not the guy for this. I'm very sorry. Marathon Gabby runner says, "Sir, you are a sovereign person in your family." Do families have sovereign people and vasals? What does that mean? Do we have vasals in families? Do we do you need to be fully sovereign, half sovereign? I'm not sure what the question is, but I suppose we are all sovereign individuals, aren't we? Or are we not? I have not tried ever thought of applying sovereignty and wasalhood to families. So no don't know noob just life. Thank you very much. Noob just life. Thank you sir. Okay co kodand rapper kodand rala says big fan of you. Thank you very much sir. Thank you very much. I saw the news that Ukrainians six Ukrainians and one American got arrested in the east of India and that has something to do with drones. Is our government finally taking some action? Thanks for your wisdom. First of all, thank you very much. Uh yes, we've had one American uh troublemaker with a long history of troublemaking in various conflict zones. Matthew Fandike, that one American person has been arrested and six Ukrainian mercenaries were arrested in the eastern part of India, far eastern part of India, Gujhati and so on so forth. and they were arrested because they were um what they were doing was they were they were uh providing terrorism training and drone training to cookie terrorists in Burma. So they were crossing over into Burma from India's far east, India's border with Burma. Crossing over into Burma and providing ter training, military training to to cookie terrorists and they were providing drones to these terrorists, right? And these drones were being smuggled through India into Myanmar and this was going on for God knows how long. So that's why these individuals have been arrested and this arrest was made very public. So it looks like the government of India is send at least the least that's happening is that India is sending a message to the United States and to Ukraine. Ukraine doesn't matter. Ukraine is a vasal of the US. This is a message to the government of the US. And right after this happened the American uh ambassador Sergio Gore met with India's national security adviser Mr. Ajit Dwal. So clearly our government is taking some action. Now what is the extent of the action going to be is the question. Right now this has happened but does this mean that India is going going to finally crack down on cookie terrorism in Manipur? I don't know about that. I hope so but it's too early to say right that's what's the deal. Sumit says top countries to pursue a PhD in international relations. No idea. Probably the US maybe Singapore. Um yeah I don't know. Singapore probably US definitely other countries I don't know noob just life says what you think about aliens from Nagaloka have visited the earth I don't know I have since childhood been fascinated with aliens extraterrestrial life UFOs all that stuff because of my inclinations towards science right I've always wondered what was going on out air. As a kid, I used to spend hours at night staring out at the Milky Way and the stars and galaxies at a time when there was very little life light pollution. So, you could actually see stars and if you spent one hour looking at the sky, you would see several satellites pass by. You could see satellites passing by, you know, and you would see meteors. So I spend a lot of time thinking about these you know these ponderous matters and I'll be the happiest person to find evidence if I were to find evidence any evidence of aliens having visited the earth but thus far I have found not one piece of hard undeniable evidence that alien that aliens have visited our planet. Oh, I haven't I haven't found that evidence ever. Nimish Gupta says 23 male December 24 mechanical graduate interest killed by outdated syllabus explored fit applied to 100 plus jobs built AI company research tool so limits ability worry now okay so you're 23 you're a male you graduated in 24 December mechanical engineering your interest was scaled by outdated syllabus that yeah I understand explored faith applied to more than 100 jobs. built AI company research tool. Okay, that's good. So, you are someone who's capable of building stuff. Soul limits, hirability, worry. Now, you know what? Create a public portfolio of what you are capable of building and what you have built in the past. Make it on public. Put it all on GitHub. Whatever, right? All the tools, all the whatever you create, put it up on all of that on GitHub. Keep keep tinkering, keep producing, keep keep creating things and keep applying to jobs. As long as you are someone who can create stuff and and produce either new tools or new solutions, you should not have a problem getting hired. I mean if I was running an software firm, IT firm, whatever, and if you are somebody who actually took the initiative to to try something like this, you built an AI company, you did a research tool or whatever, I would be very happy to hire you. Yeah. So don't be discouraged. Just keep building in public and keep applying. I'm sure it'll work out for you, right? Be positive, be optimistic, and keep working hard and keep working smart. All the best. Nimish Fabin Thomas says, "How long will China and Russia wait to make their military moves? I'm assuming they'll be fools not to do right now as when has US been this vulnerable?" I think it makes sense to wait a little longer. See, right now, the longer the US fights this war, the more they're going to be depleted of of critical things like arms, ammunition, interceptor missiles, TAD systems, um, uh, radars, uh, tomahawk missiles, all of that. And they don't have the military industrial complex, the kind of military industrial complex that produces tens of thousands of drones a year and thousands of missiles a year. It produces a handful, maybe a 100 tomahawk missiles per year. And to ramp up production, to scale up production will take months or years. So I think it makes sense for the Chinese and Russians to wait a few more months until the American stockpiles are significantly depleted, even more than the depletion that they face right now and then make your move. Yeah, I think well see if China makes a move on Taiwan the Americans will press South Korea and Japan into action against their wishes. Doesn't matter what they wish. So the question is is China willing to take some damage in order to acquire Taiwan because see South Korea and Russia and Japan will definitely get involved in a war with China if China makes a move on Taiwan and it means China will take some damage. China's economic base, its industrial base will take some damage, right? To win a war, you would take some damage. Is China willing to take the damage? Is China Does China have some appetite for risk and some damage? In case it does have some appetite for risk and damage, I think the best time to make a move in the is in the next few months. And same for Russia. Same for Russia. Rahu says, "Which software do you use for streaming? Are you streamyard? Honey Sharma says, "What will you watch past Durand 2 or Tumb? I think it's going to be Durand 2 most likely." Tumb. Yeah, thank you for the reminder. Yeah, I still need to watch that as well. I think most likely it's going to be Durand 2 first. Okay, but thank you for the reminder. Goullibar says, "Travel areas suggested in TRS most are restricted." Okay, what were the travel areas we discussed? I don't quite recall right now. I'm sure there was Egypt. I don't remember the others. It's been a while since we recorded the podcast actually, so I don't remember the travel areas, but it is what it is. Um, Krishnan Balo has come back from the movie. It was bloody amazing. My live stream has been so long that an entire movie was done in the meanwhile. I'm glad you liked it. I plan to watch it too. Vishal Ro says, "Netanyahu is live currently." So, he's alive. Well, good for Nathaniel. Good for him. Good for him. Gulibar says, "Please perhaps share the story in TRS his genre." Good suggestion indeed. Lakshi Kana says, "How can I build the habit of reading diverse books to improve my understanding, writing, vocabulary and grammar?" You how do you build the habit of running? You start by running. Maybe you start by running five minutes a day, but you start. How do you build the habit of going to gym and working out and building big muscles? You start by going for 10 minutes a day, right? So, how do you build the habit of reading diverse books? First, you buy a number of books, five, six books. Then you spend like 10 minutes a day reading. Just start with 10. Let's say you tell yourself, I'm going to read just three pages a day. You do that for a week. Then increase to five pages a day next week. Then increase to 10 pages a day next week. and maybe 20 pages a day by by the end of the first month. That's how you build a habit, right? Good habit to have. Do it. The naked drummer says need reforms, accountability and compensation based on performance. I agree with you. Yeah, we need uh reforms in the Indian bureaucracy. Accountability very important. Compensation based on performance. Lateral hiring, hiring and firing, all of these things are needed. It needs to be turned into a professional force, right? I agree with you. Absolutely. Vishilage says, "Hypothetically, can India take over GCC using the Indians living there by creating revolutions?" Um well hypothetically possible to some extent but uh practically very difficult very difficult practically because who owns the means of violence? the local governments, right? The means of violence means uh the police force, the armed force, all of that, right? That's all all in the hands of the local governments and maybe 60% of the people there are of subcontinental origin, but they are not armed. Without arms, what can you do? And first of all, we don't even want this to happen, right? I'm not suggesting they should happen, but as a as an academic exercise, it's almost impossible for this to succeed. Pratush Sharma says US training its military AI for future wars. It's using AI in the current war. It's using the current AI in the current war for selecting targets and god knows what else. It's already happening in real time. It is. So yeah, and also for future wars. Yes. Arian Shukla says, "My girlfriend from Iran told me that they have their own apps for communication. Don't India develop apps for their own people and rely on US apps for such tasks. We can certainly develop our own apps. You see Russia has its own apps. China has its own apps. Iran has its own apps. But India Vishwaguru has no apps. This I mean of course India can develop its own apps. The government needs to show some spine and some willingness to do some difficult things but the government seems to be on wanting the easy way out of everything. Right? We are integrating Google more and more into our ecosystem. the government of India is doing the exact opposite of what should be done. Uh what the reason is I don't know but it is what it is right. So yeah so yeah it's interesting know that even Iran has this right. Yeah yeah India should also learn from nations like Iran but we I don't think we will or I don't think the government wants to for whatever reason. Okay. Okay. Anyhow all right that brings me to the end. of today's live stream. Yeah, that brings me to the end of today's live stream. Thank you so much everybody for the questions and uh I will see you in the next live stream which will happen very soon in a couple of days. Until then, take care everybody. Keep learning, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards and I look forward to seeing you very soon. Hopefully with better news in the war. Maybe the war ends hopefully. But we'll see about that. Thank you so much everyone. I'll see you very soon. Take care. Bye-bye. Good night. Good day.