[music] Hey, hey, hey. Heat. [music] [music] Heat. >> [music] [music] >> Good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the 301st episode of the Ask Ask a widget show. I hope you're all doing great. Let's see who all is there on the live chat. This is going to be a session in which I am going to take questions that you have asked in the comments with with the hash ask ajit. So I'm going to take history questions today that you have asked in the comments and if there is time I will take some live chat questions at the end. Let's see who is there on the live chat. Rahul G good evening online. Good to see you. Good to see you. Sar Mahajan feminists Abu Singh Rahul Dunak. Um Sukun Vacher. Okay. Aayush Singh Pranam. Shria Smitra is here from Moscow. Good to see you. Shas wise idiot. [laughter] Achedin is here. Arian rocking gaming animals for laugh is here from Mumbai. Good to see you sir. Amisha [snorts] Mishra. Hello ma'am. Gorabkar Ahan. Swami Jin is here from Jaipur. Snapdil Mishra. Hello Ankit G. Hello Vidyman good evening ma'am Sumesh0 069 Avin Mystic SK JSK Jashri Krishna G Hit Patel good to see you Sin 439 we are so back aren't we are back uh geopolitical is here from Indor good to see you sir Vishnu valerous evening to you Abida Singh woohoo uh feminist Jay Baba Pashwaram random skull Jri Krishna Hersai hello random shorts kall animals for laugh brian kabon GK Field Strong Man Random Shorts Chat DSP Shreas DK Sandy 97 Namaste K22ish official Priyanka Javalia from Gorga good to see you ma'am good to see you Gulu Rajput Jay Bhavani um KK family uh from Greece uh one second hello from Greece I'm not sure it'll take me some time I'll okay I'll not try to do that but good to See you. Uh my my Greek is a little rusty. I can still read but it takes time. Chat DSP Sandy Ouo is here. Samyak Space. Good evening. Ashwani Sunil Seagel. God was alive. Dak Spade Practics Gamer Indi Achilles Mayur Nyak Gulu Raj Rajput Miran Nam Bula. Okay. Namaste Gok Spade Dak Akuma. Um, Suman Potam City Saturn 88 Namaskar Sudhir Kumar event countdown Rahul Meta Sunil Seagel Feel Strong Man Staint Crocodile [laughter] okay and everybody else I won't be able to greet you all individually as you know but uh okay who else we have Bumi Aditya Gupta Partapati Miranam etc wooden armor PK I'm a painter Char [laughter] [gasps] Sid Jane Bruce Bruce Wayne, Sudhir, Daksh. All right. Okay. Let's get going with the questions otherwise I'm going to I'm going to greet you all day and I would um request you all to not take to not take super chats today cuz I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments. So I'll take those today. Let us get going with the questions. What is question number one that we have today? What questions have I picked? Let me see. It's been a Let's see where where where are the questions? Here we are. What's question number one? Here we go. Ritik Pawar says, "Why did no Indian kings perform the ashwame, the yagna after 350 AD? Samudra Gupta did that in 350 AD. What's the deal? Why did no Indian kings do this?" Well, first of all, it's not entirely accurate to say that no one did that after 350 AD. Samud Gupta, the great Gupta emperor certainly did that and he was a fantastic conqueror as we know. But we had various rulers from various dynasties who did conduct who did perform this ancient ritual between 350 AD and uh around the 11th century AD. For example, Vakatak rulers, Chola rulers, Chalukia ruler, cha chalukia rulers, various Rajput rulers etc. And the last ruler that is known to have performed this yagna is Savai J Singh II of J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J Jipur in the 18th century who did it twice. So you have more rulers after some Gupta who did do this perform this very ancient ritual dating back to the riga right but yeah it's it's it's no longer performed why is that that the case right so let us understand what the ashwa made the yagna was all about what was this ritual what was this ancient ritual what was it all about it involved an ashwa a force. So the ashwamed ritual was performed by kings or emperors. Here's what was done. So according to the shastrat of the vedas, according to Vic rituals and prescriptions, a young powerful male horse would be selected, a stallion and that horse would need to have certain characteristics. So the right kind of horse, young powerful male stallion was selected. And the various uh Vic rituals were done with the stallion. Various pujas and vidhis etc were done on the stallion. And then on a very specifically chosen date the stallion was released. Go wherever you feel like going go. And it's not just like the stallion was simply released. the entire not the entire military but a significant portion of the king's military would accompany the stallion wherever the stallion chose to go. So the child stallion was free to go where wherever he wanted. He would not be restrained. He would not be guided. he would be allowed to go wherever he chose to go and the military would simply accompany him at a at at a respectable decent distance. Okay? And this process would go on for one year. One full year, the stallion would wander wherever he wanted to go. Now, here's the deal. The stallion would go into neighboring territories, into the territories of neighboring kings, for example. Then when the stallion enters the territory of a neighboring king, that king would have a crucial choice. Do I allow the stallion to come into my territory or do I oppose him? If I allow the stallion to wander through my territory and I don't oppose the stallion, then I'm acknowledging the suzarenti of the king who has performed the ashwid yagna, which means that I become his vasal. If I oppose him, I have to deal with his military. And a king who would have a weak military would not dare to do an ashwame the yagna. So it was about expanding your territory. It was about forcing your neighbors [clears throat] to to acknowledge your superiority and your overlordship and their vasalhood. That way you would very rapidly gain more vasals or you would defeat your you know those who dared to stand up against you. So this process went on for a full year. Okay. And obviously you would need a powerful military to accompany the horse and those that all those soldiers would have to be supported logistically and and so on. It's a pretty big undertaking military. It's a full year-long military campaign essentially that we are talking about. But the pretext is the journey of a horse. Okay. So after a year is over, the horse would then be brought back to the king's capital and then there would be um further set of religious rituals and ceremonies that would go on for about 25 days. [clears throat] The king who had released the horse and now he's got the horse back. He would wear only you know clothes made from the skin of a black buck. Okay. And he would only sleep on the floor on the ground not on a bed. And he would do various yagnas and various rituals for 25 or so days. And then on the once that is done the horse would be brought in and the main yagna would happen and it would not just be the the horse himself but several hundred other animals. Um the number I recall is 609 animals apart from the horse. And um the horse the ashwa would then be sacrificed animal sacrifice. It would be suffocated to death and then various rituals would then be performed. The the king's principal wife would also perform some rituals along with the king or separately from the king. Uh the details we need need not go into. There is some controversy about that because of various uh western mistransations. That's a different story. So see when you are a king that's that powerful you would not have a single wife. would have multiple wives, but there would be one principal wife, the principal queen, the main queen. And she would perform um the ceremonies that were required. And then the the horse would be quartered or or divided into various pieces and the flesh would be cooked and various other animals would also be sacrificed and their flesh would also be offered to the gods and so on. And the king would then give gigantic donations of gold and silver to to hundreds of of uh brahmans, priests, rishies, bullies etc. And all the rituals would have to be done as per strict rigidic standards. All the mantra all the mantra erans have to had to be done properly and so on. Uh and and and a lot of offerings had to be offered to Agni to the gods via Agni. hundreds of kilograms of mong beans and and barley and and so many other things and obviously heaps and heaps of gold and silver coins. So imagine how expensive this is and how risky this is. First of all, you are conducting a year-long military campaign, and you may be very powerful, which is why you dare to do it. But then you would have to send a significant portion of your military on a campaign wherever the horse leads them for a year. You would have to supply them. You would have to give them all the logistics you need, they need. It's an expensive thing, very expensive thing to send an army on a military campaign for a full year. That's number one. Secondly, all those heaps and heaps of gold and silver coins. Who's going to pay for that? Super expensive. Then you have to um donate donate all of those to various brahinss, various priests and and the people. You would have to to procure hundreds of kilos of ghee and and moon beans and and barley and and all kinds of other things. So it was risky and it was extremely extremely expensive to perform the Ashume the yagna. That's number one. That's number one. So only very powerful kings or emperors could afford to do this or even risk to do it. If you were a small king somewhere with a small army and a small economy, how on earth would you do the ashamed yagna? If your horse wandered into the territory of a much powerful ne much more powerful neighbor, well, you were in be deep trouble. If the horse was stopped and you did not then fight that king, then you were humiliated and your own people would not respect you. So, it did not make any sense for a king who was not powerful to do that. And if you were really powerful, then you would incur a tremendous amount of expenditure. But the riskreward thing was also great because you would end up gaining a lot of territory. that also worked. Yeah. So that's the economics and that's the riskreward uh you know uh calculations of the ashwamed yagna. Uh now in the past 1,000 years we increasingly came upon more and more progressive foreign occupation starting with the uh the Turk Delhi Sultteranet for a while. Then there was the Muggal Kingdom which eventually became a Muggal Empire under Aurang. And then you had the various uh European uh occupiers of India who uh you know took away the sovereignty who who defeated various Indian kings and empires including the Marata Empire eventually and we lost sovereignty and once you lose sovereignty how on earth do you do the Ashamed Yagna? Today we are a secular nation. our culture, our religion is is not it's it's you know it's it's given a secondass status in the country. So today it's not well the shame the no longer has any relevance right. So that's how this this great ancient uh practice you know went out of usage. So until the next Ashwave Yagna does uh does happen, India is well if if whenever the Ashwave the Yagna happens again that will be the revival of Indian civilization the proper Indian civilization not the fake Hins Indian civilization in which you know you don't do hinsa you don't do animal sacrifices and all the ashwi yagna was a full-fledged animal sacrifice yagna from the vic times from the oldest vic times rigidic times your ancestors ate meat your ancestors performed animal sacrifices and more than animal sacrifices and then what happened is that you know what that's another factor as well Buddhism and ginism so one of the things that Ashoke the great Ashoke emperor Ashoke did was he transformed this obscure fringe religious path dharmic path into a global phenomenon Buddhism right and Buddhism was all about nonviolence and nonviolence kinds of kind of appeals to the Indian psyche to some extent for some reason and because the Buddhists uh espoused nonviolence the the brahinss who performed vic rituals they were then branded as animal killers and that kind of put them at a very disadvantageous position in society. For several hundred years, Buddhism became the dominant dharmic path in India. [clears throat] So to adapt strategically, tactically, the Brahmans had to become even more nonviolent than the Buddhists. The Buddhists still ate meat. The Brahmans became completely vegetarian, right? And because of that eventually something different crept into what we call Hinduism which was uh you know Vic tradition itself evolved as a response to the Buddhist challenge. As a response to that Vic tradition evolved to prefer symbolic sacrifice over literal sacrifice. For example, we have this this tradition of cracking coconuts, not green coconut coconuts, dry ripe coconuts. What do dry ripe coconuts look like? Let me show you what they look like. Give me a second. Let's Google it. Okay. What does a dry ripe coconut look like? All right. Here we go. Ripe coconut. What's it look like? It looks like this. But what about that? Why does it look like that? What does the cracking of a coconut symbolize? It essentially symbolizes human sacrifice. See there are pl there are various gods and goddesses who need to be who who require certain kinds of offerings especially the kulis of of warriors like kali like da like chamunda if you go to the ancient temples of these great goddesses I assure you certain things happened in the past that are no longer legal today in those temples so to replace those practices with something that's more acceptable and palatable to our soft-hearted Hindus of today. We have replaced those practices with the cracking of coconuts. So our society evolved and it became very vegetarian, very soft, very nonviolent, very ains, very Gandhian and Vic tradition itself evolved to prefer symbolic sacrifice over literal sacrifice. And today if we talk about the ashwam the yagna and and the actual rituals involved in that most Indians will be like no no no our ancestors would never have done such things. So that's the problem. We have become a civilization of softies, right? Of carb eaters, carb maxers. We don't need protein anymore. We don't perform the great old Vic rituals anymore. And that's the problem anyhow. So that's the reason why the ashamed the yagna is no longer performed for these multiple reasons. One is for an occupation. The second is the secularization and of India and the destruction of our civilization and the destruction of Hinduism from India and the relegation of Hinduism to secondass status in India. And thirdly is all of these things the evolution of Hindu society itself and the I'm [laughter] the the the the softening I'm [laughter] I'm searching for a polite word here. Yeah. [clears throat] Whatever's happened right that I described. Okay. [laughter] Okay. Next, next question. Next question. Swapnil Mishra says, "Why is the Algerian war of independence considered the bloodiest decolonization war in Africa? And what factors made the conflict so violent?" Algeria. Does anybody even know about what happened in Algeria? the dis the the the ghastliest of wars, freedom struggles that happened in Africa, it happened in Algeria. So what's the deal? What's the history? So Algeria, in case some of you are not aware, we will have to consult the map which is a practice that I have introduced into Indian society. Well, here we go. Here's the map. We going to look at where Algeria is situated. So we go westwards of India. We cross the Arabian Peninsula. We cross we go west of Egypt. Then you have Libya and then you have Algeria. This large North African nation which is mostly empty desert down south but the the u major population centers are up north. Right? You have the city of Alers, you have the city of and many others. So uh that is Algeria and if you go north of Algeria, if you cross the Mediterranean Sea, then you reach France, the country of France. And that's what we're talking about. We're talking about Algeria and its struggle to free itself of French occupation. Now the polite word in European and modern society is colonialism. It was French colonization just like it was British colonization of India. That word colonization, it masks a brutal reality which is foreign occupation and plunder. It's occupation, not colonization. So the Algerians fought to free themselves of French occupation. Now what's the history of this French occupation of Algeria? When did that happen? So it began somewhere around 1830. Around 1830, the French uh invaded Algeria and they captured various parts of Algeria which were at the northern fringes of Africa, the the Mediterranean coastline of Algeria. Okay. Um and the Algerians put up significant strong resistance. There was this Amir Abu Abdul Abdul Abdul Bakr or something his name was. You can look up the actual name. the great uh Algerian freedom fighter from the 1830s and 1840s. Um so he fought the French for close to 171 18 years and he put up a very strong resistance against the French but eventually by about 1848 the French were able to capture him and send him into exile or whatever they did to him. So he is taken out of action. He is not executed by the French but he's captured and sent into exile. I think he was buried in Damascus in Syria um when he died and sometime in the 20th century his body was exumed and brought back to Algeria against his wishes. He wanted to be buried in in in Damascus. Anyway, that's a that's a digression. So uh the the the Amir is defeated, captured and then the French colonize uh Algeria after the defeat of the uh of the Amir and the and the indigenous resistance against French occupation. So that happens in I think 1847 1848 around that time. You can look up the exact dates, right? And once that that struggle is over and it's defeated, the French then what they did is they did not declare Algeria as a French colony. They declared Algeria as an integral part of France. It's an integral part of France. It's not a colony. It's France itself. It's an integral part of France. And then what the French did is that they started this policy of settling Europeans in Algeria mainly French but also spa Spanish people and Italians and and people from Malta as well. So Europeans were settled over time in Algeria beginning around 1848 all the way until the 20th century until the 1940s and uh these uh Europeans were called Pinoir, black feet or whatever in French. Um so over time the f the European population of Alge Algeria uh became about 15 10 to 15% of the Algerian population and they became um almost like the majority population in some cities like Alger like in it was like more than 50% was European in Alger it was about 30 35% and other cities it was like that in the northern coast line of Africa So close to a million roughly a million Europeans were settled in Algeria which formed about 10 to 15% of Algeria's population and the Algerians were were systematically repressed. There was this war that was conducted against them. They were relegated to secondass status in their own country. Um many of them were sent you know the French military, army, air force, everything was used against them. uh there were lots of killings by about 1900 almost a million Algerians may have died okay uh because of French uh policies let's say um so there was a deal now fast forward to 1945 the second world war war is over it has just ended and many Algerians had fought for France does this remind you of thing India was again under British occupation and many Indians fought for Britain in the in the first and second world wars. Why did Indians fight for Britain? Did did they see the British as their masters? Did they see themselves as owing some loyalty to the British? No, it was a job. There was no job available in India. So lots of people became soldiers and they fought just to provide for the families. Similarly, many Algerians fought for the French. So the French they created this two-t tire system in Algeria. Similar to the uh similar to the South African apathide system, the French and the Europeans were the first class citizens. And the Algerians, the natives were second-ass citizens who did not have many of the rights and privileges that the Europeans had. and some Algerians who had become um franophones who had who had uh you know assimilated into French culture and who had become uh you could say servants of the French government uh they were given more rights a small small minority of people. So by 1945 sometime in May the second world war is over. The European theater is over. Hitler is dead. Um and then many of the Algerians who had fought for France they started demonstrating in Algeria asking for equal rights asking for French citizenship because Algerians did not have French citizenship even though Algeria was technically according to France an integral part of France. So Algerians wanted French citizenship. They wanted equal rights and they protested and demonstrated and the French police opened fire on them. Bang, bang, bang. And then there were riots and and the the entire machinery of the French government was deployed against them. Army, police, military, air force, navy, everything. About 2 million Algerians were sent into concentration camps. And here is the problem. By by 1945 there were about a million European origin people living in Alia right but they had not come in recently. There were third or fourth generation people who lived there. They had been living there for three four generations. They regarded Algeria as their homeland because their grandparents and their great-grandparents had been born there. So for them any prospect of the Algerians asking them to leave was an existential threat. So they fought and they were supported by the fed government. So you have this situation which is kind of a civil war like thing maybe war of independence maybe a war of occupation whatever you want to call it. So about 2 million Algerians are sent into concentration camps. Hundreds of thousands of them are killed by the French military. Maybe tens of thousands whatever the numbers are. You know there's a big controversy about what the actual numbers are. So it if you ask the French it will be one set of numbers. It if you ask somebody else it will be if you ask the Algerians it will be a different set of numbers. Uh so the war the proper war of independence starts about 80 about 19 1946 56 56 1956 when Shah the Gaul is the uh was the leader of France and it went on all the way until 1962. Um and uh it was brutal. The Algerian freedom fighters even killed Algerians who were suspected of being either neutral or being collaborators with the French. Tens of thousands of people died like this. Either killed by the French or killed by the freedom fighters. People caught in the crossfire. People who were sent into concentration camps and starved there or brutalized there. And the the the French described the war of independence as a as a campaign of terrorism. And you know that's how it was. It was brutal. It was barbaric. It was it was nasty. But by 18 but by 1962 the French decided that we have to leave now. So the French withdraw from Algeria but they sign a set of accords with the Algerian government that takes power. According to that accord um France retains access to certain parts of Algeria until until 1965. So the French continued even after Algeria became independent the French continued to do nuclear tests in the Algerian Sahara desert. about 13 or 15 or so nuclear tests the French did there. Uh and after the French left there was a large number of of people who had who had fought for France who had served in the French military or government or whatever who had worked for France. Now there were reprisals against these people by the new Algerian government and maybe 130,000 of them were killed. So that was it. If you look at the cumulative death toll, if you look at the figures that Algeria gives us, according to those figures, more than 5 million Algerians died between 1830 and 1960 to 1965. more than 5 million Algerians. They're considered to be martyrs obviously and uh tens of thousands of Europeans and French also died. So it was brutal. Uh there's no war of independence in Africa that has been this brutal, right? It was obviously less brutal than the 1857 Indian War of Independence in which way more Indians died, but that's a whole different story. So you can't compare the two. But yeah, so that's why the Algerian War of Independence is called the bloodiest decolonization war in Africa. And these are the factors that made the conflict so violent, you know. Right. Okay. Next. Amisha says, "Although colonized by Spain for over 300 years, the Philippines never became a Spanish-sp speakaking nation unlike Latin America." Why is that? Okay, let's once again go to the map and figure out where is this place called the Philippines. So, we know where India is. Now, we have to go eastwards. So we go eastwards from the Bay of Bengal, the Andan Sea, the straight of Mala. We cross over into the Champa Samudra which is currently called the South China Sea. And here west of Indonesia we have the Philippines. This big archipelago south of Taiwan and north of Sulawesi, Indonesia in Brunai. That is uh Philippines pretty large archipilago. So the Philippines were colonized by Spain but the Philippines never became a Spanish speaking nation unlike Latin American nations of today. Why is that the case right? That's what we have to understand. Now first of all understand Philippines is not really very far from the endosphere. It used to be part of the endosphere. What is this endosphere that I talk about? The Indosphere was all of those uh cultures or or or kingdoms or or regions of Asia that were primarily influenced by Indian culture by Hindu culture. So the Philippines were very much part of the Indosphere. They were at some at at a point in time vasals of the Chola Empire and the kings and rulers of the Philippines were called Rajas. So when the Spaniards arrived in the Philippines around when the Europeans arrived in the Philippines in the 16th century, the kings that ruled in the Philippines were called Rajas. One of the great Rajas was Lapu Lapu and these were Hindus and they you know Sanskrit des Sanskrit inscriptions have been uh discovered in the Philippines. So the Philippines was part of the Indosphere. So let's quickly understand the context. 1492 what happens? You have Columbus stumbling upon the Americas and believing that he has reached India which he was looking for. That's 1492. 1498 we have Vasco Gama who arrives in India who discovers India apparently because nobody had discovered it. That's 1498. Um in 1520 1521 you have the fall of the uh Aztec triple alliance which which whose capital was Tokitlan present day Mexico City and the Spaniards destroyed the Aztec Empire in Latin America. Hernand Cortez was the barbarian in charge of that in the 1530s all the way to the 1570s. You have the Spanish destruction of the Inca Empire in Peru. Franchesco Pitzaro was the barbarian responsible for that. So that's what's happening in the world around this time in the 16th century, right? And then um it's around 1500 or something 1500 something that Magelan the Portuguese explorer discovers the Philippines because nobody had discovered them and he fights the the Filipino Raja Lapu Lapu I believe and he's killed. He's killed. Um then the Spaniards they then uh reach the Philippines and they start colonizing the Philippines slowly gradually and it begins around the 1560s or so right and this process of colonization goes on for like like Amisha says more than 300 years until 1898 when you have the SpanishAmerican war which the Americans win. So that's when the American colonization of the Philippines begins in 1898. So from the 1560s all the way to 1898 you have the Spanish colonization of the Philippines and Philippines the Philippines were ruled out of Mexico which was then called New Spain. Okay. Um and in uh in the 1820s Mexico became independent and once that happened the Philippines were administered from Madrid in Spain. So now the question is why did the Philippines never become a Spanish-sp speakaking region? Why is that? Multiple regions multiple reasons. So the Philippines like we saw in the map is a big cluster of hundreds of islands. It's a it's a vast archipilago and because you have this kind of geography you're going to have a lot of diversity there. If you go to the Philippines you will find there's more than 100 different languages that's spoken there. One of some of the major ones are Tagalog and so on but you have hundreds of different languages spoken there and uh it was very difficult to kind of unify everything under one language. So uh one of the principal um objectives of the Spaniards was to convert convert the Hindus of the Philippines to Christianity. So the Spanish missionaries they decided that instead of teaching everybody Spanish, we will divide ourselves into various groups and go to various islands, we will learn the native language and we will convert them to Christianity by speaking the local languages. that is the tactic or the strategy that they adopted. So they never tried to impose Spanish for the longest time until the 19th century uh on the Philippines. So eventually because of the Spanish military superiority and the and the overwhelming um arm twisting power and brutality and all that they were able to convert the Filipinos uh the people of the Philippines from Hinduism to uh Christianity. It's only sometime in the 19th century that they that they imposed a Spanish language education system on the Philippines and tried to instruct everybody in in the Spanish language and um you know have everyone adopt the Spanish language did not quite have sufficient time to work right even today in India a lot of people can't still speak English even though we have been called right? I'm back. Okay. So even today a lot of people in India still can't speak English. Uh even though we have been colonized by the East India Company since what 1747 1757 more than 200 years and after 1947 we apparently are independent but we have further imposed English on everyone and still the majority of Indians don't speak English right after like more than three centuries of English presence significant English presence. So the Spanish did not have sufficient time to be present in in the Philippines and impose their language. All they were able to do is to make all Filipinos adopt Spanish names. Fernando Marcos, email the Marcos and so on so forth, right? That sort of thing. Uh and then the Americans took over after defeating the the the Spanish in 1898 and then you know the Philippines became an American colony and then the English language was was imposed once again through tremendous brutality on the Filipinos who had by now become Christians and who had forgotten their Hindu past. Uh so that is what happened and that's why uh the Philippines never quite became a Spanishspeaking nation. What happened to Latin America? Why did Latin America become predominantly Spanish- speaking apart from Brazil? That's a different case. Why? Why is that? First of all, because Latin America underwent a massive genocide. About 90% of the population of the various parts of Latin America was wiped out through various means either through massacres, through forced genocide or through smallpox and various other illnesses that were introduced in the native populations. So approximately 90% of the native populations were were decimated, destroyed, wiped out, genocided by the Spaniards, principally the Spaniards. And then the Spaniards settled lots and lots of European origin people in the Americas in Latin America and that's why Spanish became the principal language that's spoken in the Latin Americas in Latin America apart from Brazil where you have Portuguese. So that's the difference. Right. Next question. Nirvana Shanks says, "How did the European colonization of native populations near the modern day region of Mexico, Mexico, affect the genetics of the general populace of the present time, right? So like we discussed in the previous question, uh the Spanish colonization of the Americas, Latin America begins uh with the arrival of of of Christopher Columbus in the Caribbean region. in 1492 and eventually you know he and his various other compatriates they take over various parts of Latin America. uh in 15 1521 you have the fall of the noitan the fall of the Azak triple alliance a empire at the hands of Harbdan Cortes in the 1530s all the way to the 1570s you have the destruction of the inca empire by Franchesco Pzaro and over time what happens is that about 90% of the native population is is eliminated through various means either through violence or by smallpox or other old world diseases or whatever about 90% of the native population or maybe more is killed. Genocide, total genocide. Then what you have is that you've got lots of European origin people who settle in these territories. So it was settler colonization after genocide or during genocide. So because and then what you have is that you have intermarriage between the two populations between the native populations who are uh at the in in in in at the lower end of the cast system that was imposed upon them and and the occupiers the European occupiers the Spanish occupiers who are the privileged and the and the powerful ones in the higher end of the power differential. So if you look at the Spanish I mean if you look at the uh genetics of let's say Mexico and other Latin American countries today you will find that most people are what we call mystizos which are mixed people mixed race people and if you look at their genetics overall about 50 60% of their genetics between 45 to 55 45 to 60% of the genetics will be native and the rest so more than half the gen more than 50% of the genetics are native and the rest of it about 40% 45% or whatever is European. Now that's not all. There is nuance to it. There are two kinds of ancestries. One is the mitochondrial DNA ancestry. Mitochondrial DNA is passed on from mother to children. So mother to children it's passed on but male children cannot pass it on to their descendants. only females can pass it on to their descendants. So the mother will pass on mitochondrial DNA to both male as well as female offspring but only the female offspring can pass it on to to their offspring. That's how it is. So that's why mitochondrial DNA is your matrinal line of descent. So if you look at the genetics of the people in the in Latin America, if you look at their mitochondrial DNA ancestry about 90% of it is native. If you look at their patrinal DNA, most of it is European. What does it indicate? It indicates that most of them are descendants of children fathered by Europeans with native women. That is a classic symbol of colonization and foreign occupation where the foreign occupiers won and the local males were wiped out and the women were enlisted into the business of procreation with the Europeans. That is the deal. Right? So that is how um the European occupation of Latin America and the devastation of the native populations how that has contributed to the kind of genetics that you have in Latin America today. Clear classic science of foreign occupation you see in the tale that the DNA and and genetics tells us. All right, next question. Amisha says, "If Brazil brought in way more African slaves than the US or Hayiti, why doesn't Brazil have a bigger black or African origin population?" Now, was forced racial mixing a big reason for that? Right? So, if you look at the number of So, we had some there was something called the transatlantic slave trade. Let's look at the map. Let us look at the map and understand what this transatlantic slave trade was. So here we have the map. Now we're going to go to to the Atlantic region near the equator. Okay? Not not the North Atlantic, not the South Atlantic, but the region near the equator. And it's around this region around here that you had the transatlantic slave trade. So Africans were captured in West Africa and they were shipped across the Atlantic and they were then sold in various parts of the Americas whether it was the present day United States or Brazil or other territories. That's what happened. Now the question is how many slaves did these regions acquire from Africa? If you look at the United States, it's, you know, the official figures are less than half a million slaves were shipped or were received alive in the United States over time. Half a million slaves, African origin, black slaves in the US. When it comes to Brazil, it's like 5 million plus. So Brazil got Brazil acquired 10 time more than 10 times the number of slaves the Americans the United States present the United States acquired. So Brazil brought brought in like more than 10 times the number of slaves African slaves than the US and more than five times the number of slaves that were brought into Hayi after the destruction of uh the Dominican you know the people who once lived in Hispanola. the Karib the the the Karib people the the the Arawak people different story um so if that is the case why doesn't Brazil have a much larger black population today so here's the deal less than official according to official records less than half a million black slaves were shipped to the United States but those slaves were treated you would say in a way that was not going to kill them if it makes any sense. Look, the the slaves were treated as goods. They were treated no different from livestock animals like like cattle or or pigs or whatever. That's how slaves were treated. They were not treated as human beings by the Europeans. Utterly barbaric practice, right? But when it comes to the treatment of let's say animals, there's different ways of treating animals. If you treat them in a certain way, they will thrive and they will reproduce and they will they will they will do well as long as you want to keep them alive. But if you treat animals poorly, animals die, right? So in the United States, slaves were given the kind of uh situ you know living standards where they were treated very harshly but they were not killed and they were able to form families and reproduce and and their population actually increased over time. In Brazil it was the other way around. The the treatment was extremely harsh and the mortality rate was very high. In the United States, the mortality rate was relatively much lower. So in Brazil, you had extremely harsh treatment of the African slaves. So African slaves were brought in were shipped to Brazil beginning in the 1500s, the first half of the 1500s, the first half of the 16th century. And by the 1800s, more than h more than 5 million African origin slaves were shipped to Brazil. and they were put to work in cotton plantations, sugar plantations, sugar plantations. Uh then uh diamond mines and other mines were discovered. They were put to work in those mines and the the treatment was extremely harsh. The mortality was extremely high. It was just brutal. It was barbaric. And u eventually by 1888 or somewhere around that time, slavery was officially abolished in Brazil. But the slaves who are freed now they were given they were given no option to to survive. So they were not given any kind of u any kind of um remineration. They were not given any any any any uh vocation. They were not given any land that they could work on. They were given no compensation. So very quickly they found themselves in situations that very much mimicked slavery. Once again and after 1888 or whichever year it was that slavery was abolished, the Brazilian government then began this policy of encouraging large scale European settlement in Brazil to whiten the population. So being black was regarded as a stigma. It was regarded as something very inferior. And over time the populations mixed. So the black people would event would originally uh you know procreate let's say or or have children with the native people of Brazil and eventually that got mixed with the white populations also. So if you see the official Brazilian statistics today I would imagine that less than 10% of the people of Brazil regard themselves as black or or identify as black. So in Brazil race how is race determined? Race is determined by what the person decides that their race is. So most people say that we are not black. We are of mixed ancestry or whatever but not black. And that's why most people are regarded as regarded as not black. But if you look at the actual parentage and ancestry and heritage of most of the Brazilian people, at least half of them have African ancestry. Right? So so that is what happened. Right? Abisha says, "What was the slave transportation process from Africa so brutal when the slavers wanted to sell healthy slaves to make profit in the end?" Okay. So once again, we are discussing the transatlantic slave trade. Once again, let's go to the map. Okay. So we had the Europeans had this practice of of capturing slaves in West Africa, transporting them across the Atlantic and selling them in places like Brazil, in Latin America, in the United States and so on. Now what was this process like? So most of the slaves came from Western Africa. Uh today in the US, one of the biggest forms of music is the blues. The blues. What is the roots of the blues? The roots of the blues, blues music is the music of Mali, Western Africa music, Western African music. So it was people mainly from the western African region that were taken as slaves across the Atlantic. So what was the process like? Let's understand what the process was like. So there would be raiding parties sent into the interior of West Africa and um helpless people would be captured, men, women, children. They would be chained up and forced to march to the various trading ports in West Africa. They would be chained and kept there. They would be kept there in in concentration camp situations until the next ship would come in. Then they would be crammed into those ships in abysmal conditions. Understand this my dear friends. These slaves, African slaves were not regarded as human beings by the Europeans. They were regarded as goods. They were regarded as cargo. They were given the same treatment as livestock animals. So, it has some value, but it's not human. And it's it's life doesn't matter. That's how they would treat these people. They would treat them as non-human. So, these slaves would be chained and they would be crammed into the holes of ships below deck. they would be crammed together. Now, let me give you a rather unfortunate way of understanding this or visualizing this. Okay? Because the Europeans regarded the Africans as the same as animals, let me give you an appropriate comparison. Okay? So, uh if you to to understand the kind of conditions these African these these unfortunate African slaves were were transported in. So if you see a pig farm in China and let's see images. So if you see this, you see these pigs, they actually are are living in decent conditions. This is not bad. This is kind of bad. They're crammed together. This is decent. This is bad. The African slaves who were transported were transported in conditions worse than what you are seeing on the screen right now. This is good compared to what the African slaves had to suffer. They had to suffer conditions similar to these. I I apologize for showing the way animals are treated to make a comparison, but that is the way the Europeans treated the Africans. That's exactly how the Europeans treated the Africans. So they would be crammed into the holes of ships below the decks. There would be like several hundred of them crammed into a small ship. There would be no place to turn. They would be in chains. There would be no facilities as such to to you know take care of physical necessities. They would be given very little water. They would be given essentially rotten food, typically rice or something like that. And uh and the conditions would be really hot. There would not be proper ventilation because you're traveling near the equator. So it would be hot in the Atlantic. Very poor ventilation. When there was a storm, they would get no water at all. And typically the mortality rate was would be I don't know between 10% to 50% during a voyage. So the qu the question is why was this done in in this manner? Why was why were so many people crammed into ships? So many like animals because the traders slave traders had this ugly perverse horrible logic. They were resigned to the fact that 10 20% of their cargo will die will perish. So if I'm transporting 100 and 20 will die, why not transport 120? If I'm transporting 300 and 60 will die, why not transport 360 cram 60 more in there? That way even if 60 die, the rest will rest will reach. So it was not about quality, it was about quantity. As much as possible, as many slaves as possible, let's cram them into the into the hold of the ship and how many however many of them survive, we will sell them and make a profit. That was the deal. The slavers never wanted to sell healthy slaves. They wanted to sell live slaves. It was quantity, not quantity, not quality that they were after. And that's why that the process was so incredibly inhuman and brutal. And today they lecture us about human rights and democracy and whatnot. Yeah. The same people, right? And Amisha once again many white American slave owners fathered illegitimate children with their slaves. How many how were these mixed race child slaves treated by their masters or fathers? So in the United States once again you had slaves who would live on on the property of rich white men. And these rich white men would have their own families. Obviously they would have their wives. They the they would have a wife, they would have children. They would have a whole household with multiple slaves who would run the household. And you would have slaves who would work on the farms and whatnot. And many of the slaves were women obviously, right? female African slaves. And it was not uncommon for these white masters to take multiple female slaves as their sex slaves, as their mistresses. And when you do that, you're going to father children with these unfortunate ladies. Right? So many white American slave owners did indeed father children with their slaves. Now in our culture there is no concept of illegitimacy. There is no word for bastard in Sanskrit right? There is a word in Persian but not in Sanskrit. But in Christianity you have the concept of bastardy illegitimacy. William the bastard who eventually became William the conqueror 11 1066 AD that's a different story. So many of these miserable, evil white slave owners fathered unfortunate, illegitimate children with their female with their helpless female slaves. So these slaves, these children that were fathered obviously were half black, half white. You could see that they were different. They were not completely of African origin. It was very clear and many of them obviously would have some of the facial features and characteristics of the father. Now when that happens it causes a scandal. The wife will be unhappy. Society will see and then they will talk about you behind your back. It'll cause a scandal. So what do you do if you are the guy who has done this? Well, you have multiple options. One is you make the children invisible. Uh don't bring them out in public. Don't put them in positions where they are public facing and just treat them as slaves. Second, sell them somewhere far away so that nobody will see what you've done. And if a half white, half black slave arrives in a on a farm 200 km away, nobody will realize what happened and who the father is. That's the second option. The third option is you actually give them some some kind of benefits of of being your child. So in some cases some of these white uh these white masters would sometimes you know give some kind of unofficial education you know arrange for some unofficial education for their for their illegitimate children and when they grow up they would either be given privileged slave positions or they would be freed by the father. That was a minority of cases. In most cases, they would be treated just as slaves and the fathers do not care. They would either be treated as slaves and be brutalized just just like every other slave or they would be sold off somewhere else where the problem would go away. So, one of the examples of these prominent white slave owners was the third president of the United States of America, Thomas Jefferson. He had this unfortunate uh mistress who was an was an African origin slave and he fathered multiple children with her and uh he never recognized the fact that those children were his descendants and uh yeah that was just the the deal. So that is how um these illegitimate children were treated by their masters who also happened to be their fathers. Right. Next question. Once again, Amisha. So we're going to talk about slavery today. [laughter] Amisha says, "Were there white slaves in the US?" Mid 1800s. You had indentured servants who were white. For example, you would have uh people who would come for from let's say Ireland who would be uh treated as indentured servants. Now what's the difference between slavery and indentured serv servitude? Indentured servitude means you would be a slave for a certain number of years. So let's say you are a poor Irishman and you are being oppressed brutally by the British occupiers of Ireland. You see today if you look at the the map of the United Kingdom, [clears throat] you have multiple countries within the United Kingdom. One is England. The second is British occupied Wales. The third is British occupied Scotland. And the fourth is British occupied Ireland, also known as Northern Ireland. And there was a time when the British occupied much of Ireland and brutalized the people there. So if you were a poor impoverished Irishman living under British occupation and you wanted freedom from the godamned British, from the accursed British, but you had no means to be free, then you would make a deal with the devil. You will tell the guy who has a ship and who is sailing to the US, to the Americas, you would say, "Sir, please allow me to to sell on your ship. I have nothing to offer you but I will serve you for x number of years once I reach the US. So then they would sign some kind of agreement. The guy who doesn't know the the the poor guy who is illiterate he will sign an ex x on some document and that's it. And he would be essentially a slave for 10 years 15 years whatever the number of years was and that was called indentured servitude. It was technically different from slavery, but but it was almost the same thing as long as that that contract was valid. And the Irish were not regarded as whites, by the way. The Irish were were racially discriminated discriminated against. And the way they became white was by discriminating against the African-Americans. That's a whole different story. We'll not go there. So you not you did not technically have white slaves in the US, but you had indentured servants and you had and you had a cast system in the US. So the people that mattered were the land owners, the rich people. And if you were a white person with no land or whatever, then you were like almost the same in a societal level as as a slave. So technically you did not did not have white slaves but for practical purposes for all intents and matters it was very similar to slavery especially for people like the Irish maybe even the Germans for a while. So from various parts of Europe you would you would have people who come in people who did not speak English and all they would be treated very poorly and they would often end up uh in situations and circumstances that kind of mimicked slavery. So you did have that but technically they were not slaves and they even if they had no money and they were almost on the same level as slaves they still had rights and privileges that the Africans did not have. First of all they were regarded as human beings. The Africans were not and other things as well. So technically there was no white slavery technically. Krishna of the Surinamese Netherlands says, "Can you give an can you give a chronological timeline of the drying up of the Saraspati river, the so-called Gagar Hakra River today?" Okay. So, let's go to the map. Can we can we discover where this river is? The Gagar Hakra River today. Right. Okay. Let's go to the map and let us go to northern India and let us simply search for the Gagar Hakra River. Gagar Hakra river and then you zoom in there and there you find it. Gagar river where is it? So today you have this river okay which is kind of a seasonal river and it is fed from glacial melt waters in the Himalayas and this is all that remains of the once mighty Sarasati and even today in the rainy season in India the Gagar river reverts to its monstrous stra state to its majestic state and it floods and uh yeah it it once again for some time becomes the mother of floods. So the Gagar hakra river is all that is left today of the great once great saraspati. What is the chronological timeline of the drying up of this great river? So about 10,000 years ago this was a major massive river. If you look at the paleo channel the dried riverbed in some places it is several kilometers wide. It is which was a massive river. It was a perennial river. It was a it was a glacial meltwater fed river and also mon monsoonfed river. In those days 10,000 years ago the the Indian rainy season was way heavier than what it is today. So you had very heavy rainfall in the rainy season that would totally like transform the river into a beast. And even when it was not raining, it was felt it was fed by the melting slows snows and melting glaciers in northern India in the Himalayas and and in the Himalayan foothills. So it is a very major river and how was the river fed? It did not directly emanate from the Han Himalayas. uh to some extent it did it did but you also had rivers like uh the Yamuna and the Sautl that drained into the Sarasati that that served as tributaries of the Saraswati and that's how the Saraswati was so massive and such a major river and the mother of Indian civilization to a very large extent so that's the deal with Daraswati okay now what happened is that around 6,000 BC See around that time multiple events happened. Firstly, there was a major tectonic event in northern India. A tectonic event means an earthquake, major earthquake or a series of major earthquakes. And what effect this had is that it diverted the course of the satlage in the Yamuna and now the Saraspati no longer received the waters of these two rivers and that was a major issue. Secondly, around 6,000 BC which is around 8,000 years before today, there was a slow gradual monotonic decline in the volume of the Indian monsoon of the Indian rainy season. So very slow very gradual decline in the amount of rainfall that you get every year in the subcontinent. Because of that from about 8,000 years before before today the Sarasi slowly started declining declining declining. It was imperceptible. Nobody could really see it happening in real time. It happened over several thousand years. But so the Sarasati is still a major river during the so-called mature harpan phase which is about 5,000 years before today. That's when you have the peak of the Saraspati synindu phase of our history where this it's a fully industrialized urbanized phase of Indian history right and this was all centered around the STANu region and the major river there was the Sarasati and you have thousands of archaeological sites that are present today on the along the dry riverbed of the Sarasmati then the river starts declining obviously the decline becomes quite visible and by about 1800 or 1700 BC the river significantly dries out and at least in the southern half of its course it's dry and it it drains out into a big lake in the present day Rajasthan region and that lake also eventually dries out and becomes the Tar desert and today all you have left is the seasonal Gagar Hakra river so that is kind of of a chronological timeline of the drying up of the Sarasotai River. And once the river started drying out in a significant way, all the great cities and settlements that had been built on the banks of this great river, they had to disperse because without the river, without without the without the water that the rivers gives you, the river gives you, you can't have a civilization. So Indians then had to disperse from this region and go either eastwards or westwards. So the the ones who went westwards went on to to form the Mitani kingdom and the Hittite kingdom and so on and the ones who went eastwards went and settled in various parts of India interior parts of India like the Ganga Yamuna plains and all that and they formed the great Mahajanapadas and so on. That is how it happened and that is essentially the the an overview of the timeline of the drying up of the great Sarati river. And because the rainfall or or the decline in rainfall caused the the loss of this great river for us, it had profound effects on the way we worship gods. During the Vic days, the Vic period of forestry, we had a pantheon of gods that still exists, but it's no longer worshiped the way it was in the past. The greatest of the gods of the Vic pantheon was Indra, the great storm god, thunder god. His major weapon was the vajgerra, which has two meanings. The vajger is a hammer. It's also a thunderbolt, right? And Indra obviously is also the god of the reigns. And because Indra failed to provide the reigns which ended up killing the Saraswati, I suppose we stopped worshiping Indra. You understand? So all of this ties in ties up together, right? Next question. Feline lover. That's quite a name. Feline lover. Which kind of felines? Cats, tigers, saber-tooths. Okay. Fan lover says wheel imprints found in cintashta are considered to be an evidence of the existence of a chariot and cintashta is credited for the invention of chariots despite no actual chariot ever being found in the time period it's claimed okay but an actual chariot has been discovered in sonali and it's considered it's portrayed by the westerners and various Indian colonized morons as a bullet bulock card. Why is there so much intellectual dishonesty? What's my opinion? Okay, first of all, what is the sintta thing, right? So, the cinta culture is a culture that has been discovered in essentially in central Asia. Let's let's Google it. Um, it's been discovered in Central Asia and it is, you know, by the Arian invasion migration theory folks, it is considered to be the uh original homeland of the Indo-Iranians. Oh, Saintta culture. Let's look at the map what we're talking about. We're talking about this part of the world. So, it is central Asia and almost like Eastern Europe to some extent. That is it's not it's obviously not very far from India. And if you look at uh the kind of uh archaeological findings there that you find, it's clear that the culture is kind of similar to the ancient Indo-Iranian culture. Now you have these burials there. Okay, burials. And in the burials they have discovered the imprints of wheels. So they haven't discovered wheels. They haven't discovered chariots. They've discovered imprints of wheels and and and pigments left behind by wheels. And they have interpreted that as the evidence of the presence of chariots. They said that you have two wheel. So these are two wheeled chariots they're talking about. So they said that they found imprints of two wheels, you know, lined up together and in those graves they also find horse sacrifices. So that obviously sounds very much like uh something the Arians would do. Us our people, us and the Iranians, we would our ancestors sacrificed horses deal with it. We did. So, so we have horse sacrifices in these burials. We also have wheels that seem to you we also have imprints of wheels that have been interpreted as the evidence of chariots and various other artifacts that once again are claimed to tie up and the whole package. It it it allegedly says that there there were chariots that were being used by the Sintashtra people there. Okay. So based on this circumstantial fragmentaryary evidence they said that the sashta culture was the originator was the discoverer and the pioneer of chariot warfare. Now what have we discovered in Sawali? Sonali chariot obviously right? Sawali chariot. Sonali chariot. Sawali chariot. So what's this chariot look like? So this is what it looks like in in in the museum. This is how it was discovered. Obviously you have horses and you have the chariot u and the chariot is made of copper. Right now if you look at the chariot copper tubes uh where do okay look at this look at the schematic. It's not quite a schematic but it's it kind of like an x-ray of what we what we have discovered there. This is what it looks like. So inside the Senoli chariot you had this copper tubes. The copper was like 99% pure copper. Okay? Almost like super pure copper and you had the entire chassis. The chassis of the chariot was made of copper tubing. Now why on earth did these folks, our ancestors make a chariot out of copper tubing? The chassis. Okay. So, let's look at this car chassis. Tubes. Check this out. You see this? Modern day car chassis are made of tubes of various kinds of metals. Maybe it's no longer copper, but it's all tubes. Why tubes? Because you don't have any corners. You don't have any right angles. So it is something that PE that engineers still use today in modernday cars, metal tubes and the Sali chariot had copper tubes essentially ultra pure copper 99% pure copper tubes. What does pure copper look like? Pure copper roofs. [snorts] What's it look like? Check this out. This is what it look like. This was the color of those tubes. So the chariot glowed like this and it was extremely advanced technology. This was a very strong, hardy, tough chariot. It was not a wooden chariot. Right now, why would you make a bullock cart and design it like like like a Formula 1 car? Please explain to me. whatever 2 4,000 years ago or whenever it was 3 and a half thousand years ago. Why would you construct a bulock car with the design of a Formula 1 car with with extreme engineering and ultra pure copper? Why copper tubes and stuff? Why would you do that? Why would farmers use pure copper instead of wood for bulock cuts? Please explain. M so clearly this is utter intellectual dishonesty and the folks who are behind this are the ones who are the proponents of the Arian invasion migration tourism picnic theory and they want to say India did not create anything of any value it was all brought in from outside it is to keep Indians colonized mentally and lots of Indians participate in this and they make fun of the findings oh it was a chariot it's a it was not a chari it's a bulock car Indians are are their own worst enemies my Simple question to you all is why would you construct a bulock car with the engineering technology of a Formula 1 car? Answer that race car. A race car right Singh says the term Arian please explain its origins. Why it became Arian when it was originally Arya? Why were the Nazis so obsessed with this term and why did they corrupt it in Western Hemisphere? And why is it that even today when they the why is it that they equate the swastik symbol as something negative even today and shub says the Sanskrit word Arya refers to a person with a dharmic code of conduct. How was it anglicized to aran to become a racial term also why are Persians considered arians when they left the dharmic code of conduct? Okay, what does the term arda mean? The original term arya it's a sanskrit term it means someone who is noble not by blood by but but by by comportment by behavior by lifestyle you you have a noble lifestyle lifestyle your behavior is that of a noble person it was not a racial term it was a term of of civilizational refinement okay a superior person by behavior that's what it meant so that is the original term, the original meaning of the term Arya. It was never Aryan, it was Arya. Then the Persians who are our own people, they migrated westwards. They the parro people and they founded what is now Persia and they started using the term Arya as a as an ethnic self as a designator. So they started using the term as the name of their ethnicity. So it for them it no longer meant noble it meant us the people the para people we are we are the Arya people that's what they started using the term as so the original term was the Sanskrit term Arya and then the Persians started using that as the name of their ethnicity so the only two peoples who have the right to call themselves Arya are the Indians and the Persians no one else. Okay. Now what happens is that um is that the um the Europeans when they start when they rediscovered India rediscovered India with the Vasco Dagamar 1498 uh when they started coming to India and discovering India and interacting with Indians and learning India India's culture languages they started suddenly seeing these weird similarities between Indian languages and European languages. striking shocking similarities between Sanskrit and Greek and Latin and I'll not go into the details because they are very obvious. So it was very clear these languages are clearly related to each other. The words for ma, pitha, braha, so many words essentially the same in these languages. And which is the oldest of the languages? Is it Greek? Is it Latin? Is it Sitrit? It's clearly Sanskrit. Right? And Persian, Persian language, the old Persian language was like an upper branch of version of Sanskrit. So there was that also. Right? So all of this fit together and and then the Europeans discovered the term Arya. now. And then Max Miller brought in his Arian invasion theory and he force-feeded everything into the 4,000year time span of the Christian calendar or whatever it is, the creation of the the universe by by Yahweh and all that. And that is the beginning of the misrepresentation of Indian history and the beginning of the Arian invasion, migration, tourism, picnic myth. Now the Germans their nation is an artificial nation created in 1871 by Ottoan Bismar and the Germans suffered humiliation in the in the first world war and uh there was this tremendous sense of you know we need to do something something about this and that gave rise to the u the national socialist party Nazi party and uh Adolf Hitler. So the Nazis, they sought to revive Germany. They sought to make Germany great again. Okay? Make Germany great again. M GGA. That's what they wanted to do. And they wanted something to rally the people around. So their idea was that the Germans are the supreme race in the world. The sup the uberbench, the superior man, the master race. that the Germans and the Nordic people, the the northern European people are the superior master race and and in the 19th century because they had discovered the Europeans that there are similarities between the Indians between Sanskrit and these old languages they also discovered the term Arya. So they started using the term not Arya but Aryan for all the Indo-Uropean peoples who probably obviously had descended from a common group if you look at the linguistic evidence and because the Europeans were the dominant race in the world at that time because they colonized most of the world they decided that the origin of the Indo-Uropean people was in Europe not in India even though Sanskrit is the oldest language and so on. So they started this this revis this revisionism of history which is now the mainstream history and if you go against that we are revisionists today. They started the revisionism of history. So they completely distorted history and they claimed that the Europeans are the master race the original arians and the Germans just took it forward. So the Germans wanted this term for themselves Arian because it gave them the prestige of the association with these two ancient civilizations India and Persia. So they they misappropriated this term arian and once again the sus the swastik symbol which obviously originates in India and it has a very positive auspicious connotation and it's found essentially on every almost on every continent. Now this symbol was also found in Europe. It was a symbol of of auspiciousness. If you look at uh the Finland air force [laughter] let's look at that shall we? Okay. Uh Finland Air Force swastika. So the Finland Air Force it used to have this marking and this was not Nazi. The swastika was found all across the world. It was always regarded as a symbol of auspiciousness and it is also a symbol that originates in India. It is associated with Arya culture. So they the Nazis appropriated and stole the swastika also. Now the old German flag had three colors red, black and white. Okay, old German flag. Let's see. Old German Empire flag. What's it look like? This was the set of colors. Red, black, and white. So Hitler took the swastika, he twisted it around, gave it those colors and made it look like something similar to the communist hammer and sickle. Okay, communist hammer and sickle. Check this out. Something similar to this, right? So it became a direct competitor to the communist hammer and sickle. the Naz the Nazi ugly evil version distortion of the swastikov the hakenroits so that's the origin of all these distortions misappropriations and today the word Arian is regarded as a as a white supremacist word which is so wrong we are the Arya people we and the Persians are the Arya people nobody else the Europeans aren't Arya they are unaria by the a an Arya. Now, Shub says Arya means a person with a dharmic code of conduct, a noble code of conduct. So, that's how it was anglicized to Arian etc. But why are the Persians considered Arians when they left the Dharmic code of conduct? Yeah. During after the reign of Kurush, Cyrus the Great, they adopted uh the the the religion or you know the the the ver the religious version of Zaratustra which kind of inverted Hinduism which was a rebellion against Hinduism and it no longer followed the Vic ways of life. Before Zaratostra the Persians followed the Vic ways of life but Zorostanism brought in a different way of life which was nonvedic which was essentially a rebellion against the Vic ways of life. So if they left if the Persians left the dharmic code of conduct how can we call them the arya because they chose to call themselves area even though they had left the dharmic code of conduct. Now if we insist that only people who have the dharmic code of conduct can be called the aras then 99 people person of people in India can't be called ar today because 99% of Indians maybe more no longer follow the vic way of life. So let's not be [laughter] overly judgmental. Um Abdai Gardes Abdes say love says love from Afghanistan. Thank you sir. love from bat. Before Islam in Kabul was Hinduism bulk in Bkhara you had Buddhism. Now my question is which religion did the pashons have? For example, we have a pashon tribe called the Mongal tribe. Hope you find I hope you find more. A great question. What was the original religion of the Pashtun people? Who are the Pashtun people? Who are the true Afghans? There are various ways of looking at Afghanistan. Historically like you are correctly saying historically Afghanistan was called Gandhar. The whole region was called Gandhar. Later on it was called Kurasan. Various words for it but the original name of the region was Gandhar and the people who lived there were Indians and their descendants are the Pashons. That is what I can say in British but we'll look into this in more detail obviously. So you have a pashon clan called the Mongal clan. You have so many names in Afghanistan which are descended from Indian names right. Um if you look at the pashon culture if you look at pashtunali the code of conduct of the pashons it is essentially if you remove the religious elements the Islamic elements from it it is nothing but the code of conduct of the rajbuts. It's the same thing. If someone comes to your house as a guest and asks for your protection, then you have to if required give your life to protect the person. That is the Rajput code of conduct. It's also the Pashtun code of conduct, isn't it? Um, now let's look at see there's there's very little um there's very little hard research, academic research that's that's been done. One thing I can tell you, I don't have the the the the evidence right now, but I've shown that in past episodes a long time ago, the Pashon DNA, if you look at that, the Pashons are essentially an extension of the North Indian population genetically. Now, today, if you look at Afghanistan's genetics, there's so many genetics that are non-Indian in there. You have so many ethnic groups that are not Indian, not of Indian origin, of Turk origin. The Tajiks are not Turk. They are Indo-Iranian. That's different. But the Turkmans, the Usuzbcks, the Khazaras, these are all non-Indian. And those genetics have introgressed into Afghanistan and and even in entered the Pashon lineages. So if we do Pashon genetics today, it's going to be a mixed bag. But if you did Pashon genetics a thousand years ago, it was all Indian. Now let's look at this uh uh this research paper by uh aan historian. [clears throat] So it's by a gentleman called Arif Akunzada on pashons and pashto in Gadar with a brief essay on pashon aan ethnogenesis. Now let's look at the actual PDF right. Uh so this is the PDF and according to him pashto is primarily a saka or skithian language. Okay, as you say if you say so it's in my opinion more of a dardic language. Uh it has deep languages with existing dialects in the primary language groups such as yikda mji speaking spoken in north chall and to its west it has a close cognatic Persian ancient holy language of a western okay uh all of that etc. Gandhar. The Sakas ruled in Gandhar for a decade or two. Their influence is negligible except for the coins of their four Hindu kings. [snorts] All of that. Besides Iranian roots and legacies, Pashto also owes a great deal in formative acquisitions and characteristics to the local Indicarit local Indicarit in ancient Dardic dialects. The formers being the predecessors of current living languages such as Hindu, Punjabi and Saraki. Um we have to identify which ethnicities occupied and controlled Gandhar especially during the last 1500 years after the fall of imperial Porsche to Iran to Islam of which it was a key province. The name Gandhar has disappeared off of the radar about thousand years ago after the we know that yeah with the arrival of Mahmud of Ghazni. Its ancient ethnic composition remained relatively undisturbed for the next 500 years after him until the advent of the muggles in 1526 and they messed up the genetics after that. So the most ancient population of Afghanistan was Indic or Hinduki which spoke Prakit dialects now known as Hindo in Punjabi and then you have Cyrus of Persia and so on. Um and you have the Paktas the Paktans the Paktas of the Herodotus and the Rigida respectively people who were to later give a skitian language the name of Pakto and so on. So you can check this out. This goes into significant detail. They talk about the Skitians uh and the Pashtun of Ghana ethnicity. It arose it arose long after 1526 with the muggal muggal empire. Uh the paktas were mentioned in the rigida also by the by hiodotus and so on. Um the name of the major and dominant Afghan tribal division the Sarabani is believed to have a Rajput origin from Suryaban or Suryabanchi. Suryanchi. So the Sarabani Afghan tribe or clan is a Suryawanchi tribe and the legend of their alleged Jewish origins is it's a it's it's it's a myth. Okay, it's a myth that has been introduced into Afghanistan at a much later date and so on. So it's a long story. Uh and and that is the deal about Afghanistan and the origins of the Pashtos. The Pashtos were originally warrior clans of India. Some of them were royal lineages. Suryanches. Okay. And over time they have been Islamized obviously in the past 1,000 years. Uh especially those who were Buddhists they Islamized on the drop of a hat. The remaining ones they they resisted as long as they could even until the 20th century even the beginning of the 21st century you had significant Hindu and sick population in in Gandhar Afghanistan and uh today it's not quite the case so much so like I said the historical name of the region was Gandhar later during the because of Persian and Turk influences mainly Persian influences the region was called Kurasan. Now what does cororasan mean? What does korchid mean? There's this Persian name calledid, right? The word kurid. Kurshid comes from swaret. Swar means the sun. Ket means shining. Kurshid means shining sun. If you ask a pari person or Persian person, what does the word kurchid mean? They'll say it means the sun. You can Google it and check it out. You can fact check what I'm saying. What does koshided mean? Let's see. Let's see right now. Meaning of the name Kushid. Okay. Of the name Korchid, it means sun or radiant sun. Okay. Swarak. It's not Persian. It is before Persian. It was Sanskrit. Saraka Swaraketa became Korashid. What is the origin of Korasan? Sarasthan. Sarasthan the land of the sun. Very similar to Sarashtra. Saurashtra solar land. Solar kingdom. Kurasan was Sarasthan. The land of the sun. The the eastern land. The land where the sun rose. That's what Korasan meant. It had the same name as Sarashtra which is for the south. So that's these are the ancient connections between Bharatwash and Gandhar of which Gandhar was obviously a part of Bhatwash. And the Pons well they are our own people. Actually speaking even today the Pashons aren't like foreigners. Our culture our way of life our everything is very similar. You meet a person, that person will never feel like a foreigner to you if you're Indian. You won't feel like it's a foreigner you're dealing with. You understand each other immediately. Yeah. Because deeper down you have the same cultural origins. So that's the deal with the pons. Okay. Um Girish Kumar and Shub was the Kushan Empire Indian or foreigner? a foreigner then why the Koshans are praised and muggles are believed to be foreign invaders some people argue that Koshans were Indianized it doesn't make them Indian what's my opinion look so apparently Akbar is an Indian but Kaneshka is not Indian apparently look uh the Kushans obviously they came from um the Tarim River basin region which is present day northern Singang currently occupied by China now the Kushans their ancestors were the Tokarian Tara people or Tushara people whose mummies are still fine in the region and the Kushans they invaded India because they were fleeing from the Huns the Shaoo and um they displaced the Indo- Greek the Yanas and they took over northern India eventually much of India and the greatest emperor was Peshka. Now what are the contributions of the Kushans to India? H what are the contributions? First of all, they made India immensely, immensely rich, wealthy by controlling all the trade in Asia between east and west. They the Koshan Empire occupied much of central Asia from the shores of the Aral Sea to the Caspian Sea all the way to Shinjang and all the way into northern and western India. The western coast of India including Sarah where you have ports that go all the way to that were trading with Rome. So all the trade between India and Europe essentially Roman Empire was controlled by the Kushans and that made India immensely wealthy. The Kushans also traded with China and also taxed Chinese trade whatever which whatever happened to whatever extent between China and Europe. So once again that made India super wealthy. The Kushans were sun worshippers and also they worshiped all other gods. You can imagine super polytheists. Um and it is alleged my dear friends that emperor Kaneshka was a Buddhist great pattern of Buddhism and the Kushans were great Buddhist patrons right let's fact check that okay let's see this what percentage of Pushan coinage P features Buddhist imagery/ slash symbolology/theddha. Let's see what the answer is. Well under 1%. Buddhist imagery appears on less well under 1% of all known Kushan coins. The vast majority has a vast diverse pantheon of Greek, Iranian and Hindu deities. Okay, forget about Kushan coinage. Let's say Kaneska. Kaneshka's coinage. Let's see once again same question. Buddhist imagery on Kaneshka's coinage is extremely rare featuring on well under 1% of all coins in issued by him. His coins had Shiva. They had various Iranian gods. They their Zoroastrian motives. They had Greek gods because of the Greek you know Indo- Greek regency he he had conquered. Lots of Indian deities le well under 1% of the coins have Buddha but his portrait is a Buddhist king your historians are a set of inveterate liars your Indian historians liars all of them okay so the Kushans they Indianized completely they assimilated completely into the Indian Indian population completely without friction whatsoever They are culturally Indian anyway. They may have looked somewhat different initially after a couple of generations even that was gone. And they they strengthened fortified India's military. They brought in new tactics in and strategies into India's military. standing armies, cavalry, you know, big focus on the cavalry and um they under Kushan rule so much culture, new culture, you know, there was this great eflloresence of culture. You had the Gandhara school of arts, you had the Matura School of Art, very different schools of art and beautiful art and so much more. And the Kushans did more than anyone I can think of to spread India's culture far and wide. the spread Indian culture into China all the way to Southeast Asia all the way to Japan Hinduism and also some some Buddhism but today it's all Buddhism Buddhism they talk about right so they they furthered the Indian national interest they took care of India's national security civilizational security they to they they they enhanced India's economy significantly and they spread India's culture far and wide but they are still foreigners but Akar is Indian. So I mean what logic do we have there? Right? It doesn't make any sense. Okay. Me says how did the Hikos period change Egyptian military organization and foreign policy? The Hicks period. So Egypt around 1800 BC around that time maybe 1700 BC probably somewhere around 1800 BC was gradually invaded by a bunch of people who came from God knows where who came from from what is present in the region of Israel. Let's once again go to the maps. Okay maps and let's see where is Egypt and where is Israel today. So we have Egypt here. We know where Cairo is in the in the pyramids. Now if you go to the northeast of that you have the Sai region and beyond that you have Egypt, labor and all of that and north of that you have Syria and Anatolia which is present day currently occupied by Turkey. So the Hikos people they came from this region Syria, Lebanon, Israel, that region and they gradually encroached into Egypt and eventually conquered Egypt and they ruled Egypt for about a century century and a half. So initially they they made some small settlements in the Egypt region and uh and the Egyptians uh they were the Egyptian kingdom was not very powerful at that time. Egypt had a very isolationist policy. Egypt only focused on national defense. Just like India today, today India's military is all about defense, defense, defense. You don't hit sixes, you just block the ball. Right? That's that's India's military policy for the since 1947. Keep defending. Keep defending. Keep defending. Until the 1990s, India was completely isolated just like North Korea. Indians had no idea what was happening outside. Egypt at this time was just like that. completely isolated from the world and a completely defensive policy. Because of that, the Hixos came in and encroached into Egypt and settled settled down and they set up cities and all that. Eventually, one of the Hixos kings, he sent a letter to the Egyptian king whose capital city was like 100 kilometers away. And the Hixos king whose capital, so the two capitals, the two cities are about 100 or so kilometers away from each other. The Hixos king sends a letter to to the king of Egypt saying that you have a big pool with hippopotamuses in your city and the splashing of the hippopotamuses in your city is preventing me from sleeping. So do something about it. It was an insult obviously. Right? So the Egyptian king instead of taking that action, he went with his army and marched on the Hixos uh territory and there was a battle. What was the name of the Egyptian king? Last let's Google that. Yeah, let's let's Google this. Uh last Egyptian king, last Egyptian king before Hicks period. What was his name? His name was Senetto. Let's take a look at what this gentleman looks like. Mommy. Uh, trigger warning, not pretty. It's Let's take a look at his mommy. See, it's going to say that. Uh, why is this blanked out? Turn safe search off. All right, there we have it. That's what his mummy looks like. So he went to battle against the Hicks and uh this is what happened to him. As you can see the instruments that were used were battle axes. So the Hicks they brought in new technology into Egypt. What are the technologies the Hixos brought in into Egypt that the Egyptians did not have? First of all the Hixos brought in war chariots. Two wheeled chariots. What kind of chariot? Chariot drawn by horses. And the chariot would have two people. One was the person driving the chariot. The other was the warrior. So you would have a sarati and you would have a Maharati. What will what weapons did the Maharati use? He used a composite bow. Not a standard bow. A composite bow. What does a composite bow look like? Let me show you what a composite bow looks like. Lord Rama bow. What does a composite bow look like? This is what a composite bow looks like. Okay. This is the shape of a composite bow. This is the shape of a composite bow. The Hixos brought in the composite bow. They brought in the rata. They brought in the sarati. They brought in the Maharati. The Maharati would have a composite bow. He would also have a spear. Another weapon that Vixos brought in was the Parasu, which is the battle axe made of copper. Um, what was the Hixos religion? Their main god was a thunder god and a storm god. Today's European and historians will identify him with the Semitic god Bal. The Hixos also, is that true? Not sure about that. Uh, is that correct? I'm not sure about that. The Hixos also performed horse sacrifices. The Hixos came from the region where you would eventually have the Mitani and Hittite empires. The Mitani and Hitittite empires were ruled by people who spoke Sanskrit, by the way. Anyway, these are all circumstantial connections. The Europeans will say that the Hixos were seatic people. So the Hixos came in, they defeated the Egyptians and they ruled Egypt for about 150 years. Eventually the Egyptians were able to take over again and you had the new kingdom of Egypt which was the greatest glorious period of Egyptian history ever. You had uh Akraten, you have Hutch, the female pharaoh, you had Tutenham and so on. The greatest most glorious period of Egyptian history. And if you look at their historical records that they wrote from the time, they speak very bitterly of the Hixos occupation. They speak about the century of humiliation. And after the Hicks were defeated, Egypt, which formerly had this isolationist foreign policy, suddenly became an expansionist kingdom. And they used the memory of the century of humiliation to justify their expansionism. Reminds us of does it remind you of China? I keep saying to you all history is cyclical. History occurs in cycles. Well, there you have it. So, that's kind of how it was. Okay. And yeah, it also changed Egypt Egypt's military organization. The Egyptian new kingdom adopted all of the technology, all of the tactics, all of the strategies, all of the organization, everything that the Hixos brought in and that made them a formidable power in West Asia. Right. Okay. really now says can you tell us about the Japanese cast system also why aren't scholars around the world researching on this like they do for the Indian one the Japanese cast system um so look any functioning society it's been around for a long time and it's advanced it's going to have division of labor it's going to have social stratification it's going to have various various ious social groups, so various casts. So the so the Japanese society before the major coup, the major restoration, it had four major divisions in society. [laughter] Four major divisions in society. That reminds you of the Chinese system. Okay. China for occup China China for occupations. What was the Chinese for occupations? The Chinese had a four four tiered cast system, four categories of the people. You had the warrior nobles, the chhatrias. Then you had the nong, the peasant farmers. Then you had the artisans and craftsmen. And you had the merchants and traders. And you also had other you know straight off society that you don't mention here. And this is similar to the Japanese system the shino kosho Japanese shinino kosho system which once again had four major divisions of society. You had the samurai at the very top. The samurai were the chhatrias of Japan. And then you had the the the the you had the farmers and you had the artisans and you had the merchants and so on. You had four divisions of society in in Japanese society and civilization. But you also had a diff another level of society which was the outcasts. The eeta and the hinn the were called the great filth and the hinnan were called the non-persons, non-humans. And today these people collectively are called the burakumin. So the ita were people who were engaged in very degrading professions like uh like like like butchery of animals, slaughtering of animals, skinning of animals. So you see Japanese culture for about 2,000 years has regarded killing animals as as sinful. It is sinful not just in the dharmic sense, Hindu Buddhist sense, but also in the Shinto culture. The Shinto and Dharmic culture are very similar. So killing animals was was ill, right? That's how it was. And Japan was a vegetarian society for about a thousand years. They used to eat fish, but they would not kill animals. And the Maji coup, the Maji restoration forced Japanese people to start eating beef, right? And that led to revolts and and and a lot of strife in society. It was believed that because the the emperor had set the example by eating beef. It was believed by a lot of people in Japan that the gods would now desert Japan and a big catastrophe will come up upon Japan. Kind of happened, didn't it? Eventually. Yeah. Anyhow, so um in Japan, you had these two two outcast groups, the ETA and the Hin. And u the ETA were the people who would do slaughtering of animals and and and skinning of animals. Uh they would also uh serve as executioners who would execute human beings who people were sentenced to death. And the Hen [clears throat] also did certain other um other other functions of society that were regarded as uh not desirable or or you know that sort of thing. So these people today are called the burakumin and they kind of still are to a certain extent discriminated against allegedly in Japanese society. You know most people want will not want their daughters to marry a person from that group. The people who belong to the burakumin category many of them are part of the yakuza which is the Japanese mafia that sort of thing and so on. So that's about the Japanese car system but it's not something that's limited to Japan. You have the same sort of thing in China as well. You have the same sort of thing in Europe. In France, you had a a social group, an ethnic group or whatever it was called the Kagago. C A G- O Ts Kag. Let's Google that as well. Why not? Since we are doing this. Okay. Um where is Google? Okay. Let's Google this. C A G O Ts Kag. So the Kag were a persecuted minority group in western France and Northern Spain who were treated abysmally. They were treated horribly. Uh they were not allowed to use the same water as the regular people. They were not allowed to enter churches from the same door and uh they would be killed if they married married a regular person and so much more terrible discrimination. We and no one knows what is the origin of this. You also had the gong farmers in England who were treated like outcasts and also in France and so many more examples in various parts of the world where you have these social groups that are regarded as well you know outcasts or untouchables or whatever. You have this all across the world. uh and why do scholars not do this? Because this the the that is reserved for Hindus, right? Only India is supposed to be vilified for the so-called cast system. Even though we do not have a cast system, we had a vernati system which is different from a four-tier cast system. Four-year cast system was imposed upon India by the British. And it's been it's been now enforced and made into a reality by the government of India today. Right? Today cast is everything. You get resolutions based on casts. In China, everybody wants to become as advanced as possible. In India, everyone wants a backward cast status. Everyone is trying to go backwards in India. Uh so this is the difference between India and China. But anyhow, that's the deal about the cast system. Every country has it. Every culture has had it. It's it's not like it's something that only India has uh seen. Okay. Um Girish Kumar says, "Was the Marata Empire a panindia empire or just a regional power in Dean?" Was the Marata Empire just a small regional power in Dean? Let us answer this question by looking at the map. Okay. Uh high tide of Marata Empire. Marata Empire. Let's take a look at the image. So a picture will tell you a million words. Right? In 1759 AD this was the Marata Empire. Here's a different way of looking at it. Right? 1705 you have the Muggal Empire. 1759 look at what happened. The Maratas have gone all the way into Gandhar parts of Afghanistan. As you can see this is a gigantic empire. India [snorts] is not the small small piece of land. It's a subcontinent. The Marata Empire was vast. Certainly larger than the Sat Vahana Empire. certainly certainly larger than than various than the Sikh empire for example right which came later obviously so the Marata empire was vast it was a panindia empire the Maratas liberated India from the Turk occupation the Marata Empire brought back Hinduisi Swarajia they liberated Baratwash sadly the British defeated the Maratas and that's where we that's be and that's because because of that we are where we are today. Right. Right. Okay. Next. Sai Bablu says, "How did our civilization treat or or view the disabled people since its starting days?" Um disabled people. So from it's it's a nuanced perspective. See, we believe in karma, right? Our culture believes in karma. What is karma? It's a conservation law. It's the law of conservation of cause and effect over multiple lifetimes. That's the law of karma. It's a conservation law. It's Yeah. That's interesting. Now um so according to the law of karma, if you are born with certain characteristics, it's because of your actions in past lives. So if you're super powerful, strong and you know great, fantastic person with super intelligence, great looks and all that, it's because you did fantastic great deeds in your past life and that's why you've been rewarded with these characteristics today. It's not like you do do something naughty in this life, next life you will be born as an ant or a fly. It's not like that. That is a superficial silly way of looking at it. Karma is sophisticated. So um so if your positive characteristics are the outcome or the fruit of good actions in your past lives then if you born with vicris or defects or disabilities maybe you did something naughty or nasty in in previous lifetimes and you are paying for that by suffering through these disabilities in this current lifetime to pay off the karmic rena or debt. That's how that's one way of looking at karma at a disability. But that doesn't mean that you discriminate against disabled people. Disability doesn't mean that you have to have a bad life. For example, in the rigid there is the mention of this uh queen who fought a battle. Her name was Vishala. And in the course of the battle, she lost a leg. So she goes back outside of the battlefield. She has her doctors stitch her up and they give her a prosthetic leg and she puts the prosthetic leg on. The the bleeding is stopped. The prosthetic leg leg is put on and she goes back into the battle. the first ever literary example of a prosthetic limb in human history. So Vish Palpala became disabled but she that did not prevent her from going back and performing a duty. Uh another example is the sage the rishi ashtavakra who had eight disabilities but he is regarded as one of the great rishies right ashtavakra. Then you have the example of dtarashtra. So darraashtra is the son of what? Pandu is it? There was the son there was the son of his brother was Pandu. Uh I may not have the details right. So he was blind. He was born blind and uh because of that he could not become the king and his brother became the king but his brother eventually abdicated the throne which is whyra had to become the king in place of his brother and he was blind. So despite being blind he became the king and he had good advisers. He had Bishma he had he had Duryodhan he had Sanjay who could who could act as his eyes and his his very loyal wife she decided to blind for herself herself for the rest of her life because her husband did not have the facility of sight and solidarity with him. So Darashtra despite being blind was treated very well in society and so on. So you have many examples in Indian history where people who are disabled are treated well. In the autastra there are specific punishments for people who discriminate against against disabled people and there are various provisions for the for for enabling disabled people to live a good life you know. So India has always taken care of disabled people. India has never discriminated against disabled people disabled in various ways. So that's how we have treated disabled people. I think no civilization historically has treated disabled people the way we have historically. Today it's a different story. Today the west claims to be super disability friendly and all but we were the OGs like they say right? Okay we've crossed two overs. I had made a promise I made a promise Mr. Frodo I mean I made a promise in a previous live stream that I would take up this one physics question that uh our friend has asked. So I will take up this one physics question and then I will take up some questions from the live chat. So what is this physics question that Shvatza asked us. So Shivatza said that let's say you have a neutron star and you take out a piece of neutron star that is the size of a grain of sand. A neutron star it's got the mass it's got a mass that is more than that of the sun but it is compressed into a diameter of about 20 km that is shockingly dense that is more than nuclear density and that's why what you have in a neutron star is mainly neutrons only. It has a thin atmosphere of iron plasma and inside you've got strange very weird matter called which is considered which is called nuclear pasta and all but overall it's nuclear density extremely extremely dense incredibly dense so what if you take a tiny bit of a neutron star the size of a grain of sand and you somehow are able to transport it to earth and you release it into the earth's atmosphere what happens is the question that is the big question it's a fantastic thought experiment. So if you take this sand grain piece of neutron star, bring it into the earth's atmosphere, release it there, will it remain intact? It won't remain intact. See, outside of the gravity that a neutron star provides, that bit of material is violently unstable. It will decompress explosively. It will turn into an exploding fireball, a a ball of plasma. Okay. And it will be made of neutronrich matter and a tremendous amount of energy will be released. Much of it will will be released in the form of neutrinos most of which are harmless. But the tremendous amount of energy. So the question is how much energy is released in terms ter terms of kilotons of TNT. So look roughly the density of a neutron star is about 10 to 17 kilogram per cubic meter. That's one with 17 zeros after it. Those many kilograms per cubic meter. So the mass of a neutron, so the mass, okay, if you take a grain of sand, let's say half a millimeter, then its mass of that little bit of material is about 20 million kilogram. It's the mass of an iceberg, medium-sized iceberg. And how many nucleons does it contain? it it will contain about 10 to 34 nucleons and assuming that the energy released per nucleon is about 10 mega electron volts you will find that the output energetic output is of the order of 10 ra to 22 jew if you convert that into terms in in terms of tons of TNT or kilotons of TNT or gigatons you find that that's about 5,000 gigatons of TNT day 5,000 gat tons of TNT assuming 10 um assuming uh 10 me per nucleon. So what is 5,000 gat tons of TNT? The most powerful nuclear weapon ever tested was the Sar Bomba Russian weapon. its energy output was 50 megat tons of TNT. So one sand grain sized bit of of neutron star matter matter will give you 5,000 gigatons of TNT that is one lakh sar bombas 100,000 sar bombas another way of comparing the chickik shalub impact event that killed off the non-avian dinosaurs it gave off about 10 to 23 jewels So the so the the the 5,000 gat tons it's about roughly 1/5 of that. So if you release a sand grain piece sand grain sized piece of neutron star matter into the earth's atmosphere it's going to have a very similar effect as the chik shalob impact event. It is not a city killer it's a planet killer. It will cause an extinction event. It'll be a disaster. Imagine that a sand grain sized bit of neutron star matter you release it into into the atmosphere it will devastate the world it will cause an extinction event similar to the asteroid that killed off the non-avian dinosaurs that's how frightful this is this is all order of magnitude calculations I'm not giving you exact calculations because you can't really estimate everything properly but it's about 5,000 gatons maybe 4,000 gatons around you know that sort of uh ballpark we talking about. Okay, I still have many more questions, but I won't be able to take them because we've crossed two over. So, let's take some questions from the live chat. Let me take some questions from the live chat. If you have any questions, please go ahead and ask me some. Um, Aush Singh says, "Europeans claim a protoindop European Indo-Uropean language existed uh 6 7,000 years ago evolving into Sanskrit linked to island migration. Share your knowledge." I kind of did speak about this tangentially. So when the Europeans arrived in India a few centuries ago, they discovered that you know what the Sanskrit language seems to be very similar to our Greek and Latin languages and Sanskrit is far older. So clearly the people of India speak a language that is closely related to Greece language of Greece and the language of Italy original language of Italy which is Latin and also similar to German, French, all the various European languages. So clearly this would potentially indicate that all these people share the same ancestry going back many thousand years. That would indicate that all these languages evolved from a common shared language some which was very ancient very old and which may have existed 5 6 7 8,000 years ago. And they they called this the protoindo-uropean language. Earlier it was called the protoarian language but then the arian the word Arian became evil right because the Nazis used it. So now it's called the protoindo-uropean language. It makes sense. Yeah, it makes sense that the theories makes sense. The logic makes sense. The question is what is the identity of the ancient the original language that was the mother language of all the Indo-Uropean languages that exist today? They claim there was some protoindouropean language. They claim that Sanskrit and and and Persian are sister languages. They make all these distortions. In my opinion, the protoindo-uropean language is protoanskrit, the older version of Sanskrit, the pre-wdic Sanskrit. That's how I see it. They don't see it that way and they don't agree, but okay. Right. Okay. Next question. Um hey [laughter] creative clips says did Abrahamic religions like Christianity and Islam um form because of Buddhism? Um Christianity came before Islam. Before Christianity came Judaism. Judaism was originally polytheistic by the way and then somehow it becomes monotheistic. There is this movie called the man from earth or something 2009 or something around that time. Let's let's let's let's Google it shall we? The man from earth uh the man from earth 2007 is it? Okay 2007. Yeah this one. [laughter] So in this in this movie there's this guy who says that he has been around for like several thousand years. He doesn't die and he says that he he went to India and learned Buddhism and then he went to Europe several thousand like 2,000 years ago trying to spread Buddhism in Europe and he inadvertently became the catalyst of the of the introduction of Christianity into Europe because the Buddhist precepts became they were converted into Christianity. Um, it is possible. It is very possible that Christianity is nothing but repackaged Buddhism. Very possible. I will have to look into that in detail because I've acquired a new book somewhere. Where is it? It's by a gentleman called Joseph Nun and I have yet to read it. But very interesting um yeah idea. So I think it's it's certainly something we would take seriously. Right. Uh field strong man is talking about geopolitics. Now that the word deep state, the term deep set has gone mainstream. Do you get bored of the repetitive question on deep state in super chats? I I I look it is to a large extent the fault of these uh these YouTubers raia this that they sensationalize everything and they've they've turned this word into the straight overused term right u I obviously am not the biggest fan of repetitive questions the same questions asked over and over again but the thing about super chats is that they at least ask better questions. Yeah. Okay. Okay. We have super chats. I did not realize we have super chats. Okay. Spain is a new member. Welcome, sir. Thank you so much for becoming a member. Mr. Sid says says people say the Middle East is united under Islam, but the reality is that they all hate each other. Iran, Saudi, Syrians, Palestinians all hate each other. What's my opinion? Look, it's complicated. Um, you may have the same religion, but you have different territories and you have different agendas. You have different national aspirations. You've got different agendas and you've got different ideas of how the world should be and you may have territorial disputes. You may have old blood feuds so much more. You may be Shia, you may be Sunni once that was also a factor, right? Um so yeah to to a large extent you have this issue in the Middle East. You have the same religion but it's not like they're all united. Many of them are rivals. Iran, Saudi Arabia are big rivals. Palestinians, nobody wants them. Everybody wants to support Palestine. Nobody wants to give refuge to Palestinian refugees in their country. Nobody wants to do that. So no one likes Palestinians for some reason. Syria a whole different issue. So you're right to a large extent it's like that. Arjun says you should criticize the corrupt. What does this have to do with history sir? We are discussing history. I should do a lot of things but I can't fight every fight. Do you expect Roger Federer to now decide that he will fight the go and play cricket? Do you expect Virat Kohli to start playing hockey tomorrow? You have to pick and choose your field and your domains and stick to that. You can't go and fight every goddamn fight in the world. So please understand, I discuss history, geopolitics, science. This is a whole different subject. That is not my fight. That is my choice. I have chosen to focus on these three things. These are very big things. History, geopolitics, science, huge, huge disciplines, huge domains. So I am not venturing into other things. Rahul says recently saw Canara was disgusted how they portrayed slavery in our culture for building temples low-key adharmic things. How true are they? We never had slavery in Bharat. Never. Slavery is not a concept that ever existed in Indian civilization. I haven't seen Canara or Canara 2 or whatever this is. I don't watch these movies. They people may praise them or whatever. I don't watch them. I know that I will be super disappointed when I watch these things. So I spare myself that misery and pain. I don't watch any of this. Uh so I I don't know what is ported in there. I've seen the trailers and all. I I said okay it is best I stay away from this. Um if they have portrayed slavery and all that then they are doing us our our history and our ancestors a great disservice. They're doing our people a great disservice. They are doing our future a great disservice and they have may have or may not have may be may not be some kind of agenda behind it. That's all I can say. I haven't seen it myself. Um Ritik Praar says this is the hypothetical question. What do you think might have happened if the painter had acquired New York before the US? Would he have won World War II? If yes, how would the world look? If he had acquired New York before the US, he would have won World War II in that case. Everyone would be speaking German today or something like that. That's what the world order would look like kind of. You see, and it would be totally different. Maybe North America would be German speaking. Maybe north North America would be partitioned between a German speaking region and a Japanese speaking region. Who knows? Anything could have happened. Can't can't really say. Ankita says uh what were the reasons for the scientific and technological progress prowess prowess of Nazi Germany during the second world war? The reasons for the for the incredible tremendous scientific and technological prowess of Germany during this period of time was the groundwork laid in the 1800s. See Germany was unified for the first time in its history in 1871 by the iron chancellor Utafon Bismar. So Germany was created as this artificial nation which never existed before. You never had something called Deutschand before. So it was created in 1871 and the German empire it consciously focused on technological excellence on the best education system the world could ever have anywhere and industry science technology engineering industry all based on the best education system in the world. They consciously went after this and they created these robust academic institutions which were all entirely based on merit and excellence and research output and that's why quantum mechanics came out of Germany. That's why so many of these advancements came out of Germany and that's why Germany was the pioneer of the cruise missile of the ballistic missile of the jet engine of the flying wing design which is not the stealth bomber and so many more things. Germany was the pioneer of all these things because of the outstanding robust excellent education system that they had fully research based fully focused on science and technology not on the humanities and all that nonsense they had that also but separate and it was purely merit-based that's why Germany became a scientific technological and military superpower it was a culture of excellence and merit MK says did India have its version of the pelponian war? No, we didn't have that. We never had city states and stuff. So not we did not have it. What is history of women education before the British? Says Aayush Arjunov. Women wrote the rigida. Women were super educated. Women had the same rights as men. Boys and girls got the same education. Women became rishies or rishikas. like 30 40 50% of the verses of the rigid I'm not sure what the percentage is were written by women so that's what we had before the British the British ruined everything uh Pakistan's richest man says namaste yes namaste was Buddhism truly a non- Brahim royal response to Brahmin le Hinduism or is is that just the modern framing Buddhism was an obscure fringe movement it was not a response to Brahim ical patriarchy or brahminical operation or any other thing. This is all modern framing. RC Majunar introduced the term brahminism. What is brahminism? This is a fake modern word that's been that's been thrust upon us. It was dharma. It was Hindu dharma. There was the brahinss were not super powerful people who led the world or something, right? and and Goautam Buddha was essentially going against the grain and he wanted to create a different movement and uh that's what it did and the point is that it was completely fringe. It was completely obscure. No one knew about it but Ashoke, Emperor Ashoke brought it to prominence for political reasons and he turned this obscure fringe movement into a global phenomenon. Right? Um and then the Buddhists went after the brahinss. They portrayed the brahinss as what uh as violent people as as people who sacrificed animals and who you know all kinds of propaganda was done against the brahinss and for a long time you know for several centuries Buddhism became the the major flavor of dharma in India until Adishankaria once again brought the vic you know way of life back in in India. So all of these things that we are taught, it's all modern framing. It's all hindophobic framing essentially. Um Amisha says, "How did Rome keep track of who is free versus who is slave?" Um I'm not sure. I suppose they would have they would have had a bureaucracy with records and records and things. Maybe every rich person who was a slave owner would have records of who were the slaves, when they were bought, when they were born, to whom they were sold, from whom they were bought for, how much they were brought for bought for and so on. I suppose all of those records would have existed, but I am not aware of the details. Uh, feline lover, well, thank you so much. No question, but thank you so much once again. All right, so that brings us to the end of today's session. I know there's way more questions that you all have, but I'm going to have to end it over here. Can't do eight hour live streams every every single time. So, I'm going to end it here. And tomorrow, we're going to have a live stream that in which I will discuss geopolitics. I'll take your questions from the super chat. I look forward to seeing you all there. There is a lot happening in geopolitics. A lot that is very important. So there's a lot to discuss and I look forward to doing you the doing that with you all tomorrow. Please ask me your best questions and we will discuss the most important issues of the day. Thank you everybody. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Never stop learning. Keep raising your standards and I'll see you tomorrow. Take care. Thank you. Good day. Goodbye. Good night. See you tomorrow.