[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. Well, hello. Here we are. Here we go. Welcome to the Ask Abijit Show, the history episode today. I hope everyone's doing great. Uh, good to see you all. Let us see who all is there in the live chat. I can see Aayush Singh, Aayush Yadav, Yvra Singh, Shikh Havat, Manisha Kardo, HB, Samana Satish, Moonlight, Sonata from Mitilanchal. Well, good to see you sir. Mystic SK, Swami, Jane, Sun, Mr. Jam, Radhi, Radi, Nal, Nesh, Nali, good evening. A Singh, Sumit Agarwal, Negro, Shiva, Sai, Alka, Shikari, Mr. Jam Abi Chandel 005 Sumit Jade Si Permar PK PKS Geopolitical Dub Good evening Anonymous Scientist Bonjour Mwah Purohit welcome Rajat Duhan Mr. from Ireland. Good day to you. Astad Vivei, Hensy, Penguin, Sena, Suas, Reddi, uh, Sri Ram, Chandra, Namaha, Ram, Ram, G. Uh, who else do we have? We have animals for laugh fields strong man wakam wakam vikash pj net nizen Amisha hack hack care uh shanks kushal bondadi sumitwal sharma says cyus the great knockknock says hi Rasputin vitri Martinez Rita upg echo hersi ak akhat Ark Akhat all right good to see you kan gun 15 Hayes says J hind uh Sharma Didd's son is here well good to see you did Diddy's son Aadi Singh Smith is there Bushan is there Nand Nandish Vladimir Putin sir is here good to see you sir who else uh Swami Jane from Jaipur Gravity Kah arrow 14 Nandish Gorish KB from Dublin good to see you sir Love Travel Guru Akash K Saria Set V S N Vikash Dhavi Sangeita Jala Namaste K Tanish Shri Aditya Dashi Sonavan and everybody else all right let's uh get going Singh Shakawad is from Jaipur freedom from outcome is from Canada Tushar Kalborgi rational thinker and everybody else okay is there a problem with the screen someone's saying there's an issue with the screen. Not anymore. Not anymore. All right. Good. We're good to go. Okay. Let's take questions that you all have asked in the comments. I've selected about 20 25 questions. I will take as many as as possible over the next couple of hours. So, let's go with the questions. Where are the questions? What do we have? Amisha says, "What's the difference between AD, BC, and CE?" What's the difference between AD, BC, and CE? So these are the uh terms we use to describe years, historical years. 22 AD, 3000 BC. Sometimes we use CE and BCE. What is all this? What's it's it's kind of confusing, isn't it? It's kind of confusing. What does it all mean? So um this is all Christian terminology. Earlier in history, historically uh in history books, etc., we used to use the terms AD and BC. These days we have CE and BCE. These two terms essentially mean the same things. So what is AD? AD means ano domini. It's a Latin term and it's been abbreviated to AD. Anodomini. It means the year of our Lord. It's a Christian term. So Mr. Jesus Christ is supposed to have been born in the year one. Right? The year 1 the world the history begins with the birth of Jesus Christ according to the western world view historically it's been that way. So the year 1 is 1 AD one un ano domini one the year one of our lord our lord and savior that sort of thing. So that's a so what's bc then? So BC is very simple it's before Christ. So if you say something happened in 50 BC it means 50 years before the birth of Mr. Christ. If it's 30,000 BC BC, it's 3,000 years before the birth birth apparent alleged birth of Mr. Christ. So that was the deal. Okay, AD and BC. Now you will see that people use CE and BCE which means the same thing. CE now means it it means common era and BCE means before common era. While 1 B 1 A 1 CE is the same as 1 A, they have simply repackaged the ADBC terminology into CEBC terminology so that it doesn't sound overtly Christian. Common era before common era. What's the common era? It's your Christian era. It it may as well as well stand for the Christian era and before the Christian era. So that's ADBC and CEBC. Same thing repackaged. Earlier it used to be AD and BC. Now it is looked upon as kind of obsolete and now they use the terms CE and BCE. Exactly the same meaning. It's the beginning of the Christian era. Beginning the first year of the birth of Mr. Christ. That's ADBC and uh CEC. All right. Next question. The next question is by Tjari. Did the Satwahanas mark the first political assertion of an Andra identity within a wider panindia cultural framework? How did the satwahana's use of prait over Sanskrit influence early vernacular political consciousness in the dean? The satwahanas the satwahanas are a fascinating dynasty a fascinating empire. I'm not sure if they are regarded as an empire or a kingdom but I see them as an empire. They they ruled over a pretty vast amount area of land in in central India the Dean region essentially right. So uh the establishment of the Satwana Satwahana dynasty is around is said to be around somewhere in the 3rd century BC or BCE like we just uh discussed right around 230 to 240 BC around that time. the the founder was Simuka. Simuka was the founder of this dynasty. He overthrew the existing dynasty of the time in that region, the Kva dynasty. So Simuka is the founder of the Satwana dynasty. Sometime in the second half in the in the latter half of the 3rd century BC. Now the Satwahana dynasty, what does it mean? Satwahana, it means seven vehicles essentially, right? It's it's an illusion to these seven horses of Surya Dave, the sun god. If you look at the way Surya Dave is depicted in art and literature, he is supposed to come on a chariot that's drawn by seven horses, right? Seven horses. So that's that's the symbolism behind the name Satwahanas. Now if you look at the matsipuran it refers to the satwahanas as the andras. So that's the origin of of the term Andhra Pradesh which is essentially the same region. So the satwana dynasty was the first you could say the first major empire in the deken region after the withdrawal and decline of the moria empire. The Shunga Empire did not ever come south of the Vindias essentially. So the Satwana dynasty it founded an empire. It eventually became an empire that was the first major empire in the region after the withdrawal and and decline and eventual dissolution of the Morius. So the founder is Simuka. He overthrew the Kva dynasty. And then after Simoka his brother Krishna or Kanha ruled and he expanded the the empire eastward eastward towards eastern India in the Dakan region right. U then you have various kings who come and then one of the major early kings is Satkarnney the first. He is still in the BC time. Okay 70 60 BC around that time. uh he was uh uh probably the most important early ruler of the Satwan dynasty. He was called the king the lord of Dakshinapat means the southern region of the subcontinent and he expanded his empire significantly. He conquered western Malva. He conquered the Narmmata valley. He extended his rule in the in various directions. He then started behaving like an emperor because he was a conqueror. He started performing the ashwame yagna the rajasuya yagna which indicates imperial status. No no ordinary king will do those things right and he satkari the first is the king who established pratishtan as the major capital as the capital of the satwan empire. Today it's called pitan. It's in Maharashtra. Right? So that is the first major king. And then there's the golden age of the Satwan Empire which comes with under the the the rule of the great Gautabi Puttra Satakarni. So he ruled in the 2nd century AD or 2nd century CE. Uh his remarkable achievements are documented in the Nashik Prat Prashasti inscription which was created by his mother Gautabi Balashri. His mother Gautam Balashri was apparently a very formidable lady and Goautami Puttra Satakarnney was named after his mother not his father. He is called Gautami Puttra Satakarnney. So it was not a patrineal dynasty as such but they honored their mothers by naming the sons after the mothers. So Gautametra sat satakarni was a major was the greatest of the kings of this dynasty and it's possible that may that he may have defeated the the Mahakshhatra king Nahapana. So the Mahakshhat the the western satraps as they're called in English they were descendants of skithians who ruled in western India from Gujarat from Maharashtra uh from Sarashtra they controlled India's trade with Rome a very very prosperous kingdom they had and they were very powerful and one of the most powerful of the Mahakhatrapas was in Nahapana and we're not sure if Gautamudra Satakarni was a contemporary of Napana or not but we know that some of Nahapana's coins have been discovered to have been restruct struck by Goautame Puttra Satakarnney. So maybe Goautamra Sakarnney defeated Nahapana or maybe he took over some territory that earlier belonged to Nahapana and that's why he restructs. But anyway he uh came into conflict with the Mahakhatraas with the western satraps and he expanded his kingdom in that direction. Um it is possible that may he may have reached Saashtra as well in the northwest. Um and Mahapan sorry Gautamudra was was called Raj Raj king of kings which essentially means emperor right great man uh his queen's name was Vashishti and his son was Vashishti Puttra Pulawami Puluwami and and Vashishti Puttra Puluwami the successor of Gautra Putra Satakarnney he continued the dynasty's expansion eastwards and he was able to successfully maintain control over the vast Satwana Empire and then eventually you have more kings like Hajjri, Satkarnney and so on and then there's the inevitable decline and fragmentation of the empire and uh by by the middle of the 3rd century AD uh the you know there are there's a succession of weak rulers who are unable to manage the vast size of the empire and that's why the empire starts fragmenting you know local uh governors start becoming rulers that sort of thing and eventually there are other uh uh kingdoms that encroach upon the territory and you know how it goes right so what about the uh contributions what's the legacy of the satanas right so first of all they are known to have supported cultural traditions civilizational traditions they performed various various vic yajnas they also supported both the dharma they constructed magnificent Buddha Buddhist stupas chaita chaitas kla Carla in in Maharashtra I believe it's very famous it's still there it's still a tourist destination it's somewhat okay maintained right and they patronized various monasteries through you know donations and whatnot right uh after they they started controlling the western part of India they began to control the the the maritime trade between India and and Rome and the Roman Empire um and when it comes to language they used both Sanskrit and prait in their inscriptions and they did patronize prait literature. Right? So uh yeah they were very significant historically and eventually as as all empires go they had to decline and and excuse me they had to decline and fragment right u but uh they made significant contributions to art to culture to architecture to civilization they developed a very sophisticated administrative system they fought the the western satrups and I think had good success against them against them and they represent kind of a bridge between what you call south Indian and north Indian traditions right uh so that was the deal with the satwahana so did so is this the first political assertion of an andra identity within uh panindian wider etc well they are called the andras in yeah you know in in literature so yeah you could say it's it's the beginning you could say of the of the andra identity and they did use prait as well as suskrit but sanskrit was always the civilization traditional language and until very recently it was now it's been jettisoned but anyway but they did use they did patronize prait literature uh so that isn't indeed the case so prait is obviously uh an offshoot of Sanskrit right and eventually the common people would no longer speak Sanskrit like they used to do in the vic times and common people used to use speak a variety of of aparential languages and prait was one of them one of one of the earlier ones Of course, one of the even earlier ones was Pali. As we know, during the Morian times, the local people of Magad used to speak Pali. Anyhow, so so that's the deal with the Satwanas. Very important dynasty, fascinating dynasty. Uh kind of overlooked in Indian history. Nobody kind of remembers them too too much. I'm sure there is more consciousness about the contributions and and the legacy and the great achievements of the South Vanas in the Dean region. Hopefully, I hope so. And yeah, great dynasty. Great question. Right. Real real Vladimir Putin says recently BRI has claimed that Indians used gold coins during the Harapan and Digvidic times. This contradicts the fact the fact the fact that Kushans brought gold coins to India. What's my opinion? I I did not know until now that Kushans apparently brought gold coins to India. Yeah. Did they? I mean everything of value has to come from outside is it? Well, the Kushans obviously eventually became Indian. We they are they are renowned for their gold coinage. No question about that. But but is it like I did not know that people believe this that the Kushans brought gold coins to India. Before that India did not have gold, no coin. We did not have the concept of gold coins or anything. Right? We were absolute simpletons. Is it so? So uh let's uh let's try and pull something up. So let me show you something. I don't know about the rigidic times because we have no idea when the rigidic times happened for sure the exact time period. But look at this. Uh this is from numista harapan primitive money from 3 to 1500 BC. This is gold. Uh if it will ever open. Apparently it will not. Let's try again. Will you open up? Maybe you will not. Maybe the website is broken. Uh so anyway, this is Harrap and primitive money as it is uh portrayed over here. 3,00 to 2,500 BC Indust Valley civilization. Gold disc possibly earring. It does it doesn't look like earring to me. I mean, if you try to insert that into your ear over earlobes, it will slice open your earlobes. So clearly this is not ear rings. And look at the precision. Ah, look at that. Look at the precision with which it is cut. It's almost industrial. It's almost like it's been done by with a machine. That's what it looks like. And this is gold, by the way. Okay. This is gold. Uh, and you find this sort of thing in the Mundy Horde and whatnot. So, this is from 3000 BC. Um, so we don't have the effigy of a king on this. We don't have any inscriptions on this but clearly this seems to be this I mean if you are using gold this is not obviously a weight of measure for if you want to use weights and measures you would use stones or or lead or tin or iron you would not use something as precious as gold. Gold was always precious historically. So this looks like some standardized you know currency without any fe any any inscription or stamp or any such thing or or markings of a king or any uh any any text on it. So if you look at the Harapan time per the Sindu Saraswati time period of our history you will find that there are no statues of kings anywhere. You only find statues or or descriptions or or seals of deities and they seem to be really fond of rdra Lord Shiva. So there's a lot of rdra everywhere and there are various animals that are depicted. There is the pashupati depiction and so on but you will not find any depiction of any king over there anywhere. I'm sure they had kings but it looks like they were also a rather democratic society. I mean at that time our ancestors because there are I mean the ruins are extensive you have metropololises from that time there's no palaces or any such thing so it looks like it was a very democratic form of governance of some kind uh so that's why they did not uh you know have um inscriptions of kings so this is clearly some form of currency from that time harapan times or sarasati hindu times Uh that's our ancient past like 30,000 BC maybe even before that it was it must have been in in in form in in in use in usage. So definitely you had I'm just giving you one example. I'm sure if you look you'll find more. We're just doing a live show over here so there's no time to go and look spend 20 minutes looking for something but you'll find it. So clearly during Harapan times you did use gold currency not in the shape and form of you know exalting and glorifying emperors having having inscriptions on top but it was clearly standardized and punched marked or whatever when it comes to rigidic times I don't know see first of all no one knows what the rigidic era was how long ago was it we don't know that there's a debate there's a there's a battle there's a raging battle going on between various experts about the date of the Vic of the Riga and the date of the Rama and the date of the Maharat I don't want to get into that it's it's a mess okay uh so we don't know there are all kinds of dates that have been proposed like 1500 BC some people say you know the iron invasion theorists some people say 12,000 13,000 BC all wide variety of dates so we don't know what the rigidic era was from the way I see it it was closer to the time when the Saraspati was still a mighty river compared to when the Saraspati had dry half dried out. So it's closer to 6,000 BC than to 1500 BC but that's a vast time period. When was it? We don't know. So if we don't know the time period then how do we know what went on at the time and what currency was being used whether gold gold coins were being used or not. So about rigidic rigidic times I can't say but Harapan times or or Sarasati Sarasati Hindu times we definitely had gold currency not in the shape and form that we are used to today. Maybe the way we use it is more primitive than what we our ancestors were were using during the Saraswati Sindu times. That was more standardized. It was just pure currency. No markings of kings and no exaltations through inscriptions of the kings and their their great deeds or anything. Just pure currency. All right. Nirvana Shanks says, "Everyone talks about Rome. Rome. Rome. Rome. They talk about the Mongols these days, land empires. But no one talks about the Phoenicians, the Carthaginians, Shri Vijaya, the great maritime powers. Uh they control trade. They maybe even more than anyone else. Why do they get so little credit? Uh thank you for your attention to this question. Yes, I mean see the the world is very euroentric today. Really euroentric. All our history is written in in in a foreign language. I'm speaking to you in a foreign language. All the the the standardized textbooks are written by westerners or people who are culturally and intellectually westernized. So they will see everything from that perspective. And from the western perspective, from the European or accidental perspective, everything centers around Rome because that was the great empire that they produced. Right? I mean if you look at the US, the US is a dominant power today. It controls the world's culture. It's got a huge cultural influence on the world and what they say is what everyone believes, right? I mean in India, we did American validation for our to feel good about about ourselves. So if you look at the Americans, how what do they see as the the the origins of their culture? If you see the American Express credit card, what do you see on that? You see the a depiction of a Roman centurion, don't you? That's what you see. So they also hearken back to Rome. So the the west is obsessed with Rome and they talk about Rome constantly. If you go on social media, Rome, Rome, Rome, nostalgia for Rome and so on cuz they can't talk about a certain other empire. So they'll talk about Rome. Uh Mongols, no one talks about Mongols until I started talking about it. Actually before the year 2020, I you did not hear anyone talking about the the Mongols. Okay? The Mongols were demonized. They were portrayed essentially as cannibals of some kind. and they they actually were depicted historically as cannibals. No one spoke about the Mongols until I spoke about the Mongols actually. Uh there there were a few books written here and there but it never entered popular discourse until kind of I spoke about. So I I will take some credit for that. Uh but the west is obsessed with Rome. Everything came from Rome perhaps from Greece because Greece is the spiritual uh spiritual uh parent essentially and cultural parent of Rome. So they'll speak about Rome, they'll speak about Greece and they take some ideas from places like Egypt and and the fertile crescent Mesopotamia and so on. But they will never credit empires to the to the east of what they call the Middle East. They'll never credit any cultures from the east. Uh so and and when and also the Phoenicians Carthaginian. So first of all who were the Phoenicians? Who were the Carthaginians? For that we must go to map. So let me bring map on screen. Yes, let us bring the map on the screen and I will explain who the phoenetians who the Carthaginians were and then we'll talk about S Vijay as well. So we recognize this part of the world. Yes. Let's go westwards. Let's go to the place which we now call Israel. So back in the day around around let's say 1,000 BC or maybe around 800 BC this region which is now called Israel there used to live a Semitic people there. Those people were called the Phoenicians and it so these people originated in this region what is now Israel and then they expanded westwards in North Africa and they eventually um you know they eventually founded kingdoms and all that in North Africa which eventually would become Carthage and so on. So the Carthaginians were the descendants of the Phoenicians and they were a maritime people. They engaged in trade and they had kind of good powerful powerful navies and all that and Carthage eventually almost ended up destroying Rome almost. Hannibal Barka was the guy who almost succeeded in that. Uh so the Europeans do speak about Carthage and the Phoenicians. Then let's talk about uh Sri Vijaya. So Sh Vijaya is an empire that emerged in Sumatra. Sumatra is the western most the western large island of Indonesia. Um and the Shri Vijaya was obviously a Hindu Hindu kingdom and yeah it was a it was a pretty pretty powerful kingdom very culturally and civilizationally very rich very similar to India and its successor one of its successors eventually was the Majapahit Empire which was the greatest empire in the history of of Indonesia. It was what we call athalasoccratic empire, a maritime empire and they were pretty strong, pretty powerful in the entire region over here. And Shiva obviously was was defeated by the Chas. The Chas the Chola Empire invaded Shivija and defeated them and and turned the entire region into the into the Chola. And since we are talking about various empires that are kind of disregarded, let's talk about the Champa Empire. Champa Kingdom which was in power for a very very long time. It ruled out of what is essentially southern Vietnam. It was again a Hindu kingdom or empire. Again a taloscratic or maritime empire. And this entire region was dominated by the navy of the Champa kingdom. Champa the so-called South China Sea should be called the Champa Sea because the Chinese never had any navy in the region. They never had any influence in the region. So that's the deal. There are so many such disregarded kingdoms and empires who have contributed so much historically and whose legacies still live on in various shapes and forms. But if you ask the west, it's all Rome, Rome, Rome, Rome, Rome. That's the that's the way things go, right? You see things from your perspective. That's why other kingdoms, empires, and cultures and civilizations get so little credit. That's just the way things go. Okay, what do we have next? Aayush Singh says tell us about why Japan has helped tell us about why Japan agreed to help in li liberating India through the Azad Hind force and why didn't the Nazis agree to liberate India well you see Shri Subash Chandraos did initially uh journey so he was under house arrest in India wasn't he and then he escaped from house arrest test. He escaped to he traveled a long journey in disguise. He went to northwest India. He went to Kabul. Through there he went into central Asia and he eventually made his way to Germany. And he met with the top leadership of the Third Reich. He let he met with Adolf Hitler and he said that our enemy our common enemy is the British, the godamn British. So let's work together. Please help me to liberate India. So Adolf fitler at the time was well he had plans of world conquest and world domination and he had allies in the east which is Japan. So he said to subashadra look I am over here all the way west in Europe. India is so far away uh I am right now uh you know focusing on other things. I will not have uh time or resources or manpower to to spare in a project that would be the liberation of India from the godamned British. So he said let me put in a word with my allies in Japan. Okay, I'll give you I recommend that you go and go to Japan and talk to them and they will be in a better position to help India out. So then Subbashandra Bose went all the way from Germany all the way to Japan essentially the other side of the world. He spent some of some part of the journey in a submarine and so on. Eventually went to Japan and once again he was able to I mean he was he was that kind of person that you know he was a doors would open for him. So he went and he met with the Japanese top leadership and the Japanese leadership said all right we will assist you which are we have many Indian prisoners of war who are fighting for the British we will hand them over to you. You create a force out of that and the objective should be to liberate India and we will assist you in that. So look what was the Japanese calculations? The Japanese calculations were the complete conquest of Asia. They wanted to conquer the whole of Asia. At one point in time they were knocking on India's doorstep. There were battles in India's far east. Battle of Himfal, battle of Kohima, right? And some of the combatants were Azadhind Azadhind Hind force Azad Hind forge soldiers. So the Japanese they also had conquered the Andaman islands and they were pretty brutal there. So the Japanese actually wanted to conquer India and vasalize India. If they had conquered India, they would not most likely have let India go. they would have uh well they would have occupied India the same way the British did. Now let's understand one thing. Subashandra Bose was smarter than you and me. He was more intelligent than us. He understood full well what the Japanese want. But that's how it goes. Sometimes you know what they want and what they want isn't good. But the common enemy is more dangerous and and more immediate. So let's take help from the Japanese. Let's see. Even though I know that they actually want to occupy India, but maybe once I once things go right, maybe I can ward of the Japanese as well. Maybe that was a calculation. So uh that's why the Japanese agreed to help because they were much closer to India. They had already conquered many parts of Asia. Well, you know, eventually they reached Burma and and the far east of India. So they were not far. The Germans were far away. They were nowhere. their forces, their power projection, it was nowhere close to India. The Japanese, they were on essentially on the doorstep of India eventually. So that's why the Japanese it was it was more practical for them to help Subashandra in the in the liberation of India. The Nazis could not do that. So that's that's how it went. Sam Brahmanik says, "Can you please explain which event was the official declaration that Britain is no longer a superpower?" Well, there's no uh official declaration as such, but uh I I understand what you're asking. So, it happened in stages. The the second world war Britain was isolated. The whole of Europe had fallen to the third Reich. France had fallen. You had the you had the Vichi regime in France. the puppet regime which was actually a Nazi puppet regime and the rest of Europe had fallen to the Nazis and there was the battle of Britain. The Nazis were trying to hammer Britain into the dust. So Britain was under siege and without American help they would have gone under. And of course American help isn't free. The Americans loaned whatever they did to Britain and Britain had to repay that. And Britain was repaying the debt to the Americans until the beginning of the 21st century, this century until not so long ago. That's how much debt the British owed the Americans. So the Americans uh whatever help they offered, they offered it at a price. So that itself was complete humiliation of the British. What imperial status? There was no imperial status once that happens. So that you could say was the you could say unofficial death snell of the British Empire. The British Empire was no longer a superpower. It was no longer an empire. It was just an island under siege. That's what Hitler had reduced reduced Britain to. And the Americans magnanimously helped Britain out. So Britain essentially was in a subsidiary position. Simple as simple as that. But if you want a real official I mean declaration to the world that hey it's over for you guys to it's over for the British. The days of empire are over. Well, for that you would have to go back go back to 1956. 1956 the Suis crisis. Let's go to the map once again. The Sue crisis. Sue. So where is Sue? Let's go west of India and let's go to Egypt. So when you go to Egypt, you will see the that between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, there's this piece of land which connects Africa with Asia. But if you look closer, there is a canal which starts from Suis also. And there's this great bitter lake here, this Timsah lake. And if you go further north, you reach port say where the canal opens up into the Mediterranean Sea. This is the Suez Canal. And the British essentially were major stakeholders in the Suez Canal. There was a point in time when the Suez Canal was called uh the spinal cord essentially of the British Empire because it is what enabled the British to reach India fast because India was their major possession during colonial times and even after the second world war the British were major stakeholders in the Suez Canal and so were the French. So the British and the French were major stakeholders in the Suez Canal. Okay. Now what happens uh what happens now is that somewhere in the 1950s probably around 1956 uh Nasser who was the ruler of Egypt he decided to nationalize the Suez Canal. What does it mean that it was nationalized? It means that the government of Egypt bought out the shares. It did not simply confiscate the Suez Canal and take it by force. It paid the shareholders whatever they were owed and took control of the Sewish Canal. So the British and the French lost control of the Sewish Canal. The Suez Canal became entirely controlled by the Egyptian government and in response to that the British and the French they launched they they hatched a conspiracy together. They uh launched a maritime invasion of Egypt and they landed in Port Sai and took control of Port Sai. This happened probably in October or somewhere around that time 1956 and the USSR which was on good terms with Egypt. It protested. The Americans also protested and then the Americans took the French and the British to task not militarily but diplomatically. Okay. They took the French and and the British to the diplomatic negotiating table. Twisted their arms until the arms were all the way around like that. arm twisted the British and the French and within a few days by December or some something around that time the British and the French withdrew from Port Sed and the attempt to take Sues was over. That was humiliation. It was a public slap in the face of both the British and the French. So that was unambiguous assertion to the entire world that Britain is now a second rate world power. It's forget about being a superpower and an empire. It's not even a first rate world power. It's now well not it wasn't a vasal of the US at the time but it was humiliated by the US and the French were too. And let's not forget Israel's Israel's uh role in this. So the invasion was a joint invasion not just by the British and the French but also by Israel. So British, French and Israeli troops invaded and the Israelis were persuaded by the by the Americans to uh withdraw and the British and the French were arm twisted into withdrawing. So that you could say was the well that was the day that the world understood that Britain the imperial days are are are long gone and Britain is now not even a first rate world power. It's a second great world power. And once uh Tony Blair came to power, it became a US poodle, the US masal. And that's when it became a third rate world power. Right. Yajnavalia says Gayat Vincent has written an article or a book. It's a book. The beef taboo in China agriculture ethics sacrifice. Honolulu University of Hawaii Press 2025. This year it's come out. So this book claims that there was a strong beef taboo in preodern China. So can we say that Hindus have preserved their food taboss better than the Hanchinese? Let's Google this. Okay, let's let's Google this and find out together what this is all about. So Google the beef taboo in China agricult Oh, there we have it. The beef taboo in China, agriculture, ethics sacrifice. Let's go to uh this here. Let's see what the book is about. So, let's read this. The beef taboo in China explains how and why. Around the turn of the second millennium, which is around 1000 AD, the Chinese determined that cattle should not be slaughtered or eaten. This taboo remained prevalent until the beginning of the 20th century and it is still observed by some today. So, it lasted a thousand years. It was prevalent until the beginning of the 1900s. And the author situates this prohibition with an evolving Chinese attitude towards animals and meat and juxtaposes the taboo with vegetarianism. Hello. All right, I am back. Sorry about that. Am I audible now? Just let me know once I I get your I get your feedback I will resume. Ah yes it is okay now. Okay apologies for that. I have no idea what went wrong but here we are. I've got a different mic over here and we can uh continue with what we are discussing. So we were talking about the beef taboo in China agriculture ethics and so on. So let me resume uh answering. So we have this book that's come out this year and uh let's see the book all over again. So this is the book and it says so this is by uh Vincent Gossert and Barbara Ambrose. The beef taboo in China agriculture ethics and sacrifice. So what does the book description say? The beef taboo in China explains how and why around the turn of the second millennium the Chinese deter the turn of the second millennium means around a thousand years before today. Okay. So around the turn of the second millennium the Chinese determined that cattle should not be slaughtered or eaten. This taboo remained prevalent until the beginning of the 20th century and it is still observed by some Chinese people today. which means that until the early 1900s they still had the beef taboo. Uh Gosset situates this prohibition within evolving Chinese attitudes towards animals and meat. And he juxtaposes the taboo with vegetarianism and other other forms of meat ethics. He argues the emergence of this specific practice must be understood in several contexts. Notably, a new agricultural economy and ecology in early modern times that protected plow cattle and marginalized pastures. Sacrificial reform that eliminated beef as the standard offering to gods and spirits. The development of Dowist rituals, cults and moral theology, the taboo beef and made this observance a lynch pin of Chinese civilization. It's very interesting that this author I mean I've not seen the book. It looks like there is no mention of the Indian influence in China because China was majorly Buddhist for a long long period of time. Even today, China is China has the world's largest population of practicing Buddhists. It's interesting that this uh book doesn't mention the Buddhist or in Indian influence at all. Right. Um yeah. So anyway, so it's clear that for for a thousand years, eating beef was a taboo in China. Now, let me show you something else. Let me show you a different story. Okay, let's go to Google and let's talk about Japan. Okay. Was beef taboo for the samurai? Was beef? Yes. Beef consumption was taboo for samurai and for the general population of Japan for a significant period due to religious, Buddhist and practical reasons. A ban on eating cattle was first imposed in 675 AD and was strictly enforced until the Maji restoration until the 19th century. 1,500 years the Japanese did not eat beef and the emperor Maji himself consumed beef to modernize the country. Look at what was done to Japan. Exactly what you seeing in India today. Eating beef is a sign of modernity. Yeah. Modernity. So the Maji emperor, the guy who attempted to eradicate dharma from Japan, he's the guy who ended the prohibition on on beef. And because he consumed beef and he's the divine emperor, that's why everybody was encouraged to start eating beef. And today Japanese the Japanese people most of them they eat beef but for about 1500 years almost the Japanese would not touch beef. The samurai the samurai the great warriors do you know what their diet was? Samurai. Yes. Samurai diet. There you go. What did they eat? They would eat fish. Yes. But they would not eat any other meat. Primarily plant-based. Mostly vegetarian. They would have rice, miso soup, pickled vegetables, seafood and seasonal fruits. They would eat fish. So the samurai were like the Bengales. You see the Bengali people, most Bengales who eat fish do consider themselves vegetarian. Fish is the fruit of the sea apparently. So the samurai, the samurai diet was primarily vegetarian. They would eat fish and seafood, not no red meat, definitely no beef. So whether you look at China, whether you look at Japan, there was a complete taboo on beef. The Japanese were and the Japanese civilians were mostly vegetarian for the longest time. Let's look up that also. Uh Japan veget historical vegetarian history. Let's look at that history of meat cons. Japan's history with vegetarianism is rooted in Buddhist consumption uh influence a period of restricted meat consumption from 675 CE until 1872. So the whole of Japan was like that not just the samurai. They would eat fish but apart from that it was mostly mostly vegetarian food. No red meat, no no birds, no livestock. This is all Indian influence. all Indian influence and today let's let's look at India today eating beef is is a sign of being modern I have nothing against protein eat protein yeah sure absolutely you need s sufficient protein and I would encourage all Indians to consume sufficient protein especially if you I mean especially men yeah you got to bulk up a little bit you can't be little skinny little voses yeah But beef, why beef? Why beef? People are being encouraged to eat beef in India. So anyhow, even today, most Indians, most Hindus at least, most most they don't eat beef. And thank the gods for that. So yes, you could say Hindus until now have kind of preserved their food tabos better than the Hanchinese and better better than the Japanese. Sad to see what's happened to those cultures. They've been destroyed. Yeah. Okay. Anonymous scientist says 3,000-year-old Syrian hymn found in Ugarit, Syria matches riga melodies according to US archaeology magazine. What's my comments? So understand what's melody? What's melody? So this news doesn't seem to say that it's rigidic the the language of the rigida vic. It's not saying that it is Vic Sanskrit. The hymn is in the huran language but the melody is rigidi. What does it mean? The meter the meter the meter of the verse is it matches the rigid exactly. So let's look look this up here. Harapan um okay let's go to archaeology news and look up what the article has to say. Okay, so 3,000-y old hymn reveals musical links across Bronze Age civilizations from India to the Mediterranean. Let's read it briefly. More than 3,000 years ago, in the port city of Ugarit on the eastern coast of the Mediterranean, the scribes inscribed a song in the Hurian language on a clay tablet. The hymn to Nikal is the earliest known musical score found to date. Oh, it's a musical score with melody and and okay, but notes. I suppose if you are talking about a score, you're talking about notes, musical notes like sarabita, that sort of thing. A recent study suggests that this brief composition could be of unprecedented importance. Evidence of a share the global musical culture in the bronze age. Let's find out what it is. This study conducted by the University of California, Santa Barbara's Dan Cbachu and published on the preprint.org org server compares the hymn to Nikal with the rig va one of the oldest Indian sacred no it's the oldest sacred it's the oldest literature in the world anyhow using computerass assisted rhythm and melody mapping Bachu's study demonstrated astonishing parallels between the two pieces between the rigida and this hymn to Nikal Bachu explained that one in five rigveda verses ends with the same cadence as the the hymn to Nikal the odds of this occurring ing by accident are less than one in a million. Okay. U so what astonished researchers is not only the shared rhythm but also the echoed melodic tendencies. Let's let's read this first. Cadences repeated melodic or rhythmic units act as musical punctuation marking verse endings. Two cadences dominate in the hymn to Nikal. One simple and one heartbeat. One simple and heartbeat like and one is more intricate. These same two models are used in the Rigveda with one most frequently used ending verses and the other linked closely to the thristub meter. According to Bachu, this duality of the simple and the complex, he argues, is a more del is a deliberate artistic choice. What astonished researchers is not only the shared rhythm but also the echoed melodic tendencies. Ancient commentators on the Rigveda described its melodies as mounting upon accented syllables and falling thereafter. A structure also found in the Ugarthic hymn. When reconstructed digitally, the two pieces resonated with such similar characteristics that their kinship became unmistakable. This discovery opens questions about the ways in which music was spread across long distances in ancient times. Situated at at the crossroads of near eastern and Mediterranean trade, Ugarit connected Mesopotamia and Anatolian cultures. The Mitani Kingdom is referred to by historians as a probable bridge between Ugarit and India. The Hurian occupied Bronze Age state linked with Indo-Uropean speaking communities would have been the channel through which Vic traditions and musical forms were exchanged. Okay, we understand what they're trying to say. Incredible similarities. Impossible to be an accident right 3,000 years ago Ugarit now at that time. So first of all let's go let's find out where is Ugarit shall we? Let's find out where is Ugarit. Let's go to our friend Google and let's ask Google where is Ugarit. Uh not here. So sorry where is Google? Here is Google. Ugarit map location Ugarit. Where is it? Uh if you go to images, you will find that. Okay, it's it's somewhere over here. All right, we get it. It's uh north of Lebanon. Uh if we go to the map, let's go to the map now. I found the location and we will put that on the screen. Excuse me. So let's zoom into the place somewhere here. So in in present day Turkey, but this was a region that was part of the Mitani Empire about let's say 1,400 years ago. But this hymn is about from about 1,000 BC, not from 1400 BC. And by the time the Mitani Empire no longer existed. Now why do I talk about the Mitani Empire? Because the Mitani Empire's rulers were Indo-aranian like they say they spoke Sanskrit but but late Vic Sanskrit not rigidic Sanskrit they spoke late Vic Sanskrit. Their kings had names like thwarata and uh yeah all all Indian names all Sanskrit names. Um so the the aristocracy of the Mitani empire the royalty was Indians the local people they all spoke the huran language and after the empire dissolved I suppose the royalty and the commerce must have mixed up and the the high culture must have survived for some time which is why the huran hymn it matches the melodies of the riga so it's not that there was some mystical connection between this region and India uh the the fact is very clear I mean it's very clear why it's so why why this discovery has been made and what it indicates it indicates that Indian culture still lingered on for for some time for some centuries after the dissolution of the Mitani Empire the Mitani rulers were Indian and some of them they intermarried with the Egyptian royalty um yeah that's my thoughts okay next Amisha says in What way did the indust valley civilization in influence Indian civilization today? So when we say so there is this big gigantic monstrous gargantuan misconception that the indis valley civilization was something that happened in the past. Yeah it did happen in the past but it's something that disappeared. The indis valley civilization people believe disappeared and no one knows what happened to it. It simply vanished. What happened to those people? What was their culture? What was the language? That's what people believe because that's what you taught in your textbooks and that's what your teachers tell you. The it was first of all it was not the Indispelli civilization. It was the the the major river of the civilization was the Saraspati. Okay. The Sindu was a secondary river and it was actually a STAindui civilization or Sarasati Sindu civilization whatever you want to call it but it did not simply vanish. It still exists. We are the continuation of the of of that time. Those were our ancestors. They did not ever vanish anywhere. The cities were abandoned because when you are built, see in the old days, cities were always built on the banks of rivers and when a river disappears, what do you do? You need to move somewhere else. And of course, there are droughts and all that which which causes climate change and you need to move because of that. So, it did not the cities were never were not abandoned overnight. People gradually moved away to other parts of the subcontinent. Some moved westwards. So the civilization never disappeared. It continued in different shapes and forms. We are the continuation of of the civilization. People say but their language hasn't been deciphered. How do we know what they wrote and what is the connection? The language has been deciphered. Baratra has deciphered it. You can see the podcast on my channel on this channel. He has deciphered it and what does it turn out to be Sanskrit and you can see his website um I think it's called indescript.com if I'm not mistaken you will see the entire decipherment of the entire corpus of Harapan texts Harapan indust valley whatever you want to call them texts the the inscriptions all of them all of them have been deciphered it was Sanskrit I mean what else do you want some people won't believe it some people because they don't want to believe it they will not believe it I Don't blame them for not believing it. Once you have certain ideas in your mind, for most people, it's impossible to remove them. Once you are emotionally attached to some ideas, you're stuck there. If it's only through a great amount of effort that you can keep learning and and be open to considering seriously something that you never believed was true or you always believed was false, but that's the only way you grow in life. Most people after a certain age stop growing and some people stop growing at the age of 12. It looks like uh anyhow so if you look at the various characterist now why do I say that the civilization never disappeared it still exists well let me show you um let's once again go to our friend Google and let me show you why there's an article from 2016 and 2017 it's called the Arian invasion myth myth by whom by somebody called Chavda. So if you go to medium for example you'll see this the Arian invision myth of 21st century science debunks 19th century Indology uh this is an article written by me which year was this 2017 um now let me show okay look at this you see these figurines these little figures yes so you will see if if you zoom in if you zoom And I'm sorry that's been that's too far imbiganed bigified. But if you look at these figures, see their their hair. See the parting of the hair. What do you see there? Can you see where my mouse pointer is? Can you see what color that is? That's red. That's something that married ladies uh that sindur which they use in their head in the parting of their hair. Well, that these these statueets are from 2,800 BC. They were found in Baluchasthan. This is obviously the the u the golden era, the golden age of the so-called Indis Valley civilization, right? The the mature Harapan age supposedly. So, you can see this is an example of something people still do. It was being done almost 5,000 years ago. Yeah, almost 5,000 years ago. Uh so I'll tell you what um in the book the rigidic people invaders immigrants etc. Professor Bibilal gives extensive archaeological evidence that many of the traditions and customs prevalent in the Sindu Sarasati civilization continue to exist in modern India. Yoga I mean there are statues of people doing yoga from 3000 BC from what you call the Saras the Indas Valley civilization the Haratan civilization. Well we still do yoga don't we? The shivalinga in yoni I mean people still worship that today don't don't they the use of sindur in married women's hair partition well people still do that the used use of spiraled bangles among women in hana and Rajasthan and even Gujarat the folktale of the thirsty crow well people still teach that that folktale to their children uh the namaste greeting well it you will see lots of statues little statues of of people doing namaste from this period of time 3000 BC or even even older Lord Shiva's trident. Well, you will find lots of seals with the trident of of Lord Shiva. Uh Shivalingers and so much more. So much more. There are so many aspects of the culture of that lost civilization that we still practice today. So it did not influence our civilization today. Our civilization today is a continuation of that civilization. We are the same civilization. The civilization never ended. And that is something people are not taught in school or college or wherever. It's like it was some some civilization that came from the from god knows where and disappeared god knows where. That's what you're taught. Which is so wrong. All right. Yajjulka says, "Where did the last common ancestor of homo sapiens who also likely spoke language like us?" Okay. and Dennis originate and live. Can it be the Indian subcontinent? Oldest fossils of neonals were found in Europe. Oldest fossils of homo sapiens in Africa. Oldest fossils of Denisovans in Tibet, East Asia, Southeast Asia. Okay. So the Neanderthalss are believed. So see they are they used to be our cousins. The Neanderthalss. Uh they were a human subspecies which means that you could inter humans could interbreed with them and produce viable offspring. And indeed it is believed it is not believed it is known that non-African humans carry on average about 4% Neanderal DNA and the lowest incidence of neanderal DNA is in India. Apparently our ancestors did not ever intermix with Neanderthalss but the ancestors of the Europeans and West Asians etc. they pos they probably did. Okay, whatever. Uh so the neonthals most likely uh emerged out of Africa and uh populated Europe and West Asia probably not India as far as I know there's no evidence of Neanderthalss in India for whatever reason in the Indian subcontinent. So u the Neanderthals most likely their migration out of Africa happened around 700 or 800,000 years before today and they are our they were our close relatives but they no longer exist as a separate subspecies. how they their DNA is is in homo sapiens itself. So their descendants are among us but they share very little traits of the original Neanderthals. Um language they probably spoke a language. Yeah, maybe multiple languages. Dennis, we don't know much about them. I mean I remember it was I don't know 10 15 years ago when the news came out that there's a new human subspecies that has been discovered a fragment of a of a of a finger bone somewhere in Tibet or or no the Denisova cave somewhere in Asiatic Russia. And then uh more fossils were discovered in Tibet and wherever else. So the first place was the Denisova cave in in Russia. That's why they are called the Denisoans. It doesn't mean that they call themselves the Denisoans. Uh very little is known about them. Their their genetic traces are found in various human populations. U but uh when what was their origin? I'm not really sure about that. I'm not sure anyone knows what their origin was. Uh what we know is that humanity seems to have originated and emerged out of Africa. Uh most likely the Neanderthalss immigrated out of Africa about 700 or 8,000 years ago, 800,000 years ago. Humans, us homo sapiens, we most likely emerged out of Africa about between 80 and 70,000 years before today. Around that time, maybe 85 perhaps. We're not sure. Uh because we do find evidence of homo sapiens in India. um which seems to have and and we there's a settlement somewhere that was discovered in India about 80,000 years old or something homo sapiens and that settlement had survived the catastrophic Toba super volcano explosion that happened about 80,000 years ago so clearly the migration happened most likely before 80,000 years so if Homo sapiens came out of Africa 80,000 years ago let's say or 85 but the Neanderthals came out of Africa 700,000 years ago and Dennis we don't know what when then it means that the last common ancestor of the three subspecies would have lived in Africa uh to the best of the knowledge that we have as of today our deep ancestry comes from Africa that's the best of the knowledge with new if new evidence is found which points in some other direction obviously we have to change our mind but today the data says it's Africa So yeah that's what I can say. Next question is by Rahul Dunak. Why was there megapona? Why did the megapona go extinct after one after 10,000 BC? Uh was the emergence of homo sapiens? One of the reasons along with scarcity of food. Okay. Why did the great megapona go extinct somewhere around 10,000 BC? Did it have something to do with the emergence of humans, homo sapiens? Or was there uh climate reason? Was there scarcity of food? What was it? Okay, first of all, we have to ask ourselves what is megapona? What is that? What is megapona? Megapona means gigantic animals, huge. Now if you think about it, we have megapona today. What is an elephant? An elephant is a gigantic piece of equipment, isn't it? Isn't it? It's a huge unit. It's a megapona. Elephant. Giraffe. Giraffe is megapona. Gigantic animal, right? What else do we have other megapona today? We have ostriches which are kind of gigantic birds almost like dinosaurs. There is that. uh we have huge whales but when we talk about megapona we talk about land dwelling animals so we have some megapona like the elephant like the giraffe I don't know if you could call the hippopotamus or something megapona but you know elephant is there giraffe is there um but when we talk about the extinct megaphone now we talking about animals like the megthereum and u stegoon or something it was called the let's let's Google it quickly okay examples of megapona First of all, let me tell you what is the megalodon. Me? No, meggathereum. Mega, not the megalodon. Meggatheium. This was a gigantic sloth. Okay. That lived in South America through the end of the late pletoine. The pletoine the late late pletoine. It ends around 11,000 or 10,000 years 10,000 BC around that time. So, Meggathereum was this gigantic sloth. If you compare it to the size of a human, you can see it is huge, gigantic. And they have found examples of bones of megthereum that show clear sign of of cutting by humans. So humans used to hunt these beasts. They even found megalodons trapped in caves and all. So it looks like humans may have hunted these beasts to extinction. What other megapona do we have? We had s we had saber-tooth cats. We had these gigantic um we had obviously masttodons and and mammoths huge bisons. We had uh you had cave bears. You had dire wolves. You had uh other other species of gigantic uh elephants, paraserium, whatever it is, woolly rhinosaurus. So many of these animals lived in South America but many of them lived in Eurasia as well like the mammoths and so on and many of these go extinct around 10,000 BC. What was it? So around that time you have the end of the last ice age and the world starts warming. Climate change. Okay. So climate change happens and climate change unleashes the deadliest predator of all homo sapiens. Homo sapiens is the ultimate p predator. Weak apes but frightfully intelligent and they use tools. And who is their ally? Their ally is the wolf or the dog. So homo sapiens and and the dog they form an alliance and they hunt everybody all the animals. Uh so no matter how big the animal is once you put your mind to it your homo sapiens you can hunt it. So mammoths go extinct around 10,000 BC. Megthereum goes extinct around 10,000 BC. And these gigantic mammals, many of these and mammals were grass-eing mammals. And maybe some climate change phenomenon must have made grass cars. And if you are so large, if you are the the size of a one-story or twotory building, you need to consume a lot of food. If you are a warm-blooded animal, a mammal, and if there's a scarcity of food, you you start dying off. So I think it was a combination of of u human hunting and possible food scarcity maybe climate change that killed off many of these gigantic animals. When you are a huge animal it's very difficult for you to survive to sustain uh to sustain yourself to to find enough food to eat. So that's why many of the megapona disappeared. I'll tell you what, there used to be hippopotami in India about I don't know several thousand years ago. We we find hippopotamus bones in India. Uh how long ago was that? Let's let's find out. Yeah, good question. When did the hippopotamus go extinct? When did Indian hippo go extinct? When did hippos go extinct in India? About some say 9,000 years ago, some say 16,000 years ago. So that also is kind of the late pristine period. Not far away from 10,000 BC, right? What about ostriches? I think that would be 30,000 years ago. Did you know that we had ostriches in India? You find ostrich shells in India. Ostriches go extinct in India. So that's 25 to 40,000 years ago. Okay. So that's not the late Yeah. kind of late plestoin but not the exact tail end of the pletoine era. So ostriches went extinct from India about 25 or so thousand years ago. U hippos went extinct about 10,000 years ago maybe 15,000 years ago. So hippos are definitely kind of megapona and among the birds ostriches are megapona. So we had that in India as well. And u in the Himalayas you used to have this gigantic bears. You also had huge apes. Maybe we still do. I don't know. We'll see about that. The Yeti. So yeah, it was a combination of factors. And I'm sure the human factor also played a significant role in the extinction of these giant animals. So many of the megapona that the world knows of are found in the Americas because that's where most of the research happens, right? Um and yeah once the once the ice melted so the question then arises that when did humans arrive in the Americas? The classical answer is about 11,000 years ago with the melting of the before 11,000 years ago. As long as the illusion the bearing straight bridge was still there, the ice bridge. Uh but most likely that's not true. Most likely humans arrived long before that. That's a whole different controversy. We'll not go into that. So that's the deal with the megaphone. Okay, next question is by nationalist 8850. Who were the Kelts? Is it Selts? Is it Kelts? I call them Kelts also. Who were the Goths? Who were the Tutons? Who were the Normans? Who were the Franks? Who were the Britons? And who were the Anglo-Saxons? And who was the rest of the world? These names are frequently used in history, but it's all very confusing. I understand. Of course, it's very confusing. If you're not if you if you're not taught this, if you then it'll be confusing. It's it's it's such a multitude of names. Okay, where do I begin? Kelts, Gothans, Normans, Franks, Britons. Let's talk about the Kelts and the Breton first. The Celtic peoples, well, they still exist. So, the Celtic people, they lived in Western Europe, Western Europe. So if you think about imagine Stonehenge, the Kelts did not build Stonehenge. What is Stonehenge? Let let's let's find out. Okay, Stonehenge. It's this monument in in England. This monument here, very famous. Yeah. Because it's in England and and they put it all over the postcards and the internet. That's why it's very famous. This monument is called Stonehenge. This was built how long ago? Several thousand years ago. Uh what's the early history? Uh place of burial from its beginning to the zenith and third millennium BC or whenever before the monument Stonehenge about 3,000 BC was built. Okay. The point is that Stonehenge was not built by the ancestors of today's British people at least the male ancestors. Uh it was the original British people who built Stonehenge and then there was a genocide in the British Isles. What genocide? Well, a bunch of barbarians invaded from the east and they crossed the English Channel and they invaded the British Isles and destroyed the local male population and procreated with the local females. This invasion was the Yamna invasion that ravaged rampaged across all of Europe. So the Celtic people are descendants of of of that of that. So you could say that the Kelts were not exactly the original inhabitants of England, but longtime inhabitants of of of the British Isles. So the Celtic people, they typically are characterized historically by red hair or blonde hair and blue eyes, that sort of thing. And they were the natives of England when the Romans arrived. And the Romans did not have a very high opinion of them because they were rather easy to defeat apparently. So the Kelt that is the Kelts in in the British Isles, but you also had Kelts in Western Europe. If you look at Iberia, if you if you if you look at uh present day Spain, if you look at present day western France or the whole of France. So all of that area, transalpine gold, as Julius Caesar would say, all of that was Celtic land. Even the Swiss you could say, were were closely related to the Celtic peoples. red hair and pretty wild kind of reputation at least. So that is the Kelts. Now who are the Brits? The Brits were also the original inhabitants of Brit of of the British Isles. So they were also Celtic people. And in in in in England in Britain you had multiple Celtic tribes. The picked the picked pe the pictish people and other people. The picss typically were very highly heavily tattooed people historically that sort of thing. So the Britons and and there's a region of France called Britany, the western region of France. That's uh the people of that region are closely connected to the Celtic people of the British islands. So the the the Britons and the people of Britany and the when I say Britons, I'm talking about the original British people of the British islands, not today's Britain. So these are all subsets of the Celtic people. The Celtic people were this big ethnic group that lived in Western Europe and the British islands. Okay. Now, let's talk about the Gauts, the Tutons, the Normans, and the Franks. Let's begin with the Tutons. The Tutons were a Scandinavian tribe. What is Scandinavia? It is present day Sweden, Denmark, Norway, that region. Let's go to the map. Uh here is map. Here is map. Okay. So we're talking about the Sweden, Denmark, Norway, that region that is called Scandinavia. And the Tutons were a Scandinavian tribe or a North European tribe. Um the Romans called them the Tutons and uh the Romans came in conflict with them at various points in time and that sort of thing. So they were not a Germanic tribe, they were a northern European tribe. That's the Tutons. And today all the Germanic people are called the Tutonic peoples for some reason. Even the English Tutonic people, well, they I'm not sure if it's historically accurate, but that's the connotation that's that is used these days. But the original Tutons were a northern European tribe known to the Romans. So, we have done the Kelts, we've done the Tutons, we've done the Britons. Now, let's talk about the Goths. The Goths. Now the Goths were also a northern European tribe and they also came from the Scandinavian region originally but uh they after the demise I mean the gods fought the Romans and they proved to be very powerful adversaries because the fourth or fifth century the gods sacked Rome. They besieged Rome. They broke through the gates. They conquered the city and they sacked it. And who was the king? It was Allaric was it? So there were two two flavors of the gods. The Ostrogoths and the Vissigotss. The Ostrogoths were the eastern gods and the Visigots were the western gods. So it is the Vigotss who conquered Rome. Their king was Allaric, I believe. And they conquered Rome. And it was a humiliation for Rome. And eventually the Goths went westwards and they established a kingdom in Iberia which is now called Spain. And that kingdom lasted until it was defeated by the Mos, the Arabs who came from North Africa and conquered Spain. So the the Arabs, the Mos, they defeated a visigothic kingdom in Spain. Okay. So that is the Goths. They were a northern European people from Scandinavia originally. Okay. Now, let's talk about the Franks and the Normans. First, let's do the Franks. The Franks were a Germanic tribe who lived around the Rin River. Let's let's find the R the Rin River. So, I know exactly where to look at the R. Go to the north the northern part of Switzerland and you will find the Rine because it forms the boundary. Oopsy daisy. Where is it? Zumat. Zumat. zumat. Okay, now I see it. So somewhere here you have the rhythand and schwitz. So it's the boundary between Germany and Switzerland. So so this is the Ryan river. It's a pretty major river in Europe. And uh the Frankish people, they lived on the banks of the of the Rine at some point in time. They were Germanic originally and then they moved westwards into what what was then eventually called Frankia, the land of the Franks and uh they built Christian kingdoms there and they also fought the the Moors eventually who had conquered Iberia which is Spain. So they fought uh the the Arabs, the Muslims. And the greatest greatest of the Frankish king was Carolus Magnus or Charleammana. Charalamya was a great uh well you could say he's the greatest of the French kings and he is the infamous well he he launched the inf infamous northern crusades which were crusades against Europeans to destroy the native European religion and impose Christianity. So that's what makes him great. Charlemagne Carlos Magnus. Pretty pretty brutal guy but regarded as a very great man. Um so he was the king of the Franks and his kingdom was called Frankia and eventually it was called France. So the Franks were the ancestors of the French. U lastly the Normans. Who are the Normans? Well I have to go to the map again. Long interesting story. So Normans, if you see the movie Saving Private Ryan, you the opening scene is brutal, isn't it? So those of you who have see who have seen it, I mean, you see it from a first person perspective as if you are one of the guys, one of the soldiers who's landing on the beaches of France, right? D-Day 1944, whichever year it was. So those were the beaches of Normandy, okay? Western France, northwestern France, Normandy. Now, why is it called Normandy? Because the Normans lived there. Who were the Normans is the question, right? Who are the Normans? So, long long ago, I'm talking about the first millennium AD. So, around 800, 900 AD. That period was called the Viking age. The Vikings suddenly discovered that they could cross the North Sea and that they could raid England. And one of the first raids in England by the Vikings. Let me try and find the place. Can I find it? One of the first raids was here, Lindesfarn. There used to be a monastery here and u the Vikings well the monastery somehow caught fire and the Vikings uh they they rescued the treasures of the monastery. Okay. Well, they essentially killed the monks and stole the treasures. There was a castle here, monastery somewhere here. There are ruins there and so on. So, one of the first raids happened here. And then once the Vikings dis beside, who are the Vikings? There were people from Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Scandinavian people. So, once the Vikings discovered that you could cross the North Sea, then they started launching raid after raid of England and England. England became like, you know, besieged by the Vikings and this continued for a couple of hundred years. This was called the Viking age. And not only after England they they turned their their sides to France and they started attacking France and there was this great this great warrior of the Vikings his name was Rolo Rolo. So he was very good at attacking France and he came all the way to Paris. So the king of the Franks gave him a deal. You know you know what Rolo you you here you're raiding France because you want our lands our territories. Why don't you stop raiding? I'll give you the land you want. I'll give you a huge part of northwestern France. I will make you the duke of this region. You will be a king in your own right, but you will have to well acknowledge me as the over overlord of all of France. But beyond doing that, you are the king of the region. So, Rolo said, "Okay, I'm happy to do that." and and of course he will have to defend France from the subsequent Viking invaders which he was happy to do. But the condition was that if Rolo accepts then his people must convert to Christianity and marry French women. So you have to become French Frankish and Rolo accepted. So Rolo became the first duke of the region and because they were from the north they were called northmen or Normans. And eventually this place became called Normandy because of them northwest France. And one of his one of his descendants his great great grandson or great-grandson whichever it was was William. His name was William. And he was an illegitimate child of his father. And his father had to go and fight the crusades in Ut which is the holy land. So supposedly you know Jerusalem the region. That's why he had to put his illegitimate son illegitimate son as a as a stand-in duke. And the father died in the crusade. And that's why this 13-year-old boy, bastard boy, like they used to say those days, he became the duke. And he had a very tough time. But around the age of 50, he he was very very strong, you know, a very powerful kingdom, duch dut duchy. And he crossed the English Channel and invaded England and he conquered England. So he went from being called William the Bastard to William the Conqueror and that's how England came under Norman rule. So that's the Normans. Okay. So I think we've done all of them. The Kelts, the Goths, the Tutons, the Franks, the Brits, and the Normans. All right. Amisha says, "Why was Persian the official language of the Mughal court when they were Turks?" Well, that's a good question. It's some It's a question I've taken a few years ago, but why not take it again? It's been a while. So, yes, the the Muggals, the Muggals were Turks, right? Uh Babber was a failed Turk prince who escaped from who was born in Andi John in Usbakistan present day Usbakistan and uh he came to India looking for some land to grab and because of the circumstances in India at the time he was able to establish a small little kingdom there. Barber his son was the incredibly incompetent Humayun. Okay. So Humayun was the second in in the line. Baba was the first who established what would eventually be called the Muggal Empire and and Humayan was the second. Hayan was incredibly incompetent. He was an absolute loser and very soon he found that his kingdom was taken over by an Afghan by a native who was not a Turk was was local whose name was Sher Sha Sher Shasturi. So he loses his father's throne and he is in exile running around. His wife delivers a child in the court in in the house of a Rajput chieftain. The child's name was Jalaludin later known as Akbar. And eventually he has to go to Kabul. He has to go to Kandahar and from there he has to go to Persia because he's been pursued by the by the forces of Shera Suri. So Hummayun had to take refuge in the court of Tahasp Shah Tahamasp of Iran and Shah Tahamas welcomed him with hospitality and treated him kindly and pretty well treated him like a king and so on and humun there's this famous painting of Humayun and Tahasp u let let's let's let's find it right in which Humayun is is showed as a supplicant with his arms out like with his hands out like this let's let's quickly look at it okay very interesting in very very good painting. Tamas and Humayun and and uh Humayun. All right, let's take a look at this shahhatas and humayun. Take a look. So, if I if I can make this larger, give me a second. Let's remove that and let's find where isayun let's go to the as always Wikipedia is not a good source of information not necessarily but let's find this there we have it let's let's enlarge this so if you look at home's hands You will see that they are in the begging posture. Right? So, Humayun had to go as a supplicant to the court of Tamasp and Tamus Tamas said, "Okay, I'll help you. I'll give you soldiers. I'll give you men. I'll help you reconquer the kingdom you lost, but uh you have to do me a favor. You have to convert to Shia Islam." So, Humayon was Sunnid. the the Persians, the Iranians were were Shia and uh so Himayun was kind of coerced forced into becoming Shia and then he comes back to India and and the the the the condition was Tamas imposed one condition that I will help you reconquer the land you lost, the kingdom you lost, but you have to give me a Was it Hat? Was it was it Kandahar? Was it Kabul? It was not Kabul. it was probably Hat or or Kandahar that part of his kingdom which is now currently Afghanistan. So that was a deal. So Hayun comes back with a with an army given by Tamasp and slowly he's able to reconquer uh parts of the kingdom and then Sher Sasuri was experimenting with gunpowder and and he blew himself up. So he died a stupid death and that would obviously have helped my own lot and eventually he was able to reconquer Dilli and sit in his father's throne again. So then he finds that he again has a kingdom but his entire staff is Persian and that's how Persian became the court language of the Muggal court essentially in brief. So he came with with a bunch of you know officials and bureaucrats and administrators and soldiers. So they formed the nucleus of his new kingdom and that's why everything was done in Persian thereafter. And when he went to Persia, Hummayan was like very very impressed with all the Persian architecture and all that. So he came back with a very favorable impression of of the Persian um culture and all that. So he was happy to have Persian as the court language. That's how it happened. So before this the court language of the muggles was Chagatai. Prem says, "What led the Ottomans to block trade routes from India to Europe?" Mhm. What was his name? Muhammad II, Muhammad the 1st, Muhammad the Conqueror. He's the guy who does 185. Oh, sorry, what am I saying? 15 No, 1453. Once again, let's Google it. Muhammad Muhammad the Muhammad the first the conqueror. Muhammad the Was was he first or second? He was the second Muhammad. His father was was Barzed Bahamaz. What was Bazid? What was his father's name? What was his daddy's name? Um, born is dynasty father. Murad Murad II. Okay. So, this is the guy Muhammad II. Okay. Who conquered Constantinople in 1453. He was 21 at that time when he conquered the city. It was called what was it called? the the red apple kizilma in Turkish. So Constantinople used to be the capital of the Byzantine Empire. It was called Bzantion in the past but then emperor Constantine reamed it after his own after himself. So then it used to be it came to be called Constantinople and it was the seat of the Eastern Roman Empire also known as the Byzantine Empire. Now when in 1453 Constantinople finally fell to the Turks by the time the Byzantine Empire was was shrunk to to nothingness only Constantinople and the surrounding areas. So the biz so the Turk Empire was already kind of there but after the fall of Constantinople they took over very rapidly uh whatever was left of what used to be the Byzantine Empire. So the Europeans from Roman times were trading were importing their favorite products from India, spices, textiles, whatnot. And they used to and in exchange they used to uh they used to sell send gold to India. So India was exporting spices and and textiles and whatever else and the Romans were paying India in gold and all of the trade was happening by land. Now if you look at the map you will see what the deal is. So when you're coming by land your where is okay let's quickly go. So if you're coming by land you will obviously cross Constantinople because you don't want to go all the way north of north north of the Black Sea north of the Caspian Sea into central Asia and then come into India by crossing the Himalayas. It's madness. It's better to cross the Balkans, cross from Constantinople, from Thrace into Anatolia and then go straight via via Mesopotamia and Persia into India. As simple as that. Going via Central Asia was difficult and challenging because it was full of Turk tribes which was a problem because they were very hostile to the Europeans and uh there was no sea route. There was no Sue canal at the time and so on. So when the Turks took over this great land bridge the the straight of the Bosphorus in the entire surrounding region the sea of Marmara and uh Chanakal or the straight of the Dardels then their land route to India was blocked off. Now the question is why did the Turks block the land route? Why did they not allow the Europeans to continue trade with India? I mean if you are enemies why would you help why would you allow that to continue? The Turks wanted to conquer the whole of Europe. Sulleman who is called Sullean the Magnificent, he tried to conquer Vienna and he was hammering on the gates of Vienna. He besieged Vienna and well things didn't turn out well well for that siege. But you know the Turks were the enemies of what they call Christianom which is the European kingdoms. So if Europe is trading with India and the Indians are bloody Hindus from their perspective, why would they want that trade to continue? block it. I think it should be so that's that's why. Okay. Okay. Krishna of the Surinamese Netherlands says as we know the Veda scriptures and traditions and the Avesta scriptures and traditions are cont what excuse me what the Vic scriptures are contemporaneous with the Avesta scriptures. We know we don't know that. Okay. So there's lots of misconceptions. I don't blame anybody for having misconceptions because these things aren't taught. The Vedas are not contemporaneous with the Avesta or or the the Persian uh scriptures. They're not. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. The Persian language is an apranch language. If you look at the the Bhagastana inscription, Behon inscription and you read it, it's in the uniform script. If you read it, it sounds like slightly mangled Sanskrit. It's not pure Sanskrit. It is corrupted Sanskrit. You do you want me to do that? Let me do it. Okay, let's let's go to Google. I I'll read it for you. How about that? Okay. Bisun inscription transliteration. All right. Leuse whatever that is. Let us read the first. Okay. This is okay. This is the first part of the Bhagastana incription. He's describing his holiness. I think you can understand what I'm saying here. I think you can understand what I'm saying. This is broken mangled Sanskrit. This is not something that is contemporaneous with a pure with a time when pure Sanskrit was spoken. It is an apa branch language. What is upper brancher? It it means corruption. What are Hindi, Bengali, um Kashmiri, Marati, Gujarati, Rajasthani, Punjabi, Haranvi. These are aparent languages. These are corrupted languages that have descended from Sanskrit. They no longer have the purity of Sanskrit. We don't say we say machi. We don't say matsia. We say hat. We don't say husta. We say ak. We don't say chakshu. The purity is gone. The languages have degraded. Similarly, if you read that, it is slightly degraded Sanskrit which means it is a descendant language of Sanskrit. cannot in any way be be contemporaneous with the rigid. Impossible. The Persians were descendants of ancient Indians. They were called the Parhua people. The Parhua were one of the clans that were on the losing side in the battle of the 10 kings. They went westwards and they settled down in what the land that is now bearing their name Persia. So the Veda scriptures are not contemporaneous with the Avesta scriptures. Absolutely not. The Veda scriptures came long long before the Avesta. Okay. First of all, let's let's establish that um and there are also persons who are mentioned in both the Veda scriptures and Avesa scriptures. Yeah, of course. Of course. So if you are a descendant of of an old lineage, you will have the memory. You will mention those lineages and all. I mean look what Da says. He's saying that my daddy was was what's he saying? My my daddy was Vistaspa. Vishtaspa. My Vishtaspa's father was Arsamya. His father was was Vishtaspa then Arsamaya then Arya Ramna then Chishpish then Hakamanish. He's establishing his lineage. And if you if you read if you read the shahama the shahame well the shahame was written at a very very difficult time when Persia was conquered by the by the Arabs. I think it was Gori or Gnavi who had who had commissioned the shaame. I always get confused about Gori and Gnavi who came first. Please forgive me. You can always look up who came first. It was one of those two barbarians who had commissioned Ferdosi to write the Shahame and the Shaame is not very it doesn't have present a very flattering portrait of the Arabs by the way. Okay. Um now if you look at the Shaame I will not open the Shaame and read it out for you but if you look at the origin of the Persian people in the Shaame it essentially is the same origin story that you have in the Rigveda. So obviously you will have if you are the same part of the same lineage and same traditions deep back in time you will remember the past and your scriptures will reference the same people who are referencing the older scriptures. So no surprise there but let us not for one moment believe that the Persian uh Astan scriptures were contemporaneous with the Vedas. Absolutely not. What are we talking about? The Aistan script scriptures aroroastrian scriptures. Zaratustra he lived around 600 BC after he lived he said to have lived after the rule of hakamanish or akamanish the founder of the kirit dynasty. So, Zoroastrinism came became a force in Persia sometime later after the founding of the uh of the cabinet dynasty. What does it tell you? What question does it raise in your mind if you are intelligent and a thinking person? The question you will ask yourself is what religion did Hakkamish practice? the founder of the dynasty they would have practiced Hinduism right okay 123 says what are the markers of civilizational continuity is it language is it religion is it culture is it ethnicity India has held on strongly to Hinduism and Hindu Hindu culture to this day but Sanskrit is no longer the lingua frana so to say and much of the period between the Indus Valley civilization and Indian empires that we know of has been forgotten. It's been lost. Yes. Uh China likes to boast about likes to boast about a 5,000-y old civilization despite having spent entire dynasties ruled by conquerors. So have we. Uh as well as erasing much of their own religion and culture in the name of communism. Yeah, they have done that. And we have done that in the name of secularism. Uh some in the west like to see themselves as inheritors of the Roman Empire despite having abandoned their pantheon to carry the torch of a Middle Eastern god. That's true. who today can truly claim to be the continuation of an ancient civilization. You are raising very well actually very important questions. The questions you are raising force force one to think from first principles. What's it mean to think from first principles? What does it mean? It means you to ask yourself fundamental questions. What is a civilization? You have to clarify the concept in your mind before you can answer this question. What is a civilization? What are the characteristics of a civilization? We use the term very vaguely, very randomly like some abstract concept civilization. Another is national interest. Do you even know what the national interest is? But we're talking about civilization here. So what is a civilization? Does a civilization have any characteristic? Can you actually define what a civilization is? Can you? That's the big question. Well, you can and you should be able to do that. So, what's a civilization? First of all, a civilization is an advanced society. It's an advanced society. It has a number of characteristics. What are these characteristics? First of all, it in a civilization, you have a highly evolved and institutionalized indigenous culture. highly evolved culture and it should be institutionalized. Your institutions should be embedded in the value or the or your cultural values should be embedded in your institutions. Ask yourself is that the case for India? Is your constitution grounded in India's culture and civilization? Are your laws grounded in India's culture and civilization? Are your institutions grounded in India's laws and civilizations? Your law, your constitution, your inst institutions must be based in the indigenous culture and the indigenous values and morality. That's one. Secondly, you need an indigenous system of governance, not something that somebody gave to you as a gift from outside. Then you need a highly organized and harmonious society. You need a high degree of social and political stability. You need a single civilizational language. You need a large geographical area. A small little thing cannot be a civilization. You need a large geographical area. You need a powerful economy. You need high levels of prosperity. And you need a large sphere of economic, military, and cultural influence that extends well beyond your borders. Then a civilization has it has its own script of writing. It doesn't use foreign scripts or imported scripts. It uses its own scripts. A civilization has its own calendar and its own system of timekeeping. And finally, a civilization is a net exporter of culture, not a net net importer of culture. Now ask yourself, does India fit the bill? Does it is India civilization today? I think I will I will leave it as a question instead of answering the question. I I want some of you to think sometimes ask yourselves is India can India actually be classified as a civilization today? China can China be classified? Who can be classified as a civilization? Is this the age of civilizations or is is this the age of empires and Vasalhood or something else? I I would like you to let me know in the comments. Amisha says, "Did did women in early Vic period enjoy greater freedom than medieval India?" I'm not sure what the medieval period is. How do you define the medieval period? But let's say it's the past 1,000 years. Okay, medieval means middle ages. Well, the European concept of medieval is is is something that is can only fit Europe. For us, let's say the medieval period is the period after 10,000 AD. after 1000 AD when India was slowly gradually coming under siege and uh being attacked by foreigners and slowly gradually being occupied bit by bit well under the foreigners were Turks. Did women have any freedom? Are we are we kidding ourselves? Women had to cover themselves and they they had to stay indoors. Women had to disappear from society from public society from public life. What freedom? There was no freedom. Compare it to the Vic period. I mean women wrote the many of the verses of the rigveda that's freedom show me any any religion any any religion one show me one religion in the world in which when it comes to the foundational sacred text the central central most sacred text show me a religion where one word has been written by a woman there you have it Krishna Krishna of the Surinamese Netherlands says these days English is the world language what was the world's well global language or whatever um in ancient times so more than around 600 CE to 300 BC 3,000 BC beyond that what world language was used in both paratra Persia Mesopotamia ancient Egypt Phoenicia and so on interesting question so today because of uh modern technology ology the world is interconnected and that's why you need a a link language and because of the domination of the Anglo-Saxons in the past 500 years that link language or global language international language is is English before it used to be French because the French had conquered England the Normans it used to be French so for a long time French was considered to be the language of diplomacy today if you if you meet Indian diplomats you'll find that they speak some some form of French some speak good French, excellent French, some speak some French, but all of them well it's it's prestigious to speak French because it is the language of diplomacy. You will see Mr. Shashitaur speaking in French with the the Russian envoys and so on. So French used to be the language of diplomacy. It still is kind of and English is the global language. Now if you go back to 300 AD or CE, the world was not interconnected. It wasn't kings would never meet. If you were kings from the Indian subcontinent, you may meet sometimes under special circumstances. But if you were a king from India, you would not meet a king from Persia or you would not meet a king from Egypt or a king from South America or a king from Europe. It never ever happened. Never. And that's why there was no world language in Asia. There was a civilizational language which was Sanskrit because Indians had spread far and wide and much of Asia was Indianized as we know. So if Indian merchants went to Shri Vijaya or Majapahit well they could speak Sanskrit and they would be understood at least by the nobility and those who mattered. If Indians went to China to the court of the Tang emperor they could speak in in Sanskrit and they would be understood because you would have scholars there who spoke Sanskrit. Even if Indians went to Japan or Korea coro ko goryo they could speak Sanskrit and be understood by the by the powers that be. So in Asia you had Sanskrit. Um if you went to Tibet you could speak speak and so also in Mongolia eventually. U Persia as long as Persia was free not conquered by the Arabs you could speak speak Sanskrit there and you would be understood beyond that did not really work. So it's a huge domain, huge geographical area where Sanskrit was the link language, the civilizational language but there was no global language as such in but there were hegemonic languages in Europe for example Latin was spoken across Europe because the Rome Romans had conquered much of Europe most of Europe and they had imposed their language everywhere. So in Europe for the longest time Latin was the link language. It eventually became the language of the the the Vatican Empire. So you had Latin there over a certain amount of geographical area and in Asia over a much vaster geographical area you had Sanskrit and uh that's about how it was Africa we have no idea because their history has been destroyed it's been erased so we don't know in the Americas once again their history was destroyed they were conquered and and smashed so we don't know about that also so I can tell you about Europe and India and and Asia Jajnulka says do you think this Labor by Valini Zumpiri, Shawi, MJ, etc. The Persian Plateau served as a hub for homo sapiens after the main out of Africa dispersal nature communications 2024 and its supplements. Do you think this paper and its supplements are accurate in their conclusions about the history of homo sapiens? So I took I took a look at the paper before I selected this question and the and the paper essentially concludes it says what are the main claims of the paper? It says that we know the Afric we know that the out of Africa migration happened sometime around 70 80,000 years before today around that time 70 80 85 maybe whatever and the paper claims that the main bulk of the population that came out of Africa it settled in Persia and it's it it remained in Persia for 20 30,000 years and it intermingled intermixed with the Neanderthals that's why you have human that's why you have Neanderthal DNA in in us because we are the ancestors we are the descendants of those unions and after 30 40 20 30,000 years from Persia there was a dispersal of homo sapiens across Eurasia. That's what the paper says. Now how is is is the paper accurate is what you're asking. Look next to Persia there is a gigantic subcontinent that is super fertile. So doesn't it make more sense for humans to go and settle there? Persia is dry and arid. I mean look at Persia. Persia is dry and arid those days around the out of Africa migration. There was more greenery around the this the coastlines of the sea the the the the the seashore but the Persian plateau the overall bulk of of Persia overall it was arid. It was dry. Why would anyone settle there? That's one that's one issue with the paper. Second, and instead of making a claim, instead of making a claim, let me show you. Okay, there's another issue. You see, let me Google this. Let us find it on Google. Okay, did ancient Indians. Okay, first of all, not not this. Okay, before I even go here, let me show you something else. Let's go to the maps first. Okay, here is map. Yes. Now let's Google Lake Toba. Lake Toba. And it's going to zoom in to Sumatra. Zoom out. You will find that you are in Sumatra. Zoom in. You will find this this big lake here. Nice pretty lake. And there's this island on the lake. Okay. And if you uh and if you put the satellite images on, nice pretty place. It's like a tourist destination. And you will find that there are resorts and waterfront cities and 4.6 stars and all that. But this lake is the extinct caldera of a gigantic super volcano. And this super volcano explosion last happened about 80,000 years ago. Okay. One of the largest super volcano explosions ever of all time. That was the Toba eruption of about 70,000 years ago. Now why am I talking about this? Because I want to show you something else. So now you have in in your mind the Toba super volcano explosion. Now let's go to Google. All right. Did ancient Indians survive Toba eruption? Did ancient Yes. Ancient humans in India survived the Toba super volcano eruption about 74,000 years ago. Archaeological evidence from the Dhaba site and the Son Valley River showing continuous human occupation before and after the event and you have the these all these articles you know the scientific research papers that that show you that. Okay, you can Google it in your own free time. My point is that 74,000 years ago India ancient humans were living in India before and after the Toba super volcano eruption event. Who are they? They were homo sapiens. Yes. So homo sapiens were living in India and India is a kind of subcontinent which will which can sustain a gigantic population of homo sapiens compared to Persia. So there are multiple issues with this paper is all I would say. I'm sure if you look at the paper in isolation it's well written and you know conclusions may be well rigorous scientifically valid but if you broaden the scope of the paper then you will see issues. If you just focus on the narrow Persia region, it may make sense. Okay, what else do we have? Um, okay, let's take one more question. User Prem says, "My question is that what was the indigenous script of Indonesia and the language of Australia before colonization? How influenced were these languages by Indian languages, culture scripts before colonial impact?" Right? See, Indonesia was never colonized. India was colonized by the first the Turks and then the British, the Europeans. Indonesia was not colonized but it was eventually there was a conversion to Islam from Hinduism. Now Australia was colonized about I don't know 200 years ago 250 years ago by the by the pirates of the British Navy of of the British Empire pirates. And yeah before before that did the Australians have a script? I the the indigenous Australians or the aboriginal Australians did they have a script? As far as I know, they did not have a script of writing. But the Indonesians, of course, they had scripts. They had multiple scripts. So, uh let's once again go to Google and there are multiple scripts. Uh Sunda script script. Is it Sunda or Sundan? Sundani script. So, if you look at the script, you will see that it is a script uh and it was derived from Brahi. Okay. And they claimed that Brahimi came from Aramaic and Phoenician and all that which is utter nonsense but whatever. Uh so it was called axara sununda and this is what it was like kaka kaka kaga chaja and all that. This was the sundan script. You also have other scripts balin uh sorry balin script. So you have a balin script. Once again this will be derived from here we have it from brahi. Okay. So you have the brahi the balindi script ka ka ga ha and so on that is the balini script what other Indonesian scripts do you have Indonesian scripts category the batak script bond script so you have javani script is also right javani script and so on so you had all these brahi derived scripts that were used in Indonesia and that's obviously because of the Indian influence uh in in the region. So yeah, definite Indian influence. No question about that. Okay. Now, okay, we have crossed two hours. So I still have more questions. But I'll stop it for today. But I will take some questions from the live chat. So if you have questions, I'll I'll I'll spend 10 minutes on the live chat taking questions. Right? So go for it. Ask your questions and I'll take a few. Do we have any questions? Uh I'm not sure I have the answer to this question. Did when did mirror usage begin in ancient India and how did this compare with early mirrors elsewhere like volcanic glass? I I don't know about this. Uh I have not done any any research on the usage of mirrors in ancient India. So I am afraid I would not be able to answer the question. Now we have super chats. Good god. Uh today is not a super chat session. So please please don't don't take any more super chats but I will whatever is there I I'll I'll take it. Uh Sum says what was the name of Bat before Bat. It was always Batwash. It was also called Aryat the land of the Arya people. That's us and Bat because of our great ancient ancestor King Barat right. Uh yeah so that is the ancient name of Barat. Um unknown says I'm interested in researching the history of the land Jammu where I was born. Where should I start? I completed my student school this year. Uh once again I am not by any stretch of the imag imagination any kind of expert in the history of the region Jammu. Uh you would have to look at look into local records. Dogra Dogra records. Um you should look at the the the the chronicles the Raja Tarangiri of Kalhana. So I would say yeah start from the Raja Tarangini of Kalhana who Kalhan was was a writer he was a historian who wrote a history of of Kashmir in the overall region the surrounding region about a thousand years before today about thousand years ago and you can also look up the records of the of the Dala kings wherever they are available so that's where you could start perhaps I don't know of any books that have been written about Jamu so can't tell sorry okay Valika says I wonder how the British held power for 200 years to what extent did Indians themselves working The spies or agents make this possible. Do we have historical records of such collaboration? The British were able to hold power because India was divided. First of all, when a land is divided against itself, it's very easy for for outsiders to take advantage of that. There are so many examples in history of of this divide and conquer, divide and rule strategy. So that's number one. India was not united. Well, and the British were able to see some somebody may give give a counterpoint. We had the Marata Empire which had unified the whole of India and and restored Hindus for Hindi raashtra Hindi Hindvi right true but why did the Marata empire disintegrate because of in political infighting it was divided against itself eventually and the British took advantage of that so the British did not liberate India from the muggles they destroyed defeated the Marata Empire because the Marata Empire was in the stage of infighting uh Indians working as spies and yeah look whenever a land is under occupation you will find all these nefarious elements wherever it is whether it's India whether it is any other land under occupation who will work for the foreigners you saw the same pattern over and over again in North America and South America when the Spanish arrived yeah I mean who conquered the Aztec triple alliance Cortez why was he able to conquer the Aztec triple alliance in 1519 1520 1521. How? First of all, because of smallpox that the uh local inhabitants were not had never been exposed to which which made them die out in the millions. And secondly because a lot of people a lot of the surrounding kingdoms who had grievances against the Aztec Empire they took they they fought on the side of the of the invaders the Spaniards Han Cortez Han Cortez and his concistadors that's why the triple alliance went down the Aztec Empire without the collaboration of the natives who thought oh these people have come from god knows what what far away places so they'll go away so let's take their help and defeat the Aztec tribal alliance finished again when it comes to the Inca Empire. So this time it's in South America, the western part of South America, the Andes mountains. You have Franchesco Pedar, another barbarian who came from Spain who destroyed the Inca Empire. 1530s he he defeated the Inca Emperor Atawalpa. How did this happen? Once again collaboration. Whenever a land is under foreign occupation, you will find all these termites cropping up. So yeah, Indians also you'll you'll have people who work for the British. Eventually the system became such that you had to work for the British otherwise you'll starve to death. The British imposed a foreign education system upon India and they destroyed all India's native industries and all the jobs that were only the only jobs that were then available were government jobs working for the godamned British. So you had to work for them. They created the conditions such that there was no other opportunity. There was no other option for Indians and uh there are other more more nefarious examples of collaboration and I will not go into those details because it will be super controversial. There are very prominent figures like like prominent prominent who are British collaborators. Can anybody guess or or venture some names who those very high ranking super prominent British collaborators were were? Do do we have some names? I I am not saying anything. I have I've had enough controversies. I Let's see. I see people saying something. Oh, good god. Good god. I am not saying anything. Okay. I' I've had enough controversies. I'm not I'm not quoting more controversies now. All right. Magnificent leaders, right? Okay. Uh yeah. Okay. Very interesting names coming out. Okay. We will take one last question. The Shir Geopolitical Dubai from Indor. Why did Joseph Stalin dislike the magnificent Shir Neu? did have a relationship with the USSR start improving about after the death of Stalin. I don't know if he disliked Neu. I am sure he did not have a very high regard for the magnificent Mr. Nu which is very naughty Mr. Salin very naughty. See I I'm I'm I hear that there was this incident where you know uh Stalin was meeting with the Indian ambassador of the time to Moscow and they were discussing a map of India for some reason and Stalin is pointing to this little island. and he's saying what is this island called? So the Indian ambassador says that that's that's not India that is Sri Lanka it's a separate country and Stalin asks him why and obviously if you so you can imagine the kind of that he would not have a great amount of respect for Mr. narrow because why what the hell are you people doing? Are you people idiots essentially is what he was asking. So um maybe there was the extent of dislike beyond that Mr. Nehu worshiped the USSR but he did not implement the USSR's reforms in India the mass industrialization the industrial monster base that the USSR created to turn into a superpower. Mr. did not replicate that. Instead, he did Fabian socialism gently, gently never happening, right? Uh, okay. What else do we have? Anything interesting? Nikkesh Dahal says, "Why do many Indians foreignize Nepal? How many lands do we have to lose? Do you consider Nepal as foreign? Aren't all Nepal is Indians? India map looks like a piece is carved out of top. I don't know which India is foreignized Nepal. I don't see Nepal as a foreign land. It's obviously a separate sovereign country and we respect that. But the Nepales are our people. What the hell? I mean which which nationality has the privilege to serve in the Indian army? If if Nepali citizens can serve in the Indian army, it it shows how much we trust the people of Nepal. You will never allow foreigners to serve in your armed forces. Right? If there are some Indians who have this stupid attitude will I what can I say? Every country has its share of idiots, doesn't it? That's what I would say. I I don't consider Nepal to be a foreign country. We are the same people. So if if this this is what you have experienced, I I I'm sorry that that's the case, you know. But I I personally do not see Nepal as a foreign land at all. We are all the same people. We have the same blood, same origins, same shared history, culture, civilization, everything. That's how I see it, sir. That's how I see it. Nikesh G. Okay. Um I I I don't know about any any updates update about the Salei Chariots. Uh I I don't know. I' I've not seen anything in the news recently and I've not been uh looking into this. So I'm not sure. Are they from the Mahabharat era and horse? Look, they're from whatever time period. We don't quite know what was the time period of the Mahabharat. Once we have a definitive dating of the Mahabharat, then we can compare the date of the Mahabharat with the date carbon dating of the tali chariots. Right now we can't say so what is the age of the tali chariots? Maybe 3,000 4,000 whatever thousand years. But until we have a clear understanding of when did the Mahabarat happen? Let's say 5,000 years ago. Let's say 4,000 years ago. Whenever it is until we know that how can we compare? So I don't know, right? I don't know. Latangi Sur says, "Please give a home vlog home tour vlog and also bookshelf tour vlog." Um, see I am doing this live streams every day when I'm spending eight hours doing work, right? Writing. So now onwards from last episode onwards for the first 15 minutes of that live stream I am pulling out a bunch of books like five six books and I am speaking about those books. So, so that's the way I'm going to do the the bookshelf tour. Not by going to the actual bookshelf with this camera. And here we are. Here we go. You know, zooming it and zing zooming it out, whatever, but by bringing the books here to to where I'm doing that live stream from. And every episode, the first 15 minutes or so, I will do a review of a number of books. I I promise you, I have so many books. This this will go on for a while. So, yeah. All right. Uh, one second. A whole inscription says Mahabharat was 3102 BC. It it does say that. So that's a very strong piece of evidence of of a date there. Yeah. But you would need to corrobor corroborate that corroborate that with some kind of archaeological evidence. So my question is why isn't why isn't the archaeological survey of India excavating Indra Prasta which is in the capital city of India? What is stopping them? Anyway, yeah. Okay, we are done for the day. Thank you so much for all the questions. I'm going to end it here. 2 hours 15 minutes pretty robust amount of time. So thank you so much everybody. Once again, I'm ending ending the live stream here and then tomorrow we're going to have a super chat live stream all about geopolitics. Thank you so much. Take care everybody. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. Keep working hard. Do extremely well and I will see you in tomorrow's live stream. Thank you Shubaratri. Good night. Good day wherever you are. Take care. Bye.