Hey, hey, Heat. Hello and welcome back to the Ask Abig show. This is the first episode of this new year 2026. So I wish you all a very happy 2026 and I hope you're all doing great. And in this episode we're going to discuss history and geopolitics. We'll start with geopolitics. Today is a great day for freedom and human rights and democracy as we all know. So we'll discuss that and I'll take other questions as well that you all have asked in the comments. So as you all know hopefully the Ask a Widget show is the objective the purpose of the Ask a Bidget show is to understand the world that we live in through the three primary lenses of history, geopolitics and science. And today we're going to discuss geopolitics and history. So before I start the questions and answers, let me see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Vin Ran 5 who is a new member. Vin Ran, thank you very much for becoming a member and welcome to the membership of this channel. Thank you very much. I can see Geopolitical Dubai from Indor. Good evening. Rian Sha from New York. Good morning. Mac 4 J1U I am confused is here. Anonymous R7U5T Shatabish Shatabish Achinta Anand Namaskar. Real Vladimir Putin Dirana Shanks Buesses Diran Shanks son Ashini Aush Singh Pam uh Daksh Valwad once again Swami is here commando256 Dm Pande Akshai Bharadwaj Krishna of the Surabies Netherlands hello good to have you Nirvana Shanks once again online Mahadev Aishek Shukla live Venezuela gone uh anime Bharata is here from can from California. Uh Shiradia namaste Shahad Shared Subadra Subadra Takina T8G Swami from Jaipur. Sager Gary hello the Baron Zemo hello and namaste. Animeish from again from California. Albvin Rodriguez, hello. Pankage Dagger. Uh, Prrenit Kumar, Mystic SK, Jri Krishna. Um, Part Shiv Shri Shastav from X. Part is watching from X. Hello. Udbav Sharma Rahul Dun Namaskar. Anonymous scientist. Bonjour. Manisha Kardo. Namaste. G. Um, Sujit Shanak Sha namaskarum. Sam the gamer. Happy new year. Uh Shatabesh Surya Pratab no war peacemaker hello good to have you. Uh Vignesh is here. Vignesh Kohli from Nav'i Mumbai. Dorji is here from Nagaland. Good to see you. Um and welcome Chetananya Manuja Shiv Shivanch Shivanch Shankar Ritij Rian Sa Sha the little Kim. Hello comrade Ara Alvin Rodriguez once again uh Guten Abend indeed Himmanu Rajit from Chennai Amisha Mishra good to see you ma'am sit too look at her online uh Naneshwar Raju Surya Palenav Sentinel spy Sandy hello commando situ once again um it's it's an okay it's anj Good evening crash and rise bonjour. Uh Levi Acriman, hello. Good to see you after a while. Good to see you. I hope you're doing good. Plank Cog Rituj and so many other people. I won't be able to greet you all individually but hello. Good to have you. Thank you so much. Pankage is here from Prague in the Czech Republic. Priyanka Javalia. Namaste. Okay. Okay. Let's get going with the questions. What are the questions? What do we have? Where do we begin? I suppose we should begin with well the the question that we should all begin with which is this one. This is by Argentina Paro from Facebook. I live stream on Facebook too. Uh the question is what do you think will happen to the rest of the Latin American countries that are aligned with Maduro's government in Venezuela if the United States manages to overthrow that government? Do you think the left will weaken? Well, the United States has indeed now overthrown that government. So, this happened just a few hours ago. It is still nighttime there. And what's happened is that the the United States military has gone in and uh all the you had all these clips on social media of the US uh you know launching air strikes uh on on Karakas the Venezuelan capital and then uh Shri Donald Trump G he has announced that uh they have abducted or captured rather uh the president of Venezuela Mr. Nicolola Nicolas Maduro and apparently he is being taken to the United States where he will stand trial a free and fair trial according to the laws of the United States right so apparently now the laws of the United States apply everywhere at least in the western hemisphere apparently right so they went in it it's reminiscent of what the Americans did in the 1980s to Nicaragua Nicaragua Nicaragua when I was a kid in the 80s was 80s or 90s, whenever it was, the Americans went in and they they they abducted uh Manuel Noriega, who was the person the the person who ruled uh Nicaragua at the time, and they took him to the United States and they charged him with drugs and whatnot, uh drug trafficking and whatever else, I suppose, terrorism, drug trafficking, etc., etc. And they put him behind bars and I suppose he is still behind bars somewhere in the United States. So that's what they've done to Venezuela. So the question is what's the deal? What's going on? What's going to happen now? Right. So understand the and what's the importance of all of all of this this very rapidly evolving situation geopolitically not just in the western hemisphere not just for Venezuela, not just for Latin America, not just for the US, but for other nations, India, Russia, China, Asia, etc. What's the implications? So where do we begin this discussion? Let us begin by talking about the Monroe doctrine and then the Trump corery to the Monro doctrine. So what is the Monro doctrine? It it it was a 19 it was an 1823 American foreign policy. Okay. And it declared that the Americas, North and South America, the Americas totally cumulatively were now closed to European colonization and that any further European interference in the Western Hemisphere would be treated as a hostile act against the United States. Okay, that is 1823, 19 early 19th century. That's when the Americans you know started this foreign policy and they pursued this foreign policy vigorously. Uh initially they were not very powerful but eventually yeah they were able to impose this all over the western hemisphere. So the 2025 national security national security strategy of the US this document which has been published the unclassified version says that the US is going to revert to the Monroe doctrine with a Trump corollery on top of it. So what is this Trump corollery to the Monro doctrine? So it's it's this new interpretation of the of the Monro doctrine. It extends the Monro doctrine. It says that the US now has the right is going to assert the right to police the western hemisphere against extra regional powers like Europe, China, Russia, whoever else. and even against regional actors like uh the drug cartels and anyone who indulges in any you know drug activity etc. You can allege this about anybody. So by doing this the US will preserve its dominance over the region, the western hemisphere and it's going to ensure the security of the region. So that is the Trump corollary that has been published last year just a few months ago. So the Monro doctrine is now back in force with an extension called the Trump corollery. So now uh what's the justification for the invasion of Venezuela and the uh regime change that they have affected and the the abduction of Maduro etc. So it's all about democracy, human rights. Uh the US faces national security threats from Venezuela because of Venezuela's alleged involvement with uh with Iran as well as Russia and China. These two evil nations, right? And of course there's this Nobel Prize Nobel Peace Prize winner Maria Machado who is waiting to take over right just like Muhammadus took over in in in Bangladesh East Pakistan right so that's the narrative and obviously Trump Trump has claimed that Venezuela has taken over American oil in some way so Venezuela a few years ago it nationalized the oil industry okay but it it did not steal anyone's I mean by when you when you nationalize an industry, it means you buy up all the companies that are operating in that industry in your country. You don't capture the companies, you buy them out. So that's what Venezuela had done. And the oil that exists on Venezuelan territory, how is it American oil? I'm not sure. But that's the justification that Trump has given. So uh see obviously it means that the US actions aren't about democracy, human rights, freedom, peace, etc. Right? It's all about controlling oil. Venezuela accounts for about 20% of the world's proven oil resources. This is about controlling oil. It's about controlling the other resources that you have in Venezuela. Lithium, gold, rare earth minerals, etc. Okay. So, uh that's what it's about. So, when so Maduro has been arrested, he will stand trial on criminal charge charges in the US and uh that's the situation. Now understand the the importance and and value of Venezuela geopolitically and from from a resource perspective etc. See Venezuela's share of the world's proven oil resources or reserves is about 80 to 18 to 20%. Let's say 1ifth of the entire world's proved oil reserves are in Venezuela. Immensely important, immensely vital. So if in the future in a few months let's say the US tries to invade Iran hypothetical completely hypothetical scenario then there could be a major shock in the global oil supply because Iran is kind of the epicenter that region the West Asia region is the epicenter of of of the world's oil and energy supplies. Yeah. So if there is an attempted American invasion of Iran and there's this global oil shock, you know, that oil oil supplies are disrupted for weeks perhaps, then if the US has Venezuela, then it's going to be secure and it's it can it'll be able to control uh oil supplies throughout the world. It'll be able to decide who gets oil, who doesn't get oil. So that's great. That's fantastic. And so Venezuela, it's about 1/5if of the global oil resources. And the past 5 years, let's say 2020 to 2025, between 65 to 80% of Venezuela's oil exports have gone to China. Okay? 65 to 80% depending on the year, up and down, up and down. So at the higher at the higher end, it's 80% of Venezuela's oil exports going to China. Now, China um you know, China doesn't import oil only from Venezuela. Obviously, Russia and Saudi Arabia, these two countries each account for 15 to 20% of China's oil imports. So, if Russia is 15 and Saudi Arabia is 15, that's 30%. If it's 2020, it's 40%. That sort of thing. And then you have Malaysia, Iraq, Oman, um etc., which also uh and if you put China if you put Russia and Saudi Arabia in addition to these countries that's about twothirds of China's oil imports. So Russia and Saudi Arabia are the top two suppliers for China. Then you have Iraq, UAE, Brazil, Oman, Malaysia, Angola etc. all these countries. Okay. In Venezuela when Venezuela's share of China's oil imports is about 3 to 5% only the past 5 years. Okay. But it's still a major I mean the major uh place where you have oil reserves. So that's uh Venezuela and China. Now what about India? Does Venezuela export oil to India? So in the 2010s okay 2010 to 2020 around that time period roughly Venezuela provided about 10 to 12% of India's crude oil imports. Okay. So Venezuela was a major oil supplier for India. But then the Americans imposed sanctions. They tightened the sanctions and this trade came to a complete halt around 2020. Okay. Because of US sanctions and in 2425 2024 2025 India kind of started restarted importing a little bit of oil from Venezuela after taking permission from the United States but it was about 1 to 2% of crude oil imports. Okay. So the US is has now essentially or it's in the process of securing control over Venezuela's oil resources. So this will reduce American vulnerability to any kind of oil uh energy disruptions in the Gulf. Yeah. It'll provide a buffer to the US in case there are supply shocks if there's a confrontation with Iran or whatever. Right. Uh so uh so that's the deal and this obviously will lower the economic cost of a confrontation with Iran if Washington decides to go down that road and this will make any kind of military pressure against Iran more economically manageable even politically manageable. So this is a great um you know you could say master stroke of the US. This is going to reinforce now that the US controls an additional 20% of the world's oil resources. This will now further reinforce the central role of the United States dollar, the US dollar in energy markets. This will help preserve the petro dollar system that is the backbone of the global financial system and American financial power. Right? So that is the deal. That's the deal. right now as of now it's just been a couple of hours few hours since this entire thing happened. Now what about the other nations like um uh Argentina Paro asks what are the other nations that are aligned with Maduro's government? So which are the nations in Latin America or in the Americas that are aligned with Venezuela? One is if you want to talk about the core allies, the core ideological and political allies there's two. One is Cuba and the other is Nicaragua. Nicaragua is where the US had conducted a regime change and they had captured abducted whatever you want to call it Manuel Noriega back in the day. So first Cuba Cuba is the land of Fidel Castro and then later his brother Rahul Castro. So Cuba has historically provided political support, intelligence support, diplomatic support, etc. to Venezuela. So Cuba has repeatedly affirmed and publicly affirmed full and complete support for Venezuela and Nicolas Maduro. So that's Cuba. What about Nicaragua? So Nicaragua is ruled by Daniel Ortega. Okay, his government and he's he's a longtime actor in the region himself, decades. So Daniel Ortega's government regularly supports and consistently supports Venezuela and Maduro. It rejects American sanctions, western, European, EU sanctions, etc. And uh it it votes with Venezuela on various regional and multilateral forums. And the West regards Nicaragua as part of this authoritarian anti-US gang with Cuba and Venezuela. Okay, regional the regional anti-American block. That's Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua. So that is these two nations. Then you also have some other allies like Bolivia and Honduras. Uh and whenever you have left of center governments in Mexico, in Brazil, in Colombia, they have maintained good relations with Venezuela and Maduro. But uh they also have not been very consistent entirely totally consistent in their support of Venezuela. Uh so uh some of them see the 2024 election victory of Maduro it was disputed by western nations and some of these nations did not um offer unconditional endorsement of Maduro when he won. So that is the situation that's that's the deal that those are the allies of Venezuela or Maduro um in Latin America. So what's going to happen to these countries? That's the question. Is the US going to go and invade them too? Well, you know what? What's the point of invading Cuba? You know what? Cuba has been sitting next door to the US. I mean, just offshore from Florida, if you open the map, and the US never bothered to do a regime change there, right? And they were able to do a regime change in a couple of hours in Venezuela. So, what's the deal? Why did the US never go after Cuba? Well, there's nothing of any real importance in Cuba. The US already has a base on Cuban territory, Guantanamo Bay, right? And there's no oil or any such precious valuable resource in Cuba. So let Cuba exist and and let the you know, so that's been the kind of uh uh approach towards Cuba. And when it comes to the other nations uh Bolivia and uh Nicaragua, etc., once again, there's not a lot that these nations have to offer in in terms of resources, etc. So the US will essentially so the US action in Venezuela is going to serve as an example for everybody else. If you cross the line, this is what happens. If you stand against us, this is what happens. So the other nations will now have to be pragmatic and practical and they will not really oppose the US too much. And anyway these small nations to what extent can they actually you know oppose the US in any meaningful way apart from you know moral opposition or verbal opposition. Is there any actual action then that that that can take that can hurt the US? Not really. So the US essentially is now going to ensure that it completely controls the western hemisphere. If there are some dissidents here and there those will be managed. Um and this will serve as a reminder to all other nations in the region that you've got to stand you know you know got you've got to tow the line whatever the US says needs to happen you can voice some opposition and some dissent here and there but your actions cannot be in opposition to US interests so that is the situation right now and this is a evolving situation it happened just a few hours ago 3 4 hours ago um so we'll we'll keep a very close eye on this and this is going to have global repercussions. It is connected to other conflicts in the world. It is connected to Ukraine. It's connected to the West Asia region. It's connected to Israel, Gaza, um Iran. It's also connected to Taiwan. Everything is in interconnected. So like I said, this the the capture essentially of Venezuela gives the US a big buffer against any any potential oil shocks, energy shocks that could emanate from West Asia if it tries to, you know, do a regime change in Iran. Now, how does Russia respond? How does China respond beyond diplomatic protests, etc. We'll wait and watch. Yeah, because Russia and China are hard retaliators. They have demonstrated that they are willing that they are capable of retaliating in a hard meaningful way and they're willing to do that. Russia did Ukraine, China has done all kinds of other things. So let us wait and watch and we shall revisit this uh in the same live stream tomorrow in 24 hours time. Okay. So that's about Venezuela. Very important development and the US is essentially taking over the Western Hemisphere. It's putting the the the chess pieces on the board. But it's setting the chessboard in the right order so that it can take further action in other parts of the world. Okay. Real Vladimir Putin says with the recent attack on Putin's house, what's going to happen? Is it to provoke Russia into more decisive actions so that they can portray Russia as an aggressor? Well, you know this all this entire matter of portraying Russia as an aggressor. Russia started a war with Ukraine special military operation. They don't respect the sovereignty, integrity of Ukraine, etc. I mean, Venezuela, the US did exactly the same thing in Venezuela. They disregarded international law. What the US has done is an blatant violation of U of international law. You don't attack a sovereign nation. You've got to respect the nation's territorial integrity and sovereignty. Doesn't matter if the US does it. If Russia does it, very bad. Very, very bad. No, no, no, no. Bad boy. I mean what sort of double standards is this? Well, if you are the most powerful nation in the world, you can have any kinds of double standards. Doesn't matter. You you you have earned the right to be hypocritical. So, see, Russia has already been portrayed as as an aggressor, right? So, what happened is that Mr. Putin was on a phone call with Mr. Trump, okay? uh from his residence in Nogarod if I'm not mistaken and Trump made sure that the phone call lasts a long time and the American agencies etc etc they knew that Mr. Putin is in his residence in Novgoroth and they passed on that information to the Ukrainians who launched series of drone strikes on Mr. Putin's residence. It was an assassination attempt. Now the Western media and commentators and analysts are saying that this what's the where's the proof of this? The Russians are making a false claim to provoke further action. That's what they're claiming. Yeah, it is what it is. So, uh, Mr. Modi has tweeted his very great concern about what's happened. Even other countries have tweeted, leaders of other countries have put out similar statements. So look, from my perspective, there's no question that this this thing happened. There are there are videos of of um hits u drone hits on the Kremlin and and other major Russian um you know, places where Mr. Putin generally either works or resides. So the Ukrainians, Mr. Zalinski and his and his team, they tried to assassinate Mr. Putin. What's going to happen now is the question. So Russia has first of all given evidence of this to the United States and they have said that our retaliation, our response will not be diplomatic, it will be military. Um so it looks like there's going to be you know calculated retaliation to what the Ukrainians have done. It is possible they may even go after Mr. Zillinski. It is possible. Okay, I'm not advocating that they should go after m Mr. Zalinski, but I'm saying it's possible given that Zalinski went after Putin's life, you know, now I suppose all kinds of cards are on the table now. So, what happens now? So, we'll have to see. We'll have to wait and watch. There's going to be retaliation from Moscow, military retaliation. What specific retaliation? We'll have to see. Yeah. But this is a major grave provocation from Ukraine with the help apparently of the United States. Yeah. On Moscow. I mean attempting an assassination of Mr. Putin. Mr. Putin is he too trusting of the west? Is he too is he under the belief that the west is gentlemanly? I mean the men courts Mr. Putin actually tried to make the Ming Minsk Accords work. And after Madame Angela Merkel retired, she said this in an interview that the Minsk Accords were simply a ploy to delay, I mean to to to buy time, a ploy to buy time so that we can arm Ukraine. And they were sure the west that a war will happen. And they were pushing Russia towards a war. They were crossing red line after red line. So the west knew that the war is going to happen. Russia will eventually be forced to take military action. And the Minsk accords were a ploy to buy time by a few years to delay the Russian military action so that they can bolster Ukraine's military um capabilities. And Mr. Putin got played by that by the Americans by the West. Mr. Putin got played. He was too trusting and it's it's true. Ideally, he should have launched the the special military operation in 2014 itself when it took Crimea. Now, he was on a phone call with Mr. Trump and he was perhaps under the assumption that Mr. Trump is a gentleman and we are actually conducting negotiation negotiations on the phone and when I am talking to the my my my colleague in in the United States as gentlemen we will not do anything against each other while the disc while the diplomatic negotiations are happening but while this is happening the Americans pass apparently information that Mr. Putin is in so and so location to the Ukrainian Ukrainians and they try to assassinate Mr. Putin I yeah so Mr. Putin seems to be a very trusting not a very trusting person but yeah he's kind of trusted the west on a few occasions and the west has exploited that I suppose there's no more trust left anymore so let's see how how uh Russia responds to the attempted assassination of Mr. Putin. I'm sure there's going to be a response and it's going to be military. We'll see. Hy Penguin says, "Why did Russia choose to play the slow war uh track tactic strategy whatever against Ukraine? How is it more beneficial for the Kremlin?" Yes. So what we are seeing the past see the special military operation was launched in February 2022. And very rapidly Russian forces were on the outskirts of of Kiev etc. But then they withdrew and there were massive very rapid territorial exchanges for a while. Then Russia took over Luhans, Donetsk etc. those regions you know the Donbas region which is ethnically Russian majority which was and the people there were very badly treated you know brutalized for several years by the Ukrainians after 2014 and so on. And now the scenario is that of a slow war, a frozen conflict, a war of attrition, a slow grind, call it whatever you want. That's the situation. So Russia has decided consciously clearly to change its uh strategy to a slow war, a nutritional war. Okay. And what is the reason for this? That's a very good question. So this essentially is about weaponizing time. It's about turning time into a weapon. How so? Is the question. How so? See, Russia is a massive military industrial base. Massive industrial bass military base essentially unlimited territory which means essentially unlimited resources you know coil sorry coal, oil, gas, petroleum, um minerals, iron, ore, whatever you want to sustain a war. Raw materials, they have it. and they have the industries to turn those raw materials into finished products, weapons, munitions, and so on. So if you adopt a slow war strategy, Ukraine is a smaller nation. Ukraine's manpower is much smaller, Russia's population is much larger, Ukraine's economy is smaller, Russia's economy is way larger, etc. So by weaponizing time, by grinding the war out over a long prolonged period of time, you it's going to have the effect of exhausting Ukraine's manpower, exhausting Ukraine's economy, exhausting the the West's political will because see Ukraine, if it were fighting with its own resources, it would have lasted a week or two. And then what do you do? Where do the arms, ammunition, funds, etc. come from? They have to come from the west. So the west has been financing this war against Russia, Ukraine's war against Russia or Russ, you know, Ukraine's defensive war against Russia, whatever you want to call it. Okay? Without Western support, Ukraine would have fallen a long, long time ago. So now the longer the war goes on the more it exhausts western resources man not manpower but economic resources financial resources material resources political will right so Mr. Putin is banking on Russia's larger population. It's bank he is banking on Russia's wartime industry. It's military industrial complex. um and he knows that he his nation has the resources to endure a long conflict that can potentially if if required last years even a decade or two right and Ukraine has constraints that Russia doesn't have manpower ammunition finances goodwill from the west etc right so over the past 2 three years Russia has been relying on positional warfare it's relying on the use of heavy artillery It's relying on methodical assaults along the front lines. And Russia has been willing and it's actually had a strategy of having slow advances, not rapid adv and deep advances, slow shallow advances in exchange for what? In exchange for lower risk, lower operational risk. And Russia has also been um um you know doing systematic strikes on Ukrainian infrastructure. what kind of infrastructure, energy infrastructure, logistical infrastructure, industry, etc. And the objective is to erode Ukraine's ability to sustain the war. And what happens when all the when Ukraine's ability is eroded, it has Ukraine has to be resupplied from the west over and over again over and over again. Right? So this is a long-term protracted conflict that we are witnessing now. And this stretches out costs across the EU, across the west, across the western nations, across NATO, right? Um it obviously is there are many nations that are now tired of this war. No one wants, no one is enthusiastic about this war anymore. So this strategy is increasing pressure on Western unity. It's testing whether the United States and the European allies of Ukraine are willing to sustain large aid packages and and how long they're willing to sustain these s you know consistently keep giving these aid packages to Ukraine. And what about the domestic support? People are tired in these nations. People are tired of the of of their their economies and their taxpayer money financing this this war. Right? So that's the situation. That's the situation. Essentially, Russia has made a calculated bet that it can sustain high defense spending long enough to outlast Ukraine and the West. Right? And see, Russia's economy is doing okay. It's not doing badly. It's doing better than European economies. Russia has reoriented its economy towards a war industry, war footing. It's boosted its production of munitions. Uh if it's boosted its production of artillery shells, drones, armored vehicles, and it's importing materials from from its partners such as Iran, North Korea, potentially even China. I mean, Chinese components are being increasingly found in Russian munitions, etc. So, that is the situation. Russia is willing to wait as long as it takes until the West loses patience and uh seeks an end to the war on Russia's terms. What are Russia's terms? The demilitarization of Ukraine, the denazification of Ukraine and a regime change in Kiev and the partition of Ukraine and along lines that will be decided eventually. So that's deal. That is the deal. That's why Russia has chosen to play play the frozen conflict or slow war strategy against Ukraine. Very beneficial. Makes sense. Shikhar Bishwa says if the US pressures Pakistan to deploy troops in the Gaza Strip, does this not fundamentally contradict Israel's security interests given Pakistan's military and domestic ecosystem is widely sympathetic to Hamas? I would assume manage an overwhelmingly anti-Israel domestic audience and if Israel Israeli strikes kill Pakistani soldiers does Pakistan prioritize obedience to Washington or regime legitimacy at home is Pakistan now caught in a strategic crossfire and how do you see this dilemma realistically playing out for Pakistan's military and regional positioning and real Putin says with the recent talk about Pakistani soldiers in Gaza what's the update in the relationship ship between Isra and the Pakistan. Okay. So, first of all, what is the situation right now? Pakistan as we know is is not anymore a newly minted US fac. It's been a big US fasal since 2022, mid roughly 2022 when Imran Khan was ousted in Shabbaz Sharif was was placed in in that seat of prime minister. Right. So, what has Pakistan said about Gaza? Pakistan has said that it is willing in principle whatever it means to join President Donald Trump's Gaza peace plan. Okay. So the US has proposed that a USbacked international stabilization force will act as a peacekeeping mission in Gaza. Okay. So Pakistan has said that we are willing in principle to to participate in this. I don't know what in principle means but it essentially means that we will do what we are told by our boss the United States by President Trump whatever he says we shall do. So in the near term I'm not sure when this entire thing will will will eventuate the this peacekeeping force in Gaza or the international stabilization force but Pakistan is very likely to be one of the first nations to join this peacekeeping mission. Okay. And they have said that we will do this. Our mandate, the Pakistanis have said, I believe that our mandate is is is limited to monitoring the ceasefire, to protecting civilians and uh humanitarian support. Yeah. Uh and they have said that there should be no explicit requirement to disarm Hamas apparently. Well, it doesn't work without disarming Hamas. That's the core objective of Israel. you know the complete disarmament of Hamas and the expulsion of Hamas from Gaza. So I'm not sure how it works but that is what Pakistan has said. Now the situation is what about Israel? Yeah. How do how how does Aim Munir convince his overwhelmingly anti-Israel domestic audience that this is five and what if Israeli strikes kill Pakistani soldiers? Well, first of all, the Pakistanis have provided such service in the past also in West Asia. Za Hak, the the former Pakistani dictator, what did he do? He killed Palestinians, didn't he? He led a Pakistani force in Jordan. Let's let's Google this. Zia Hak Jordan civil war. So what did he do there? He played a significant role as a brigadeier in the Jordanian civil war of 1970. Black September he was etc etc. King Hussein of Jordan gave Zeia command of the Jordanian army second Jordanian army second division. Zia led troops in battles, helped guide tanks, was involved in planning and execution of counter offensive against the PLO and Palestinian fid was instrumental in military operations etc. And uh they ended up killing about 25,000 Palestinians, the Pakistanis. Okay, that's what Zulhak did. So now it looks like Aimun may have to play possibly some kind of a role. Maybe not what Zia did but you know some kind of peacekeeping etc role in the region. Now how can he convince his his domestic audience? Well, he will say that you know what we are actually serving the people of Gaza. We're going to ensure that there is no violence against the people of Gaza. We're going to ensure that uh President Trump who is this great divine character, the peace plan that he has proposed is the best plan in the world and we're going to ensure that the peace plan is implemented and there's no more suffering for the people of Gaza and there's no more killing of the people of Gaza. That sort of thing you can say and well the Pakistani public will will lap it up most likely. Once again the question again is what's the relationship between Israel and Pakistan? That's the that's the core question you're asking here clearly. Well, that's a good question. See, the United States is Israel's number one supporter. It has always consistently offered unconditional support to Israel. We know that. Yes. The US also has a vasal state in the form of Pakistan. Pakistan is a vasal state of the US. So, so that means that Pakistan and Israel should kind of be on the same page on the same side, right? It does kind of mean that that they're actually in some sense allies. Yes, Pakistan doesn't officially recognize Israel. Pakistan says verbally all kinds of nasty stuff about Israel. But from action perspective, from the perspective of actions, not words, what does Pakistan do that do that hurts Israel? Essentially nothing, right? Of course, Pakistani terrorist activities have ended up targeting Israeli citizens. For example, 2008 Mumbai, the Mumbai attacks were carried out by Pakistani terrorists and they specifically targeted Israeli civilians. So yeah, that was one instance where Pakistanis targeted Israelis but on Indian territory. Apart from that, there's no other instance I can think of where Pakistan has gone after Israeli interests. U verbal support etc. that that carries no weight in my book. So Pakistan and Israel are going to find a way to get along. Yeah. And if Israeli strikes kill Pakistani soldiers but well that's a hypothetical. If it happens they'll the Pakistanis will find some way of of you know of ensuring that it doesn't cause too much damage uh from a public opinion perspective at home. So Pakistan see Pakistan doesn't serve Israel. Pakistan serves Washington. Washington and Israel are on the same page which means Pakistan and Israel are also essentially on the same page. Okay. Miranka Shikha Shikar Biswar says, "Does Israel's move towards recognizing Somali land signal a calculated attempt to secure leverage over the Red Sea encounter Houthi movement disruptions? or is there a broader strategic realignment at play especially given strong opposition from the US and major European powers? Additionally, how does Somali lands largely Islamic society reconcile political support for Israel in the current regional and ideological climate? And Karth Kartik says, "Could you provide some history and context about Somali land and why Israel chose to recognize it and why are all the other major countries criticizing this move Somali land? So first of all, let's go to the map. We haven't opened the map today. So let's do that. Where is Somali land and is it in a geographically interesting location?" So let's Okay. So okay, we are here. We know where India is. Now we go westwards. In west of India, we have along the horn of Africa a nation called Somalia. The capital is Mugadishu. If you go northwards, there is a city called Haresa, which is part of Somalia, but it's actually the capital of Somali land, a de facto nation. So, let us search for Somali land. And then Google will Google maps will show us this region. As you can see this shaded region which is a de facto separate nation. It is not controlled by the government in Bogadishuh the Somalian government. I mean whatever government exists it's a de facto separate nation. So that's the situation. Now as you can see it's it sits this nation is located essentially at the at the mouth of the Red Sea between the Gulf of Aen and the and the Red Sea. You have this choke point extremely important geographic geographic choke point the straight of Bab al-Mandde okay and Djibouti is the nation that uh over kind of is is the nation at the choke point apart the other one is Yemen south Yemen and then we have Somali land and of course you have Eritria also over here Asara Eritria is kind of aligned with the west so Djibouti is also you could say aligned with the west and if Somali land becomes aligned with the west then they can control the entire region through the use of these territories and if they can create a separate nation called south Yemen for example which is controlled by the west or by western allies in the region well then the entire choke point is completely controlled and you can choke off at in on demand you know supplies going eastwards towards China if you can do the same thing if the West can for example take over overthrow the Iranian regime the government in Thran and uh you know bring the blessings of democracy and human rights to Iran then they can also control the strait of Hormuz and by doing that they can they can blockade China see we in India talk about blockading the straight of Malaka the Americans don't worry about Malaka they will blockade Bab al- mandib over here and they will blockade hormones in in case they are able to overthrow the government in Thran and install a puppet regime. If they can do that, they can seriously squeeze China without ever having to go near Malaa. That's how the US thinks. India thinks of Mala. The US thinks of Babal Mand and Hormuz and other things as well. So now that we understand that Somali land sits in a very interesting geographical and geopolitically sensitive region location that's the first thing we have to understand. Now let's talk about the history of Somali land. Okay. So the capital capital of Somali land like I said is Haresa that city in the north. Somali land what is it and how how is it a separate de facto country? So Somali land is a self-governing breakaway region in that region uh northwest of Somalia like we saw on the map. It operates as a de facto independent state and until very recently it had no formal international recognition. It's not a UN member state for example. Yeah. So Somali land has its own constitution. It has an elected president. It has a parliament. It has a government. It has a judiciary. It has an army. Security forces. They have their own currency the Somali land shilling and they hold separate elections from Somalia. I'm not sure if there are elections in Somalia but Somali land has elections. Okay. So it functions separately from Somalia from a political perspective and administrative p perspective. Somali land has not been governed from Mogadishu since 1991. They run their own domestic affairs. They don't run their own external affairs. So this is a classic de facto state. Now how did this happen is the question. As always we have to go back go back a few decades and understand the history. And when we talk about history we talk we're going to talk about European colonization. All these issues all these problems the root cause goes back to European colonization. So from the late 19th century until 1960 this place called Somali land was ruled by Britain. The British called it a protectorate whatever it means. Okay. And they ruled the place. It was called British Somali land. Further south the Italians ruled a place called Italian Somali land which is today's Somalia. Okay. To the south. So in the north you had British Somali land. In the south you had Italian Somali land. These were two separate colonial territories with different administration and different administration styles and legacies and so on. Okay. So 1960 I said right. So 1960 British Somali land became independent. It became the state of Somali land. It was recognized by more than 30 nations. Okay. Including permanent members of the UN security council. But this situation lasted only a few days. The same year the southern state of Somali land it uh became independent and the northern state of Somali land voluntarily united with the former Italian ruled territory which had just gained independence. So this formed Somalia or the Somali republic and the capital was in Mugadishu down south. Then in the 1960s and 70s you had uh you know you you the people of northern Somali land okay they started getting the sense that they were being marginalized by Mogadishu okay um the political and economic center of gravity center of gravity is actually a term yeah that was in in Moadeshu in the south and it was the southern elites who were ruling everything and the northerners were marginalized. Then in 1969 there was a coup in Mogadeshu. It brought it brought to power a gentleman fine gentleman gentleman named Siad Baret. Siad Baret. Let's let's see what this fine gentleman looked like. Shall we? Siad Baret. So he was a dictator. Siad Muhammad Siad Bar. He was a military officer obviously and he was the president of Somalia from 69 all the way until uh 1991 right so Siad B comes to power Syad Bare comes to power in Mogadeshu and he is obviously a dictator authoritarian rule and his treatment of northern the northern part of Somalia which is Somali land it obviously deepened the grievances that the people of the region had um and he he repressed them etc. His policies were very nasty, brutal, whatever you want to say. So then this launched a movement to bring independence to Somaland in the 1980s, early 1980s. So an armed rebellion was launched against the regime of Siad Bareet and Siad Bareet's military forces devastated uh the northern cities. bombardment and you know all kinds of human rights uh things and you know standard standard atrocities that you have in these in these in these countries and so on. So large numbers of civilians were killed. Many people had to run away, flee into exile, you know, and this essentially this experience that the people of the northern region had at the hands of Siad Bar and his military regime that is central to to the justification of Somali land that it it that the union with the south was intolerable and it had to go. So in 1991, Siad Bar's regime collapsed. Okay? And the central Somali state down south ruled from the south in Mogadeshu. It disintegrated. There was no government anymore. Okay? You had different different factions in different regions, different warlords and different pirates and god knows what. Um I think there was a person called Muhammad Farahid who was ruling Mogadeshu and he was well he fought the US for a while. Clinton was the president. Yeah, that sort of thing. So you had different factions in different regions who asserted control and the north came under the influence of the Somali land independence movement people. So in 1991 um the people of northern Somal the northern region Somali land they declared independence. They said that the 1960 union had effectively ended and they proclaimed that the republic of Somali land was now in existence within the borders of the former British occupied territory, the British protectorate of British Somali land. So they said that this was not a secession from Somalia but a restoration of independence. Okay, we had voluntarily merged with Somalia but we were treated brutally. We were oppressed and now we are withdrawing and we are uh restoring the independence that was rightfully ours. Yeah. So that union was failed. It was unlawful. It was oppressive and we are we have exited from it. So that was in 1991. Right. Um and then they formed a constitution I think in 2001. Uh they drafted a constitution. There was a referendum which adopted the constitution. Um and Somali land was so Somali land was was reconfirmed that it was independent and its political system um was was uh enshrined in the constitution like we in India like to say a presidential system a legislator with an upper house and a lower house. The lower house was a house of representatives that was that would be elected. The upper house would be an unelected house of elders like an Indian Raja Sabha kind of thing. Yeah. and there was a limit of three political parties to ensure that there is not too much fragmentation in the country and all that. So that is how Somali land was formed. It became separate from Somalia de facto separate. So there is something called the Monte Vidyo criteria. Okay. A nation, a sovereign nation has a defined territory. It has its own population. It has its own government. it has its own capability to to to run its own economy and international relations and so on so forth. So Somali land it it satisfies all the so-called Monte Vidya criteria and yet it has remained largely unrecognized from by other nations. Uh the African Union doesn't recognize Somali land. Many other nations don't recognize Somali land. So what is the reason for that? The African Union fears that if we recognize Somali land, it will encourage other secessionist movements in the region in Africa and it will undermine Africa's norm of respecting colonial borders. So Africa has this norm that we will respect colonial borders. I don't know why they have this norm. They should disrespect in my opinion all colonial borders. But Africa has a norm. That's called colonization, mental colonization. So Africa has the norm of respecting colonial borders. And if if we recognize Somali land, then it will encourage other secessionist movements and so on so forth and it will undermine the norm of respecting colon borders. In actually in the case of Somali land, you're actually respecting the old coron borders. But whatever um that sort of thing and and Somalia opposes the partition, right? uh and then there are various nations especially western nations that engage with Somali land to leo offices or whatever they call the technical cooperation but they don't recognize the country for example the US the US has intermittently used the Somali land territory for counterterrorism operations counterterrorism cooperation maritime security arrangements in the Gulf of Adan etc. But they don't recognize Somali land. Ethiopia is a long-term you know ally of Somali land. Now let's once again revisit the map to understand why. Okay where is map? We bring map. Let's understand why Ethiopia is an ally you could say of Somali land. So zoom in. So there was a time when the the country of Itria was part of Ethiopia but then they broke free and they formed a separate country and that had the effect of landlocking Ethiopia. Ethiopia become became a landlocked country. They don't have access to the Indian Ocean. They don't have access to the Gulf of Aen. They don't have access to the Red Sea. Terrible. So that is the situation that was imposed upon Ethiopia. So what did Ethiopia do to let's say remedy this situation? What Ethiopia did is that it cultivated close economic and security ties with Somali land and Ethiopia has been for a long time using Somali land's Burba port as an outlet to the sea. Ethiopia needs access to the sea. So they're using the Barbera port of Somali land uh as this port of access to the sea and uh in 2024 Ethiopia and Somaliand signed a memorandum of understanding that would give Ethiopia access to a naval facility near Barbera and the promise was that we will give you give recognition official recognition to Somali land and this caused a crisis diplomatic crisis between Ethiopia and Somalia that sort of thing. The UAE is also um involved in Somali land. They have secured a deal to operate Barbara port, develop and operate the Burbar port uh through a UAE based company and they potentially may build a military facility or air base over there. So the UAE is involved in Somalia's Somali lands uh economic infrastructure and also security infrastructure. Saudi Arabia is also involved in various ways you know religious economic cooperation, security channels, um livestock trade, countering extremism etc. So Saudi Arabia is also aligning its Somali land into its Horn of Africa uh you know foreign policy and the objective is to counter Iranian influence and so on so forth. Now with all that understood, all of that understood. Okay, that's the history. That's the history. Now a week or so ago, Israel became the first nation to formally recognize the Republic of Somaliand as an independent and sovereign country and they signed a joint declaration of uh mutual recognition with the president of Somaliand. Mutual recognition means Israel recognizes Somali land and Somali land recognizes Israel. Right? And now there there is there is news that maybe India may or may be on the way maybe on the way of towards recognizing Somali land potentially. Potentially yeah that sort of thing. So that is the situation. Okay that's the situation. Um so why has Israel chosen to recognize it? Because of the incredibly valuable important geographical position location. Right. Israel has faced a lot of problems from the uh the Ansarah faction in Yemen, the so-called Houthis and the West wants to control the strait of Bab al- Mand. So you you you control Somali land, you control Djibouti, you control itria, that gives you one half of the of the uh you know puzzle. And if you can create a separate nation in Yemen, maybe South Yemen or something that is aligned with the west, then that is a done deal then. So slowly but steadily all the pieces on the chessboard are falling into place. So that's why Israel has done this. It's important for Israel that they are able to control this region and that's important for the US as well. Right. Aayush Singh says you mentioned that the US in future will be moving towards hemispheric defense but there is no sign of US withdrawal from Asia in fact it's making its presence even stronger than before example recent 11 billion weapons sales to Taiwan etc what's my opinion okay so the US a few months ago came out with this new national security strategy right and once again let me repeat it involves the Monro doctrine and the Trump corollery What is the Mandro doctrine be so that we understand what we're talking about? The Mandro doctrine was a policy, US foreign policy from 1823. It said that the Americas were closed to any further European colonization or any other interference. Any European inter interference in the Western Hemisphere in the Americas would henceforth be treated as a hostile act against the United States. So the US let let down a red line that no external interference will now be allowed in the western hemisphere and they enforce it eventually through military force military strength. So that's the Monroe doctrine. Now the national security strategy 2025 talks about the Trump corollery to the Monro doctrine. So it's a contemporary modern 21st century reinterpretation. It extends the idea of the Monro doctrine. It says that the US now has the right, it's going to assert the right to be the super cop, the policeman in the Western Hemisphere. The US will police the Western Hemisphere. It's going to police the Western Hemisphere against extra regional powers like China, Russia, whoever else wants to influence the region. No longer allowed. You all get out. Right? And it will also police the region against u regional actors such as uh you know drug cartels etc. And the objective is to preserve US dominance and and in the region and to preserve security in the region. So this is an imperial policy. The US is now acting as a classical empire. This is our domain. You're all our vasals and we're going to police you all. You you guys better not, you know, get out of line and nobody else from outside is allowed to, you know, have any any influence or any interference in the region. So that's the national security strategy. So the national security strategy it does explicitly reenter American strategy on the western hemisphere. Okay. It says that American pre preeeminence, American dominance, American hedgemony in the western hemisphere is a basic condition, a central condition for America's national security and prosperity. Okay, it says that. So it revives the Monro doctrine. It it adds the Trump corery to it. It says that the US will will assert and enforce its hedgemony in the region in so many in whatever words it uses. Yeah, it's my words I'm using but it has the same meaning. It's going to deny external powers which means non-western hemisphere powers any strategic foothold or military foothold in the region. Okay. And this national security strategy says that the US needs to readjust its global military posture away from regions whose relevance may have declined for US uh you know for US interests and the US will now reorient its posture towards its missions in the western hemisphere. Okay. So what are the elements of this? First of all, Europe is being downgraded. America's ties with Europe are being downgraded. Europe is now expected to shoulder much more of the financial burden of its security. See the US is part of NATO. It is the hegemonic power in in NATO and the other nations are all in apart from Canada are all in Western Europe. Yeah. Mostly and the US has been financing NATO for the for the most part all these years. And now the US requires that European nations must double their expenditure towards NATO from 2.5% to to 5% by about 2030 around around that time. Um so the Europeans are now expected to put much more shoulder much more of the burden of NATO right so Europe is being downgraded. Um and not just Europe it's EMA there's this region called EMA in in business in business pagnos EMA means Europe Middle East and Africa. Okay. So this entire region Europe, Middle East Africa ENA is being downgraded and uh the US is now going to focus on hemispheric defense. It's going to prioritize its hemispheric defense over its global forward presence. Now please understand that it is not just black and white. It sounds like the US is completely retreating but it is not. the US the national security strategy document it still treats China and Russia as major adversaries okay and it is linking the the hemispheric security to global great power competition so the strategy doesn't say that we need to give up all our tools for projecting power outside of the western hemisphere it doesn't say that we need to shut down all our extr territorial military bases the US has more than seven or 800 extr territorial military bases beyond its territory many of them are in the eastern hemisphere, right? 130 roughly of them are in Japan. More than 100 are in South Korea. Is the US going to shut shut that down? Absolutely not. Okay. So, the the the US strategy is going to continue to maintain those tools for projecting power in the eastern hemisphere. Okay? And u and they're going to be open to using military force wherever required. So the policy is hemisphere first, not hemisphere only. They're going to prioritize the western hemisphere, but they're not withdrawing as such from the eastern hemisphere. They want to reduce the potential of of overstretching themselves, right? And they want to preserve their capacity to compete globally from a stronger position in the Western Hemisphere. That is the deal. So the US is not giving up on its global influence. It's not giving up on the alliances and vasal vasal, you know, arrangements it has across the world. It's not giving up any of that. It's not giving up any of its power projection capabilities. It's reordering the way it approaches the problems it faces in the world. It's not abolishing any of the rules it currently plays. So its position in the western hemisphere is now going to be you could say a neoimperial posture. They can see the effect of that right away. A few hours ago they took over Venezuela, right? It's going to be a muscular approach in the western hemisphere and outside it's going to shift the burden to its vasals. So the vasals will will shoulder more of the burden and the US will lose none of its power projection capabilities. So that is the situation right it's it's more nuanced than simply withdrawing into the western hemisphere and hemispheric defense realm Putin says what's your opinion on the Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi claiming that China mediated between India and Pakistan in the in the 3D war well China thinks that you know what Trump has been claiming that they have mediated that they have ended the war so why not we also make some claims what's my opinion my opinion is that we don't need to take it seriously. Yeah, we don't have to take it seriously. The Chinese were aiding Pakistan in real time, supplying Pakistan with real-time information, intelligence, satellite imagery and whatn not during the three-day war, operation sindur, right? So, while they are actively aiding Pakistan, you think will they'll be in a position to come and mediate? When you take sides, you can't mediate, right? You can't. So this Pakistan this Chinese claim is a joke and we should treat it as a joke. We we should not take it seriously. It's yeah funny kind of Aayush Singh says we are hearing constant conversations of a nuclear Japan which was unheard of since the second world war. Henry Kissinger had predicted this years ago and there's a video of mine on this topic now that things are evolving at such a rapid pace. could you please tell the story of it effects it will have power balance in East Asia will that change and so on so um a while ago few months ago I had put out this tweet let's put that on the screen okay and this is a quote by Shri Henry Kissinger G that Japan is heading towards becoming a nuclear power in 5 years he said this in 2023 and 2023 is the year that he tragically passed away at the age of 00 he was a great global statesman and uh he no no no one understood global diplomacy and geostrategy etc. U very few people understood it the way he did because he was part of it for so many decades. So he said in 2023 that Japan is heading towards becoming a nuclear weapons power in 5 years. So that gives us the end state in 2028. So according to what he says, what he what he said, Japan, if things go as per his prediction, Japan should become a nuclear weapon state by 2028. This is 2026. Today is January 3, 2026. We've got 3 years. 26, 27, 28. In 3 years, will Japan become a nuclear weapons state? So I spoke about the US national security strategy. It is now focusing primarily on the Western Hemisphere. It's consolidating its new imperial muscular stature, a muscular policy in the western hemisphere and in the eastern hemisphere. It is forcing its vassals to shoulder much of the economic and military burden of which of of of their defense military defense and of uh supporting American bases and American power production capabilities. That's what the US is doing. Now when it comes to the far east, Japan, South Korea, Japan and South Korea are two major American vessels. These two nations have been under permanent US milit military occupation for decades. Japan since 1945, Korea, South Korea since the 1950s now. Does it make sense for the US allowing Japan to acquire nuclear weapons? Well, things are changing very rapidly this year. Let's say Venez see Venezuela has fallen. Venezuela is now the property of the US. Hypothetically, if sometime later this year or the next two years the Americans take out Iran, then China will well there'll be a tremendous amount of pressure on China because Iran is one nation from which China acquires a lot of uh oil energy and if the US controls that well well and China has a 25-y year strategic agreement with Iran. So China loses a major ally if if Iran goes in that case China will be very tempted to go after Taiwan. Maybe Taiwan may happen irrespective of that. So in that case it makes sense for Japan to be way more powerful than it is right now but still under US control. So you know that from that perspective it may it may make sense for the Americans to allow Japan to become a controlled nuclear power in such a way that you position nuclear weapons on Japanese soil but you retain the control. The big red button is in Washington not in Tokyo. That sort of nuclear weapons power. So essentially American nukes on Japanese soil which you could say makes Japan well a place where you have nuclear weapons if not a nuclear weapons power that may be very tempting for the US right especially if China becomes desperate or whatever and they you know do some saber rattling make some moves so it will significantly change the balance of power in East Asia for sure. See right now China has to worry about India because of its own actions. India has no desire to be the enemy of China an adversary of China. It is China that is acting in an adversarial fashion which is why India has had to take various measures to ensure its national security. One of the measures is a nuclear triad land based airbased and sea based nuclear offensive nuclear capability. Right? We have nuclear submarines. We have ballistic missiles. We have air based uh you know uh nucle a nuclear detent that's air based and groundbased as well. And we have a reasonably good quantity of nuclear warheads. So all of that is to ensure that you know China doesn't China doesn't do anything stupid. So now so China has that to worry about. Now if Japan also becomes a nuclear power then it then China has to worry about two nuclear weapons powers. Pakistan but Pakistan can also potentially be used against China because Pakistan is controlled by the US. So you see the the headaches that that China faces could multiply rapidly. If you bring South Korea again into the picture and station nuclear weapons there as well. Well, China gets encircled and it's not like China is on very friendly terms with Russia. China treats Russia as a junior partner. So making Japan a nuclear weapons power will significantly alter the balance of power in East Asia and uh yeah it it does make sense from a strategic perspective. So we'll see if Mr. Ker was right or not. There were three years in which in which we can either prove or disprove his his claim his uh his prediction. Let's say real brother Putin says two nations Iran and India. Iran is facing a lot of sanctions in Iran is a much smaller economy than India much more inferior military hard power than India. Yet it funds a lot of proxies in the Middle East. India being such a much larger economy being the fourth most strong strongest military power doesn't do any of that. Why? Why? See, Iran is nowhere compared to India on the hard power scale. Nowhere. Yeah. Um, Iran doesn't have nuclear weapons. Iran is a small economy. Iran is a small conventional military compared to India. And yet, Iran projects power across West Asia. Let's go to the map. Uh, give me a second. Let me bring the map on the screen. Okay. Iran projects power in in in large regions of West Asia. See, Iran projects power in Iraq. Iraq at least 50% of Iraq's population is Shia Muslim and Iran is a Shia Muslim nation. So, Iran is able to project power in Iraq. Uh until last year, Iran had an ally in Syria. Now, you have an al-Qaeda government in Syria. So, that's over. Iran has has friends in Lebanon. You know, Iran is able to project power in Lebanon as well. And Iran is able to project power in Yemen as well because its ally is the Ansarah faction, the Houthis. So Iran has plenty of power projection capabilities in the region. Iran also, let's not forget, has an ally in Armenia. Iran is an ally of Armenia. A Shia Muslim nation is an ally of a Christian nation in the Caucasus region and the other ally is a Hindu nation India. Very interesting scenario over there. So Iran despite being much weaker than India projects so much power in West Asia, right? It has it's able to fund proxies. it's able to have those proxies work on its behalf and and you know uh geopolitically, geostrategically and so on. So that's why when people talk about the powerful nations they talk about the US, China, Russia, Iran, North Korea, no one talks about India. India historically has been a soft state, a punching bag. Pakistan keeps punching, jabbing, jabbing, jabbing, jabbing. India just keeps absorbing it. Doesn't even fight back. Doesn't even defend itself. Right? That was the situ situation until until 2014. Now it's kind of different but we still are that kind of nation where we are funding proxies across the board and having them fight on our behalf. One reason is that Iran is an Islamic nation in an Islamic neighborhood. And whenever wherever in West Asia in whichever nation or whichever region you have Shia Muslim populations there's going to be an affinity between them and Iran and Iran is able to weaponize that. So Iran has never been a punching bag. Iran has never been a soft set. It's been a very hard state. It kind of punches above its stature. It punches up. India historically hasn't punched at all except once or twice and then sit down again. Iran also has the advantage of political continuity, political stability. Since 1979, the same government, right? So, there's long-term execution of policies and that's why they have been able to cultivate things long-term. And Iran is a geopolitically ambitious nation. Iran regards itself as the leader of the Islamic world. Iran doesn't regard itself as a nation who will follow someone. We will lead. We were once a great empire. We are an ancient nation. Who are you all to talk to us? We should lead you. We will lead you. So that's the attitude Iran has. India is the most ancient civilization of all. But the Indian government is a colonial government. The entire structure is colonial. India is defined as a as a secular nation. India's official policy dis dissociates itself from our civilizational status. the Indian government and Indian the Indian machinery regards India as a nation state not as a civilization state and that's why and in India we have democracy which means every 5 years at least you're going to have potential change of government and you've had lots of changes of government in the past before 2014 you had coalition governments where they where where there's a coalition government there's essentially nothing happens and governments come and war come and go come and go that sort of so there's political stability, there's no continuity of of of of policies and so on. That's why India has never had a long-term proper policy. It's only right now the past since 2014 that we have had the same prime minister that we've had a focus and and a clear direction and clear focus on what our policy should be. And yet India and so if you want to have proxies who operate for you, you have to cultivate them for a long time. You can't cultivate proxies around the world in 3 years even 10 years takes time and see India doesn't have the advantages that Iran has even if it is now geopolitically ambitious it even if it may now be geopolitically ambitious we don't have the advantages the Iranians have which is the which is all the Shia populations in West Asia right who are often oppressed by the other populations where they live if they're minorities which which will obviously make them easier to weaponize by Iraq. We don't have any such thing. We don't we have Hindu diasporas and all but Hindus are not a political people, right? Hinduism is not a political religion and even if Hindus are oppressed, the government doesn't care. Um so it's a combination of various factors, right? So that's why India acts very differently from Iran. Nirvana Shank says Chanaka emphasized pragmatism, strategy and moral flexibility. How can his Art Shastra principles be applied to India's modern governance and foreign policy? Right? So the shastra is a vast vast text. You cannot boil it down or distillate it down to like three principles. But yeah, pragmatism, strategy, moral flexibility, flexibility, all these are uh you know principles that Chanaka did write about. Now when it comes to this one here, moral flexibility, what do we mean by that moral flexibility? Does it mean that you can do anything, any nasty thing and it's okay be morally flexible? It doesn't mean that moral flexibility. Moral flexibility means if you have a good long-term objective that is genuinely good for your nation for and for your people then to achieve that good objective it is okay to sometimes be morally flexible. Let's say your objective is the long-term security and prosperity and national integrity and integrity of the nation and its people. That is a worthwhile objective to have. So in the pursuit of that objective, you can sometimes be morally flexible. That's what Vishnutaka said. You may sometimes war wage an unjust war potentially against somebody. Okay? See, if if you are the king, you only serve your people. You don't serve the people of the rest of the world. So, your only job is to serve your people and do everything that is in their interest. If you can achieve their interest at the expense of somebody else's interests, then it's okay. That's what Vishna Gupta Chanaki said. That's called moral flexibility. So, these principles are applied in real in the real world, not by us, but by everybody else. Pakistan is better has historically been better than India at le using China principles. What the US does is pure Chanakin real politic isn't it? Purely their policy is completely amoral. I'm not saying immoral. I'm saying amoral. That's what the US policy is. I mean today they have taken they they took out Maduro in Venezuela today a couple of hours ago 4 hours ago they are doing and is it good for Venezuela they're going to essentially turn Venezuela into Wasal state and the only real real reason why they want Venezuela is because it's home to 20% of the world's proven oil reserves that's it it's a golden goose what happens to it people etc who cares what about human rights freedom democracy who cares so that's what the US does so all these principles, India can also use them in the pursuits of its own national interests. When it comes to let's say domestic politics in India, don't you see moral flexibility all the time? Don't you see the same set of principles being applied in domestic politics in state level politics, district level politics, national level politics? Don't various political parties routinely absorb individuals who who are members of other political parties, but just because I want your constituents in your votes, I'll I'll make you a member of my party. I'll even give you a cabinet position potentially. Sometimes you may have been a member of my opposition party, but now that you are part of my party, I'll give you some perks and rewards as long as you deliver the results I want. That's called moral flexibility. What happened to the party's ideology? Well, we're going to make sure that they will become part of our ideology and they'll adhere to our ideology. And we are doing all this maybe it may sound little not not very nice but we are doing this for the right reasons. So that's the justification that certain political parties or politicians will give and if they are doing the right thing for the right these things for the right reasons well maybe it makes sense. So and when it comes to governance well we can learn a lot about taxation etc from the ashastra the right way to do taxation I mean just one tax should be enough we don't need all these different tax labs and blah blah blah blah blah taxation upon taxation upon taxation you already paid income tax now with the little money that's left after paying income tax on top of that from that money you have to pay to pay road tax and this tax and that tax and GST and what not. I mean, why just have one single tax on everybody? Make it as simple as possible. Don't overburden people with taxes. Don't underburden them either. The government runs on taxation. So, taxation is legitimate. Everybody will pay. But make it simple. It looks like the tax tax uh department a lot of it exists just as an employment generation scheme to keep people employed. Why do we need that? So there's a lot we can learn from the from the Ara shastra to keep things simple about law and order about geopolitics about geostrategy about engaging with allies and adversaries about power projection so many things and the other nations they do it they do what Vishnuaneka said wrote about we are kind of catching up now Mishna says it's often said that we are living in the most difficult times today with geopolitical instability economic inequality, climate change, social unrest. But compared to some of the most devastating periods in human history, 536 to 540 AD, the volcanic winter and plague of Justinian 1347 to 1351, the black death in Europe, 1939 to 1945, the Second World War. Compared to these periods, we can truly consider, can we truly consider today the worst era? Why or why not? We are actually living in a very good era. There are some parts of the world where people are obviously facing terrible uh circumstances. A lot of Africa is like that. See when we discuss the world, we kind of disregard Africa, right? But Africa is part of the world. But overall, if you look at Eurasia, if you look at the Americas, North and South America, if you look at Oceanania, Australia, etc. If you look at China, Russia, Japan, all these countries, there's relative prosperity everywhere. There's no major war that's happening. Ukraine is is a like we discussed a frozen conflict. Apart from Ukraine, apart from the situation in Sudan, etc. in Africa, it's always Yeah. But apart from that, there's no major devastating disaster that's happening right now. There's been no major devastating war since 1945. Okay, Korea happened, sure. Iran, Iraq happened, sure. But these were localized conflicts. The four India Pakistan wars happened. Again, localized conflicts. India, China, again, no localized conflicts. A conflict. There's been no major devastation. There's been no major pandemic since 1918. I mean, well, we had one recently which was kind of not nice to put it mildly, but it not did not have any kind of anything near the effect that you had in the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic. Corona virus was nothing like that. Mortality rate was much lower, death toll was much lower and so on. So overall, you had many periods of time in the world where things were way, way, way worse than what we have today. Of course, there's geopolitical instability. That's always part of the menu. Right now, it's more than usual, but it is what it is. Economic inequality. There's always economic inequality. Inequality is a feature of the universe. It's a feature. It's a permanent feature of existence. Inequality. Every nation, no matter how prosperous, is going to have inequality. But what you need is social mobility, which means that okay, it's it's an unequal world. Can't do a thing about that. But let's say someone's poor, they should have the means to become prosperous. If you're poor, you should not be condemned to poverty for the rest of your life. If the society that you live in gives you the means and the avenues for bettering your your standard status in life then it's a fair society. Inequality is going to be there. Yeah. So inequality what's the big deal? I mean it's always been there. Climate change the climate has always changed. There's always been climate change. Social unrest I can show you times periods of time when you had tremendous social unrest. nothing I mean way more compared to today. So, you know, we are actually living in one of the most prosperous times, prosperous periods of history in the world. If you're living outside Africa, if you're in Africa, well, I'm sorry to say, yeah, things are bad there. Yeah. But yeah, in in the West especially when they discuss the world, they don't talk about Africa because of what they've done to it. So anyway uh if you disregard the situation in Africa much many parts of Africa then overall things are good and even in Africa things are kind of better than in the 19th century when the Europeans destroyed Africa devastated Africa so it's not that bad in Africa also so this is not the worst era I do not consider this to be worst the worst era by by a long stretch not at all okay now we'll discuss discuss Some history questions. Amisha says, "What is the history behind the migration of Indians to the Caribbean? Can it be regarded as slavery?" Well, it was called indentured labor. So, if you go to the Caribbean region today, the West Indies, where is it? Let's go to the map, sir. So the West Indies is in the Atlantic Ocean. Okay. Between North and South America in the Caribbean Sea. All these islands here are the West Indies, the Caribbean region. You have Cuba. You have Hispanola, which is in the Dominican Republic. You have Puerto Rico over here. And then you have Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica, Sabina Park. I'm sure everyone who knows cricket knows that. And then you have uh the British Virgin Islands, Antigua and Barbuda, St. Kits, Nevice, Monzerat, Guadalupe, Dominica, Martineik, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadians, Barbados, Bridgetown, Barbados. Here we have Bridgetown Barbados. Then you have Grenada, you have Trinidad and Tobago over here, Port of Spain, very famous place if you know cricket. And then you have uh yes, so that's about it. That's the Caribbean region. I'm sure I've missed this Bermuda as well. There's a Turks and Kikos Island. So this is the Caribbean region. Now if you Indians know about the Caribbean because of cricket India plays cricket U versus the West Indies which is a team that's composed of multiple Caribbean nations grouped together. And if you talk about the West Indies, the West Indies cricket team has always had multiple players of Indian origin, right? Rohan Khai, Albin Khalichan, um Ramdin Sharan Chandapal, uh Mahendra Dagabut, I'm sure I'm missing a lot of names. Yeah, some of the all-time greats from the West Indies have been of Indian origin. Ram Naresh Tarban. So why do we have so many Indians in the West Indies? And what about the island of Mauritius, Il Moraice? So if you go to Mauritius, it's in the Indian Ocean. You go down south from India and go westwards and east of Madagascar, you have Borlui, that is this is Mauritius and then you have Il Reo which is a French island which also has a substantial population but Mauritius is Indian majority. So it's it's technically part of Africa. uh the local language is French or it is Morish and the majority population is Indian of Indian origin the majority religion is if I'm not mistaken Hinduism um yeah so you you have that you also have lots of Indians in South Africa lots of Indians there you go to Durban for example significant Indian population in Durban Durban over here next to Peter Marittsburg Cape Town also So you have Indians there, right? So Indian populations in various parts of the world, all colonial parts of the world. How did this happen? How did Indians end up over here? How did Indians migrate to the Caribbean, South Africa, Mauritius and so on. So this was a system of what the British called indentured labor. Indentured labor under contract. It was created, the system was created to replace slave labor. Okay. So the British, you know, the British Parliament, it passed the slavery abolition act in 1833. The British and by extension the white people, Europeans, they like to claim and proclaim on social media, we abolished slavery. We abolished this evil system. Right? They Elon Musk says that all the time. We abolish slavery. But the slavery that they abolished, who started it, who institutionalized slavery that the British ended, they themselves did that? The Americans had slavery. The British used slaves. And then 1833, the British end slavery. And that's why they're the good guys apparently, right? So in 1833 the British Parliament passed this slavery abolition act and this created a severe labor shortage on various sugar plantations uh in various parts of the world. Okay. Uh so to to replace that they created the system of indentured labor under contract. U in practice this indentured labor under contract it functioned as a new system of slavery. It was highly coercive but it was legally distinct from slavery from chatt slavery. So indentured servitude is different legally from chatt slavery because in in indentured servitude you have contracts you have nominal wages you have time limits and so on. But in the real world, you had recruitment fraud. You had, you know, physical punishment. You had what they called plantation discipline. You had lethal working standards. Essentially, most workers had no real freedom. They were essentially the same as slaves. They were treated like slaves. When you moved to a when you were brought to a plantation, your life was at the mercy of the white overlord. Yeah. You had to do what you were told. Yeah. So there was a very little real freedom. So the British ended slavery you know by passing this act and then they launched what they called the great experiment in indentured migration and they decided that we will go looking towards India for a large cheap workforce. India Indians are plentiful right? So we'll get labor from India. So in the 1830s so 1833 the act is passed. Next year the the the the English the British started a movement of bringing Indian laborers indentured laborers to Mauritius. Okay to work on various plantations in Maicius. Eventually by between 1834 and 1920 about half a million Indians were brought to Mauritius as indentured laborers. Okay. And most of them came from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and some of them came from southern parts of India. I've had friends from Mauritius personally mostly from they are mostly from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh. Some are of Marathi origin and some are of at least one of my friends was of Tamil origin. Right? So that's what was done and these these uh laborers they had to sign contracts multi-year contracts okay they would work on sugar plantations sugar estates sometimes they would be redistributed like goods to some other places maybe from one estate one plantation to another one sometimes from one colony to another col colony maybe in the Indian Ocean maybe to the Caribbean etc so initially it starts with Mauritius okay 1834 all the way to the 1920 to the to the 1920s. Okay. Then this then they start sending Indians to the Caribbean also. Okay. They started shipping Indian workers to British Guyana sometime in the 1830s. Um and the government of British India which is the British occupation government of India the British occupiers they enacted some legislation in India which uh legalized the transportation of Indian laborers to places like Jamaica like Trididad to places like Deara if you have heard of Deara sugar that's the place it it came from then in the second half of the 19th century from 1850s all the way to the 1870s in almost 1900 um this became a systematic practice. Take Indian laborers, make them sign contracts, ship them off to some part of the world. Okay. So about 2 million Indians in total 20 lakh were transported as de facto slaves to I don't know 10 20 colonies Maicius various islands in the Caribbean Trinidad, British Guyana, Jamaica, Suridam. Okay. also to Fiji, also to Natal province in South Africa and also to places like Malaysia, Malaya and East Africa, also to Sri Lanka. Um, Surinam was ruled by the Dutch. They began importing Indians from the in the second half of the of the 19th century uh through an agreement with the British Empire. Okay. So the British owned the goods and the Dutch decided agreed with the British that we will import your goods which is Indian laborers and then you had Indian laborers who started coming to Surinam and started started working there. They had five-year contracts. Okay. The promise was that after your your contract is over you'll be sent back home. But that hardly ever happened. Um so eventually this system of indentured slavery, indentured servitude, it was ended around the second decade of the 20th century by 19 roughly 1920 or something. Um so but but whichever contracts were signed they they ran into the 1920s. So what happened is that you know in India there was this severe see India had been de-industrialized by the British. India had been devastated by the British. The British had engineered hundreds of artificial famines in India. Indians were starving. India's economy was was being destroyed in real time. There was because India was de-industrialized. All the all the all the jatis of of the various people that we have in India, their traditional occupations had been destroyed. So there was no way to earn money and to sustain families, right? So people needed employment anyhow. So that's how they were able to you know lure Indians into signing contracts. The promises were often that you'll get a high wage etc. Maybe sometimes some people were even kidnapped into doing this. Yeah. The fact is that the wages were very low. The wages could be withheld withheld based on any any flimsy pretext. Okay. Um whatever men earned women earned maybe twothirds of that maybe 3/4s of that. So women earned less than men and if you deserted, if you did not work one day or you you tried to run away, you were treated as a criminal. Um, every day you were given tasks, if you could not finish your task, then you would be severely penalized. Maybe you'll be flogged, beaten, maybe your fine your your your wages will be withheld. Maybe they will find you three months wages or whatever. Maybe you'll be imprisoned. maybe you'll be killed. Killing was was not that that frequent because the labor was of course valuable that sort of thing. And once the contract of the indentured labors was or laborers was over, they were supposed to receive a free trip back to India or a subsidized trip back to India. But typically this never happened. Very very few of few of them these people were able to return to India. So even eventually over time these indentured laborers who were essentially de facto slaves they just settled down in the places where they had been transported and they became essentially the foundations the foundations of the societies Indian societies of Trinidad of Ghana of Surinam of Mauritius PG and so many others. They were able to preserve their languages, whatever language they spoke. They were able to preserve their religion, Hinduism. They were able to preserve their cultural practices and they also created new local entities, the Indian diaspora, right? Um, so that was that's the story of the indentured Indians who were shipped off to far away parts of the world. Right. So it's it was essentially a new system of slavery. That's what it was. That's the story. Okay. Um next question. Nirvana Shanks says, "Was the British Empire's real power its navy or its bureaucracy?" The British Empire and its real power navy bureaucracy. Well, you see, it is naval power, sea power that made the British Empire possible. Without sea power, the British Empire would never have existed. So, it all started with piracy. Uh, Queen Elizabeth, she was the patron of pirates. She funded piracy in the Atlantic and beyond. At that time, the British Navy was not very capable. So, they relied on guerrilla tactics. They had these privateeers, pirates who would uh engage in slave trade and whatn not and and and theft and piracy. But eventually the British navy get got better and it is this naval power that made the British Empire possible. So without the naval power there was no British Empire. So the naval power made the British Empire possible but bureaucracy made it durable, longived and governable. Right? So the British started acquiring territories slowly in various parts of the world. So the navy was the foundation of this expansion of the British footprint and eventual global reach of Britain. And then they had to administer the territories that they had occupied. So the Portuguese were not good at this. But the Brit British they demonstrated they were really good at this. So they had to create an administrative machine, an imperial administrative machine that would turn the capture of a territory into longlasting control and revenue through extraction by various means. Right? So the British Navy its job was to secure the control of sea lanes and trade routes. Its job was to protect merchant shipping the ships that would be transporting all the plundered resources from India for example. Okay. So the naval royal the British Royal Navy it protected this merchant shipping. It secured the control of the sea lanes and through this it was able to it enabled Britain to project its power globally. So today you have the US that projects power globally through its network of extr territorial bases and the US Navy. Well, the British did the exact same thing. The British Navy did the exact same thing during the British u empire. So that's that's that was the rule of the British Navy and the naval supremacy of the British. It allowed the British to blockade its their enemies. It gave the British the power to prevent any invasion of the British islands. Without the home base, what do you do? And the navy also supported campaigns that captured territories like Canada, like India. So the primary strategic asset of the rise of the British Empire was the British Navy. But once these territories were acquired, the British used imperial institutions, the civil services, the Indian civil service for example. These institutions, they converted the territory and the raw power of the British into systems of authority, of governance, tax collection, law, etc. Right? And they over time the British developed elaborate techniques, administrative techniques like you know writing the law, codifying the law for for for a for a colony um civil services that are based on merit and so on. So by doing this this allowed a small number of officials to manage huge populations in huge territories for long periods of time. Uh so that's the situation. The bureaucracy was very important. It was very important for the British. The naval power always came first. But the bureaucracy became the the the main instrument of ever everyday domination. So when you have moments of military success, those moments of military success have to be converted into long-term rule over a territory. So the naval power did that. it it at these moments of naval success. But then the bureaucracy its job was to control and administer the the territory which was captured. Its job was to extract the resources. It was to enforce the rule long after the battles were over. So the British Empire's real power, it was the interaction between naval power in the in the in the frontiers of the of the empire and the bureaucracy in the interior of the empire. Right? Krishna of the Suryam Netherlands says in the book Indika by Meastanes the Greek ambassador to partiput to India. So in this book indica it's mentioned that there were seven casts in bhat bashra but it was better organized than now with four casts. Does that also correspond with our own indigenous sources? What's my view on this? So mastes was the Greek ambassador to India. Um he was based in Patutra present day Patna. Um and he wrote this treaties this book about India about what he observed in India what kind of society does India have what kind of geography does India have it was a very practical book the kind of book that you will find in a military tactical manual or something so one of the observations that Mastinis made was that there were seven classes of people in Indian society okay what kind of people what classes of people seven classes First of all, you had philosophers or or wise men, okay, which would include Brahmans and other religious specialists. Their job was to perform religious rituals and sometimes advise the king. When you had farmers, cultivators, uh they would produce food obviously and they were not required to participate in any war effort. Their job was to only cultivate food which would be something that serves the entire society. Then you had herdsmen and hunters, you know, people who uh who who did animal husbandry who kept herds of cattle or animals and also people who hunted. Then you had traders and artisan, craftsmen, merchants, people who were engaged in production of goods in the exchange of goods. Then you had the warriors, soldiers, fighting men. They were professional warriors. They were distinct from other classes and their job was to only prepare for war at all times and be be prepared. Then you had bureaucrats and overseers and magistrates. Okay, officials, inspectors, sometimes spies. Their job was to supervise the administration of the society of the of the government. Uh their job was to supervise markets. Their job was to maintain public orders. Police also would have been part of this. And then you had the king's counselors and high officers. the people who were involved in advising the king and running the government at the high level high levels and judging various things. Okay. So that's the situation that you had in India. Seven classes of people and measures reported that there was no there were no slaves in India. There was no slavery in India. So Mastanis classified Indian society into seven classes based on the function that people uh served in society. Now does this correspond with our Indian indigenous sources? So India's sources don't mention seven classes of of people in society. If you if you study various Sanskrit texts, ancient texts from that time period, other time periods, there's no mention of seven classes of society. The Indian texts emphasize jatis innumerable jatis in Indian society classified essentially into four vernas four major categories of occupations but uh innumerable jatis that's what our texts emphasize the sevenfold division is something that migastines came up with he classified the occupations of people classifi classified the functions and he he came up with a seven-fold classification, seven class scheme. So Indian texts don't speak about this. It's also possible that maybe Indian texts did encode this information but those texts were all destroyed because a thousand years ago all of India's texts, the majority of India's texts were destroyed in the destruction of India's libraries by the Turks and the burning of the destruction of the universities by the Turks and the burning of the library. So maybe that information was there but it was destroyed. But whatever information we have today based on the on the evidence and records that we have today, there is no mention in Indian texts of a sevenfold division of the society in India. Right. Okay. Um Sahaj Dang says, shouldn't India shouldn't Sri Lanka be a part of India instead of being a separate nation? So I don't think I have to open the map to show you where Sri Lanka is. I'm sure all Indians know where Sri Lanka is. You ought to know. Yeah. So the question is shouldn't Sri Lanka be a part of India instead of being a separate nation? Well, let's go back to history. The various historical periods in our history and place Sri Lanka in the context. If we talk about the Morian period, that's about 2,300 years ago roughly. Chandra Gupta Moria Bindhuar Ashok and so on and the Morian Empire was it was at its greatest extent during Emperor Ashok's time at that time was Sri Lanka part of India was Sri Lanka administered from partiputra it wasn't was it a vasal possibly but it wasn't part of the empire Empire. If you talk about the subsequent great empire, the Kushan Empire, was Sri Lanka part of the Kushan Empire? It wasn't. Next, you have the Gupta Empire. Huge, vast empire. Was Sri Lanka ever a part of the Gupta Empire? As far as I can remember, it wasn't. But let's fact check my memory. Um, let's let's find out. Okay. Was Shri Lanka part of the Gupta Empire's territory let's see so Sri Lanka was not a formal territory of the Gupta Empire but it was a vasal state of of the Gupta Empire there Sri Lanka's ruler acknowledged the Gupta emperor Samudra Gupta Suzaranti so Sri Lanka was a vasal. It was not officially formally part of India. It wasn't Gupta Empire. Then the next great empire is the Chola Empire. Rajendra Chola whether it is Rajaraj or Rajendra one of those two conquered Sri Lanka and Sri Lanka was part of the official territory the formal it was formally part of the Chola Empire. So yes Chola Empire Sri Lanka was part of India. Then what's next? Marata Empire. Sri Lanka was not part of the Maratha Empire. British Raj, it was part of the British Raj, but that's not an Indian Empire. It's a conquest empire, right? It's a it's it's a foreign occupying force. So that we we don't discuss that. We're talking about our history, not not the history that foreigners imposed upon us. So if we look at if you regard if we examine all these different empires that have ruled India that have been part of our history our government our administration apart from the Chola Empire none of the other empires had incorporated for Sri Lanka formally into its territory. So Sri Lanka is obviously part of the subcontinental region. The Sri Lankan people have the same genetics as us, the same religious and and cultural and civilizational heritage as us. They're essentially the same people as us. The language they speak is an is an arian language, Indo-arian language. Um, of course there is a sizable Tamil population in Sri Lanka who speak Tamil, but once again, same people, right? So Sri Lanka is is a nation that's essentially Indian but it's a separate nation state. So should Sri Lanka be a part of India? It depends on the context. When Joseph Stalin was shown a map of India, he asked about he pointed to Sri Lanka and said what is this island? And he was told it's a separate country. He said why is it a separate country? Are you people crazy? So yeah from that perspective if you are a great power you should incorporate all territories that you can. So the situation today is such that India isn't that powerful right now. The situation is such that the greatest just like the the most powerful nation in Western Europe isn't Germany or France or England. It's the United States. Even though the US is geographically not part of Europe, it is still the most powerful entity, the most powerful nation in Western Europe. Similarly, today we have a situation that the most powerful nation in the Indian subcontinent isn't India, it's the United States. And in that situation, there's no way India can make Sri Lanka part of the nation. Maybe in the future if India becomes way more powerful may happen. We'll see about that. So it's not about is it morally correct for Sri Lanka to be part of India. There's no morality in geopolitics. It's all about can you do it? Are you powerful enough to make it happen? And India today is not powerful enough to make it happen. Okay. Um Nirvana Shanks says, "What was the Wild West? How did expansion, frontier life, conflict of the Native Americans, lawlessness, and economic opportunities define this period in American history? Okay, wild west. Let's go to the map and I'm going to show you the river Mississippi because it's going to be well relevant to what we're going to discuss here. So, once again, we go to the to the to North America. Okay? And let's search for the Mississippi River. Mississippi River, United States. It's giving me just one point. Okay. Look, uh, the Mississippi River, it drains out near Galveastston. I said, no, New Orleans. Sorry. So, somewhere here you have the drainage basin of the Mississippi River. Is it here? It's somewhere New Orleans, obviously. So, is this the Mississippi? Yeah, this is the Mississippi. So the Mississippi River drains out into the Gulf of Mexico in the New Orleans region. Now if you go north, if you go to, for example, Minneapolis, which is all the way north, Minneapolis, Minnesota, well, if you zoom in, which river do we have here? It's the Mississippi. Would you believe it? And the Mississippi originates somewhere up here up north. I'm not going to try and trace out the origins. I once did that. This is the Mississippi. It originates in a lake or something up north here somewhere here. So, it's a massive gigantic river, the longest river system in the world. And it kind of divides the US into two halves. Not two halves, but an eastern part of the US and the western part of the US. And the wild west was the region west of the Mississippi River. Okay, so that's the starting point of our discussion. The Wild West was the part the region of the US present US which was west of the Mississippi River. So that's the geographical context. But what about the temporal context? What time period are we talking about? Wild west. We're talking about the 19th century. So the American Civil War ended in 1865. So from the time of the end of the Civil War in the US 1865 to about 1900. That's the kind that's the time period we're talking about when we're talking about the Wild West. So it was this frontier region of the US west of the Mississippi. And the frontier was always pushing westwards, pushing westwards, pushing westwards. Okay. Um so this period between 1865 and 1900 is when most of the western territories in the US were settled settled forcibly by the European origin people. They were settled the territories were grabbed they were fenced up and then they were linked by rail by railroads and roads and then states were created. For example Delaware Delaware is in the east but yeah you get the point. These states were created. So this period what did you have in this period? You had rapid westward expansion of European colonizers, colonists, settlers. They had to face harliving conditions because there was no settlement there, European settlement. And the the the Europeans what they would do was that they had guns and superior technology and they would violently displace the Native Americans from the Native American territories which eventually became the US West. Okay. And when you have this going on, there is no there's no law. There's no court of law. The territory is unknown. There's very few Europeans there. There's no one to give you law and justice and police and all that. So there was essentially no law which is lawlessness. But there were tremendous economic opportunities because new land, inexhaustible quantities of new land. The land was rich in resources. You could do mining in the land. much of the land was good for mining. You could do ranching, you know, agriculture on the land, cattle, cattle ranching, you ranching, you could raise cattle on those on that land and you would link everything through railroads. Okay. So in the US government at the time the government's policies supported a transcontinental railroad system and this encouraged millions of European origin settlers to start moving and pushing westwards and they were told whatever territories you you you grab they're yours essentially right so huge vast areas of grasslands even deserts were turned into farms and ranches and eventually towns And people settled there and the frontier line kept on inexorably moving westwards, pushing westwards. So new territories would be surveyed, they would be settled, the natives would be massacred or pushed out, right? And then these territories would eventually be turned into states and eventually they pushed out all the way to the Pacific Ocean in the west. So life in the frontier for the Europeans was pretty demanding. It was very isolated. Small settlements. Yeah. families would live in um small cabins, small houses. They had to cope with very extreme, very harsh weather, extreme weather. Yeah. They had to rely on farming essentially subsistance farming. They had to rely on hunting um or they had to initially rely rely on small-cale ranching um and then they eventually built up churches and churches are very important for European life at the at the time. and then local committees and schools. Um and uh at this time you also had something that was a devastating event, man-made event that was happening in the Americas, North America, the the near destruction of the American bison. So the Native Americans, they depended, especially the the so-called plains Indians in the Great Plains regions, they depended on the native on on the American bison for everything. The bison were called buffalo. So their entire lifestyle, livelihood, everything depended on the bison. They depended on the bison for meat, for fur. They depended on the bones of the bison, for various things. Everything revolved around the bison. So the Americans, the Europeans, European occupiers decided, let's kill off every single every last bison. That way the entire lifestyle and livelihood of the uh of the natives will be wiped out and they will become helpless. As long as the bison exist, these people have all the power in the world because they they get all the food, all everything from the bison. If the bison no longer exists, they will become completely helpless and dependent on us and then they'll be able to we'll be able to make them do what we want. So the Americans went out with rifles and they just started randomly shooting bisons. They killed million hundreds of millions of bison and the American North American bison was was nearly made extinct. So this was going on at the time of the wild west expansion. Yeah. So all these Native American population centers were devastated. The whites seized land for mining, for ranching, for settling. Whatever treaties they had made with the natives were broken. And then eventually they were able to subjugate all the tribes, massacre them, brutalize them, subjugate them and push them onto reservations. Okay? And this process obviously involved multiple wars which were called the Indian wars. So you had wars with these native tribes. There were massacres all over the place. There were forcible removals of people from their territory and shoving them into territories thousand hundreds of kilometers away. Yeah, there was resistance against the Europeans by groups like the the Lacot, like the Cheyenne and the Europeans retaliated with military campaigns and with policies whose objective was to end the indigenous control of the lands in North America. So you had all of this situation and eventually they were able to start you know settle down in towns, create towns, have low enforcement um and so on. But for a long time you had a lawless state in in the the Wild West. You had theft, you had uh cattle theft, cattle rustling they called. Sometimes you had big crimes and so on. You had vigilant justice. You had groups of people who would meet out justice. They were called posies. Um there are people who were hired as low men to fill the gap. They would have revolvers or guns or whatever. So everyday life for the white residents, white settlers would be about routine disputes and so on, not the spectacular gunfights that you see in in in Hollywood movies. So that's how how it was. And eventually um what you found is that the the Europeans were able to push further westwards and settle. And this gave rise to tremendous economic opportunities for the Europeans. And this attracted a huge population, very diverse population. You had all kinds of European immigrants, Germans and a and Dutch people and all. You obviously had African-Americans, slaves. You had Mexicans who would come and work. You had Chinese workers who had been imported and so on. And all of this shaped the US economy, the US demography. And yeah, it was a time when you had essentially full freedom. So the wild west was all about individual freedom and liberty and upward mobility. That was the wild west in the US. Amisha says, why weren't Native Americans the primary slave population in America? Great question. The Native Americans were the indigenous people who lived in large numbers in the United States. Why weren't they made the slaves? Why did the Americans, the European colonizers, occupiers, why did they import African slaves? That's a great question. The reason is simple. The natives had large population groups. They could always escape and get refuge with one of these population groups. Even if you had different tribes, but they still all regarded the white man as the as the oppressor, as the occupier. And the Native Americans, they knew the geography of the region very well, of the entire continent essentially. They were very well adapted for thousands of years to the climate. So it was very hard to control them and they were very good at escaping. And if they escaped, they would they would be fine. They would not die out. If an African origin slave escaped, he essentially faced almost certain death. The Africans were not adapted to the climate. They did not understand the geography of the region. They would be either recaptured or they would just die from exposure to the to the elements, the climate. Um, it's not like Native Americans weren't enslaved. Native Americans were also enslaved. But eventually the Europeans decided that the African slaves were a better investment, right? And eventually the natives were massacred and their populations declined drastically. So it made sense to have Africans come and Africans were sturdier and maybe more reliable slaves. So a combination of these factors ensured that the it was lucrative and and and seen as a good investment to have African slaves instead of enslaving large numbers of native Americans. Natives were also enslaved in large numbers but eventually Africans were preferred because of these reasons. Okay, let's take maybe a couple more questions. Um this is an interesting one really now says why do you think the US had so many successful psycho serial killers between the 1970s and 1990s so the so-called golden age of serial killers 3600 killers I'm not sure about that number definitely around a thousand maybe slightly less than thousand 36 seems a little inflated but whatever so you had the golden age of serial killers way more serial serial killers than any other country even after considering per capita and high reporting numbers. Also, do US cops get away with almost anything? So, the US is the nation that essentially invented serial killers. I think I mean nowhere else have you had so many serial killers? Like the US I mean the names are kind of legendary in the nastiest of ways. John Wayne Gasey, um Ted Bundy, and and so many more. Okay, so these these folks, I mean, these people were just inhuman monsters, and some of them had had, you know, the number of people they killed went into the hundreds, some of them. Um, so why was this this this the case? You had there are reports of serial killers of other nations too. Um you had one very infamous serial killer in the USSR. I forget his name. Uh who was pretty monstrous but it's the US that has given the world this entire thing. Serial killer. So why why did you have this situation? So many serial killers all the way from the 1970s to the 1990s. So the US is an artificial nation. It's been settled by foreigners, right, by Europeans. And much of the US is just wide open, very low population density. So in the from the 1950s, the Wild West era was from the 19 from the from from 1865 all all the way to 1900. The Indians were properly subjugated. The Indians as in the Native Americans were properly subjugated around 1900 or so. You still had a few more rebellions, but by the time the the the west was mainly conquered, but the west was still the west the west of the Mississippi was still, you know, um it still had a very low population density. And then by the 1950s, you had the explosion of suburbia, which which means suburban neighborhoods, wide open neighborhoods with low population density, where you have all these houses, the baby boomers set up houses there. So you had low population density, you had the explosion of suburbs, you had high mobility, you had highways all across the country. So people traveling all the time. So it was not unusual for you to meet strangers. Most of the people very often you would meet would be strangers. That's one. Then you had from the 1950s60s onwards socializing became an outdoor kind of activity. people would spend time socializing in in bars in pubs or whatever and over there you would meet a lot of strangers. So it was not unusual at all to meet a person you've never seen before and you would not feel uncomfortable at that time. You also had um rudimentary policing methods. You do not have uh databases of serial killers of or criminals. You do not have fingerprint databases. You do not have DNA databases. The techn the DNA fingerprinting technology did not even exist at the time. So because of these factors and and you had mercury, you had lead in petrol in gasoline. So there was a time when there used to be a lot of lead in the gasoline petrol in the US and that damages people's brains and causes criminal tendencies apparently. So combination of these factors created you know high level of criminality in the in the United States. and the rise of serial killers and uh then serial kill this entire phenomenon of serial killer became a popular fiction etc kind of theme and those stories that would come out in literature and popular fiction and and TV series they would then serve as templates for new serial killers to for how to execute their whatever they were executing you know their methodology. So because of this from the 1960s '7s onwards all the way through to the 1990s you had this proliferation of these evil psychotic monsters serial killers all across the United States some of whom are very famous or rather infamous and from the 1990s onwards you had the United States had constructed this database of criminals with their fingerprints eventually DNA DNA information data all of that and and policing methods became more and more sophisticated So from the '90s onwards it was it became and then you had the proliferation of of uh CCTV cameras and then with the advent of cell phones it was it became easy to track anybody. Uh because of all these factors eventually technology caught up and then it was it became very hard for anyone to be a serial killer which is why you have you have so few serial killers today and even if you have serial killers uh they don't you know they don't have too many victims before they caught. So that was the phase the US went through and it essentially is is the nation that invented serial killers more or less. All right. Um let's take maybe one or two more questions. Um I still have so many questions to take but uh we have gone way past two hours so I'll take maybe one or two more. Real Vladimir Putin says lot of industry lots of industry lists in India date back their family business all the way to British occupation of India. It is clear that these industry lists were on the British payroll. What's my opinion? How did they get all the wealth? Look during the British occupation of India if you were an industrialist you had to cooperate with the British in all ways in every way. You could only become successful if you had the blessings of the British. Essentially, you could only be successful as an industrialist, as a business person, if you were a British collaborator, which means you acted or you colluded with the British against against the interests of India. As simple as that. It may be hard to believe for some of you because of the indoctrination you've got through the education system. Imagine this different scenario. 1940s France occupied by Nazi Germany. France in the 1940s was under Nazi Germany's occupation. Fully controlled by the Nazi Germany by by Nazi Germany. The French government the Vishy regime was a puppet government. It was entirely controlled by the Germans during this time period. If a French business was successful, what would it mean? It means that they colluded with the with the German occupiers. Otherwise, the Germans would never allow any business to succeed in France unless it colluded and cooperated and collaborated with the Nazi occupiers. Makes sense, right? Now that I give this example, but when I give the example of India, you're like, "No, no, no, never happened. It cannot happen." Every single successful Indian business that operated during the British occupation of India was able to succeed by colluding and collaborating with the British against the interests of India. As simple as that. And many of these businesses still kind of are big businesses today. So anyone who was wealthy in 1947 was wealthy only because of collusion with the British. Because in 1857 the British destroyed India's authentic royal families and they plundered all the wealth from every single rich wealthy person who had become wealthy legitimately. without colluding with foreigners. After 1857, if you are wealthy, it means that you had colluded with the British. As simple as that. They did not allow a single wealthy person to remain wealthy unless they were colluding with them in unless they were of some value to the British. That is a very harsh truth that you we have to understand. Everybody colluded with the British. All those who are wealthy. Anybody who was wealthy in 1947 was a collaborator. That's it. It's the truth. Okay. Okay. I'm going to end this here. Maybe I can Let's see the live chat. What do we have? We have 21 super chats. We have 21 super chats. Well, okay. I shall take those. That's going to take another one hour. Let's see. Okay. My request is please stop taking superhat so that I can end this live stream at at a reasonable time. Okay. Let's see this. Chakraat says, "How much did the Marshall plan really drive Europe's re-industrialization and how fair is the belt and road comparison about US companies benefiting completely?" Marshall plan. It's been a while since I've thought about the Marshall Plan. I'm a little fuzzy on that right now, sir. The Marshall Plan, obviously, it did drive Europe's industrialization, but it made Europe beholden to the US in a variety of ways. Now, how exactly did that happen? I'm going to have to do some refreshing of my of my memory before I can tell you about that. Right now, I don't have an answer on the spot. It's been a while since I've read about this, a long while. So yeah, I cannot answer this question as of now on the spot about the Marshall plan, but maybe I will revisit it in the future. It's Anjay Anjay says, "If Mr. Trump can move on with invasion with an invasion via BS excuses, shouldn't Mr. Modi go for a Pakistan? Are we so weak that we can't even monkey big boss?" See, my friends, let me show you a harsh truth about the world. It may upset many many many of you but my job over here is to tell you the truth so that you understand the world better. So here's the map of the world. You see first of all let's see Western Europe. Which is the most powerful nation in Western Europe? It's the United States. Even though the US is all the way across the Atlantic, the US is the most powerful nation in Western Europe. None of these countries can do anything significant without taking permission from the United States. Similarly, in the Indian subcontinent, the most powerful nation isn't India. It is the United States. If Mr. Modi goes for East Pakistan, the US will India's economy without firing a single bullet through economic sanctions. That is the harsh truth. Is it Mr. Modi's fault? It's not Mr. Modi's fault. Mr. The Modi has been doing whatever he can since 2014 and we have come a long way. But if we had started in 1948 47 or even in 1990 today we would be able to make a move on East Pakistan. Right now we can't. It is what it is. That's just the facts. ICMBB says can you speak a little about why Chinese civil wars feature a lot more in top 10 deadliest conflicts? Is there a philosophical reasoning behind it? No, there's no philosophical reasoning behind it. There's a part of China that is immensely populated. The population density is very high. It's called the Hihei Taong line. Let me show you that. Um, okay. See, here it is. Teng Chong Hi Ten Chong line. See, check out this this division. The yellow portion is about 5% of China's population, 6%. And the red portion is 94% of China's population. Very high population density. Now historically even the northern part of the red zone wasn't China. It's only the southern half of the red zone which was Han China and most of your conflicts happened there. Okay. These conflicts were part of China's imperial cycles. In a in a Chinese imperial cycle, you have a dynasty that rises. it it becomes powerful. It creates an empire. It has the mandate of heaven. Eventually, it loses the mandate of heaven which means it it loses control of the country and then it collapses and there's a period of 50 or 100 years maybe of 200 years of just chaos and civil war. And this civil war is it happens in population centers and whatnot. Which is why you have extremely high casualties, extremely high 50 million dead, 20 million dead. that that that that sort of number numbers that boggle your imagination. So that that's how it is in China. Chinese conflicts are typically just mind-boggling in scale and and it's also something to do with culture. Right? In India, you've never had civil wars. And even when you had conflicts between kingdoms, the conflicts would never involve citizens, civilians never because of the way India society is structured civilizationally. But it's only warriors who fight and you never touch civilians. In China, there was no such thing. So everybody got involved and dragged into the whole thing. And that's why you had massive, massive casualties, siege warfare, starvation, poisoning of water, cannibalism, whatnot. Shivanchu Dadich says, "Where can I learn about Vidanta or Sanka or Hindu philosophy? What are the authentic sources?" I am not the right person to ask this. If you want a book reference, I can give you one. Uh Indian philos who is Indian philosophy. An introduction introduction to Indian philosophy. The book is by Oh yeah, this one uh this one this one book by Satish Chandra Chhatji and introduction to Indian philosophy I would recommend this book this is a good introductory introduction to Indian philosophy uh it's in English obviously this is what I can recommend beyond that I I I don't know I am not an expert in vanta or shanka or Hindu philosophy But this book gives you a good decent introduction highlevel introductory introduction into Hindu philosophy. We also have book books by Max Zimmer. I'm sure I've referred to those books in the past on this channel. There's also the principle of byopran and so on. I would say the book that I showed you that that's a good way to get introduced to Hindu philosophy. Dva Koshel says why has India not considered a China Pakistan economic corridor style trade corridor with China or Russia Russian aircraft instead of relying on Boeing and Airbus? What does CPEC have to do with Boeing and Airbus? Okay, it's two questions you're asking me, separate questions. Why has India not considered a CPEC style trade corridor with China? China is an adversary nation. China seeks India's balkcanization. China agrees with the US only on one thing. India must not rise. How can we have a China Pakistani that sort of corridor with with China? Especially when we have a hundred billion dollar trade deficit with them, they will empty our treasury even more. Simply can't happen. Why isn't India buying Chinese weapons? Tell me. Because China is an adversary. China won't ever sell it. Certainly weapons. So immediately China will never agree to a trade corridor with India unless it is in their benefit. If it's in their benefit, it's going to hurt us. Makes no sense, sir. Um why hasn't India considered Russian aircraft instead of relying on Boeing and Airbus? Because Boeing and Airbus are western and they are better and superior. Yeah. I mean does Russia have an answer to Boeing or Airbus? Which aircraft does President Putin travel in? Which aircraft does Putin travel in? So it is an illusion. It's an illusion. IL96. What's it look like? Yeah, it's a good one, isn't it? But the issue is that they don't have the best engines. But if it is good enough for Vladimir Putin, I suppose it should be good enough for um ordinary people. Uh but overall Boeing and Airbus have better aircraft overall. The Russians have kind of fallen slightly behind in these matters. The engines that they use, the western aircraft like the Rolls-Royce engines etc., those are high quality engines, extremely good fuel efficiency and so on. the the the the Russian aircraft have historically been known for being fuel guzzlers and Russia had this great aircraft industry. Illusian, Tupolev, um Berv, so many different manufacturers, Sukoy obviously, Mikoyan, Gurvich, I'm not sure what the status is right now. We have signed a deal with with Sukoy, right? the Suk Sukoy Super 100 aircraft or something it's called which is an aircraft with about which can carry about 100 passengers we're going to manufacture those in India that's great so if the Russians can make high quality aircraft will be it will be great for India to co-manufacture those or even you know have some kind of arrangement agreement through which you can buy those or manufacture those in India but overall right now as of now at least the western aircraft are superior and India loves western stuff right So yeah, but it's a it's a good suggestion. It's a great suggestion. We should explore Russian alternatives to Western offerings. Godliness says rule-based order and UN resolutions are for weaklings, but the big big eagle, dragon, and bear can do whatever they want. What about Taiwan now? That's a good question. What about Taiwan now? What happens now? So the Chinese had the past few days encircled Taiwan and done unprecedented live firing exercises and naval exercises, air force exercises around Taiwan. Essentially encircling the island and some people interpreted this as a warning to the US. If you take Venezuela, we'll take Taiwan. Well, Venezuela is done. What happened to Taiwan? I don't see any move by China on Taiwan because Taiwan is not that easy. Taiwan is in China's backyard but China can't take it. I think they have a deadline right Xiinping has given a deadline. President Shi has given a deadline to his armed forces PLA that by 2027 Taiwan must be reintegrated. We'll see about that. Now Venezuela is done. Regime change has been effected. Soon you will have that Nobel Prize winning lady who will be sitting in the hot seat in Venezuela as a puppet just like Muhammad Yus sits in East Pakistan. That sort of thing. So Venezuela has done. Now what about Iran? What if the US makes a move on Iran? Similar to what they've done in Venezuela, will China move make a move on Taiwan then? Because the longer China waits and the more of these pieces fall into the US lap, the weaker China gets gets and the fewer options it has it has. So yeah, I think the world is the temperature is rising now. What about Taiwan now? Well, that depends on President Xanping. Does he have the gumption to order the PLA to go ahead and make a move? We'll see about that. I think it's still that that's a big call to make that espe essentially plunges the world into war. It can be very damaging to China's economy. China can't afford that right now. That's where we are. I think Xiinping can't make a move on Taiwan right now. That's where we are. Birup Sharkar says, "Has the quality of US diplomacy declined? In the 80s, they coordinated with Saudi Arabia to drive drive down oil prices and strain the USSR's economy. They seem unable to replicate a similar strategy today." See, diplomacy is an extension of warfare and warfare is an extension of diplomacy. Diplomacy sounds very nice and sophisticated and polite on camera. Behind closed doors, diplomacy is brutal. Diplomacy is outright threats. arm twisting of the worst kind, the worst kind of threats and so on. Diplomacy is nasty, nasty stuff. So it's the same thing as war but by different means as the quality of US diplomacy declined. Why diplomacy if it goes hand inhand with military action has been very successful. They've taken Venezuela out. Um in the 80s they did this with Saudi Arabia drown to drive down oil prices to strain USSR's economy. seem unable to replicate a similar strategy today. They don't seek to do such a thing today. If they drive oil prices down, it's going to hurt everybody. And oil prices are they they are well, unless you do something artificial like what they did at the time, oil prices are market driven. And if you artificially mess mess around with the oil prices, it's going to mess up the entire global economy. It's going to have second order, third order effects that you don't want. It may end up hurting the US. The US dollar is still the petro dollar. Yeah, it it depends on oil prices for its legitimacy on it depends on oil oil supply for for its legitimacy. Um I don't think the US even seeks to drive oil prices down right now. If they want they can but they don't want to. So, okay. Two kilowatts photographer says, "I dreamt that you met Modi G in an exhibition." All right. Okay. Nice dream. Um, I have come face to face with Mr. Modi on on several occasions. The last time was during the G20 summit in 2023. But yeah, I haven't met him in person like you know onetoone meeting that that hasn't happened. But nice nice dream you had. May it come true. Okay. Our opinion channel says 18 year old 60 1381 elo. Oh, chess. That's a good rating. Education feels like a suffocating factory. Father says it's too late for chess. Chess mastery or degree for survival. Please help. Got passion. Well, that's a tough choice, right? Uh dad says it's too late for chess. You're 18 years old. Why is it too late for chess if you're 18? Um 1381 elo rating is a good rating. Education obviously is suffocating. We understand. I would say ideally do both. Get your degree so your dad doesn't nag you too much and in the free time in your free time keep doing chess. Don't let it let let the flame of chess die away. Or if you think you're really good enough for chess, then well the option is to take a risk. But risks are risky and I am not the right person who can suggest take a risk. I don't know how good you are at chess. I don't know what your potential is in chess. If you have if if I I will see if hypothetically I see that you have the potential to be a top 20 player globally in chess, I would say dump everything and go for it. But I don't know where you stand in chess. Let me see what does 3081 ELO rating mean? Um 13 81 ELO rating. How good is that? Intermediate to solid beginner intermediate level placing you above average in many online chess platforms like chess.com but below expert levels. Okay. So you fall into a game's gold or advanced tier systems. Okay. Above average, you're past beginner. You're intermediate. You're consistently challenging players in that range. For official feeder rankings, 1381 is a specific numerical value, but context matters and so on. So, it's a solid rating, but you're definitely not a beginner. You're intermediate. Solid rating, but I don't know you personally. So, I don't know if if you have the potential for being, you know, at at the top in the top elite ranks in chess. If you have the potential to be an elite chess player, well then your financial security essentially can be taken care of by that. So in case you are that good, maybe chess is the right move. Otherwise, get your degree and continue chess. That's what I'll say. All right, sir. I understand how you feel. I've been there. Anyway, all the best. All the best, sir. Do well, make the right choice. Godliness says a lot of Pakistani PTI leaders and many Indian columnists believe Operation Zindur helped Aim Munir a lot. He is now more powerful and dangerous. Your view, it is the US that helped Aim Mader. It's the US. The US needs Pakistan as a counterbalance to India and Operation Tindur had to happen. Do you please please understand after they do a terror attack like the kind of like the kind that did we had to respond otherwise we lose our credibility as a as a as a serious nation. Do you understand? If we don't respond India looks like a loser, a punching bag all over again. we had no choice but to respond and that gave the US the opportunity to elevate a similar status. So once this happened, once the terrorist attack happened, we had no choice. We had to do what we had to what we did. So you can't blame Modi for this, right? That's my view. Uh BJU Saka says, "My hot take is that the 2030s is going to be China's best but last chance to beat the US in terms of GDP. After the 30s, the median age will be around 45 to 48 to 50 years. The population will also decline heavily. China is going to keep rising. See my view, my hottake, China is going to keep rising economically and technologically until the late 2030s, mid 2040s. That's when the decline of China will begin because then the median age will be above 50. So it kind of aligns with your hottake. But will China be able to beat the US in terms of GDP? GDP is okay. What China needs to beat the US in is technology and predominance in East Asia. If China can dislodge the US from East Asia, if China can break out of the island trains, that's a gigantic victory for for China. If China can break out into the Pacific, the Chinese Navy. So all of that, the best chance will be well this decade actually this decade and the longer China waits, the tougher it's going to get for China. GDP is okay. It is the geographical confinement of China that makes China weak through the three island chains first, second, third island chain. Uh the GDP is okay man even with a lower GDP if you have a powerful military you can do wonders. So that's how I see it. Kiran Mor says any updates on Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bhutan? No, right now no updates on Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan. Uh Vijua says why did big daddy US allow Brexit to happen? Because they wanted you the UK out of the EU orbit and they wanted the UK to be a special lap dog for themselves. That's why Sid Barka says US captured Moduro a special military operation. Absolutely. It's a special military operation ordered by Shri Donald Trump. If the US does it, it's good. It's for human rights. It's for democracy. It's for the Nobel Peace Prize winner. for putting her in the in the in the seat of the leader of Venezuela. It's all good if the US does it. If Russia does it, very bad. Okay. Godliness says it is Iran next. Also, your view on how we should manage our relationship with all with this power-drunk US establishment. Both Trump, MAGA and Democrats want Modi out. Who is getting Nobel in India? Is Iran next? Well, logically Iran should be next. Logically, Iran would be next. The Western Hemisphere is settled now. Whichever nations are slightly, you could say, anti-US, they are insignificant. Venezuela was the big prize, but 1/5if of the entire world's proven oil reserves. That's done. Next, logically, it's Iran. Ukraine can wait. Ukraine settlement can wait. Yeah. So, the question is, what does Russia do about it? What does China do about it? Okay. How should we manage our relationship with the US? Manage it. The only solution India has, only option, only solution is to keep quiet, absorb all the pain, all the insults and work on the economy. No master stroke reactions, no hard harsh words, nothing. Just shut up and do your job. That's it. That is the only solution India has. 20 years of pain and growth. Keep growing 6 7 8% per year ideally 10% per year. That's all. That's the only thing India can do. There is no other option. We should have started this process 20 years before it started. Not in 19 not in 2014 but in 1994. So this is where we are now. So we have no option. Uh yeah, everyone wants Modi out. We know that who's getting nowhere in India. I don't know. Uh AJ Aaya, thank you very much sir. Ajit thank you very much. Biju Sakya says it's just a fun fact that shocked me today. Zoroastras Buddha confucious were all alive at the same time. We are not quite sure of that. I'm not sure about the real date of the Buddha. Goautam Buddha. I think there's a very high chance that our ancient chronology is just completely wrong. Zoroaster once again we're not quite sure when he lived. We're not sure. Probably after the reign of Kurush Cyrus the great because Cyrus was not Zoroastrian. His descendants were but once again is that the right time period we not 100% sure. And Buddha about two and a half millennia ago but there's lots of question marks actually about the sheet anchors of India's history so Nirut Kumar says Venezuela is about to be made America's oil producing puppet or colony like the US why doesn't India do the same with Saudi Qatar who have its oil own oil colony or and have its own oil colony perpet Well, we could do it if we had the power. We could do it if we had the power to do it. We don't. We aren't powerful enough to do this at this point in time. Why doesn't China take Taiwan? China is so powerful. Taiwan is right next door. Why doesn't China take Taiwan? Because the US is too powerful for it. Similarly, India, why doesn't India take Qatar Saudi? Because the Americans are too powerful. They will not allow this to happen. We live in the real world, right? That's why uh V4 says, "You rock, thank you very much, V4 Valor. Thank you so much for your kind words and your encouragement. I shall rock more." Thank you. G L Haha says, "Please summarize the situation in Venezuela. Why US bully them?" I gave a half an hour summary at the very beginning of this live stream. So when the live stream ends, please go ahead and watch it. I've summarized as as best as I can and as in as much detail as is possible at this early stage in the regime change operation. Okay. Um Lolha says chat GPD disagrees with this. Persia itself was part of an ancient Vic culture then separated out into Zorastan etc. their language roots to ancient Indian language they will not agree with it. So JPT is not evil. It's just a poor AI system that somebody controls. Whatever inputs they have given to it, it's going to respond to you based on those inputs. And there may be some subtle biases coded into it. So it's okay. It's okay. When India makes its own AI systems, it they will agree with with us. This is a foreign AI system. It's Chad Japet's masters are sitting in the US. So it's going to do what it's told. The day India makes an indigenous AI system, you will get better responses. Maybe hopefully someday it happens. UMXG Lha says Trump says US will run Venezuela until proper puppet installation thoughts. When will the world finally get peace from it from this nasty country, the US? Look, the US could rule the world for another 200 years. Possibly. It's possible. So, I can't say. Um Trump says the US will rule Venezuela until proper propet installation. Yeah, of course. What else do you expect? That's how a regime change operates. So the US has removed the president. They've abducted the president and his wife. They've taken them somewhere. They'll be put through a fair trial or whatever and they'll spend years or years and years behind bars. So that is done. Now somebody has to rule Venezuela now or run Venezuela. So the Americans will run Venezuela until that Nobel Prize winning lady lady is brought in as the puppet. Until that time, this is the this is how the situation will proceed. No big surprise here. Prattab VGM says how Russia and China are even allowed it to happen. The US is more powerful than Russia plus China put together. The US affected a regime change in Bangladesh. How did India allow this to happen? Because the US is way more powerful than India. The US is sitting on Taiwan. China wants Taiwan back. Why can't China take it back? Because the US is way more powerful than China. That's how. Okay. Okay. Uh Brown Leprechaun says, "Joke. You have put so much oil and food that America wants to invade you. Be careful about the oil and food. Be careful. Yeah, indeed. Jior TV says Trump says US will control Venezuela until a transition is done and will not allow anyone else to control it. Absolutely. Now this territory belongs to the US. So the US will control Venezuela until a transition is done to a US installed puppet who will control Venezuela. So whatever happens, the US controls Venezuela now. So, the US controls 20% of the world's proven oil reserves and nobody else will be allowed to control it. Done deal. Outstanding. Jorah TV says, "In my opinion, actions in Venezuela may be a strategic move to choke China's energy. Could Iran be next? Is the US preparing for China Taiwan crisis increasing the risk of a major US China clash by 2026?" Uh like I explained in great exhaustive detail, Venezuela is home to about 1/5 of the entire world's proven oil reserves. About between 65 to 80% of Venezuela's oil the past 5 years has gone to China. But that accounts for only roughly 3% of China's oil imports. So even if no more Venezuelan oil goes to China, it will only affect about 3% roughly of China's oil imports. The majority of China's oil imports come from Russia, which is 15 to 20% of China's imports, and Saudi Arabia, another 15 to 20% of China's imports. Then you have nations like Angola and Iraq and so on and so forth, who account for the rest of China's oil imports. So by cutting off Venezuela's supply to China, it hardly does makes a dent in China's oil imports. But Iran, if that happens, well, that's going to be a problem for China. So yeah, it's possible that the US may go for Iran next. Now that Venezuela is done and dusted, makes sense to go for Iran next. And that is obviously linked to Taiwan. And if Iran is taken over and they are able to create Somali land and South Sudan that chokes off Babal Mandib the straight of Babal Mandib in the Red Sea Gulf of Aen if they can take Iran and you can choke off Hormuz well then China can can be starved of oil. So it looks like the temperature globally is rising geopolitically and there could be a higher chance of a major China US clash in 2026. Indeed, the rational reporter says, "I believe while China is our primary adversary now due to proximity, the US will be the real endgame. The US is far more stable. What do I what do I think?" I completely don't disagree with you at all. All right, sir. And that brings me to the end of today's live stream. Nearly 3 hours, very interesting. So thank you so much everybody for the questions and uh this situation is evolving. So we're going to continue this discussion tomorrow in tomorrow's liveream and I look forward to hear hearing from you and taking your questions tomorrow. Until then take care, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards and I'll see you in tomorrow's live stream. Take care.