[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] All right. Okay. Here we are. Here we go. Welcome everybody to Ask Abijit episode 278. I hope everybody is doing fantastic. Let us see who all is there on the live chat with us on this live stream. I can see Dhi Raj Rahul Pajwell Gupta Nishad Atalia Boston bread anonymous scientist Bonjour Avin hello Vikash PJ Aush Singh Jay Gum Samripati Miscellaneous Di Raj Raal Ain Geopolitical Dub from Indor good evening sir Sagar to Jes krishna Adita Viml hello Boston bread again Nishadali yuvraat singhawat Shri Ramchandra Radhir Aisha Mishra hello ma'am Dhi Raj Praul Gupta Gravity HB Namaskar Miscellaneous Nabaradas Shivas Sai Yuvra Singh Shikawan Sag to Yaneshwar Raju uh Adita Ashish Raj Sid Kayushman Matur Di Raj Avin Umar Maheshwari good evening Durya hello Adita Viml hello happy Janmash to me to everybody really now patriotic Yrad Singh Shik Kawad Shivani Maheshwari Akil Patak Negro Arian Patel from Philly Dy Raj Polar Bear who else do we have Krishna Ragunat from the Suryam Netherlands MK Mr. Sena, Saita, Sham, Gulkarni, Stark, Tanmay, Akil, Patak, Aayushan, Patriotic, Vicash, PJ, Nimish, Gupta, Sedhart, MK, Rohan, Suna, uh, yes Donald Trump and Plutin, Chetan, Ajab, Stark, Savia, Hub, Happy Mash, Ashugam, uh, Tanmay, Aninda, Bachari, Sagar, Torat, ML from Hawaii, Bas the johni uh nares says good evening and rip to your hip flexors sitting 8 hours a day you have no idea what I'm capable of rohan suna kash keedar tanay sedhart agniva raana summer afternoon animesh pauli raj sigma realm and so many other people all right good to see you all thank you so much for being on the live chat I'm going to take History questions today. Napoleon Singh Shikhawatul. Hello. So I'll take history questions today. A bunch of history questions. History questions are always super diverse. Lots of questions. I am only able to take a few. I've selected 25 or 26 questions. That's about it. And we'll take as many as possible. Uh before we go into that, I will take one geopolitics question because it's super relevant, super important. Lots of people have asked about Putin and Trump. They're meeting. What's the outcome? What does it mean? So you see geopolitics, today's geopolitics is tomorrow's history and yesterday's geopolitics is today's history. So it's all interconnected. So let's take one question, one one geopolitical topic and I'll not put questions on the screen because plenty of people have asked that. Uh before that somebody's Adita is saying how do you sit 8 hours a day in one go? Any suggestions? You've got to take care of your fitness and your health and then only you can uh have the stamina to sit for eight hours a day and it's something you develop over time. It's not something you can just start doing from day one. It takes time. It takes a lifetime of experience and practice to do that to be able to pull that off. And you need to be reasonably fit as a human being and flexible and all that to be able to do that. Otherwise, it's going to mess up your entire posterior chain, anterior chain, everything. So, you've got to take care, you've got to take the precautions. Only then you can pull it off, right? So take care of your fitness, stamina, health, food, flexibility, all of that. And build up the stamina for sitting and working at a stretch. Start with 1 hour and then you can increase it. All right. Now, Napole, what am I saying? Napoleon, no. Putin and Trump, what what's the deal? The the two gentlemen, the two leaders met yesterday in Alaska. What's the outcome of that? Did it achieve something this meeting? Right. So let's focus on the substance. Let's forget about the optics. We saw a lot of optics, right? I mean what's the optics that we witnessed? Oh, all the symbolism, the location which is Alaska, then Putin coming in, Trump doing that fancy handshake of his in which he pulls the guy's hand towards himself and then pats his back of the hand that way. That symbolism, the red carpet drawn out for Mr. Putin. The two leaders sitting in Trump's limuine, the fighter jets jets flanking the limusine's path, the B2 bomber flanked by fighter jets that flew over Mr. Putin when he met with Mr. Trump. All of that, that's symbolism, right? That's a show of force by the US. The US president, Mr. Trump decided to do a show of force. It's an attempt to What's a show of force? A show of force is an attempt to either impress or intimidate somebody. When do you do a show of force? When do you feel the need to show some force? You feel that need when you're actually in a position of weakness. Right? So a show of force is an attempt to compensate for some weakness to hide your weakness. Do you think Mr. Putin was impressed by the show of force? Do you think so? Yeah. Mr. Putin has met with every single US president in the in more than the past quarter century. He's met them dozens of times. He knows what US presidents are like. He's not going to be impressed with the show of force. He himself has plenty of force. He has more than 5,000 nuclear warheads and god knows what else. It's not going to impress him. Right? If in case Mr. Trump were to visit Moscow to meet with Mr. Putin. Do you think Putin will show off his weaponry and all that? He won't do that. When you are powerful, you don't need you don't feel the need to demonstrate force. You keep it implicit. That's what makes it stronger and more powerful. So that's the symbolism. Let's let's forget about the symbolism. Let's focus on the substance. The two leaders met. They had substantial talks with their utrage 2 and a half hours plus. That's what one hears, right? And then there was after that uh an address by both leaders first by Mr. Putin and then by Mr. Trump. And if you see the body language and all of that that is not simple isn't that is more substance. It indicates what happened the dynamics between the two sty between the two sides and the two leaders. Mr. Putin looked super comfortable. He looked good. Mr. Trump looked a little nervous. Just the body language. See the thing is in this negotiation that happened both sides wanted something that's why this happened right what was what is it that Mr. Trump wanted what's the minimum that Mr. Trump wanted I think he said what he wanted he said that he will be very disappointed if there is no deal at all or or no ceasefire that's what he said what happened so the minimum expectation from Mr. Trump's side was at least some form of ceasefire maybe a temporary ceasefire so that negotiation negotiations can go forward was there a ceasefire agreed upon absolutely nothing even the minimum expectation that Mr. Trump had did not materialize. You see, because both sides were were negotiating from different positions. One from a position of strength, one from a position of weakness. Who was in a position of weakness? Who was in a position of strength? The side with the territorial advantage and the upper hand in the Ukraine war is in a position of strength. That's that is Mr. Putin. Mr. Trump is under pressure. He has unleashed a war of tariffs on the world. It's biting him back because it's biting the US public. They are having to pay the tariffs. It's not the other nations that are paying the tariffs. It's the US population, the public that's paying the tariffs. It's going to make him increasingly unpopular. Secondly, he has made promises that he has not been able to keep. Mr. Trump, he said on day one of my presidency, I will end the Ukraine war. Well, what happened? So, he's desperate to have at least a ceasefire. So, Trump was bargaining, negotiating from a position of weakness. Putin was negotiating from position of strength and then clearly there was no agreement there was no deal and Mr. Trump had said before this summit happened that he'll be very disappointed if there is no deal if there's no ceasefire while he did not get any deal any ceasefire and in the address that both leaders gave to the media both leaders spoke first Mr. Putin then Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin made his red lines abundantly clear. He said that Europe and the West must respect Russia's red lines and he made those red lines abundantly clear. The red lines are Russia's national interests and Europe's security position has to take into account Russia's national interests and Russia's security position. Right? And he said and so on. So he made his position abundantly clear. I don't know what Trump Mr. Mr. Trump really said his uh address did not really have much substance and then put Mr. Putin said that you know the next meeting will be in Moscow and Mr. Trump said yeah maybe that can happen that sort of thing. So maybe this is just the first meeting in a long series of meetings. Uh Mr. Zalinsky obviously wasn't invited because we know how it goes when Mr. Zillinski is there and uh yeah Mr. Zalinsky and and the EU are essentially the the roadblock the obstacle in in the in the way of any kind of ne ceasefire. Well all Mr. Trump has to do if he wants a ceasefire is to stop funding the war. That's it. So anyhow, nothing has emerged out of this summit. Nothing has happened. Mr. Putin, I think he came back stronger. He came back as the winner. He came back as somebody who rebuffed Mr. Trump's uh, you know, desire to reach some kind of deal to get a ceasefire out of Mr. Putin. Did not happen. He did not get m give Mr. Trump what he wanted. And Mr. Putin I'm sure must have made demands that Trump obviously can't fulfill or maybe he wants to fulfill them but he is facing various kinds of problems obstacles. Mr. Trump wants to gain access to the minerals of Ukraine and all that. So both leaders have some thing to gain but uh Mr. Putin is perfectly willing to play the long game as we know very well. You understand? He's been playing the long game ever since the war started. slow war strategy, long war strategy, frozen conflict strategy. The longer it drags, the longer it goes on, the more the West has to pay the price. And the longer there's no ceasefire, the more the more pressure Mr. Trump will face. Mr. Putin, it suits him very well. Is he he is perfectly happy to be patient. So that's where we are. Trump is in a hurry. Putin is in is is is in no hurry at all. So it's advantage Putin right now and Russia's war economy like they say it's doing really well. So uh that's where we are. No outcome. Advantage Russia advantage Mr. Putin. Mr. Lavrov came wearing a CCCP shirt t-shirt. Very very cheeky of him. So that's where we are. All right. That's my update about the Ukraine conflict and the Trump Putin um summit. There was mention of tariffs and all and Mr. Trump has said that okay since we are negotiating I will not impose further tariffs on nations that are purchasing Russian oil. I think the tariffs that Trump has imposed on India are an attempt to pressurize Mr. Putin pressurize Russia because if he puts India in a position where India may have to rethink its purchase of purchases of Russian oil that puts the Russian economy under stress so it's all interconnected. Anyhow that's how it's gone. Now let's take some questions that I have selected from the comments. Where do we begin? Um, Hersa says, "Believe it or not, our channel your problems of India which are the near of the hour which have been echoing over the years have somehow reached the top level. We can hear from Prime Minister himself. Um, only to look forward our actions as you say, God speed Jindustan." Yeah, Mr. Mr. Mr. Modi during his 15th of August speech, he did mention many of the topics that I've been speaking about for I've been really speaking about for the past few years, haven't it? Haven't I? Uh illegal immigration, that's one issue that I have been speaking about. I I've been speaking about the need to become technologically more sovereign, the need to develop our own jet engines, all of that. Uh technological sovereignty, military um sovereignty, all of that. So many of the topics that I've been speaking about, I think Mr. Modi spoke about them especially illegal immigration the demographic initiative that is starting all of that so it's good to see that I I would not give myself the credit that because of me Mr. Modi Zupar no obviously he's the leader of the country he knows these better than me or better than anybody else and I'm glad that this is being addressed now so I'm I'm really glad to see that but we have to see how this translates into actions and we will wait and watch for that now Malik says I am 19 I was 15 when I first saw you in a podcast in which you had indeed said that this decade is a decade of changes in which changes will happen on a weekly basis I was naive to understand that back then what you told us but now I fully understand and I'm and I'm aware of what you had said came to be true so can you expand on this well thank you first of all Malik said I really appreciate your kind words and the fact that you've been watching me for so long so I have been saying this I mean the first geopolitical podcast I did was probably in the year 2021 when in India nobody used the term geopolitics at that time everybody was was a strategic affairs expert And the topic was called strategic affairs and I went on the beer biceps podcast with reanir and I discussed geopolitics and somehow that term caught on now everybody's a geopolitics expert that's fine that's good so it's I think in that first podcast that I had said that there are times when nothing happens for for a century no change happens for a century and then there are periods of history where decades of change happen in just weeks or months or years decades worth of changes and I had said that the 2020s is going to be that that sort of decade where decades worth of change the change that you typically see over decades will happen in weeks or months and we are seeing that right so how do I expand upon this right you want me to expand upon this so you can expand upon this by well giving historical precedents there have been multiple periods in history where tremendously vast broad and deep changes have happened in in short periods of time Right. One ex I mean let's look at the past 1,000 years only. For example, h the year 1066 1066 the Norman conquest of England happened overnight all of a sudden happened out of nowhere. The English king Harold Goodwinson he was in the north of England fighting off fighting off his brother who had allied with a Danish king called Harald Hardrad. And after a tremendous battle, the battle of Stamford Bridge in which the English king won. It was an exhausting battle. The English king won. He had to kill his brother and his brother's ally, King Harold Hadra of Denmark. And the moment the battle is over, he hears word that that that William of of Normandy has has just landed on the southern shore of England. So he has to go all the way from north of England all the way to to the south of England and fight a battle. until the battle of Hastings which he loses because of bad luck. He got a arrow in the ear in the eye and William the Conqueror who was the William of Normandy who until then was called William the Bastard because he was illegitimate. He suddenly transformed into William the Conqueror and so much changed in a m matter of weeks and months in England. The entire old system disappeared. the Anglo-Saxon, the Saxon system of governance, the Saxon rule, the Saxon nobility, everything evaporated overnight and the Normans took over and it was a tremendous change in England and it had wide-ranging repercussions for the whole of Europe eventually. Right? So that's 1066. Tremendous change in a matter of weeks and months. 1258 Baghdad the fall of Baghdad it fell to the Mongols uh it fell to Hulu Khan I think great grandson of Shri Chingghist Khan so at that time the Islamic world was at its pinnacle it was the pinnacle of the golden age of Islam and this the center of the Islamic world was Baghdad and they had these libraries and universities one library and university and whatnot and in which they had amassed a great amount of wisdom and knowledge mostly from India science, mathematics, uh pharmarmacology, tox toxicology, astronomy, mathematics, so much more and and that had given rise to this e fluoresence of culture of art all of that in the Islamic world, right? And Baghdad was the center of that. Baghdad was the seat of the caliphate and Hulle Guhan enter Hool Guhan the Mongol the great grandson or grandson I think grand whatever it is of Shiring Isan and he besieges Baghdad in 1258 he sacks Baghdad puts the city to the to the to the sword and the torch destroys everything and overnight the Islamic world changed the golden age was over like that and the Islamic world turned inward words and it was it was it was a seismic event in the Islamic world. Nothing was the same ever again. So that is another massive massive change. Then you have uh 1453 the end of the Byzantine Empire, the fall of Constantinople which completely upended the the the geopolitics of that time in Europe. It suddenly turned the Turks into a massive force and it all culminated with a siege siege of Vienna when Sullean the Magnificent took the Christian world by the throat. Of course they did not succeed in taking Vienna but you know that sort of thing. So the Ottoman Empire destroyed the Byzantine Empire, annihilated the Byzantine Empire. the Bosphorus straight this extremely vital set of choke points the Bosphorus and the Dardinels. So that flipped the control of that flipped right and uh the trade routes completely were reshaped. the Eurasian trade routes the great power dynamics changed u and that is what caused that that is what precipitated European efforts to find a different sea route to India because earlier it used to go through the through the Byzantine Empire and that's where Vasco the Gama and before that Columbus and all that's where they come into the picture so that changed world history completely right then you have world war I that's another great example for from the last century the world the first world war essentially everything changed in about two weeks two weeks there's the assassination of the ark arc duke France Ferdinand and the Austria Austrohungarian Empire issues an ultimatum to Serbia and the ultimatum was designed in such a way that the Serbians can't accept it so then in a few days the Austro-Hungarian Empire declares war as a consequence Germany declares war on Russia and France together and Germany invades Belgium. And the moment Germany invades Belgium, Britain has to enter the war because Britain was the guaranter of security of Belgium. In a matter of like less than two weeks, all the dominoes fall in the world is at I mean the western world is at war and obviously it had ripple effects across the world including India, right? Because Indian forces were the bulwark of the British armed forces and so many more examples. So there are times in history I've just given a few there are so many more there are so many more the Bronze Age collapse and so much more I mean you can go on forever so there are times there are periods of time in history where so much change happens in a very compressed condensed amount of time and that's what I mean and this is one of those time periods we haven't seen major wars yet the Ukraine war is is is a problem yeah obviously uh but you know the situation such that major conflict could could emerge anytime there multiple flash points in the world. So that's what I was talking about when I was talking about uh decades of changes happening in in weeks or months. That's exactly what I was talking about. Hope that puts it into context. Now let's take another question. Amisha says, "What's the difference between an empire, a kingdom, and a dynasty?" Right? So a dynasty is something that is pertinent to empires as well as kingdoms. So let's start with dynasties first. A dynasty is typically one family that rules for an extended period of time. So the father, let's say, starts a kingdom, becomes king, then his son takes over, then his grandson takes over, then great-grandson, and there's a succession of kings all from the same lineage. That's a dynasty, right? In the US, you have the Bush dynasty. George W. Bush, uh, George Bush senior, the president in who won the presidency in 1998. Uh, sorry. 1988. I'm I'm sorry. I beg your pardon. 1988. And then George W. Bush who won in 2004, I believe. All the way up to 2012, he was president. So that's one. There's the Clinton dynasty. And then George Bush the senior has another son who tried to be president, right? So that's a political dynasty. That's a political dynasty. When it comes to kingdoms and empires, well, the Moria Empire was an empire. It was also a dynasty because you have the the the empire starts with Chandra Gupta Moria. Then his son becomes king becomes emperor after him Bindhusar. Then Bindusar's son Ashoke the great becomes king emperor. And there's a whole list of kings all the way up to the last one who was assassinated by Pushamutra Pushit. So succession of kings emperor sorry who are all from the same family the same lineage. That's a dynasty. Another example is the Gupta Empire. Same it starts with a king called Gatodkach in Magad. He was a smalltime king. But then his successors, his son, grandson, they became greater and greater and eventually you have someone like uh Samudra Gupta who conquered the whole of the subcontinent. Then you have Kumar Gupta who was a great great great king. you your tundra Gupta and so some of these emperors they went all the way to Bahalik which is beyond Afghanistan and so much more you have the chas and so on so it's entire it's family family lineage lineages these are that's dynasties okay so typically a kingdom typically has one dynasty sometimes you have multiple dynasties of course yeah right right um so that's a dynasty it's a lineage of rules ers all starting from one ancestor and going down going down from essentially from father to son or or in the same family. Now what's a kingdom? A kingdom is is is is a state that's ruled by a king. A state means a political entity with a defined geographical boundary that is ruled by one king. That's a kingdom. A kingdom typically doesn't have vasals. An empire is a massive kingdom. And the king is called the emperor in an empire. And in the the difference between kingdoms and empires is that empires are vast. They cover huge geographical regions. And they typically project power way beyond their boundaries by making other kingdoms their vasals. The Moria Empire, the Gupta Empire, these are examples. The Tola Empire. Um so many examples. Yeah. The the the Kushan Empire, the Roman Empire, the the Egyptians. So many examples. These are empires. The US has vasals all over the place. That's an empire, right? South Korea is a king, sorry, North Korea is a kingdom. They don't have vasals. It's just one unit, one family. That's a dynasty. Kim Ilsung, Kim Jong, il Kim Jong-un, three in the same family, right? That's dynasty and that's one kingdom. They don't have any vasals. They are the vasals of China, more or less. So, I hope that explains the difference between kingdom, empire, and and dynasty. Right. Huku Bahadur Khadka says, "How did the Nepalese identity forge? Was it based on the conquests of Shri Pritwir and Sha or is it something that's a myth?" Look, the Nepal's identity is not a myth. It is definitely a real thing. Now, let's examine the history of Nepal. First of all, let's go to the map and just try and understand the the geography before we get into the history because I I always I'll tell you that you know the map explains a lot. So let's take a look at the map and we're going to the northern part of India Nepal uh beyond the northern part of India Kmandu. So if you look at the geography of Nepal I mean it's not really visible here unless we okay we'll even if I put the satellite image you may get a better idea perhaps. So you see the southern part of Nepal is called the Tarai region the plains and uh it's a pretty large region and about half of Nepal's population lives in in the Tarai region and the people who live in the Tarai region of Nepal are essentially more or less identical as the people of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar same people then you have the Bahad region the hills of Nepal which is the major part of Nepal and that's where the mainly the the Bahadi people, the Gorha people live. Kathmandu is the center obviously the capital and that's where the political power lies in Nepal in the Bahad region and then you have the northern regions which is the Himalayan regions where you have other people who live and that borders Chinese occupied Tibet. So that is the geography of Nepal and the center of power has always lies has always resided in the uh Kathmandu region for quite a long time. So that is just briefly the the the geography of Nepal. Now if you look at the history yes Britaran Sha was you can consider him to be the founder of the kingdom of Nepal. If you look at the history of Nepal going back 2 and a half thousand years let's say okay let's not go back too far only 2 and a half thousand years. So Nepal was part of at least a couple of Mahajanapadas of the ancient period the present day region of Nepal. You had the Viji Mahajanapad. Okay. It was located north of the Ganga and it extended all the way into the Pahar region, the present day Pahari region of of Nepal and the capital was Vishali, right? So and and the Viji confederacy it it included dynasties like the lichi dynasty and they have historically been connected with Nepal and you know I think at least one branch of the lichi dynasty ruled Nepal until the start of I don't know this this second second millennium AD right uh so that's the lichi dynasty and and uh I think it was Chundra Gupta of the Gupta dynasty who married a Lichi princess And that elevated his status and you know he I mean it really made a difference for him. So that's how highly regarded the lichi dynasty was. So Nepal much of Nepal was at one point in time part of the Viji or Vajji Mahajanapad. Then some parts of Nepal were also part of the Kosala Mahajanapadas territory. Okay. Parts of southern Nepal the Taray region. Uh so the Lichi dynasty was very prominent in Nepal and they ruled all the way up to the at least the 9th or 10th centuries AD possibly in the second millennium AD also and Nepal was obviously part part of the Morian Empire. Okay. As as Magad rose and extended its power everywhere. Well much of Nepal came became incorporated into the into the Mad sorry the the Mori Empire. I'm sure it was part of the Kushan Empire as also and also part of the Gupta Empire. I'm pretty sure about that. So there you have it. Now when it comes to Priti Daran Sha, um he conquered the Navar Valley also called the Nepal Valley in 1768. So he was a king of the Gora dynasty and he was not the founder. The founder I forget the name of the founder. You can look it up. The founding of the dynasty happened a couple of centuries before Pritwin Naran Sha's conquest of the nawir valley and pritu narancha was the greatest king of this dynasty and he expanded his kingdom and that's what became Nepal and Nepal the British Raj never incorporated it into the British Raj because they wanted it to remain a buffer state between British occupied India and Tibet where there was some hints of Chinese uh uh involvement. So they they wanted a buffer. They wanted to keep the Chinese away because the Chinese were trying to interfere in Tibet. uh so Nepal as a separate entity as a distinct entity emerges around 1768 with the establishment of this kingdom or an expansion of the kingdom by Shri Prasid Narancha and ever since that time it's been a distinct entity distinct uh political entity a distinct state and it has remained that so that is essentially the the birth of the Nepalese identity as a separate identity That's around the time of Shri Priti Narayan Sha. Hope that explains the matter. Okay. Survves WMA says, "Why did India's empires from the Indis Valley and and Moras the Guptas uh and and Moras the Guptas and Cholas and Mughals collapse without the civilizational freef fall seen in Rome, the Maya lowlands or the late Bronze Age world? Every elsewhere cities, scripts and economies vanished in India culture, trade and regional power often thrived. Will today's global empires fall like their ancient counterparts leaving behind little? And if they do, will India emerge again with its core intact while others fade? Okay, before I address the question, I would not consider the Mughal Empire to be an Indian empire civilizationally or culturally. Yeah, of course, it was based in India. It was based out of Delhi for quite some time but it was like the Chinese say the Chinese have a term for this sort of empire a conquest dynasty. It's a foreigners. It's a bunch of foreigners who have come and occupied the land, conquered the land and they create an empire. So the Yuan dynasty is a classic example of a conquest dynasty. The Yuan dynasty its founder is considered to be Shri Chingish Khan and the first proper emperor out of China was Shir Kublhan. So that's the Yuan dynasty. It was Mongols ruling over China out of Beijing. That's a conquest dynasty, not a Chinese dynasty per se. Not not really Chinese dynasty ethnically. Eventually they culturally they became Chinese slowly. So when it comes to the Mughal Empire, it was not really an Indian dynasty. I not see it as an Indian dynasty culturally or civiliz civilizationally at all. But anyhow, the bigger point is what you're making over here. So we've had empires and various uh kingdoms and and states that have come and come and gone risen and fallen in India. Another example of a conquest dynasty is in India is the Kushan dynasty the Kushan Empire but they became thoroughly Indianized and ethnically they were not that different from India from Indians anyhow. Uh so yeah we've had the rise and fall of dynasties in India the and and empires the morian empire which was a pan India pan subcontinent empire eventually uh declined and fell it f and and the successor state was the push was the shunga empire and you've had the rise and fall of the kusan empire uh which spread Indian culture far and wide right uh far and wide then you had the Gupta empire with the jola empire and so many empires they came and fell they came and went they came and went But you did not see any civilizational freef fall in India. The culture and the civilization persisted and actually even thrived kept on thriving. Right? That's what happened. There are times when the culture doesn't do very well. Civilization is not doing that great because there's the absence of a great power that supports the culture. But that's how it is. Now when it comes to the Mayans, uh the Maya lowlands etc. See the Mayan culture it it begins in the first half of the first millennium AD around 200 300 AD that's where you have the emergence of the Maya Maya city states and all that and then Maya culture really thrives that's that's what happened and it it saw a downfall around 700 to 900 AD or something like that around that time you can look up the exact dates okay I don't memorize dates but it's around that time u and the Maya Empire the Maya region is essent essentially the Yucatan plus region of Mexico. Let's quickly Google it since we have a map. Let's take advantage of the map. So, we're talking about this part of Mexico. Okay, the Yucatan region and and larger than Yucatan but overall centered around Yucatan. That's where you had the Maya uh culture civilization and that declined and then eventually you had the triple alliance the Aztec Empire like they like they call it which uh came in its place in in the same region but the Maya culture and civilization never really vanished never really vanished. Even today you have people who speak Mayan derived languages and and practice you what you could call Mayan culture. So despite the fall of the Mayan Empire essentially Mayan culture or civilization did not disappear entirely today it's more or less kind of ex semi-extinct it's because of the European influence see heran Cortez the the Spanish concistador destroyed destroyed the triple alliance empire the Aztec empire I think he reached Mexico in 1519 or something and he unleashed horrific devastation on on the people and the and the culture. So the Mayan empire the culture it declined because of that. You have Rome. Yeah, Rome was destroyed by Christianity by the way. True true fact. Um late Bronzage world does still the we still you know there there's still a lot of dispute about what really happened. Was it climate change? Was it some environmental catastrophes, tsunamis, earthquakes? What was it that destroyed the late Bronze world in the Mediterranean eastern Mediterranean region and what they call the fertile crescent? the the the Mesopotamian region and so on. There's still big questions about it. How did so many empires fall and disappear entirely, vanish without a trace? But in India, empires have come and gone. But our culture, our civilization has remained intact. What happened? Why is it so? Because see, today it's not the case really. Today I'm speaking a foreign language. I'm more comfortable in a foreign language. I'm wearing foreign clothes. I read books that are in a foreign language. Our education system is a foreign education system. Our our our so-called constitution is entirely foreign. Our our system of governance governance is foreign. Our education system is foreign. Everything is foreign here today. That all the institutions are foreign. Do you really see us as a civilization today? We are falling. We're falling. You see what's happened? Something changed. We were conquered by foreign foreign cultures and they they took systematic steps to to break us to break us culturally and civilizationally and it's succeeding after 1947. It is the Indian government that has done that continued that and taken it forward various successive Indian governments right um so why did that not happen before before the past let's say 250 300 years let's say 500 years why did not did it not happen because whichever kingdoms and empires came and went in India they were all offspring of the same civilization so you The Moria Empire that comes and rises and reaches its pinnacle then eventually declines and falls. It is replaced by the Shunga Empire. Same culture, same civilization. They did not launch any attack or assault on our civilization. They strengthened it in their own way. Maybe a different way but but they strengthened it. So the focus was no longer on both the dharma. It was on what we now call Hinduism, Hindu dharma. Right? in the pushunga empire uh during the Moria empire the focus at least during ashok's time was more on both the dharma and one of his descendants focused on jay dharma of course yeah we know that um then you have the gupta empire that comes that the kushan empire the koshan empire also propagated our culture and civilization not just in India all across the world as far as possible at least especially eastwards towards China it is Shri Karanka and his and his descendants who started propagating getting Indian culture eastwards all the way to China. He's the Kaneshko who started that started the process. So he spread our culture far and wide. He did more than anybody else to spread our culture beyond our shores beyond our natural boundaries. Then you had the Gupta empire once again a beautiful efflloresence of the same culture and civilization in a different shape and form. So and then you have the cholers who who took our culture all the way to the Phil all the way as far as says the Philippines and so on and so on. So it's always been the same civilization that has given rise to multiple empires. So the collapse of an empire did not destroy our culture. It was too deep rooted to destroy. Our culture is 60 70,000 years old. Our culture is is the continuation of of the culture of the people who came with the with the last out of Africa migration about 70 or whatever thousand years ago. The population that we have in India is a descendant of that ancient population. And we have always had cultural continuity. We know the cultural continuity goes back at least 10,000 years. It may go back 50, 60, 70,000 years possibly. We don't know. So because our culture and civilization is so deep rooted, it's always been resilient. It's withtood all these, you know, ups and downs. When it comes to other cultures, well, they've been destroyed. So Rome had its own polytheistic culture which was part of the same greater Indo-Uropean culture and religion and it was destroyed by Christianity. So Christianity sought to destroy to uproot the native culture and religion and replace it with Christianity and that's what happened. So that's why civilization was destroyed in Rome. Same in Greece, same everywhere in Europe. when it comes to the Americas, genocide, cultural and demic genocide. So, and and the same was attempted in the past 10,000 years in India. And now we are seeing it coming, you know, bearing fruit because now we are we are increasingly dassinated. Our our youth don't even know what their culture is. They they don't see any connection with their culture. It's it's becoming more and more apparent today. So now it is succeeding in India. Maybe in a 100 years the same thing will have happened in India. Maybe we will our our descendants will be practicing a whole different set of religions. It's very possible if we don't if we not careful about this. Okay. Amisha says which what war in world history is considered to be the most brutal in the bloodiest war? Well, the answer actually the straightforward if you want the number one war obviously it's the second world war. The the worst war of all. Okay. Uh it is believed that it it killed between 80 to 85 million people. the second world war. So that's easy. But there have been lots of other wars that have been frightening but people don't know about them. So let's let's Google Google a few of these shall we? We will start with China. China is China really features a lot in this. So for example uh how many of you have heard of the prek kingdoms civil war three kingdom civil war war of the three kingdoms not that China you okay I should not use such language here China three kingdoms uh Chinese civil war not the kuin tang thing I mean why uh Look, the three kingdoms, what does it say? As far as I remember, 30 to 40 million people died um during this time. Tremendous, tremendous downfall, multiple plagues, widespread famine, civil war obviously, which causes all the plagues and widespread all of that. Uh Jin, how many thousands and so on. Okay, they're trying to hide the actual numbers here possibly. Okay, I'll not waste your time by trying to dig out the figures, but the three kingdom civil war, it had a death toll. Okay, this happened in the 3rd century AD or something like that. 220 to 280 AD. A third century AD. That's right. The death toll was about 30 to 40 million Chinese people died. Then let's look at the Unlan. An unlan rebellion. Unlan. Okay, it's able to predict my my moves. So this was a civil war again at the midpoint of the Tong dynasty. So it's in the So this this happened uh in the 8th century AD and this is again in China and if you I'm not sure if they will tell you the death toll but the death toll is about 30 to 40 million. 30 to 40 million okay in the 8th century AD. Good god what on earth is China up to? Then you have something more recent, okay? In the mid of the 19th century, the Taiping rebellion. Typing rebellion. This was a Christian rebellion against China. Okay, typing civil war, whatever you want to call it. It says 20 million deaths. I think it was about 30 million. Okay, there are Okay, it says death toll between 20 to 30 million. And there are various estimates. Typing rebellion. Would you believe it? So much in China. Then you have the Manchu conquest of China. Okay. Manchu conquest conquest of China. I mean how many people died in the Manchu conquest? About 20 30 million here also. So this was in the 17th century transition from Ming to Ching or whatever they want to call it. So this had I mean you can look up the figures in your own time. Okay. How many people died or whatever. The Manchu conquest has a death toll of between 20 to 30 million. Then you have Then you have another thing in the 19th century Dongan revolt. Dongan revolt. This was a Muslim you know rebellion against China. Hui Muslims. So this was Yakub who was one of the major major figures in this. Yeah. So this had a death toll of more than 20 million. What does it say? Population loss of 21. Yeah. 21 million people. combination of massacres, migration, famine, cops, transmitted plague and all that. Then you have the first world war, more than 20 million people died. Then uh then you have uh Timur Timur Timour's conquests of of Central Asia, Iran, India. Uh probably more than 15 to 20 million people died in that Timur's conquests. He was a brutal barbarian. Then you have the Spanish conquest of Mexico. Okay. Hernan Cortez begins in like I said 1519. Uh at least 10 million people must have died just in Mexico. Uh the Aztec Triple Alliance based out of Tenokitlan. Then you have the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in South America the eastern western part of South America. The Inca Empire Pakuti you know so and so on. So the perpetrator of this was Franchesco Pidaro and at least I would say 78 million people died in that. And if you look at the colonization of the Americas, well 85 to 100 million people were killed. Brutal. So the the and if you look at the Turk occupation of India, I'm pretty sure the death toll is in the hundreds of millions. I would even venture 500 million. And some idiots will say, "Oh, how can it be 500 million? Our population was 300 million at the time. So um so this show ask show is not for those kind of people. All right next question. Okay a couple of people have asked about the French Revolution. Thamart says when the French Revolution began in 1789 the monarchy was overthrown. Yes the monarchy but why did the French Empire emerge afterwards instead of continuing the republic is envisioned during the revolution? Was it because the first republic was too weak? Or was there a larger perhaps hidden plan to expand and dominate the world under the guise of republican ideals? Is this the only cause for the French Revolution or are there other reasons why it remains one of the most studied and popular events in history? And Amisha says asks a very fundamental question. Why is the French Revolution so famous and why is it so deeply studied compared to various other revolutions? Right? The French Revolution. So if you want to understand what caused the French revolution, you have to go back to 18th century Europe, the age of what they call enlightenment, you had great towering colossal figures like John Loach, like Walter, like Russo, you know, fantastic people who came up with these concepts like individual rights. Russo came up with the concept of the social contract. What social contract? He said that there has to be a a social contract and and this says that political power resides among the people and governments should be based on the consent of the governed. So that should be the social contract and out of this came the great principles of liberal liberty, equality and fraternity of all men and later later they brought in lee secularism. Yes. So all of these things they created this gigantic ferment in society in Europe particularly France. Okay. And this gave rise to the fantastic French revolution which was a decade of terror 1789 to 1799 thereabouts and uh well absolute reign of terror. Pierre was one of the instigators and one of the major figures. He himself was off with his head. He himself was guillotined. Yeah. So it was that's what happened and in the in the kingdom the royalty Louis the 16th in Mari on 28th they were deposed and and their heads were separated from their bodies. They were divested of their heads during this time. So the French Revolution you could say was the first Voke revolution of Europe. the old ideals, the conservative ideals were thrown out of the window and all these new liberal ideas came in and and that changed Europe forever and that changed France forever. Even today, if you look at France, they they kind of make fun of the royalty. When you had the Paris Olympics, you had the opening ceremony in which they making fun of Marotanet, weren't they? They were showing her with her head in her lap and she's singing, the head is singing from the lap. They still make fun of the royalty and the the French Republic's ideals are the ideals of the French Revolution. Even today they've added lac. Now who enters the picture? Well, a fantastic gentleman enters the picture who was born in in Korthika. Would you like to see where is Corika? It was not part of France. It was part of Italy. Okay. It was part of Italy. Let me show you the map. We go to Europe and uh we go to the Mediterranean Sea and here we have K. It's now called K. It was called Karthika and the capital is Ayachio or Aachu. I don't know how they pronounce it but whatever. This was a capital and I believe Napoleon was born there or thereabouts. And his father fought the French. See Italy sold this island to France but the people of the island did not want to be part of France. they they identified as an Italian. So Napoleon's father actually fought the French but then the French prevailed and then he became an agent of France. very smart tactical move and he enrolled Napoleon in in French military school schools and all that. And Napoleon well he found the time over there very tough because he had a different accent and he looks different and uh he intellectually was very different from the ordinary French student and so on. And then the French revolution breaks out in 1789 and Napoleon very smartly goes back to Corika at the time and he sits out the bloodiest portion of the French Revolution. So he was born in Corika and for some time he even uh he he even um flirted with the idea of of of going to the UK and becoming a an officer in their navy. He had no actual loyalty to France or whatever because you know he was ruthless because he should have been Italian. He he was made to be French and now he was like I'll go wherever I I can go. But anyhow he went back to study in France and eventually he became an officer in one of the French armies and his the first great thing he did was he was was his action in the siege of Tulong. Now I could again open the map and show you where it happened but I've done that in the past video. So if you are interested in the details you can look up the siege of Tulong or Napoleon on my channel and you will see that video in which I've shown the map and exactly where the entire action happened. But the siege of Tulong was a siege of the city of Tulong by the Royal Navy British Royal Navy and then the navy had blockaded the city and Napoleon was able to end the blockade 179 first half of the 1790s. So that made Napoleon kind of famous and he became a big deal. And then 1795 I think he uh there was a royalist uprising in Paris in Pari. Okay. And Napoleon ended the uprising by firing cannons at protesters. He called it a whiff of grapeshot, a whiff of gunpowder. He fired cannons at a crowd of protesters and ended the royalist uprising. And that that really rose his star. And eventually well Napoleon engineered a coup the coup of Dizwit Bhare 18th of Bummer and uh he became the consul general or whatever and uh by 1804 he was emperor of France by 1805 he was emperor he was king of Italy. So in about 19 years he went from complete obscurity to becoming the emperor of France and king of Italy. So he convinced the the the ring leaders you could say of the French Revolution that the only way to preserve the ideals of the French Revolution was was by making him the emperor and bringing royalty back. What a guy. What a guy. Yes. So that's what happened. That's essentially the story. Now why is the French Revolution so famous and studied so much? Because it's been so influential in the small region called Europe. And the Europeans rule the world today via the various offshoots like the US. So uh all the even today if you look at India you know the constitution of India I suppose it makes some illusions to liberty I suppose the judiciary of India also talks about liberty equality fraternity and all that so it's been so influential these are regarded as the highest ideals in a democracy and in in liberal democracies and all that u so you could say it was the first you could say vocal revolution which which overthrew the old conservative traditions that have that have well essentially been at the the heart of of all human history for for centuries if not millennia. So that's why it's it's it's been so influential and that's why it's studied so much. Okay. Naan Joti Bora says could you explain about the gulag system during the days of the USSR its context and the historical significance? Gulags were labor camps, prisons, but not just reg regular prisons where you you would lock up prisoners in in in cells. These were labor camps, forced labor. So the there were hundreds of these labor camps, more than 500 I'm pretty sure, across the USSR, all the way from the European part of the USSR all the way to the far east of the USSR, all the way to Sakalin. Um so the Kamchatka Pinsula at least okay map map so that we understand what we're talking about otherwise some people may I'm sure not get the reference and the the context and that's not your fault it's your geography teacher's fault I don't blame you for that so let's take a look at the the map so the USSR well Barus and Ukraine were part of the USSR in those days also the Baltic nations Latvia Lithuania and Estonia so all the way from all the way across Eurasian USSR all the way up to Kamchatka. This is the U Kamchatka Peninsula. Okay. So these gulags were a network you could say or an archipelago of more than 500 forced labor camps. Prisoners would be sent there for years, maybe for decades and they would be made to do forced labor. Some of these prisoners would be just criminals and some of them would be political prisoners who were thrown into jail because they were inconvenient to the Soviet to the to the communist party of the USSR. Uh so many dissident, many people who wanted more rights, more freedoms, people who wanted democracy, people who opposed Stalin, whatever, they were all thrown into gulags. Many famous people went into gulags and many of them never came out. These were labor camps, forced labor camps and tremendously horrific conditions, usually very cold weather, freezing conditions. Many people would be freed from gulags when they were on the verge of dying. They would be released and uh that sort of thing. And one of the most famous uh inmates of the gulags was Alexander Solzitkin uh Nobel laurate, Nobel Peace Prize uh historian and and writer of literature. His expose of the of the system was called the gulag archipelago. It's a pretty voluminous set of at least two or three books if I I remember reading some of it some part of it back in the day. Uh yeah. So in in in the in this book he describes the brutal conditions that you have when you live in the in the gulags. Uh one of the interesting things is uh there is a road there's a highway in the USSR in in Russia today. It's called the highway of bones. The highway of bones. So let's let me see if I can find this highway of bones. Shall I? Uh okay. We need to go to I need to orient myself. I need to go to Kamchata Magadan. So you see this road here. You can see this road traced on the map over here. So let's zoom in. Zoom in and let's try and see the satellite image of this road. All right. Here we are. Let's zoom in further. It's called P504, right? P504. Let's see if we can get a street view image of this. Do they have a street view image? You see this road standard looking highway? Right. So, you see this region in the winter it freezes freezes solid absolutely frozen over and there are parts of this region where the temperature in winter goes to like -50° C. frightening conditions, frightening uh climatic conditions. So this highway 504, it was constructed by slave labor, by labor taken from the gulags and conditions were so bad that we don't even know how many people died there. And because the ground was frozen, it was permafrost. So there was no way to bury the people. So what they would do is they would just put the people under the road. So this entire road, it is alleged is paved by the bones of prisoners who died constructing the road. And if you don't believe what I am saying, if it's if it sounds too fantastic and and ridiculous, let's Google it. Highway of Bones, Russia, shall we? Let's Google it. Highway of Bones of Bones Russia. Highway of Bones, Russia. R4504. Isn't that the one we just saw? 504 was it? It was called P504 in in the map that we just saw. So R504, Kolima Highway, M56 route, Far East, Magadan. There you have it. It connects Magadan. It's been colloially called the road of bones. and um inmates of the Sevotlag labor camp and started the first stretch and construction continued with the use of gulag labor until 1953. So there you have it. It really is called the highway of bones or road of bones. Um so that's how it was and and and you know during the second world war Joseph Stalin gave some gave a bit of amnesty to inmates of gulags. He he gave them a deal. Here's the deal. You fight in the war and I'll give you either amnesty I I'll free you from jail or maybe I'll give you reduced terms. So once you're done fighting if you survive then instead of 50 years you can do just like 3 years. That sort of thing. So a lot of people were freed from the gulags. They fought in the war. Many of them died. Some of them who returned survived some of them were just freed. Some of them were sent back to the gulags for a shorter period of time and that gave rise to the Suka wars. Suka wars. So let's Google that. What on earth? Okay, the things I show you. Suka wars. It's called the wars for whatever reason. These were armed confrontations in the Soviet gulag labor system between 1945. The battles took place between groups of prisoners who agreed to collaborate with the administration of labor camps and prisons and honest criminals who did not collaborate with prison authorities. So if you have people who have been freed and given an amnesty and they survived the war and came back and as long as they behaved they were to be released in just a short amount of time they would also obviously collaborate with the authorities and that was jarring for the people for for the inmates who had not taken the amnesty and who refused to collaborate with the authorities. So this gave rise to these clashes in the gulag system between the ones who had the thief's honor code and the ones who were called the sukas the suki plural in Russian and eventually the suki one s so yeah that's what it was the gulag system was this brutal slave labor system many political prisoners were eaten alive by that and lots of criminals also were part of that and eventually I think if I'm not mistaken by the after after stallion died the system was gradually dismantled and ended. So that was the gulag system. The deal was that you know if you went against the interests of the state of the nation or the ch of or or the Soviet communist party you'll be thrown into gulags. No questions asked. That's how it went. Amisha Mishra says do we have any data on how many Indians were killed during British rule from 1757 to 1947? Well, if you look at Indian historians and their work, you will see nothing. Nobody has tried to estimate this properly. If you look at the records of the famines that the British caused, they caused, I would say, dozens, maybe hundreds of famines in India, various parts of India during the two and a half centuries that they occupied India. And if you look at some of these famines, famines, you had death tolls of 5 million, 10 million. The Madras famine of I don't know which year caused a death toll of I think between 5 to 10 million. and and then you had um an auxiliary death toll which was caused by epidemics caused by the famine but there would not be added to the death toll death toll of the famine. Uh so maybe 100 plus million just from the famines. Okay. But there were other things. So let me I was looking at this u some of these examples let's let's uh go there. So there have been various estimates some people have estimate tried to estimate this outside of India. So this is u Ben Norton scholarly study found that British colonism caused approximately 165 million deaths in India between 1880 to 1920 40 years 165 million people died in India the British killed 165 million people okay in just 40 years if you don't believe this website look here al jazer British colonalism killed 100 million Indians in 40 years. So at least 100 million years uh a million Indians in 40 years u just 40 years and then you have this report from the Guardian itself. The Guardian is a is a British newspaper India secret history. Uh so British reprisals reprisals involve the killing of 10 million people over a period of 10 years after 1857. So between 1857 to 1867 the British killed Indians at least 10 million Indians in in a variety of ways in uh in revenge for 1857. So all we have all these different pieces of data but nobody has really bothered to do a project and put to compile everything together and put all the data together and create a systematic survey in which you can find the real death toll. I would say if you if you just look at these rough numbers and you do a just a rough tally if you take the famines it's 100 million ultra says 100 the other one says 165 let's say 100 so 100 plus 100 is two 200 plus you have 1857 to 6710 that's 210 plus all the epidemics that are not counted the death toll of epidemics is not counted maybe in excess of 300 million easily that's what the British did absolute monsters s and today they lecture us about human rights and freedom and all that. And Indians are such angopiles. They killed your ancestors. They killed your relatives in the most brutal and barbaric ways you can imagine. Men, women, little children, little kids starving to death. Okay. Nirvana Shanks says, "How did the Mongol Empire grow so fast across all of Eurasia and what were the most important forces that made it happen? Thank you for your attention to the to this question." So, I did an episode on the Mongol Empire. Maybe it was episode 2 or three or something of the Ask Abis show. Today's episode 278. So, maybe we can revisit some questions about the Mongol Empire. It's been a long time since I spoke about the that this matter and I'm sure a lot of subscribers have not seen me speak about this and may may have this questions. So we can certainly revisit this. How did the Mongol Empire grow so fast across all of Eurasia? What made it happen? The most important forces. So if you look at the region of Mongolia in the 1200s, 1300s, what was the population? Maybe a million or two million. Okay, maybe a couple of million. Let's quickly um do a quick Google search. What is the population of Manipur today? Okay, one second here. Population of Manipur. Manipur today um 3.75 million. So Manipur is a tiny state in the far east of India, right? 3.75 million is the population today. The population of Mongolia was less than that. Maybe 2 three million. Okay. And out of that little population came the greatest empire in human history until that time. So the people of Mongolia were used to hardship. The weather in Mongolia is essentially the same as the weather in Lada today in in northern India minus the altitude. The climate in Ladak is even even harsher than Mongolia because of the extreme altitudes. But otherwise the climate in Mongolia is essentially the same as Ladak if you subtract the effects of altitude, extreme cold and so on and and uh lack of water etc. that sort of thing. So the people of Mongolia were used to extreme hardships for centuries, for millennia and they lived in small nomadic groups. So they they were accustomed to a very disciplined, very regimented lifestyle. The moment you broke discipline, you died. That's how bad it was. So they were used to very tough conditions. And they had these little clans or or tribes, the the Borgjugin, the Olonut, the Oruryangai and and the the Nimmans and various other other other tribes and all the tribes would fight each other because of the scarse resources. So they would try and live as far as apart as possible but if they came into contact they would essentially fight and the Chinese were the biggest instigators who kept the tribes fighting each other. The Chinese so you had this people who were accustomed to extreme hardship. They were accustomed to living in almost a militaristic fashion but they were fighting each other. So somebody had to come and unite them and that somebody was Shri Chingghis Khan. So for the first 43 44 maybe 45 years of his life he spent fighting the various Mongol clan tribes and unifying them. When he unified them he said all right it's time to go first let's teach the Chinese a lesson. They have been made they've been leading us for centuries. So that's where it starts. So the Mongols were already accustomed to a militaristic lifestyle a regimented lifestyle. Jingghis Khan weaponized that and he enlisted the entire corpus of the Mongolian population into the military. Everybody every able-bodied man or or boy became a warrior. Older people people became shepherds and and tenders of livestock because their entire food was b based on on sheep mutton. So that's what happened and Jish Khan well he was a genius so he was able to organize the Mongol army in such a way that nobody had done before and at the pinnacle of Chingish Khan's powers at the pinnacle of his career the Mongol army was at most 100,000 strong one lakh you could fit the entire Mongol army into the Eden Garden stadium or in Narendra Modi stadium and with that army he conquered half the known world. So he conquered it through incredibly brilliant tactics and strategies. He also had incredibly brilliant generals like those subotai bakad right um the Mongols pioneered so much. They pioneered what we now called Britzkrieg. They they Jungish Khan understood that on a battlefield it's all the flow of energy that matters. You know he could see the battle he could visualize the battlefield as if he was like a kilometer above the battlefield. He could see how things were going. He understood the the the role that energy and momentum played in battles and he innovated various battle strategies and tactics the horn the two horns maneuver and so much more. And the entire per purpose of existence of of the Mongol population was was war. That's how it that's how it went. But Chis Khan at least while he was alive, he only fought just wars. He did not start war start wars because it just felt like it. And that's a whole different story. So because of the this combination of factors, it grew incredibly fast. And they had tremendous communications. They had a postal service. They had communications that were like unimaginably fast for for the 13th century for the 14th century for the 13th century. Nobody communicated that that at that speed. And the speed at which the arbies moved on the battlefield was unimaginable. And a lot of this was thanks to the Mongolian pony. It's a horse that's like shorter than the Arabian horses or whatever else. It's very similar to the Manipuri pony by the way. And yeah, it's the Mongolian pony. little horse that was the battle tank of the Mongolian armed forces. So it was a combination of all these factors that made this happen. Good question. Good question. All right. Now, next question. Magnificent Shri Nearuji says, "How did the Mongol Empire maintain trade and communication across such a massive land area?" So at its pinnacle during Shri Chingistan's time half the known world was conquered by the Mongol Empire excluding India. Yeah. And uh yeah we know the answer to the question. Um now how did they maintain trade and communication? Because if you want to maintain a cohesive empire that doesn't disintegrate spontaneously, you need communications. You need to know exactly what's happening in various parts of the empire. And sometimes when when you're talking about an empire like the Mongol Empire, we're talking about thousands of kilometers. So how do you know what's happening 2,000 km away for example, you've got to know otherwise you lose all control. Not only do you need to know what's happening, you need to be able to control what's happening. So you need constant communication. So the Mongols had the world's best postal service, couer service and a system and a system of of u of communicators based on horses. So they would have these check posts at at at distances of let's say roughly 50 to 100 kilometers and you would have fresh horses everywhere. So a guy who's let's say going from Karakuram to maybe the borderlands of present day Ukraine bearing a message from Shri Chingghist Khan to his vas wasal there or to his his general there. So if Shingaskhan sends a message, he will give it to a rider who will ride at the speed of sound essentially as fast as possible and the moment he reaches the next checkpoint, he will surrender his horse there and take a fresh horse and go and go and go and that way they could cover incredible distances in very short periods of time. So that's how they were able to maintain communication and trade is a more leisurely thing and they they had a proper system of trade. uh they had free trade so you could trade without tax and all that as long as you were part of the Mongol Empire. So all of this is is thanks to the system that the that Khan created a very very disciplined welloganized welloiled system and that's how was able to he was able to maintain such a big empire but eventually the empire became it it it outgrew him. It outgrew the capabilities of any communication system of that time. So eventually it the empire grew even further even larger and his sons took over then went and there to take with the various chunks of the empire and eventually it fragmented because of various reasons such as infighting and so on and also because the empire became so large that even with the best communication system in the world it was no longer possible to communicate in real time or at least in decent enough time. Shubhanker Kulkarnney says, "I always wonder how underrated Subai was as a general. If it were any other European general, large volumes would have been written about him. Subai coordinated large armies across thousand kilometers and led a separate expedition where he defeated the Armenians, Georgians, Roose principalities, the Kummans and the Kipchacks. I always wonder what a brilliant military general he was. He was Chingisan's greatest general. Jingis Khan took him into the army when when Subatai was about like a teenager maybe 13 14 years old. Subotai belonged to the Uran Kai tribe and he quickly became um one of the trusted lieutenants of Chingish Khan and obviously you don't achieve that lightly. You've got to really prove yourself to become someone that Chingis Khan trusts. I mean a guy like Chingis Khan to earn his trust you've got to be special and that to at such a young age. So Chuatai would always put his life life on the line and eventually he he showed that he could command a tuman. A tuman was a was a division of 10,000 that was the largest regiment or division they would have in the Mongolian. It's essentially one separate army and he was sent on expeditions far and wide. U at one point in time Chunis Khan's eldest supposed son Joi was entrusted to the care of of Tubotai and they went all the way far west Ukraine, Russia those principalities and uh they encountered the Europeans for the first time and defeated many of them. Um, so that was the first set of encounters between the the Mongols and the Roose and and the and the Eastern Europeans. And Subati, my god, the coordination. I mean, he like you say, he could coordinate different armies, different set of sets of troops over hundreds of kilometers and make them move in in coordination and cohesion and have them attack at the same time coming from hundreds of kilometers apart. I mean, he did that over and over again. How he did that, God only knows. But that's the kind of incredible general he was. Probably the greatest general that we know of in history. The kind of feats he achieved, how how on earth did he achieve those? And after Chingish Khan died, Subutai served Chingish Khan's successor, his son Ogdai, who was the second emperor of the Mongol Empire. And under Ogdada as as as as Ogada as general, Subatai went and conquered Russia, parts of Russia. So under Chinghan, he went on reconnaissance missions. He circled the which sea was it? He circled One second. Let let's see. I believe he circled the Caspian Sea, not the Black Sea. He circled he circled the Caspian Sea with his with his ar with his army on a reconnaissance mission and then under Ogda he went and conquered those lands. Uh underrated is is an understatement. One of the greatest generals possibly the greatest general of all time. Subotai Batir magnificent Fhuji. What a name. What a name sir. Okay, the question is how did the industrial revolution improve living standards but also call create new forms of inequality and how can that duality be addressed today. Okay, let's talk about England because the industrial revolution starts in England, right? How does the industrial revolution start? It starts because of the age of Elizabeth, I'm sorry, the Victorian age. Who was Henry's daughter? Henry VII's daughter 8 daughter. He had two daughters. One was Bloody Mary and the second was um Elizabeth the first. Yes. The Elizabethan age. So Elizabeth was a pretty liberal ruler. She was not conservative like her sister Mary. Um she was more of her father's daughter. Henry VIII was a very well well interesting person. And under Elizabeth England completely transformed. She allowed the the study of science and physics and so on and so much happened because of that. So the industrial revolution has its roots in the Elizabethan age. Now if you look at England historically what was the society like? We have to understand this to understand the effects of the industrial revolution. Historically England society was a continuation of the society and and the system of society that was imposed upon the island by the Normans after the year 1066. So what kind of society was it? At the top you had the king or the queen. Typically it was a king. Below the king, second rank was the the nobles who served the king. So the nobles would generally have some holdings, land holdings. Some would have big land holdings, some would have smaller land holdings and they would pay a tax to the king every year. They were the king's vasals and they would have men who would work for them and then they would have their own private armies. And whenever the king demanded, they would have to come and and serve the king and have their army serve the king. That was the deal. And the nobles had lands and on the lands the peasants toiled. The peasants what did they toil? What was the toil like? Agriculture. And the agriculture is what generated the revenue and the wealth for the nobles. And a certain percentage of that went to the church and certain percentage went to the king to the crown. That's how it was. At the top you had the king. Next you had the nobles. Third you had the peasants and then you had slaves. For a time there were lots of slaves. I mean um during the time of William the conqueror I suppose about 10% see about a thousand years ago about 10% of England's population was slaves. They would wear copper bands around their necks and they would die with that on that sort of thing. So it was a pretty brutal system. So the entire economy was based on agriculture. It was a feudal system. A few a small percentage of the of the population maybe 2 3% maybe less were land owners. All land was technically owned by the crown. But the nobles they held the land were stewards of the land for the crown in the service of of the crown. So they would take care of of the all the agricultural work that will happen there. And they would give tax to the king and some of it they would keep and the the peasants they were essentially owned more or less by the nobles. They were at the mercy of the nobles. So that was the system. So the entire system was based on agriculture like I said. Now the industrial revolution happens. The industrial revolution. So all the wealth historically was in the countryside wherever you have agricultural fields that's where the real wealth of the land lay in England in Britain when the industrial revolution happened suddenly cities and factories became the engine that produced this new wealth and it they were producing they started producing way more wealth than any wealth that could come from agriculture. So the focus suddenly shifted from the countryside to the cities and the factories. Right? So there's a lot of money to be made there. So so so what this did is that a new class of people emerged. Wealthy people who were not nobles they were the industrialists. They were the business people and they quickly became more wealth than the nobles. Then the nobles some of them pivoted and they also became industrialists because at the end of the day money many money matters right and that caused a profound transformation in the society. Lots of people started congregating in cities moving many of the peasants they were drawn by the lucer by the lure of the wealth in the cities and they also decided okay we anyway don't own the land we are merely working as peasants for the nobles it's not our land we don't own it so let's go and try our luck in the cities and we'll go and work in a factory we'll earn more so then the cities started growing in size right but in factories ri you had these horrific abysmal living conditions. People would work in shifts. People would work, I don't know, 8, 12 hours a day. I don't know what it was, but but conditions were pretty abysmal. Child labor was normal. Uh crime was rampant and so on. So this industrial revolution produced a whole new class of elite in England in Britain and they their wealth came from the exploitation of people and that was okay. I mean there was no law against it. So they exploited people. They exploited the peasants. So the the peasants who did not own any land in in in the countryside now they were in the cities and still they did not own any land. They were living in rented accommodation and they were working they were being worked to death. So yeah it it generated a tremendous amount of wealth. Yeah. England became wealthier and weier and wealthier. And there's other other you know sources of wealth also. We will not go into that but we're talking about the industrial revolution. So industrial revolution is all about machines. It's about mass production. It's about assembly lines and all that. So if you do that wealth is generated fast but the wealth was concentrated among the elites and that eventually gives rise to what you know the complaints of Shri Khal Mars. Um so yeah it it kind of lays raised living standards. cities became wealthy and u you had uh eventually you had the technology that that made things better. You had street lights and proper roads and things like that but it also caused tremendous inequality because of the entire nature of society. The society remained an an a deeply inequal unequal society. it became feudalism of a new kind an industrial kind of feudalism right and that has continued I mean uh the same continued in in the Americas for example in the Americas also you have these industrialists and these wealthy uh tycoons or whatever oil tycoons oil barons the Rockefellers etc they also continue the same thing assembly line workers and so on uh but for some time in America it was better. So you see the the thing is that no society has complete equality. It's impossible to achieve complete equality. All you can do is give everybody the equal rights equal rights and and the same similar starting point for everybody. Uh but uh that that works in theory not in practice. How can that be addressed today? You can't ever address inequality completely. What you can do is give everybody equal rights and give everybody equal opportunities and then see how they go. That's what you can do. Obviously, some people be will be born into wealthy families. You can't do a thing about that. Obviously, you can't take away their wealth. You should not. Their families are wealthy. Hopefully, because they earned the wealth and so on. So, essentially, that's what happened during the industrial revolution. That's what transformed British society from an agriculture-based feudal society to an industry-based feudal society. and it continued the inequality which you already had in in British soc in English society that never went away. Uh so yeah that is what happened during the uh industrial revolution. Davan Krishna says uh could you please explain how countries in Southeast Asia became part of the Indosphere and how Singapore became democrat dem demographically Chinese. Why are there efforts to destroy evidence of an ancient Hindu roots in countries like Malaysia? Okay, multiple questions. We'll focus on the main thing essentially two questions. How did countries in Southeast Asia become part of the Indosphere? That process began more than 3,000 years ago. It began with trade trade activities. You see the east coast of India, we have forgotten about it completely. Let's go to the map. We have completely forgotten the east coast of India and what it has contributed to our culture, civilization and history. So let's look at the east coast of India. I am talking about Kolinga now called Odisha. The the northern part of Odisha is called Utkal, right? What is Utkal? It's Uttar Kalinga. Kolinga has this incredibly ancient, incredibly rich history as part of India is is a is a subset of Indian civilization. So merchants from Kolinga were trading with Southeast Asia which was called Subarabumi at the time. I at least 2,000 years ago it was called Sabumi. So merchants from Kolinga were crossing the ocean on ships and going all the way to Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia and Vietnam also obviously uh Thailand, Indonesia etc. They were trading with these regions at least 3,000 years ago if not more than that. And slowly this caused the Indianization and Hinduization of the entirety of Southeast Asia. About 2,000 years ago, Indonesia became Hindu. I mean, it was it was Hindu. All of this entire region, present day Indonesia, Cambodia, Thailand, Myanmar, Vietnam, Laos, um Myanmar, I said Philippines, all of this was Hindu. And much of this region has been Hindu for more than 2,000 years, maybe around 3,000 years. all because of the uh merchants from Kolinga who would go and trade with these these countries and these countries slowly adopted Indian customs and uh they they formed great kingdoms and empires in their own own own right so that is what happened that's how this region became part of the indosphere we never ever imposed anything on on the people of this region there was never any religious conversion there was never any conquest except had the Chola conquest which was a geopolitical affair not anything else. So that is the deal. Now what about Singapore? So Singhapur Singapore is over here at the tip southern tip of the Malay Peninsula. What happened to Singapore? Obviously it's called Sing Singhapur, right? The city of of of lions. It's a Sanskrit name. So obviously it was Hindu in the past. So what happened? Why is it demographically Chinese? I mean today Singapore has a Chinese majority. What happened is the question. How did that happen? A city that's part of the that's at the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula. How how is it major majority Chinese? You see this region came under the came under British occupation about a couple of around the 19th century. Okay. So in the first quarter of the 19th century the British established um colony in Singapore let's say and the imported Chinese labor they imported Chinese labor there and we discussed some of the biggest wars that have happened earlier in this episode uh the Taiping re rebellion and the the Dungan revolt and all that. So all of that caused a tremendous amount of instability in chi in China in the middle of the 19th century. So that caused a bigger exodus of Chinese out of out of China elsewhere. Many of them came to Singapore and the British imported Chinese specifically. So over time China's the Chinese population of Singapore grew from like negligible levels to 10% then eventually slowly over by the end of the 19th century it became the Chinese became the majority population in Singapore. Uh so that's how chi Singapore became gradually demographically Chinese majority. That is how it happened. Um well about Malaysia well it's an Islamic country. So well that's how it goes. Yajjulka says where old they were worshiing Iranian religions in Vic Hinduism in Gandhar persecuted under Zoroastrinism for example under zeris in Gandhar were the das treated as false gods and demons by the prophets zaratustra was the spread of Zoroshidanism in Persia peaceful or did it involve intolerant proactive conversion So Persia, when we talking about Persia of of ancient Persia, we're talking about the Aminid dynasty. The first king of the Aminid dynasty was Akeis according to the according to the Greeks. His name so there's this two word there's confusion about his name, right? What was his real name? Was it Akinus? That's not a Persian name. His name was either Hakamanish or Hakamanish possibly Hakamanish. Hakamanish. What does Haka mean? See in Persian Sa becomes ha. The Indian sa becomes her in Persian. So if you want to say saraspati, you say harawati. So, so the word for one of the words for friend in Sanskrit is saka. Saka, right? So, the Persian equivalent would be Hakka. So it's possibly Hakamanish who was the founder of the Akimerid dynasty and he is said to have lived before Zaratustra or Zoroaster which means that Hakamanish would have been Hindu right so he would have practiced the old religion and then eventually at some point in time there's the rise of the religion of zeratustra and somehow it spreads all over Persia and Persia becomes becomes Zoroastrian. Now the problem is that we don't have any records from those times. Persia obviously was a highly evolved civilization, wasn't it? It was a great civilization. It was burned to the ground by Alexander and the Greeks. It was burned. The great city of Parshapur was destroyed. Burned in a drunken night by Alexander. They blame some woman companion of his whatever. And whatever records the Persians had were destroyed. So we don't know how the mechanics and dynamics of how Zoroastrinism became the dominant force, the dominant religion in Persia. We don't know what happened and we don't know if there was any persecution, any forcible conversion. We don't know how it happened. It's entirely unknown. It's lost in the mists of time. The Greeks destroyed the records. The Greeks, their justification was that, you know, the Persians had a couple a century and a half ago burned Athens. So, they did this in retaliation. Look, that's okay. Whatever. That's history. But they they burned they destroyed Persia. They took all the gold all the gold of Persia away. They begged Persia. And yeah, that's what happened. So, we don't know what happened. We don't know if it was brutal, if if it was peaceful or it it involved intolerant forceful conversion. We have no idea. But we know what we know is that the Zoroshan religion, the religion of Zaratustra is kind of an inversion of the Vic religion. It has the same elements but kind of inverts things. So the das become bad guys and the assuras become the good guys. In Vic religion, you know, the dwas are the good guys and the assuras are are kind of naughty, a little bit naughty. They the assuras are also divine beings, but they are kind of naughty divine beings. Slightly slightly naughty, not entirely evil, but not entirely the good guys, but but the das are the good guys. So in Zoroastrianism, the das become the bad guys and the assuras become the good guys. So it's kind of a revolt of some kind. Not that I will disown my religion but I will invert my religion that sort of thing. So that's what zaratust did and he came up with this new concept of aurora mazda the supreme brahman or what there that that sort of thing a supreme divinity but it's not monotheistic zostism is not a monotheistic religion I don't care what the westerners say to hell with the westerners it's our culture I mean kind of our culture we have parcels in India ask them ask them whether zorism zorism is a is a monotheistic religion it's not a monotheistic religion I don't care what the westerners say. I don't need their lectures. We don't need them teaching us our our history. I consider Iran and person history to be kind of part of our our overall history, you know, broader our history, our our region. Uh so we don't know what happened. We don't know if there was persecution or not. But what we know is that there was never any conflict between India and Persia. Never ever. And when the Arabs destroyed Persia, the Persians wish that India would come to their help. So when you are when you are in your worst times, who do you wish would come to your help? Your your people, right? Your relatives. Yeah. But did it not happen because at that time India was not unified under a single empire. So my point is that I'm not sure eventually the das the das were looked upon as kind of demons eventually over time in Zoroastrianism. uh but there was never any conflict with India ever. So yeah that is what happened. We have lost the records the po records of Persian history written by the Persians themselves because the Greeks destroyed it. Alexander destroyed it. Um Yulka says in the battles between Greekeaking regions of Southeast Europe and the Aminate Empire that happened a bit pre Alexander the Greek. Do we have any reports from Persians from the Persian side? Are there reports of these battles available today by later Greek and are the reports of these battles available today by later Greek and Roman authors believable? Well, once again you have hit the heart of the issue, right? Um you've had battles between Greek speaking religions regions of Southeast Europe and the Aminant Empire. The Akminate Empire was a pretty expansionist empire. the empire of the descendants of Hakam. Um, Daros, Xerxes, Xerxes, his real name was Kay. It was not Xerxes. Okay. And Dios was Davos. Cyrus was Kurush. Uh, Kambesus was Kambujia. All the names are names we can recognize. These are not Greek names. The Greeks have given their own names. So the Amirid Empire, the Persian Empire was always expansionist. They always expanded westwards. Their their enemies were the Greeks. They wanted to conquer Greece. And Chay tried that, right? He kind of succeeded actually the you know 300 that story. It was actually 700. uh this great expansionist empire never ever ever even considered expanding eastwards towards India. Never, always westwards. Greeks, we'll fight the Greeks. Never the Indians. There must be some reason for it. Now, you had all these battles and wars that happened. And we only have reports that are Greek reports. We don't have any Persian rec records, right? We don't have any reports written by Persians. It's always reports written by Greeks and Romans. Why is it? Because the Persians eventually conquered uh the Greeks eventually conquered Persia. Alexander did. Alexander destroyed Persia, wiped it clean, burned it to the ground. That's what he did. Everything was destroyed. No records available. Everything is gone. Only the Bhagastthana in inscription is left. Behistun inscription it's called today. Behistun was once called Bhagastthana and it's written in the Persian language. If you read it, it sounds like Sanskrit. uh so we don't have reports from the Persian side and the reports of battles available by Greek and Roman authors will obviously you have to take them with a grain of salt because they will embellish their glory and all that they will embellish the reports and make it pro make it sound like the Greeks were better superior and the Persians were naughty and bad and evil and inferior obviously you do that right history is written by the victor so yeah you can't really believe those records entirely Alexandria Yeah, Navala says, "Was Alex al Alexandria Egypt founded by Alexander the Greek or is this also a hoax?" It well, as far as I know, it was founded by Alexander. See, Alexander is said to have founded multiple cities called Alexandria all over the place. Multiple Alexandrias including a couple of Alexandria in Western India. Allegedly, we have never found any evidence of any Alexandria in Western India. Never. Archaeologists have searched for it for decades or for for centuries, centuries. We have never found any Alexandria in western India, northern India, northern western India, Gandhar, wherever. We have never found it. He is also said to have founded Alexandria and Skia, Alexandria and other parts of the of possibly Persia, Mesopotamia. We have found no Alexandrias. But there's one aliscandria in Egypt. It's called Aliskandria. or would you like to look at it? Let's take a look at it. We shall look at Alexandria in Egypt. And that is most likely a city that was actually founded by Alexander the Greek. So this is one Alexandria that actually exists and it was founded by the guy. Um and it still exists and u there used to be I believe a great lighthouse there and a great library there and it is said that Alexander is buried in Alexandria. It is said that one of the tombs of some Islamic saint there is actually u Alexander in disguise. I mean it it used to be Alexander's tomb allegedly and after the Islamic uh the takeover of the region by by Islamic forces they converted that into allegedly an Islamic saints tomb so that it will not be destroyed by the the the conquerors by the occupiers. That's that's what one hears but I don't know which tomb it is and anyway I don't I have no intention of visiting. So uh Nirvana Shanks says do you think the world would be a very different place if the library of Alexandria had never been destroyed? Thank you for your attention to this question. So Alexandria is said to have had a great library. Great library. And we just took a look at Alexandria the map. So what happened to that library? Yes. What happened? It was burned. Who burned it? Julio. Julius. Julius Caesar. Well, his his army. His army burned it. And it is said that, you know, they were they they had to set fire to some ships to to to prevent a rebellion from spreading or something. And the fire spread across the city and it burned the library. Not our fault. We didn't mean to do that. That sort of thing. But truth is, Julius says it burned the library at Alexandria. And it is have said to have had tens of thousands of scrolls and whatnot and all all that all that knowledge disappeared from the world sadly. Well, yeah, it's it's sad. It's the burning of any library is unfortunate, especially an Egyptian library. And you know, imagine the kind of knowledge that would have been there. we would have had a much uh much richer understanding of Egyptian history and much more of the world's history of that region if that library had survived until today. Yeah. So would the world have been a different place? Kind of to some extent. But I'll tell you what have would have made the world a really different place if the libraries in Indian universities had not been destroyed. That would have made the world a genuinely different place. Nalanda, Takshashila, Tilhara, Vikrram Shila, Odontapuri, Walabi, Shahit. Each of these universities had massive magnificent libraries. Each were destroyed. Each each of these libraries was destroyed. If those libraries had not been destroyed, that would have made the world a completely different place. So that I hope puts things in the right perspective and gives the right context. Yajjulka says and we're talking about okay did the religion founded by have an influence on Judaism? So Aken what does the the name Aken mean? Well, as a kid, when I was about what I don't know, 11 12 years old, I read the history of civilization by Will Durand. It's a set of 12 books, big thick books and I read the Egyptian part of the history and that had a section obviously on Akiratan. So Akaratan was married to the queen Nefertiti that very famous lady u whose statue still who whose face portrayed the statue still survives and she's regarded as one of the you know most iconic ladies in in world history. So she was the wife of Akinatan Akenatan. Now Akenatan the name it means aten is happy or at is pleased. Who is at? So Akiratan had started this new religion, a monotheistic religion, son worship. There's only one god in the world and we we said the son is the god and akinatan means at pleased or at is happy. My monotheistic god is pleased. So he tried to impose monotheism on Egypt. He tried to undo centuries of Egyptian tradition and culture by imposing monotheism in Egypt. And once he died, his son undid that and brought back Egyptian polytheism. And Akenithan's images and statues are all defaced and disfigured today. So that was a damn memory or something what what they call you know damnation of memory. The erasure of this person from from history attempts to erase him from history. So he introduced a monotheistic religion which he invented and forced it down the throats of the Egyptian people. Did not work. But while he was alive, it was the official state religion. Um, now Akathan is said to have lived around sometime in the 14th century BC. Shall we look it up quickly? Let's look it up quickly. When did he live? Let's go to Google and let's see. Akatan. So let's quickly go to Wikipedia. Always remember Wikipedia is not necessarily a source of correct correct information but let's just look at this for for you know for saving time. Uh 1353 to 1336 or 1351 to 1334 BC. So the 14th century BC right that's that's when this guy ruled and let's ask this question when were the Israelites in Wow they found it. it's able to predict predict what I'm going to ask the exodus. So some scholars place the enslavement around 1700 BC some say around 13th century BC. So it looks like it is somewhere around that time period. They don't really we don't even know if this enslavement actually even happened but it is said to have happened according to the book of the exodus and whatnot. So if the Israelites were enslaved in Egypt at the time when Akaraten was in power then they would have been exposed to monotheism. the the religion of the Israelites originally was polytheistic but then Moses introduced No, it was Abraham who introduced monotheism. Right. Right. So if the Israelites were actually indeed enslaved for some time in Egypt and if they were exposed to Akenatan's monotheism then it's possible that perhaps it may kind of have influenced their belief system theology and maybe it would have had an influence on Judaism which eventually became a monotheistic religion. It's possible, but we don't have conclusive evidence of that. But it's an intriguing possibility. But we don't even know for sure if this enslavement, this incarceration of the Israelites actually happened in Egypt. Because thus far, we have found absolutely not a single shred of evidence of the existence of Jewish people, Israelite people in Egypt during the Pharohic ages. Okay. Next, Amisha says, "How powerful was the Roman Empire?" Well, it was pretty powerful. It was a pretty large empire. Uh, it controlled the entirety of the Med Mediterranean rim from the southern part of Europe, the Mediterranean portion of Let's go to the map. Okay, so let's put the map on the screen. And if you look at the Mediterranean region, so all of Italy was obviously conquered was part of Rome, but the Romans eventually uh conquered Hispania, Iberia, Spain, France, which was Gaul at the time, uh the Balkan region, obviously Greece, obviously Julius personally conquered Greece. Uh Anatolia obviously was used to be a part of Greece. uh Judea which is present day the Israel region. Syria was a was a Roman u colony, Jordan, all of that, Egypt was part of Rome, part of Rome. Libya, yes, of course. Northern Africa, all of this was part of Rome. Yes, it was all part of the Roman Empire. If you look at Europe itself, proper Europe proper. Uh all of France, it was then called Gaul. Sis Alpine, France alpine, gold, all of that that was part of the Roman Empire. Germania, Germania was part of part of Rome. Um, Skitia, part of Skitia, Trace was part of of the Roman Empire. Um, all of this, much of Europe was part of Rome. Even the British islands, North Ireland, the Romans never venture to Ireland, but all the way to Northern England, not Scotland, but yeah, so all of that and they had was all over the place. And the Romans at various points in time fought the Persians and the Roman Empire was actually once captured by the Persians and humiliated rather badly. So eventually the Romans were fighting our neighbors the Persians. Right? So obviously it's clear from this from just looking at the map that it is it used to be a pretty powerful empire pretty powerful and it was in power for a very long period of time multiple centuries. And once the western Roman Empire which was based out of Rome, it declined and fell and became part of the it was totally totally destroyed by by the Holy Roman Empire eventually. But the Eastern Roman Empire based out of Bzantion or Constantinople. It remained a powerful empire until the Turks took over 15 whatever. Right? So the Eastern Roman Empire was was in power for much longer even after Rome fell. Right. So Constantinople fell in 1453 to to that guy whatever his name was the Turkish guy. So pretty powerful pretty powerful no question about that. Nirvana Shanks says which Indian maritime trade route had the biggest cultural impact beyond the subcontinent? Thank you for your attention to this question. So India had multiple trade routes. Let's once again go to map. Once again we go to map and we'll try and trace out some of these trade routes that we had. India was from the rig vic days a maritime civilization. So during well what we call the Sarasati synindu phase of our history we were trading with Mesopotamia. We know that because our you know seals from the Sarasati Hindu Sindu region are found all across Mesopotamia. Um we had uh trading centers in in the Gulf region. We were trading with uh Ilam Ilam and Marashi and Mesopotamia. So we had trade routes there. Then we were trading with Africa. We were trading with Egypt because we have found artifacts of our our existence there. We were trading with Rome and the Romans used to complain that we were that that India was taking all of Rome's gold in exchange for spices. uh then we were trading with Sarna Bhumi and uh yeah that's about it u we are talking about maritime routes over here so these are the major trade routes we had now which had the biggest impact beyond the subcontinent I would say the eastern trade route to suburbi it had most likely the biggest impact because it completely Indianized this entire vast region it's a huge region ra it is larger than Jammu. If you look at the entire uh geographical extent of the region, if you look at all the Indonesian islands, if you look at the Philippines, if you look at Subaru Nabumi, Southeast Asia, which is Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar, Vietnam, all of that huge huge area. All of that was completely Indianized, completely Hinduized, right? Through trade, only through trade, not through force or violence at all. So clearly this was the biggest cultural impact we had. We also had you know an impact huge huge impact in Africa but that has now diminished because of the passage of time and the decline of Indian civilization. All right. Shubhanker Kulkarnney says why in why did Indians eventually give up ship building and traveling the oceans by the 16th or 17th century? We have records of cholas going as far east as Vietnam and Cambodia while Indian traders were present even in Africa and played a key role in well our trade with Rome. Yes. Is the Turkish occupation of India which started this inward is it the Turkish occupation of India that started this inward-looking mentality. Indians at one at one point in time had really good ships and were excellent navigators. You see when Vasco the Gama crossed went around the Cape of Good Hope and arrived in Eastern Africa he thought at that time that he had the world's most powerful ships the most advanced ships in the world and when he reaches east Africa I think Mombasa or somewhere Kenya Tanzania that region he sees ships that are three times the size of his ship these are Indian ships you have Indian merchants there but these are peaceful ships without any weapons so he takes he he takes the help of an Indian merchant Apparently we don't know who he was but that's how he he discovered India. That's how he he was able to reach India and that's where all the colonization nonsense starts. So India had tremendous ship building seafaring capabilities and they were used for this was used for trade trade and we had a huge presence in Africa eastern Africa and also in Sabumi all of that. Now what happened? What happened is that we came under foreign occupation. First by the Turks and then by the Europeans while the Turks were ruling India, they were not in control of all of India. They were control of in control of parts of India and parts of India were still free and those parts of India were still trading with other other parts of the world because we were a trading nation, a maritime nation and uh our kings, our kingdoms, our empires encouraged trade. So it was part of our DNA. So we were doing this and we had tremendous ship building capabilities. Now as the Turk occupation spread like a cancer. The Turk rulers had no interest in trade with other countries and facilitating Indian trade with other other countries. They were extractors. They had other items on the agenda. So they discouraged trade. they I mean they conducted genocide obviously and they had no real interest in in you know patronizing trade and and helping that out. So that caused a slow decline in in our trading uh activities. When the Europeans came to power and they took over parts of India eventually the whole of India they destroyed our trade. They de-industrialized India systematically but they did keep some ship building alive in India for their own purpose for their own benefit. Lots of European ships were then built in India. Some of the ships that were that that took part in the in the American war of independence in the in the yeah American war of independence most likely they were made in India. some of the ships that that participate in the US civil war possibly were were made in India and so on. Yeah. So so that that's what that was the thing. So because the Europeans the British systematically and purposefully deliberately deemed us as India that's how all of this eventually disappeared. And today in in India people don't even know that we used to be a maritime civilization. The leading maritime civilization with the most advanced ship building capabilities. Yeah. And today look at us. So right okay let's see some a couple more questions. Jajnavulka says the book Exotic Aliens the lion and the cheetah in India written by Rmula Tapar aal seems to have tried to show that the lion was not native to India and was imported to India around the time of Alexander's invasions. Now Mmanuel Eal the evolutionary history of extinct and living lions 2020 seems to have concluded that the lion existed in India from a very long time much before the time of Alexander. So how could a supposed historian like Robinata write an entire book to propagate a big lie? I'll tell you what, there are Indas Valley Harapan Sarasati Hindu era seals and pottery that depict lions. Alexander was not born for for a few thousand years after that. We had lions for we've always had lions. But why does somebody like Rome try to prove that there were no lions in India? And Alexander the Greek he he he blessed us with lions. All good things come from outside from the west. Right? See Romeir Tappar is a very problematic uh esteemed person. There is she has tried to distort a lot of things in the past. There is a Vic text. It's called the Bodhana Shro Sutra. Let's Google. Let's Google it quickly to see some of her her other achievements. Okay, let's go to Wikipedia and let's see if that what it says. Okay, bodana shro let's go to Wikipedia and see what see what this has to say. It's a late Vic text dealing with the Solomon etc etc um etc blah blah blah blah blah blah blah poor legend translation controversy so according to Michael Vidzel some Vic passages point to the Indoarian migration huh and Michael Vidzel translated this passage of the bodhan sutra to interpret it as evidence in favor of arian migration um Amasu went eastu went eastwards and his people the kurup panchchal and the kashi vid eta this is the arian migration and so on and rmula taper stated this passage contained literary evidence of an arian no invasion now they have changed it to migration it used to be invasion if you look at the history of this article it'll show invasion so ruler used Michael Witell's translation to say that there was an arin invasion but this is an incorrect translation this was deliberately flawed translation. If you actually if you actually know Sanskrit, you will see that this text speaks of a westward migration towards central Asia of Indians. Okay. So, so it's clear that these people have in the past on multiple occasions tried to distort Indian history. The Bodhyana Shrot Sutra talks about a Vic king late Vic king called Abavasu who migrates westwards. His people are the Gandhara the Parha and the Arata. Gandhara obviously Afghanistan Para means Persia. Arata could be Armenia. So that could show our connection with these regions. Persia and Afghanistan we anyway know our connection but possibly Armenia. So Michael Vidzel did a incorrect translation and Rome took that and tried to propagate the Arin invasion theory. It's been completely debunked today. Nobody believes that Michael Witzell translation. Anyone who knows Sanskrit will tell you that it's a westward migration, not an eastward migration. So Robin has in the past done these things. She has a track record of of doing this. So what can I say? It's no surprise that she has tried to claim that the lion was brought into India by by a westerner. because we had no good things in India. Yeah. Um, okay. I have a lot more questions but I'm going to end it here. So, let's take some questions from the comments. If you have some life live questions you would like to ask me about history about history about history, ask me. And uh, I will not take other questions. I'll only take Yes. Yes, you're right sir. Arian picnic theory. Arian picnic theory. It used to be the Arian invasion theory. They were able to find no evidence of invasion. So they said no it was not invasion it was migration. Migration they came peacefully and migrated. So then where's the evidence of the migration? Then they said no it was multiple small waves of migration. Multiple small waves of migration. So that also has not worked. Where are the multiple small waves of migration? Show me the archaeological evidence. Show me one shred of evidence of small waves of migration. That's not there. So they'll say it was not migration. It was tourism. They came as tourists. Even that one work. So they will now say picnic. So Arian invasion theory will become has become arian migration theory. Then migration theory will become tourism theory and then it eventually it will become a picnic theory and then they will say alien invasion theory. None of these are going to is going to work. There was no Arian invasion migration whatsoever. We are the Arya people. If there were Arian invasions or migrations they were out of India and that's the end of the story. I don't care what godamn genetic evidence you put in front of me. The crux of the matter is Hinduism and and Sanskrit, not genetics. A huge place like India, obviously we had migr migrants coming all the time. It proves nothing whatsoever. Okay. Questions about history, please, not about civic sense and god knows what. Um, okay. Shri Ramchandra says, "Why did World War II happen quickly after World War I?" Well, it's the same conflict. I call it the European tribal wars. It's the same conflict. The end of the sec of the first world war was humiliation for Germany. The treaty of Vai was humiliation for Germany. And that caused that that that co that created the conditions for the rise of a German black backlash because Germany was humiliated. Germany was Germany's pride was destroyed. Eventually somebody would try and reclaim that pride, right? So Germany was made to pay pay huge reparations. Germany was made to give up territory. all kinds of humiliations, right? All kinds of humiliating conditions in Germany. So then you have in 1935 the rise of a painter who says I will restore German pride and then unfinished business has to be taken care of. So that that is the reason you see it all starts with uh the crisis of 1914 and Austro-Hungarian Empire which was dismantled entirely and then it it all ends with well Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Okay. Geopolitical says how advanced were Indian methodological techniques compared to civilizations like Egypt or Mesopotamia. Well, you see we have certain pillars in India. You go to Delhi, there's a pillar standing there, right? Those pillars have been standing for centuries in the weather. Iron pillars, not steel, iron pillars. They've been standing in the in the weather in the Indian monsoon, the sun, the heat, the rain, the snow, whatever is there. No deterioration whatsoever. Till today, engineers and scientists can't tell you how that sort of that that iron was created, how the was that iron smelted, what was the technique behind it. Nope. We don't know. The world's greatest and best steel, the best steel of all, best steel of all was crucible steel. It was being smelted in India in southern India. Even in Sri Lanka, present day Sri Lanka around 500 BC. When Alexander the Greek came to India, he discovered this. It was like the greatest thing he had ever seen. Sir, it has been given various names. Crucible steel, cerak steel. Now it is called Damascus steel. It's Indian steel. So our methological techniques were were beyond anything the west or any other part of the world could achieve. Tremendous. Tremendous. Okay. Um Dark Edit says, "Okay, this is the last question for today. Last question. Whether Kushans, Indians or Central Asians everywhere, they say they're Central Asian invaders. Of course they will say that. Of course they will say they are foreigners. The foreigners see the Kushans they came from which part of the world? They invaded India. Yes, agree. No questions. No question. They came from which part of the world? They uh let's go to the map. Let's put the map on the screen. So the Kushans they came from the Tarim basin region present day Singinjang currently occupied by by China. What is this river? This is the Kotan river. There's a Tarim river somewhere here. Um what is this Tarim River? Where is Tarim River? It's somewhere in this region. Okay. So the Tarim basin region is somewhere around here. uh, Hotan and all that. The Kushans came from this region. They came. So if you look at this region, this was the region that was home to the Tushara people of the Mahabharat. In English, they call them the Tokarians. The Tokarians. And if you look at the Tarim region today, you will find mummies there. People who who were buried around 2,000 30,000 BC. The tarim basin mummies these were the tokaran people they spoke the tokaran language and if you look at the tokaran script it goes k ga all that so it was an indic kind of language it was based on an indic system if you look at the DNA of the tarim based in mummy's male DNA it is R1 A1A it is classic Indian DNA even though these people have blue eyes possibly and possibly red hair and white skin so they were the Tushara people leche people but related to Indians. You could say that they were the eastern mostians, the Koshans, not really Central Asians. So, and the Skians were people who in a very distant time in history migrated out of India possibly as as a consequence of a defeat in a battle in a war maybe the battle of the 10 kings. So the skitians and the Kushans are related were always related to us there. If you look at the Tarim basin cities which are still found in the in the in ruins in ruin form in the deserts you will see frescos and paintings of Lord Ganesh Lord Shiva all that. So they were culturally Indian linguistically possibly different ethnically they had similar DNA. Armen is the classic Indian uh genetic hlo group, male petrole hyper group. So they were related to Indians. They must have been outside of India for several thousand years but they were related to us. And when they invaded India and conquered parts of India, they were able to assimilate harmoniously like sugar in milk. There were no ethnic clashes, no religious tensions, nothing. Same for the Skithians. So yes, they came from Central Asia, but they were culturally, ethnically, civilizationally very similar to us. And the Kushan Empire did more than I cannot think of anybody else. Did more than anyone I can think of to further propagate Indian culture and civilization far beyond India's boundaries. I mean, what how much more Indian do you want somebody to be? Yeah. Okay. They came from outside. I don't care. I don't care. They came from what? What part of the world? They were civilizationally like far more Indian than many Indians today. Understand that. So that's what I would say and so on. Okay, I'm going to end this today. So thank you so much. We've gone way past two 2 hours. So better end it now. Thank you so much for all the questions. I had more questions that I had selected but I ran out of time. When I when I do a history live stream, it's always like this. So many very interesting questions. So, how about we do one history live stream a week and we can we can make the other one a geopolitics live stream. I can make it a super chat live stream. That sort of thing. I think it'll be very interesting. Yeah. So, all right. Thank you so much for the questions. I will see you in tomorrow's geopolitics liveream. Keep learning, keep asking questions, and don't forget to keep raising your standards. Thank you so much. Take care. I'll see you tomorrow. Good night. Good day. Bye-bye.