Hey. Heat. Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask a Budget show. Today we are doing episode 332. I hope you're all doing great. I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments as many as of those as I can. Uh but before we do that, let's see who all is there on the live stream. And before I do that, uh an announcement that the next live stream which is typically on Sundays, I'm going to do it on Monday once again this time because once again there is a cricket match tomorrow and everybody is going to watch that. So I don't want to compete with with that with World Cup. I'm going to do the next live stream on Monday at 8:00 p.m. India time. Okay, let's see who is there on the live stream in the live chat before we get going. Sagnik Achara Katos Ary Vasi Shri Ramachandra Namaste G thank you so much Sagnik Acharia real Jar Ram Geopolitical Dub is here from Indor super beast USA is talking about aliens Aditya Kulkarnney um anonymous anonymous R7U5T uh Adwit Ashini good evening Sam the gamer hello good to see you really miss Patel namaskar and shya to you ma'am. Sam the gamer. Vault rook you uh Jack Jack. Okay. I I saw what you did there. Uh who else do we have? Um pandemia NPC without side quest. Hello geopolitical your dad. Haha 77. Hello. Good to see you. I'm good. How are you doing? Somi is here from Jaipur. Uh Sam the gamer Kedar Prabhu good evening political once again. Vikash PJ Manhattan I6W Abhishek Shukla down Abhishek Shukla live talking about tariff struck down. Tushar Kalborgi hello good evening meet Raj Singh Jadatama from Ahmedabad. Good to see you. Good to see you sir. Uh Chetan Aradhya Vikas PJ Crash and Rise Boswar you dad once again. Aush Singh Aush Singh is also here. Good evening sir. Pranam fail namaskar ma'am somi Avin Manhattan. Abishukal is here from Kpur. All right. Chetan Ara NPC once again. Manishar Roso. Namaste ma'am. Namaste. Ready. Always ready. Good to have you. Random skull. J Sri Krishna sir ita. Hello Raguir Soleni from Varodra Visha student doing doing exercise. Good to see you. Shasitra is here from Moscow. Good evening to you sir. Uh Amisha Mishra good evening ma'am. N Shivias good to see you. Good to see you. Priyanka Javalia hello. Good evening ma'am. Alvin Rodriguez good evening sir. Vikash PJ says which match is it tomorrow? It's India South Africa. I'm sure lots of going people going to watch want to watch it. So I will not do a live stream tomorrow evening because it's going to coincide exactly with that match. Uh Ranjit KM RRI Danisha good evening ma'am Villinay hello Arian Matei hello Swami Swami says the DAO has hit 50K outstanding Montu Prajapati uh Vikash PJ Ankitakab good evening ma'am Chetan Aradia unknown gunman is saying love from Pakistan will good to have you online Mahadev Alvin Rodriguez once again good evening M2CM rider good evening online, Chhattan Aradya and so many other people. It is here from Toronto. Good morning, I suppose. Good morning. Um, Surya Pratab Vish July is here from Canada. Uh, hersan hers hersan Mituka. Good evening. Good evening and everyone else. I won't be able to greet you all individually. Sudir Kumar, good to see you. Mr. Nash KK Undisp Namaste Karan Kumar and everyone else Pratim Anupma from Bangalore and everyone else. Okay. Okay. Let's get going with some questions. What's the first question I have picked? Let's see. Okay. This is by Abhishek Shukla live. The question is, "What are my views on former US President Obama's latest comments about aliens? So, Mr. Obama in a recent podcast, I believe uh with somebody was asked a question about aliens. I mean, do aliens exist or something like that. And Obama said, "Yes, they exist, but I have never seen them or something like that." Something to that effect, right? So, he kind of said that yes, they exist, but I haven't seen them or I haven't seen any evidence of them and so on. And then he kind of clarified saying that, you know, why do I say that they exist? because the universe is so vast and there are so many stars and planets so there's a high probability they exist that's the kind of uh logic or rational he gave but he kind of said that they exist and then later President Trump the current president of the United States Donald Trump was asked about this and he kind of said that Obama should not reveal such sort of the sort of classified information which is interesting yeah and then this is what the white house tweeted recently so Trump has put this uh this post on his social media uh channel uh and here's what it says. It says that based on the tremendous interest shown, I will be the directing the Secretary of War and other relevant departments and agencies to begin the process of identifying and releasing government files related to alien and extraterrestrial life, unidentified aerial phenomena, that is UAP and unidentified flying objects, UFOs and any and all other information connected to these highly complex but extremely interesting and important matters. So that is what Trump has announced. So it looks like Trump is going to have his uh his his government release some information about UFOs, UAPs, alien life, extraterrestrial life and other complex matters like Trump says. Now what does this indicate? Does it indicate that the US has been has evidence of extraterrestrial life? Does it indicate that the US government has been contacted by aliens? Does it mean that they they they have evidence that aliens have visited the earth? All these UFO reports and sightings that we observe, do they mean do they indicate that aliens actually actively visit our planet? What's the truth? Well, I suspect the truth is that these aerial phenomena that we observe that some people observe in some parts of the world, they are most likely highly advanced technology, classified secret technology of the US government, US military, DARPA, etc. That's what I believe it is, right? Sounds, it looks like UFOs or whatever, but maybe it's just very advanced technology that is secret and they're testing it out or whatever. And sometimes people because the human population is so so high people sometimes notice this observe it and sometimes they take videos. I believe that's the most likely explanation for these phenomena that are observed sometimes secret technology being tested or being used. That's what I believe it is. I am extremely skeptical about any claims by anybody that aliens have visited our planet or are in the process of uh visiting our planet, right? And that the US government has uh has had um you know communication with aliens. Some people claim that the US government is in is in possession of the bodies of deceased extraterrestrials. Some people claim that the US government is in possession of of alien technology and artifacts like flying saucers, UFOs, whatever. I am extremely highly tremendously terribly frighteningly skeptic skeptical about these claims. My view is that it's all advanced technology that the Americans are developing. The the the technology that they are developing in secret, it's typically 30 40 years ahead of whatever we think is the most advanced technology. So I think that's the that's what it is. and just to mislead the public so that people don't realize how advanced their actual technology is. You'll they'll spin stories of UFOs and aliens and extraterrestrials and all that. So that is what I believe the case is. Do I believe that alien life exists out there? I'm pretty sure that extraterrestrial life does exist in the universe. The universe is just too vast. There's way too many stars and planets out there. 10 to 23 stars roughly, give or take. I mean that's a tremendously high number large number right so I am pretty sure that extraterrestrial life alien life does exist out there but I don't think it's contacted us because the odds are just it doesn't make sense statistically and why would the aliens only contact the United States government tell me why why are why are these phenomena only visible over the United States and Western Europe and so on why is that so Right. Um but the question then arises why is Trump saying that he's going to release information or direct his minions to release information about all these matters? Well, one explanation plausible explanation is that the release of such such information typically follows the same pattern as the Epstein files release. lots of redactions, lots of documents will be redacted and the most important and key information will be blacked out and it will create this buzz across the world. Everyone's going to start obsessing about aliens and UFOs and that can serve as a smoke screen to draw attention away from what's really important in the world. Maybe the US intends to invade Iran. Maybe that's a good time to release such information. Maybe there's something else that the Americans are planning and to divert the world's attention away from what they're planning, they'll release such information which would be typically significantly redacted and you won't really, you know, get the juicy parts. So that's how I see it. I don't take this very seriously. I have I mean since I was a kid, I've been super interested in aliens and UFOs, right? But I have never seen any piece of hard unambiguous evidence that convinces me that we have been visited by extraterrestrials in the past or that we we are currently being visited. I have seen no evidence that convinces me of that. So that's that's my view on this matter. I don't think even if Trump has this released, I don't think we're going to get any hard unambiguous evidence of uh what we are seeking. Maybe you will see claims that the government government of the US has been has contacted has been contacted by aliens. But uh will we see evidence of that? We won't see evidence. We'll see files in which claims are made. But that's just claims on paper. Where's the actual evidence? A document released by the government of any country is simply a claim. The evidence show us an alien or show us an a recording that genuinely proves you know, whether it's a video recording or photographic evidence or whatever that genuinely unambiguously proves that these contacts have happened that I think is is highly unlikely. So, let's wait and watch. I am super skeptical about this. I would love to believe I would love I mean I I'll be the happiest person if this actually is proven that aliens are real and they have visited the earth. I'll be super pleased if to to know that if it if it is genuinely unambiguously provable but until this happens I am super skeptical. So let's wait and watch. Okay, a bunch of questions about the recent AI summit. Aayush Singh says the recent AI summit. What's my opinion on that? Where does India stand in the AI race? Rushab says how do you see the AI summit in India keeping the Galotas fiasco aside the bashini AI was introduced which can be used as translation tools for Indian languages without changing voice server is constantly outperforming on various tests and it will be building it will now be building our LLM like chat GP perplexity etc so what tangible outcomes do you see from the summit for our AI goals and mission really now Miss Patel says so that one Chinese robot from a shady university go out all the media coverage while there were literally tens of other companies who had their 100% Indian robotic dogs. Of course, people take advantage of uh you know one out of 100 negative things and one blot is all that's needed on a white sheet but there were some really awesome things at the AI summit and the common man and women were interested as showed in the attendance at Serb's venue. There were more people than the entire attendance of the 2023 2025 Paris AI summit. Look, first of all, the Indian public is very interested in AI, right? Lots of Indians are are full-scale adopters of AI. They use AI for everything. There's a tremendous amount of interest in India towards AI. And whenever there is some kind of success story that emanates out of India like the servum AI success story, Indians are drawn to that. Indians want to see India succeed. There is no question about it. Indians are desperate to see India succeed and when something like servi comes out it's it's great news for India right and I'm sure there are lots of other companies that have been doing tremendous work and much of that must have been showcased at the AI summit now I did not visit the AI summit I did not participate I didn't I did not visit uh but I hear good things also from the AI summit now let's set that fiasco aside for a moment that robot dog and that uh drone football or whatever from that one university let's not discuss that the question really is where does India stand in the AI race uh what are India's AI goals what is India's AI mission does India even have an AI mission right so does India have AI goals we the prime minister uh gave uh you know an address he gave a speech he speaks about sovereign AI he speaks about uh ethical AI and all that uh that's all Right. That's okay. Fantastic. The you know sovereign AI for India and ethical AI which will be inclusive and know all those buzzwords and whatnot. And he also said that India is going to be an AI superpower by 2047. That's what the prime minister said. Fantastic. What are the facts? Where does the world really stand today in terms of the AI race and where is India's position in that? See, when it comes to AI superpower by 2047, to be very honest, the race for AI superpowered them is going to essentially end by 2040 20 27 28. By 2030, one nation will win. Forget about 2047. This is not mech mechanical engineering. This is the air race. All the timelines, time frames are super compressed and the more time goes, the more compressed these these milestones become. AI progress milestones, right? 2047 is like talking about the 25th century. Essentially, the AI race will be won or lost by 2030 latest. Now, where does India stand? that we have various companies in the world mainly the US companies uh open AI, Anthropic, XAI, uh Google AI, Gemini and they have these products like the chat bots like chat JPT they've got nano banana that's a Google product um there is uh what are the various things uh there is the there are various video generation tools super powerful video generation tools there are uh So we we have French companies too like Mistal. We have open AI. We have we have the Chinese companies like uh uh Deepseek. Deepseek is is a great example of a Chinese company, right? We have Quinn of Alibaba. We have Kimi which is Chinese. We have a bunch of European uh you know options out there. Um and and there's a tremendous amount of progress that's been made. Now when it comes to the American companies, they have invested hundreds of billions of dollars into the AI race into developing the products and now they're they're coming out with new models every few months almost every few weeks. Now the timelines time frames are getting compressed. Now where does India stand is the main question. Now let's talk about what is it that is the fuel for AI. What is the fuel of AI? H it's data. The fuel of AI is data. Now where do these companies like chat GPD open air etc anthropic and so on where do they get the data from? First of all from all the social media platforms that the Americans own American social media platforms on which our data is hosted Indian data a lot of tremendous amount of Indian data is hosted on American social media platforms then you have platforms like Amazon and whatnot right so data is the currency it's the fuel of AI that that's one way the American companies have built their AI they've trained their AI on this data they they've also scraped the entire internet scraping of internet uh downloading terabytes, hundreds of terabytes of torrent which is illegal obviously you know but whatever now if you want to see where India stands let's compare with China let's not compare with the US let's not even think of comparing India with the US let's compare India with China so what is the Chinese model of AI development so China has this strategy called sovereign internet you know the great fire firewall of China it uh it's like a Wald garden and Chinese citizens are not allowed to access external uh you know platforms like Google and whatnot. So the Chinese have their sovereign internet strategy. They have their domestic platforms like BU like Tik Tok like WeChat and so on. And this has ensured that all the data of the Chinese citizens 1.4 billion Chinese citizens has remained closed off to the world. Okay. What kind of data? Behavioral data, cultural data, linguistic data, sociological data, anthropological data, all the patterns, all the everything, all of that, all the Chinese data is closed off. It is it is walled, it is walled off from the world, right? So this has given the Chinese a huge massive data set of Chinese data for trading indigenous Chinese models. That's the that's the Chinese way of doing things. Now, let's compare that with the Indian way of doing things. India's data. Well, the American platforms have complete access to Indian data. What kind of platforms? Google, Amazon, Meta and so on. They have free access to Indian data. India has essentially exported away all of its vital national data to these American platforms in exchange for what? In exchange for free services. H So India's data now is American data. They own it and they're exploiting it. Our data is now in the hands of the Americans. China has data sovereignty. India is a data vasal. India is a data colony. Right? So that's one huge problem India has. Understand this. Now I could say everything is hunky dory and everything is fine. We will show the world. But that's not the truth. I won't I won't lie to you. Right? I have to be honest with you. The second issue is this. We have all these Indian startups, right? Saram is a great example. We we have a bunch of other startups. We also have a a lot of academic researchers who were doing uh research in AI. So what kind of models AI models are the Indian startups and Indian academic researchers using? They typically are using Chinese open-source models like the ones I mentioned, you know, Deepseek and uh Kim and Quen and whatnot. These models, they are very good models. they they are almost equivalent to chat GPD or whatever or or claude anthropic they give the same level of of performance for a fraction of the cost. So India startups and academics whatever they're building they are building on top of these Chinese models on top of these Chinese opensource weights. So let's take the example of Serbam. It is India's most serious uh AI model. It's the it's the yeah the most serious Indian effort thus far, right? AI effort. So the company has trained its data its AI from scratch. So there is excellent excellent execution, excellent engineering, no question about it. The problem is this. When it comes to servers AI, the architecture is open source. It is not serv's proprietary homegrown architecture, home design architecture. It's open-source architecture. It's open source architecture applied to Indian languages like Hindi and uh um you know Marathi and Tamil and BJPUI and and whatnot. So we're training on local data with open source architecture. Let me explain what that means. Let me give you an analogy. Okay? So, imagine you are running a restaurant. You're running a restaurant. Imagine. And you're using a classic, openly published cookbook. Somebody has published a cookbook. It's a great fantastic cookbook, best in the world, and it's available to everybody for free. So, you take that cookbook and you use it for running your restaurant. Your cookbook, your your restaurant is your AI. Let's say your cookbook is your open-source architecture. So the cookbook is open to everybody which means everybody can see the recipes, everybody can see the techniques, you can use that but you as long as you keep using that you are not inventing any new cooking methods. Right? So your local data is the specific ingredients you use in your country and the customer tastes in your city. What are the local spices? What do your regular customers like? What do they complain about? That's your local data. Now, how do you train the system? You gradually, slowly, iteratively tweak how much salt, how much spice, how much seasoning do you add? What are the portion sizes? H, what's the best menu selection that is best tailored and best suited for your clients? Right? So that's that way you can tweak the system but you are never create you don't create a fundamentally unique new cuisine or new cooking style right so this setup is like a chef who strictly follows a well-known cookbook and uh and optimizes every dish to his own neighborhood's tastes. So the chef is highly trained, very competent guy and he has very competently adapted the cookbook to the local context. But there is zero culinary in innovation. There is no innovation. There is no invention. You're simply taking somebody else's architecture, you fine-tuning it uh based on your local data set. This is not novelty. This is not innovation. So if this is what India calls sovereign AI then every nation is running their own sovereign AI now right so my point is serv is fantastic serv needs to be applauded that's how you begin that's how you begin playing the game you start by copying what others do adapting taking their architecture taking their methodology and and using it and fine-tuning it but eventually we have to start creating our own cuisine Right. We have not reached there yet. Serv is fantastic. Tremendous execution, tremendous engineering, etc., etc., etc. Great job. I am not for one second criticizing Saram. I am just taking it as an example of where a nation like India needs to begin. That's how we start. Before we learn how to fly, we need to learn how to walk, then to jog, then to run and so on. So, right now, we are somewhere between walking and jogging. Okay. Now the fact that you now hopefully understand is that China is doing indigenous frontier research and India is doing adaptation of open-source AI systems open source AI architecture right the other issue is that China is spending about almost 2 and a half% of its GDP on on on reverse on research and development okay China is spending 2.5% of its GDP on research and development R&D and China has essentially reversed all the brain drain issues it faced. India is spending less than 1%. It's spending about 0.7% of its GDP on R&D and I wonder what that R&D quality also is knowing the Indian universities right and India India ensures that the best talent that it has leaves and serves other countries. So the question is is this how India becomes an AI superpower by 2047? That's the question right now. There are other issues. Now when it when it comes to this AI summit okay it went off went off and all now there is this really interesting uh thing that happened give me a okay okay right uh let me put this on the screen I don't want to play the video so here's an interesting uh thing that came out of the AI summit uh Sriam Krishnan senior white house policy advisor on artificial intelligence he said that we want to make sure that the world uses the American AI stack we also want the world to use our AI model. We want all our allies which means vasals including India to leverage our AI infrastructure which means don't develop your own indigenous AI infrastructure use our AI infrastructure give us your data we will do everything you simply use our AI infrastructure so the American companies have been essentially mining the Indian public's personal data right and they have been training American air platforms on it that's how chat GPT and all these other chat box chat bots that speak Hindi and other Indian languages right that's how they've done it so the Americans want to continue doing this and in exchange for that India's IT firms will continue to receive American contracts the problem the government of India faces is that you know IT is is fading now with the advent of AI who wants to outsource it to to India right so we and And you know the Indian government has failed to reform and diversify the the the economy of India. Where's the manufacturing? Where's the diversification? It's all dependent even now on it. So if it dies, it's a disaster for India. So India, the government of India now in the short term needs to somehow keep the IT IT industry alive. We need the Indian IT firms to continue to receive American contracts. We can't allow the government of India can't allow the IT exports to die because we don't have a sound manufacturing base. We don't have a massive manufacturing base and it's the IT the money we receive from it is one of India's biggest sources of income and if that goes away in the next 2 3 years it's a disaster for India. So to prevent this we should have worked really hard in the past 10 11 12 15 years to to set up a major massive manufacturing base. We haven't done that. we haven't diversified the Indian uh you know India's India's economy. So that's where we are. So that's the leverage the Americans have on India and the Americans will will essentially you know buy stakes in various companies right companies that make sovereign AI systems large language models and by taking ownership or part partial ownership of these Indian companies they will control the little innovation that India makes and by controlling the AI stack like Sriam Krishna says they will gain control of our of our economy Right. And this will give them even more leverage over India and obviously this will then be used on to to influence and perhaps direct India's foreign policy, domestic policy and so on. Right? So that is the situation. That's where India stands in AI. I cannot lie to you and say everything is fantastic and everything is wonderful. We're going to be AI superpower by 47. 2047 is doesn't matter the race is still 2030 only even that will be too late possibly the AI race will be won in the next 2 three years one or lost where is India in this India is taking baby steps right now so I'm I'm very glad to see what server AI is doing and other AI startups are doing but we've also had all these rocket startups in India Right. Space startups, what are they doing now? What happened? You know, it's it's yeah. So that's where we stand in AI. Does India where does India stand in the race in the AI race? India is not really participating in the AI race right now. And that's why when you're not participating, you talk about ethical AI blah blah blah blah blah all that stuff. AI is a tool. It's like saying we need ethical swords and ethical ethical AK-47s and ethical Brahmos missiles. Technology is technology. It can be used for good or evil. When we are not developing the technology, we are not leading the race. We are lecturing the world that we need ethical AI that there need to be more ethical. AI is a tool in the and whoever is at the forefront of AI development will use that to win the geopolitical race. And the ones who are on the sidelines will say ethically ethically that's where India is right now. That is the honest truth. A lot of you may say that I'm being blackpilled and I'm blackpilling you or whatever. I can only tell you the truth the way I see it. Maybe other people may see some other truth. You can listen to them also. Don't simply rely on my opinion. Listen to other people. Take a 360°ree perspective and then form your own opinion based on the best judgment that you have. The way I see it, India is not participating in the air race. Yeah. Amisha Mishra says India's AI summit 2026 has sparked global out debate after a major controversy involving a robot dog showcased as Indian in a certain university. But it's clear that the that the robot dog was Chinese. Does India have a real indigenous robotic dog technological technology manufacturing or whatever and AI innovations? How does it impact India's global technological image? Is it an international embarrassment? Napoleon Singh Shikawad says whenever there's hope of coming out of some something positive coming out from India, somebody messes up badly this particular university at the AI summit. So what's the deal? So there is this one university, right? And in this AI summit, they messed up very badly. There is this uh person who was not even an AI expert or an AI professor who was a professor of some god knows what other subject who comes as the spokesperson representative of the university talking about AI which the person clearly knows nothing about and then claims that this robot dog is purely indigenously developed in their university by their students through their center of excellence or something like that. And there was some other football drone thing also that they had. They said even that is developed by them. And clearly these are shelf bought products. You can you can look it up online how much it costs to buy it. And this obviously has given India's enemies a field day on social media and in the media overall you know disparaging India and so on. So why does such a thing happen and what action should be taken? See if if you are a serious country and if this sort of international embarrassment happens you will first of all ensure that this person who has caused the embarrassment their academic career is over. It it has to be like that. But in the case of this individual nothing will happen. That person will probably become a star now. And when a university causes okay that's about the person that that one person right and when a university causes such a horrible embarrassment for the country that university should be drecognized and should be penalized very heavily and made an example of so that nobody else does it again but once again nothing will happen because this is India India is not a serious country India is not a serious country and this what we have seen happen it's simply a symptom of the actual disease. The disease is the rot and the corruption in India's academic system, educational system. India's education system is garbage. It is trash. That's not how you become Vishwaguru by having a trashy garbage-like education system. The majority see I'll tell first of all before I say that there are some good professors and academics in India. there there probably are some worldclass professors and academics and in India and probably there must be some in institutions or universities that are world class possibly okay so whatever I'm going to say doesn't apply to everybody there are exceptions but the overwhelming majority of India's professors okay they they're rubbish they're rubbish incompetent They publish some rubbish papers every year. What they do at the higher levels in academia. They will have a bunch of students who work under them. Okay? They'll make the students do all the work and then they will steal the credit. When the paper is published, the professor's name will be at the front, the first author, the primary author. The student if he or she is lucky will be second, third author or whatever. Often the students don't even get any credit. These professors do nothing. Absolutely nothing. They're parasites and that's the norm across Indian academia. That's the norm. Okay. It's a highly highly corrupt system. There must be some exceptions but overall it's a highly corrupt system. What innovation happens in India? What research is done in India's academic institutions? Nothing. publishing trashy papers three, four, five, whatever per year, rehashing some old nonsense. It's not research, it's not innovation. Until this core the these set of core issues, unless until you fix them, you're going to keep on getting such such you know such embarrass embarrassing incidents that embarrass Indian in front of the world. What you have seen is not an exception. What you have seen is a symptom of something that exists all across Indian academia and that's why I've been saying for years that India needs to reform the education system right this is going to continue this is exactly what happens all over the place and you see that person that that individual who was talking about AI that person was not even some a person with any background in AI and they they become the face of everything they take all the it and that's that's the norm in Indian academia that's the norm and that's why India has this problem of brain drain everybody who is worth anything wants to leave the country can you blame them for this now who's to blame for this do you blame the universities do you blame the teachers the the the professors the academics no part of the system the system is designed to serve them who do you blame You blame the government of India who are doing nothing about this. They know exactly what the situation is. They are doing nothing about this. So, so what you have seen this robot dog incident, it is not the disease. It is a symptom of the disease. And the disease is not being treated, is not being treated. The disease is being fed and it's becoming larger. It's becoming stronger. That is the truth. Okay, let's talk about Iran. Rushabare says, "What's the deal with Iran? Iran and the US are making conflicting statements. Trump is desperate." Okay, if you say so. The USS Gerald Ford is now coming in. Yeah, it's it's crossed. It's in the Mediterranean or about to enter the Red Sea or wherever. So it's going to reach the uh you know the western Indian Ocean region or maybe near the US kind of near the Porsche Gulf or whatever right is the US implying a troa strategy of creating chaos with Iran within Iran by creating spillover of what happened in Syria plus US attacking itself and a complete isolation of Iran by every means including economy and diplomacy. Will there be a war or is war inevitable? Aayush Singh says the warning to Iran and a 10-day time limit given by Trump to make a deal or face military action. Recent buildups indicate the US is preparing for war. What lies in the future? Recent developments suggest that a war between the US and Iran is inevitable. Question mark. What will be its implications and how tough will it be for the US to take down Iran? So Trump has said that he has given Iran maybe a 10day deadline or something to accept all America's conditions. The Americans obviously have imposed a set of conditions on Iran. These are obviously maximalist demands. Iran must stop uh completely dismantle and roll back its uh nuclear program. That's number one. And secondly, the Americans must get complete control of Iran's oil, Iran's oil export. So the Americans decide who gets it and who doesn't get it. And so on and so forth. There'll be a whole list of other demands as well. So essentially it's about turning Iran into a vasal into a slave of the US. Right? The US decides what Iran does and what Iran doesn't do and Iran should be in a position where it can't defend itself. That's what the US wants and Iran obviously will not accept that Iran has you know pushed back for more than 40 years. Do you think they will now give in to what the Americans are demanding? The US and Israel essentially right. So uh there's a round of negotiations, diplomatic talks that's happening between the US and Iran right now um DHA Qatar most likely right and in the meanwhile the Americans are assembling a massive military presence in the West Asia region and beyond surrounding region massive military buildup is happening right now. There's already one aircraft carrier strike group in the region. It's not just one aircraft carrier. It's a whole bunch of ships around the aircraft carrier that are already deployed. And the second one, USS Gerald Ford, is now also moving in. Whether it enters the Red Sea or not remains to be seen. Maybe it'll just remain stationed west of the coast of Israel. That's also a possibility to defend Israel. Um, and a lot of military movement has happened and is already is al is even now happening. lots of um you know transport aircraft and whatn not coming in from Europe and from the United States in the region around uh Iran. So it looks like the US is is creating a posture military posture that can enable it to strike at Iran if required and strike pretty heavily at Iran. So that why is this being done is the question. Is this an indication that the US is now imminently going to attack Iran? Maybe not necessarily. See, when you are when you are negotiating with somebody, you want leverage. Now, if your troops in your aircraft carriers and everything is far away, then the guy you are negotiating with is not going to be really scared of you. But if you bring in all the all the military force and surround your negotiating partner, then they will feel the heat and then they'll be more likely to break under the strain and give in to your demands. So, diplomacy is a continuation of war by other means, right? Diplomacy is war by other means. So, to succeed in diplomacy, you have to use leverage. All kinds of leverage. I'm twisting, right? I'm twisting. So, how do you twist arm? By arms? by by by you know threatening them with military force and and destruction and you can threaten them only when you have the military in place around the nation. So what are the possibilities? One possibility is that the US successfully uses its its military leverage to make Iran capitulate and give it what it wants. So then one option, one possibility is that Iran accepts all the American demands and the American military then partially moves out and Iran becomes a US wasal. But that will be disastrous for Iran because uh then the government of Iran will no longer be seen as legitimate even by the people who support it. So that doesn't make sense. So it doesn't make sense for Iran to uh to cave in to give into the US demands. So the second option is Iran does not accept American demands or the key demands which will give the US the option of either invading a full-scale invasion or a series of strikes, decapitation strikes to take out the top leadership of Iran which obviously is military conflict and military conflict is not that easy to to do against Iran because Iran has see Iran doesn't have a great air force but Iran is a very very capable missile force. They probably have tens of thousands of missiles in their stockpile. They were able to essentially overwhelm Israel's air defense right in the 12-day war last year. And if there's a full-scale invasion on Iran of Iran or a massive um attack on Iran, that Iran is fully capable of taking out the US air bases and military bases in the region in the in the West Asia region. Iran is also cap capable of blockading the straight of Hormuz. India is also Iran is also capable of uh destroying a lot of the oil and gas infrastructure in West Asia. You know Saudi infrastructure, Iraqi infrastructure, Kuwaiti infrastructure and so on and other nations and that's why a lot of these nations in the region don't want a war between the US, Israel and Iran. Uh but Trump he's already gambled it looks like looks like he see when you move so much equipment so much manpower etc across continents that's very very expensive. So you don't do it just to simply pressurize someone, right? It's already a gamble. You've already spent so much money, so much of your nation's money to bring in this enormous force posture in West Asia. So maybe Trump is Trump may possibly has calculated that if Iran doesn't give in to the US demands, all of them, he's going to attack them. So if he attacks them, what happens? Well, it's not going to be easy to defeat Iran. Like I said, Iran can unleash tremendous destruction in the nations surrounding it and also on on on the US military. Uh unless the Americans plan and time their attacks in such a way that Iran is completely crippled before something happens, which is easier said than done. So they can take out Iran's radars, air defense systems, and so on and make you know that sort of thing. But still Iran can fight back. See when it comes to great example is like what somebody asked last time the Houthis right Houthis in Yemen the Houthi the Americans have been trying to fight the Houthis from 2024 until now. The Houthis had blockaded the Red Sea right the the straight of Babal Mandib and they bombarded the Houthis. They launched hundreds of air strikes from the Houthis and the Houthis are still there. Of course they have been depleted and they have been their their capabilities have been hurt but they're still there. They're still fighting. And then eventually the Houthies accepted the American demand to allow American ships to to transit across the state of Babl Babal Mandib. But the Houthis said Israeli ships will not be allowed and the Americans couldn't force them. So despite launching hundreds of air strikes on the Houthis, they have been able to defeat the Houthis. The Houthis are in a small nation called Yemen, relatively small nation called Yemen. Iran is gigantic. So it's not easy to defeat Iran. The easiest thing to do is to to do decapitation strikes, take out the top leadership if possible, take out the the nuclear program, but even then Iran may fight. Iran may keep fighting. So if the US is not able to defeat Iran within a week or two, it it could become a long drawn out war. And you see there's other factors too. There's other factors too. Let me show you. Let just you know what what are the other factors? Let's take a look at the map. The map will show you the other factors. See, Russia and China both need Iran to survive. Okay. Now, when it comes to Iran, is Russia far away? The Iran is a few kilometers, maybe couple of a couple of maybe 100 or so kilometers from the Caspian Sea, right? What's north of the Caspian Sea? It's Russia, right? It's Russia. Russia isn't that far away. So the Russians could come to Thran's aid in some some way or the other. See, China doesn't want a military confrontation with the US. China is afraid of that. The Russians not so much. The Russians are hard retaliators. They already fighting the US in this Ukraine proxy war. Right? So Russia may not allow Iran to just roll over, right? Even if Iran is going down, they may resupply Iran and and keep them and keep them going. So just the the same way that the that when Russia invaded Ukraine, the West, which is Western Europe, which is a proxy of the US, is keeping Ukraine going on by supplying it with money, arms, ammunition, all that. The same way Russia could start supplying Ukraine, sorry, Iran with whatever it needs to keep going in a war against the US. If that happens, it could become a Vietnam style disaster for the US if if it's possible. It's not that easy. Obviously, Russia is already embroiled in Ukraine. Now, does it want to get embroiled in in another war as well? That could seriously affect Russia's position in Ukraine. So, there's a lot of factors in here. Even the Chinese factor is there. The Chinese could possibly try and resupply Iran with weapons possibly. So, there's a lot of factors in here. The Americans obviously will not sit back and just watch this happen. They will take some action. But yeah, this could soon become a major conflration if the Americans aren't able to defeat Iran rapidly, right? And it's not easy to defeat Iran rapidly. It's not easy. Eventually, the US, I I would say, will probably win because they're just way too powerful. But if Russia gets involved, if China gets involved, then it may become super complicated. And Russia is not far. Russia can directly supply Iran if uh it needs. So yeah, it looks like something is going to go down like people say. Yeah, looks like uh a war could happen soon. Trump is saying 10 days maybe. Who knows? I I hope there's no war obviously. I hope there is no war, but it looks like a war could happen in by this weekend or by next weekend. It looks like that. I hope it doesn't happen, but the possibility is very high right now. Real Vadir Putin says do you think after a regime change in Iran if that succeeds if this happens will can India and China come closer? Do you think if India and China come come closer without India being becoming powerful the relationship will be dominated by China. Okay. So if let's say there is a war between the US and Iran, the US invades Iran and eventually the US is able to defeat Iran, carry out a regime change and put a puppet government in place in Thran. H so Iran Iran becomes a US vasal again like it was before 1979 and uh all that happens and Iran and Pakistan are then obviously both US vasals. they can both be used by the US against India that sort of thing and China loses its great strategic asset and partnership which is Iran. So China becomes more isolated in this scenario. Do you think do I think that India and China can come closer and become better friends or something? Is it possible? What do I think? I think it's highly unlikely. See, at this point in time, India is being asked by the US to make a choice. Right now, India is being asked to make a choice. Trump hasn't said anything in public, but India is being asked to make a choice by the Americans. You either come on our side or we will treat you as an enemy. We'll destroy you. I don't think India has too much of a choice in this matter. strategic autonomy and all we can keep on doing that that game of balancing tightroppe walking and all that you know be the bridge between east and west be friends with Russia be friends with the US be friends with the Europe and so on but the Americans don't want India to play that game the Americans are giving India simple choice you either come on our side or we're going to treat you as the enemy just like we treat Russia and China we're going to destroy you that's one factor and India right now is probably making some kind of choice right now. Now let's say India remains strategically autonomous. In that case, could India come closer to China or could China and India get closer together? Uh in my opinion, India and China cannot become close closer unless the core issue is resolved. The core issue is the undemarcated India Tibet border. That has to be resolved. that has to be demarcated. As long as that is not demarcated, India simply can't trust China. Simply cannot trust China. The Chinese are on the one hand are building up their infrastructure, military infrastructure north of the line of actual control in Tibetan territory, right? On the other hand, they'll come and say, "H, we want to be friends." How does that work? We have this massive trade imbalance between India and China. There's so many issues, right? I think it's highly unlikely that India and China will come closer. Nothing substantial will happen in terms of closeness until the core issue is resolved. The core issue is the border. Chinese have steadfastly refused to demarcate the border. They want to keep the border open undemarcated so that they can keep on using that as a pressure point on India. So as long as they have this approach their attitude this attitude towards India things are not going to work out between India and China. So that is the situation. I don't see this happening. I don't see it happening. Nirvana Shank says, "In response to the Supreme Court of the US ruling, President Trump stated to show you how ridiculous the opinion is, the court said, I am not allowed to charge even $1 to any country under EPA, but I'm allowed to cut off any and all trade of or business with the same country, even imposing a foreign country destroying embargo and do anything else I want to do to them." How nonsensical is that? So Trump is complaining about this Supreme Court judgment. Okay. In light of this statement and what's happened and his indication that he might use other statutory authorities to maintain existing tariffs or impose an additional 10% levy. How should India interpret the implications for US India US trade policy stability, India's negotiating leverage and the broader India US China strategic and economic confrontation. Okay. So Trump imposed a massive slab of tariffs on essentially every country last year, the liberation day tariffs or whatever he called it, right? Um and he did did this under the EA, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, which is an act that was uh that came into force came into existence in 1977. This EA gives the US president authority to regulate certain international economic transactions after declaring a national emergency. So he has to first declare a national emergency and then he can use the EPA to regulate various transactions with various countries. So when can a president invoke EA? First he must declare a national emergency. Second he must identify explicitly some kind of unusual and extraordinary threat to the United States. Third he has to establish that this threat has a foreign source. It can be a threat related to national security or foreign policy or the economy. Right? So these are the conditions that have to be satisfied before a a president can use EPA. And if the president uses IEPA then you can freeze foreignowned assets of some other country or some individual in the US. You can block financial transactions. You can restrict trade and investment through tariffs and prohibit currency transfers and do all these things. Okay. So that is EA. So the US Supreme Court it has now ruled it has said that these broad global tariffs cannot be justified by invoking emergency powers without clear stat statutory backing. So essentially it has said that these tariffs okay that that Trump has invoke imposed on all these countries these are illegal. That's what it has the Supreme Court of the US has said. So Trump is now in the process of essentially dismantling rolling back these tariffs. Doesn't work. But he has signed an executive order. Uh so he has signed an order ending these tariffs. And he has also signed a different executive order imposing a 10 10% tariff on imports from all countries. It's a blanket blanket tariff on every country in the world 10%. Okay. And this new tariff is being uh imposed on under it's being enacted under a different section section 122 of some other trade act or something like that. Okay. So it's a this this allows the US president to impose temporary tariffs for up to 150 days and any extension of such tariffs will require congressional approval. So that is a stop gap situ solution. Trump has found 10% tariffs on every country in the world which will eventually require approval from the Congress. But he is now actively looking for alternative tools that are faster than going back to Congress and tools that will allow him to once again start imposing tariffs on other countries. You know arbitrary tariffs like he has done. So what we what we understand is that the Trump regime remains protectionist. Okay. it remains willing to use tariffs as a structural instrument not as a last resort bargaining chip. So going forward it looks like the form the form of the tariffs will be more constrained that way it will be more predictable and if he goes beyond that you know US citizens and law firms can once again litigate against him right but the frequency of these tariffs and the intensity of these unilaterally move unilateral moves is likely to to to decrease right so that's what's happened that that's the Supreme Court ruling that's what it actually means means now does this mean that the that the United States the structural decoupling it has done from China does it is it reversed now it doesn't mean that at all there are other tariffs export controls and advanced semiconductors um um investment screening mechanisms all these things remain intact and they are essentially separate legally conceptually etc from the EA issue so the US remains structurally decoupled from China and Trump immediately imposing this global blanket 10% tariff. This tells you that the Trump administration views tariffs, it continues to view tariffs as a central strategic instrument for them. They will not let legal setbacks like the Supreme Court ruling dilute their micro strategy, their macro strategy visa with China. And now they will look for ways of of of using the same tools under different laws. So find the appropriate right laws that exist in the US uh law book and use the laws that are still applicable to reimpose tariffs and and continue the strategic decoupling from China. Now we have to understand that you know the these tariffs when they're used against American allies they obviously cause collateral damage to American allies and partners which obviously is a problem when you're trying to build a coalition against China against Beijing. Many European nations are trying to once again partner with Beijing because of the tariffs that the Trump administration has imposed on them arbitrarily and pretty cruy. Right? So what Nirvana Shanks is then asking is about India. What what is India's position situation in all all of this? Does India have any negotiating leverage and so on. So we have to remember that India is not in the same category as China or the US. India is nothing compared to China. I mean India is not as powerful as China. India is not that big of an economy as China. And the US continues to essentially frame India as a strategic partner. Right? and they want to use India as an essential component of their supply chain diversification away from China in fields like electronics and pharmaceuticals, critical minerals, um packs, silica, you know, all of that. So India needs to assume not short-term but medium-term that the US tariffs will remain elevated by historical standards. In the past there used to be like 3% 4% 5% tariffs now they're going to remain elevated at least for the medium term not short-term medium term maybe 3 to 5 years at least. Yeah. And India should understand that these legal constraints that the US administration is facing they don't remain they don't they don't remove they don't change Trump's approach and his attitude towards the world okay he's going to find other means of of achieving what he wants to achieve India should understand and realize that the China challenge ensures the US see the US is facing the China challenge China has risen and the US wants to essentially isolate China and and cut China down to size. In the US is worried about China's technological rise. Right? So this is the China challenge that the US faces and this ensures the US continues to differentiate between China and nations it can use more more profitably. Right? So in the meanwhile India should should build should diversify obviously you know India should sign FTAs with as many nations as possible including EU which we've done the UK we've done Australia we've done UAE do more do Canada do do wherever else possible so we need to diversify these are called buffers India should find buffers right um and we have to assume that in the future Trump may throw another tantrum and you could once again and he could once again repric access to the US market on short notice. tomorrow morning wake up and impose find some new way of imposing tariffs and tariffs once again go back to 20% 25 god knows what right so we have to assume this will happen again it's possible um so and also India should also try and uh try and use this as leverage against the against the Trump administration this ruling of the Supreme Court you know India should push for maybe maybe some kind of modified amended free trade trade trade agreement or arrangements that are specific to specific sectors right you know the pharmaceutical sector IT sector uh critical minerals sectors and so on and so forth right uh so if we can come up with these arrangements with the US that will reduce India's exposure to these presidential powers and uh it will shift the relationship between India and the US into treaty based commitments rather than being uh being hostage to to the whims of the president of the US. So that is overall the situation. Um this does give India a little more leverage when it comes to negotiations. Um and India should try and you know take the relationship forward in the right direction if possible. Yeah, this is this does give us some leverage. Okay, look at how online says Pandora Papers, Paradise Papers, Panama Papers, Bahamas leaks, Swiss leaks, Lux leaks, Offshore leaks, Iraq war logs, Afghan war logs, US diplomatic cables, Edwards Noden NSA leaks, Julian Assange Wikileaks, Epstein files, Ashley Madison hack and so on and so forth. Are these naturally emerged or uncovered exposes or eventually published or propagated by the deep state or any other entity in order to drive attention of the global population magnetically. So what online is asking is is this natural organic genuine leaks or the is is this or is this information released uh in a controlled fashion for in order to fulfill some agenda? That's the question. I mean it's it's certainly possible that uh what you call the deep set or whatever it may release such material from time to time in order to decide to to to direct the world's thinking to and and and essentially to to drive narratives that it controls. That's the question. So I would say that some of these things are definitely genuine leaks that have actually hurt and harmed u the reputation of the US. For example, the Wikileaks thing, Julian Assange, they really went after Julian Assange, right? They ruined his life. And I would say that the reason he's alive is because he's an Australian citizen. If he was not Australian, if he was from some other country, well, who knows what would what would have happened to him. So, Wikileaks definitely I don't think it was a deep state release. I don't think they would they would have want they I would I don't think they would have ever released those those files themselves, right? It's it's hurt the US image greatly. So, that is definitely a genuine leak. When it comes to Edward Snowden, well, that again, I think is a genuine leak. He genuinely uh released and leaked this information about the prism program and whatnot about the US digital surveillance on on the entire world. Much of it was focused on India actually and Edward Snowden had to escape from the US and he now lives in the Russ in Russia, right? If he was not in Russia, if Russia had not given him asylum, he would have been somehow or the other caught by the US and given the harshest of punishments. So Snowden and Julian Assange, I believe, are organic, genuine leaks. A lot of the other stuff like Epstein and whatever else. Um, a lot of that could be stage managed by the US establishment. Epstein files leak. Maybe they want maybe there's some multiple reasons for it. One is to tell the show the world that this is the kind of people who are ruling you and you better be careful. Don't go against us. Right? That's one thing perhaps. The second thing is perhaps they want to uh discredit a lot a whole bunch of people and push them into retirement. People like Bill Gates and the Clintons and uh essentially possibly even Trump eventually once Trump is done with the 47th uh presidency. he's going to be as relevant as Biden most likely. So, there's multiple reasons why the Epstein files would have been leaked. A lot of them obviously are redacted and they're protecting the the the accused, not the victims. Um, so a lot of this most likely is stage managed. It is released purposefully but some of it like the Wikileaks and Edward Snood and the Prism leak those those were not done on purpose and that actually hurt the interests of the US. Aayush Singh says covery engine afterburner tested. What's your opinion? Gorov Pagra says, "Is making fighter jet engines that much more difficult when compared to nuclear reactors and weapons? If no, then I doubt whether our nuclear technology is indigenous. A certain nuclear research agency use have Russian training for its scientists for quite some time. Okay. First of all, Aayush Singh's question is about cavary afterburner uh tested cavary engine. So the cavary engine is this indigenous engine that India has been developing for the past I don't know how many decades right it is being developed at the gas turbine research establishment in Bangaluru GTRE and India has spent almost no money on it I mean the Rafal deal if it happens it's like 30 billion 35 bill I don't know 3040 billion the total amount of money India has invested in the covery program over the past few decades is like half a billion dollars so India doesn't really, you know, seem to care about this. But so when it comes to the cavary engine, the cavary engine was supposed to be the engine that the fighter jet will use. And uh the theas fighter jet program actually uses the F 104 or whatever engine. General Electric 104 engine, right? Which jet engine does the the program use? One second. Uh, Tjas jet engine. Tjas jet engine. Uh, F404, right? That's the one. So, the F404 has an output thrust of 49 kontons dry thrust and with after burner it's about 83 84 konton. Okay. What's a Newton kilogram m/s squared? Uh, forget about that. So, the general electric engine has a dry thrust without after burner of 49 konton and with after burner which is wet thrust it's about 83 84 konton. The cavary engine's dry thrust is also 49 konton. But for some reason the general electric engine has been used because the cavary engines after burner technology has not really been developed thus far and even when after burners were used the wet thrust wasn't was around maybe 70 or something kon but we want 80 plus. So that's been the story thus far. Now the news has emerged a couple of days ago that the cavary engine's after burner has been improved and tested and it seems like this time the wet thrust has exceeded 80 kontons which would put the cavary engine if this technology becomes reliable it would put the cavary engine essentially in a very similar league as the general electric F104 engine right so it's great news but I'm not sure if it will be Even with the afterb burner working fine, I'm not sure if it will be used in the pages program. So India has already already I think signed a deal with Safon which is a French company for the development of an indoor French jet engine that whose technology will be fully owned by India. That's fantastic. Saf already makes fantastic jet engines. So that obviously is just going to cost us some money and then we'll get the jet engine eventually whenever it happens. But in in the meanwhile I have always said that even if we buy foreign jet engine technology which becomes entirely our own we should not kill the cavary program we should continue developing the cavary engine at its own speed at its own pace in parallel don't kill it off and that's what it seems like is happening so the cavary engine is quietly being developed in whichever way and now the afterburner has been tested and looks like the after burner test was a success and it looks like the wet thrust is now in excess of 80 kontons or around 80 konton which is a tremendous improvement. So I think it's fantastic. So it it gives us options right even if the French thing for whatever reason doesn't work out we will still have this. So it's great. Um but hopefully the saf thing works out fine. Now the question by Gorov is is m is making jet engines fighter or whatever he is making jet engines way more difficult compared to nuclear reactors and weapons. Of course of course a jet engine is incredibly complicated. A rocket engine is super simple compared to a jet engine. Okay. A nuclear reactor is far more well it's not that difficult compared to the complexity and difficulty of making a jet engine a high quality jet engine. A nuclear reactor is essentially you use facile material in a controlled fashion to generate heat. That heat boils water and drives a steam engine. That's a nuclear reactor in in very very simple terms. Okay. Of course, it's not that simple. It's pretty complex, but not as complex as a jet engine. Nuclear weapons, once again, it's not that that difficult. It's not that complicated. Rocket engines, ramjets, scramjets, cruise missiles, cryogenic engines, they are not as complex as jet engines. Okay. So, the point is our nuclear technology is entirely indigenous. Entirely indigenous. No question about that. uh Russian language training and all. I have no idea about that. I mean in Bhaba atomic in the BC I know for a fact that in the 1950s and 1960s you had to take Russian courses. I don't know if it's still the case or not because in the 20th century Russia was one of the superpowers and a lot of the physics output of the world came from Russia and they publish in Russian. They're not like Indian slave mentality who publish in English, right? The Russians published their research papers in Russian, not in English, unlike Indians. So if you wanted to access Russian research, you had to learn Russian. I'm not sure if that's still the case, but that's a different story. A jet engine is way, way more complex than nuclear reactors, nuclear weapons, cryogenic engines, ramjets, scramjets, all of that. A jet engine is way more complicated. Those those turbine blades they have to be made from a single crystal. Each turbine blade blade has to be a single crystal of metal of of whatever alloy you're using. You need advanced materials science for that. And not just that, those um turbine blades need to have air ducts within them which will take hot air out and whatever. You know, it's it's very complicated stuff. It takes decades to develop a worldclass low bypass turboan jet engine. So it's it's way more difficult compared to what you're mentioning and please be be certain that India's nuclear technology is entirely indigenous. Really now Miss Patel says a cookie in Manipur government. Cookies given free reign to terrorize Mate and Nagas. US given free access to our western command such that their admiral is is at the center of the photos they posted. I want to trust the government of India more than anyone else since I have seen all the good work they've done and are still doing. But it looks like things are deteriorating. Or maybe they are just way too weak to handle the US. We'd probably never know what gun was placed on the government of India's head. Yeah, nukes don't make us invasion proof. But the opposition parties aren't even an option for me. Feeling kind of law. Yes, doom and gloom. Does it look like See, one thing you be we have to be very clear. The US is way way way more powerful than India. There's no way if they put a gun to your head, you can you can you know uh not give in. Um the US was given access to our western command. Do we should also know that Indian um India has also given access to American commands like in the same way. So it's not like uh we our officials don't go and visit their military command centers. We also do that by the way. Okay. Uh but yeah, the optics don't look very good when you have an American admiral at the center of the photos, right? He is the main guy. That sort of thing. Yeah, it it's kind of um yeah, the optics aren't great. Um, Manipur is a disaster. No question about it. Manipur, it looks like India has lost sovereignty over significant parts of Manipur by now. Uh, there's no other way of putting it. Um, and uh, all of that. Yeah. So, the question you're really asking is is India becoming a vasal state of the US? Like I have said that there is a significantly high probability of India becoming a US Wasal in the next 5 years. Are we on the road to that? Have we started the process of vasalhood? I'm not sure yet. Some indications are not very nice, but I would say we are still thus far mostly sovereign. Um, you are right. We see the India is way weaker than the US. And you, if India does become a vasal, you can't blame the government. The US is just too powerful. And that's what they want. They want India to be vasal. I think it'll be I I I'm still optimistic that India remains independent and sovereign by 2030 if we are still sovereign then essentially we'll be unstoppable but it's um not that easy. Uh you don't trust the government of India more than anybody else. They've done all the good work. They've done a lot of good work and so on right. Um they've done a lot of good work. They've built a lot of infrastructure. uh they've made India to a good extent atma nurbar in terms of defense equipment not entirely obviously but that that's a long road of course there's a lot of good work that the government of India has done under prime minister Modi uh but um there's a lot more that can still be done right if India wants to strengthen its sovereignty India should deport the millions of Bangladesh living in India India should deport the millions of I don't know how many Rohhingas are living in India. I don't know how many Pakistanis are living in India. The cookies will not speak about them because they have been given charge of at least half of Manipur now. So on these fronts the government of India is failing when it comes to diversifying the Indian economy. Uh when it comes to making India that's also not really worked out very well thus far right. Uh India is still heavily dependent on IT exports which AI will eat up very soon. India is not in the AI race despite whatever is being claimed. India is not in the space race anymore. So there's a lot of things that are not going very well. The the core issue is reforming. I mean we need a higher quality population and that is entirely dependent on dependent on the education system which is not being reformed at all. But we still keep on crying crying vishwa guru vishwaguru. So it looks like there's a lot of slogans slogan hearing and uh more slogans than actions right um yeah so there are issues no question there are issues in India you I understand why some people will feel low uh I prefer to remain optimistic until there is as long as there is any hope at all. So I'm still optimistic that India will prevail and in the next five years if he has still if we are still a sovereign nation we will be unstoppable. We need the right leadership. We need great leadership. We have a great prime minister and going forward also longterm we need great leadership. So yeah let's let's be positive. Let us be optimistic. Every nation has problems. Every nation has issues and uh we are no exception. But let's remain optimistic and work together to in whichever way we can to keep India going forward. Okay. Okay. Alex Clement says, "Big fan of yours. Thank you so much, sir. I have recently enrolled in a PhD program as a junior research fellow and I'm keen to pursue my research in geopolitics or geostrategy. Could you kindly suggest some relevant and contemporary topics of research areas?" Well, geopolitics, geostrategy, there's so many so many topics you can you can pick. So, for example, um India faces a dilemma. Okay. The dilemma is should we focus on the maritime domain or the continental domain. We face threats on both area in both areas the continental domain and the maritime domain. So for example we have major continental threats mainly China but also Pakistan right we even have east Pakistan now we even have the the whole cookie disaster in Manipur so much so we have all these continental threats mainly if you want to distill down the continental threats into two it's LAC plus LOC so that's our continental threats we also have major emerging vulnerabilities in the Indian Ocean region you the Chinese encroachment into the Indian Ocean region and the Pakistani involvement, the Pakistanis getting submarines and so on so forth, right? The the the problem of China, the problem of Pakistan. So we have maritime vulnerabilities, we have a continental v vulnerabilities. So one good research topic is to study how India allocates resources and attention between these two major continental threats. That's that's a great I would say um research topic in geopolitics geostrategy. Now since we are discussing AI so much with the AI sub and all maybe another topic could be AI and cyerspace you know is AI and is cyerspace India's uh uh what role does it play as India's strategic force multiplier? So you can um examine how the convergence of these domains AI cyber spa cyber cyber warfare and even space capabilities in AI capabilities in cyerspace capabilities in space how do how do these domains and the convergence of these domains how does that reshape India's or how does it how is it in the process of shaping India's grand strategy how does it shape India's tools of state craft how does it shape India's deterrence how does shape the way the India's coercive capabilities, India's influence in the geopolitical domain, right? Uh does digital capability allow India to leapfrog its traditional power constraints? How coherent is India's institutional architecture um for multi-dommain operations across these domains and so on? That's a really interesting topic. Then uh an evergreen topic is India's policy policy shift from non-alignment to multi-alignment. Right? Now India is not non-aligned. India is multi-aligned. Right? Uh India is a multi- aligned nation. It India seeks to be friends with everybody and engage constructively in various spheres of activities with every possible nation. That's called multi-alignment, not non-alignment. A lot of commentators still say that India is non-aligned. India is not non-aligned. India is multi-alignment. So you could examine India's policy shift. How did it happen? Why did it happen from non-alignment to multi-alignment? Is multi-alignment a stable long-term strategy that is viable for India? Or is it simply a trans transitional posture that India currently has adopted but is not going to be viable long term? And under which pressure points does India's multi-alignment strategy possibly break? Is it sanctions imposed by in the in the context of the Russia Ukraine war the pressure imposed by the US on India um does China come into the into come as a factor into this so under what pressure points could India's multi-arignment possibility uh strategy or or or posture possibly break and how would you uh study this you could uh study voting patterns in the United Nations you could uh study various uh metrics in energy in trade in defense right you could uh look into case studies on the Ukraine Russia Ukraine war and its effect its first second third order effects on India you could look at what's happening in the Indoacific the Middle East crisis and what kind of effect it has on India and so on so so India's shift from non-alignment to multi-alignment and how viable is this as a long-term pro strategy and what are the pressure points that could potentially make it break right Um there's so many more uh India's domestic political economy India's and how does it relate to India's external strategic posture so India has India needs growth domestically growth imperatives for India right India needs growth domestically India does all this welfare politics you know larly bhana yojana and whatever else yojnas right uh India has various business lobbies that are very invested in India's growth and you know uh that sort of thing and they impose constraints on the kind of growth that India can have. So how do all these things uh constrain or enable India's geopolitical posture and are they conducive to bold geopolitical moves or are they do they constrain India from making bold geopolitical moves um we have this narrative of vishwaguru in India that's very popular among politicians so and there are people like me who who speak about civilizational state and now that's becoming kind of a big thing a lot of people say that India is a civilizational state as opposed to a nation state, right? So, how do these narratives of Vishaguru and civilizational state and so on, how do they concretely alter policy in India and so on? So, there's there's a lot of fertile ground when it comes to uh topics for a PhD program. Uh my advice for PhD for a PhD topic is don't take something that's overly complex. Take something that is substantial, significant, something that will give genuinely new re new material, um, original research possibilities obviously, but make sure it's not too complex. It'll get you bogged down for like too too long. All right, all the best, Alex Clement. Sam the Gamer says, "Do you see today's deep states and intelligence alliances like Five Eyes, US, UK, EU intel networks, China, Russia cooperation, etc. as a direct continuation of cold war structures just rebranded? If India wants to be a genuine great power, does it also need to build its own transnational influence network of this kind? Or is this in incompatible with a dharmic civilization state approach? So are all these inter intelligence alliances like five eyes, UK, U, uh, US network and so on. Are these all direct continuations of cold war structures? We see not necessarily. Some of these obviously are NATO is a direct continuation of the cold war structures. The EU direct continuation of the cold war structures. Five ice continuation. UK, US, EU is kind of reconfigured but definitely still there. Russia China is new. During the cold war after 1969, Russia and China were adversaries. China was more aligned gradually. Over time, it became more and more aligned with the US, at least economically, right? But today, you have Russia and China working together. That's definitely not a direct continuation of uh the first cold wars structures. It's not a rebranded continuation of anything. Uh so yeah, some of these are continuations, some of these are not. Now if India wants to be a genuine great power, does it also need to build its own transnational influence network of this kind? Of course it does. And is this incompatible with the Dharmic civilization state approach? Why is it incompatible with the Dharmic civilization state approach? Does Dharmic approach mean that you should not ever compete with anybody? Does the dharmic approach means mean that you should uh not strive to be number one? Does the dharmic approach mean that you should not be a global competitor? I mean Vishnu Gupta Chanaka was a dharmic person wasn't he? He wrote the Art Shastra. Do read the Art Shastra in all the measures that he speaks about. Makya is is a child compared to Chanakya. Right? When it comes to for example uh the Kushan Empire they were dharming, right? I mean they expanded across the whole of central Asia they were massive the Kushan Empire was massively expansionist it did build its own transnational influence network didn't it how is that a dharmic the Morian did the same thing the Guptas did the same thing the chas they vasalized the whole of Southeast Asia and they were dharmic so nothing of the sort nothing of this sort is incompatible with the dharmic civilizational state approach. I think we have forgotten what dharma is. We complete we have no idea what dharma. This is the problem in India today. The education system has dassinated everybody. Nobody even knows what their own own culture and religion is. Dharma doesn't mean you you are a mute observer of what's happening in the world. A non-participant, right? It's completely compatible with the dharmic civilizational state approach. No question about it. We have to win. There's nothing wrong with winning. Okay. Mary Kane, good to see you, Mary. American says, "Ancient original concept, trade route, rob trade route, secure trade route, current uh situation, gateway, space station, earth to moon, transfer corridor for L2, NRO, secure communic satellite communications and mission systems, future path to cyber security, math and physics, B techch and computer science or electronics, infoch, avionics, cyber skills, Linux, Python, TIA security, ethical hacking, internship with US with ISRO and or other private space tech firms. practice via n map metloit purple revolution. So the question is considering India's attention to math and physics traditional dharmic approach to observation without judgment cool analytical resilience if you were in transit between the earth and the moon and something crazy started happening in there maybe something goes wrong who would you call for space cyber security or security my first thought would definitely be India okay if something goes wrong okay let me remove this so that uh my face is visible See, if I were in in what's once again, if I were in orbit, if I were in transit between the earth and the moon, okay, let's say I'm returning from the moon and something goes wrong. Who would I call for security? Who would I call to solve my problem? And Mary says her her first thought will be with India. Look, if I were in in in transit between the moon and the earth, let's say I'm returning from the moon in a spacecraft back to Earth and something goes wrong, who do I call? Who do I call? I call my space agency. If I am on a NASA spacecraft, I call NASA and tell them something's gone wrong. Fix it. Help me fix it. You can't fix it. I'm over here. I've got the tools. Tell me step by step how I can fix the problem. first identify the problem and then then fix it. If I am in a on on a Space X spacecraft, I call up SpaceX headquarters. If I am in an ISRO spacecraft, I call up ISRO headquarters. If I am in a Rosscosmos spacecraft, I call Moscow or Bikonor, wherever it is. So, who do I call depends on which agency has made the spacecraft I'm traveling in. If I am on a Space X spacecraft and I call the Chinese, they will not know how to solve my problem. If I'm on an ISRO spacecraft and I call up Houston, NASA, they won't know how to solve my problem. So, I have to call whoever has designed and built the spacecraft I'm traveling in. Right? That's the straightforward answer. uh in the past obviously India was very very very technologically and scientifically advanced but unfortunately today that is not the case not the case um that's the unfortunate situation India is in today it's a cyclical thing there are cycles that that civilizations go through you have rises you have rise and fall rise and fall rise and fall right now India is in in in that phase where India has kind of fallen India still India has a lot of rising to do thus far and uh we are not even getting started yet I would say okay RTX99 army says to to you as well I'm a student with history as elective subject in the course that I've opted in and in one instance I've stumbled upon a question analyze the debate of various historians regarding the Arian picnic invasion theory, migration theory, whatever they call it and its authenticity is explicitly mentioned in the book in the textbook that you're studying. Also, this is NP 2020 national new education policy 2020 updated edition book and it rants pure hatred at Sanatan the Indian civilization by stating it is of arian influence on our society by calling those as brahminical texts and devoid of vic origin. Please pick this. See, like I've said, the new education policy 2020 is not going to solve any of the problems that ail India's education system. A lot of people whoever they are are claiming this solves all the problems and now India is a vishwaguru education system. That's BS. It doesn't address any of the problems that plague the core core issues that plague the Indian education system. Okay. Does it address any of the corruption? Does it address the issue that your teachers the vast majority of of your teachers and professors are are incompetent and worse than incompetent corrupt? Does it address the issue of the coaching classes mafia? Does it address the issue that of of students having to memorize things instead of understanding and conceptually understanding anything? Does it address the the the the issue that uh in the education system of India the the the academic staff and non-eing staff are the real stakeholders not the students and their parents. The new education policy addresses none of the core horrible issues that plague the Indian education system. It's a joke. It's a cosmetic makeover. It's like putting lipstick on a pig. That's what it does. And here we have another interesting unfortunate revelation. Um, so Indian civilization has Arian influence, right? So people like me are descendants of Arian invaders, right? Essentially that's what it says. We aren't indigenous. Indigenous people are adiwasis. They are indigenous. Everybody else is in is invaders. And and it uses this term brahminical text. So when you this this term brahminism and brahminical text it was invented invented by people like uh I forget the name of the guy about a century ago RC Majunar he used the term right brahminical text and whatnot brahminism. So it kind of this this term kind of implies that the brahinss rule India and they had imposed some special religion on India which is different from other so it's about creating more and more divisions within Indian culture civilization and religion and that's what the NP2020 textbooks also do right texts brahminical texts so what can I that there is no serious effort being undertaken to to clean up and reform the Indian education system. It's just pure garbage. And as long as this continues this country, I I don't see what future it has. Anyway, u thank you for letting us know about this. Amisha Mishra says, "I am an Indian living in colonized India in the 17th century." hypothetically, why do I have less of a chance of getting shipped to the west as a slave while my African counterpart is more likely to be shipped as a slave to be a slave in the western world? Well, one issue is geography. Let us go to the map. Okay, so here's the map. Okay, we are here in India. If you were to be hypothetically shipped off as a slave to the west, then you would have to be taken from India. And you know the Europeans did not have the kind of slavery that the Americans had, right? Slaves were shipped off to the United States mainly. A few to Europe for sure, but not in the numbers that were shipped off to the US. So if you were in India and somebody wanted to ship you off as a slave to the US, you would have to go all the way down south, cross the Cape of Good Hope, then cross the south southern Atlantic Ocean, cross the equator, and then go all the way to the north Atlantic Ocean and reach the east coast of the US. That's what you would have to do if you were a slave trader who wanted to ship Indians there. And in those days, mortality rates were very high and uh um insurance was expensive and so on. So it did not make economic sense to ship Indians off to the US as slaves. When it comes to West Africa, it was very easy. You just had to cross the North Atlantic. A much shorter and much more direct route to the US compared to bringing somebody from India. Right? So it don't make any sense from to to bring Indians as slaves and ship them to the United States. In West Africa, you already had these slave trading networks that were in place in the 16 between the 15th and 17th centuries. you know the Europeans uh they started trading with with at various ports in West Africa and they created this slave trading networks where uh local Africans themselves for monetary benefit would go and slave would go and raid uh African communities deeper in the interior of Africa and bring back hundreds and thousands of slaves and sell them to the whites who would then ship them off across the Atlantic and bring them to the In the US um they would be used as slaves on on sugar and cotton plantations. Um you know the mortality rates were very high um and that's why they needed a constant you know supply of slaves from West Africa and that's why it made sense for this to happen from West Africa not from India. Um, another thing is that over time slave, you know, slavery became racialized. Over time, slavery became racialized and black people became synonymous synonymous with slaves in the United States and across the Americas. So, if you were black, you were automatically a slave in the Americas. If you were brown, that was confusing because all the natives in the Americas were brown, right? The blacks were slaves. Brown people were like not as at the same level as the whites. Obviously, the whites were the superior race. Obviously, according to them, that's the racial hierarchy there. The racial cast system the Europeans had constructed. So, the Europeans, the white people were at the top. The brown people were undesirable and and they were a nuisance because they existed, but they were not slaves. And the black people were the slaves. That was the the hierarchy of the Europeans in even among the whites you had various you know divisions. We'll not go into that right now. So um so over time slavery became racialized and black people were automatically regarded as slaves and brown people not so much. Now if you were a British occupier of India in occupied India, British occupied India then initially the British were only after plunder. They wanted to trade eventually they expanded in Bengal and other places and eventually by the 19th century they started uh by the 18th century they started taking over a lot of India. Um and their purpose in India was extraction extraction extraction. uh and also revenue, land revenue, land tax, this tax, that tax, zaminda tax, all those taxes, all the revenue and all the uh resources extract that were to be extraction, extracted out of India, monopolization of Indian trade, all of that. And eventually they started ruling India, large parts of India. And they used slavery in India. They used various systems that essentially amounted to slavery in India. They would force people to build highways and roads and bridges for no money, for no labor, for for no for no wages. Um the riots by the system was essentially nothing but slavery. Um they also sent indentured laborers to various parts of the British Empire which was once again another word for slavery. Uh but when it comes to eventually the British ruling India um India became the target of missionaries and the missionaries were were vultures who were who wanted to harvest souls and they wanted to portray their culture as superior to Indian culture. Now Indian culture did not have slavery. The Islamic Turk culture had slavery but that was not Indian culture. Right? Uh so the British missionaries they wanted to portray themselves as superior to to Hindus. So they could not enslave Indians. I mean not legally enslaved Indians right they they had all these systems like Zabindari Riyatwari etc that amounted to slavery but they could not legally do slavery in India and uh eventually the British sought themselves sought to port to to position themselves as the legitimate rulers of India and as a superior culture and that's why once again they could not impose slavery on India so even this indentured system which was like contractual system you signed a contractor you put you put your thumbrint and you were promised wages eventually when you were shipped off no one knew what happened to you so doesn't did not matter but that's how it was so because of these reasons if you were an Indian person living in British occupied India in the 17th 18th 19th centuries you had a way less you had a much less chance of getting shipped off as a slave somewhere compared to somebody who was living let's say in in the western part of Africa or other parts of Africa during the time when you had Ottoman Empire and so on. Yeah, that's why Nirvana Shanks says the Gupta Empire is often called the golden age of India. What policies and science, arts and governance contributed to this prosperity and what could and could modern India replicate any of these? Thank you for your attention to this matter. Yes. So, the Gupta period is called by a lot of historians as the golden age of India. It's not like it was the only golden age but yeah it's kind of become a cliche that the Gupta age Gupta period was a golden age of India. The Gupta period is in the somewhere in the middle of the first centur, first millennium AD, right? And the Gupta Empire emerged out of Magad, out of Patipotra, which is present day Patna in Bihar and eventually the Gupta Empire ruled the whole subcontinent and beyond the subcontinent um parts of Central Asia and so on. So what were the policies that the Gupta Empire um you know had that contributed to this prosperity? Science and u talking about science and uh arts and governance and so on. What are the the policies that that we had? So during the Gupta period as with other periods in India uh the government of India the Gupta government of India um endowed educational and research centers with state funding. Okay. So what kind of educational research centers schools temple schools monasteries universities like Naland Takshila and so on. What kind of endowment? The government would give land grants. They would give fixed monthly or yearly revenues and they would give autonomy. So land grant means the university gets its own land. Certain number of villages all the revenues of that of those let's say 10 villages will be used for the upkeep of the university plus possibly you know yearly revenue from the government plus autonomy. So because of this you had the creation of a class of scholars who did not have to depend on anybody financially. Economically the university did not have to depend on anybody economically. It was autonomous. It had its own revenue plus it got more revenue from the government. Right? So because of this you had all these scholars who could focus their entire entire existence their entire life on teaching whatever it is that they were experts in whether it is mathematics astronomy medicine whatever whatever whatever right so that was fantastic that's that's a great policy that you have um when it comes to so there is science and also philosophy and all the all the academic disciplines when it comes to arts you know the royal court of the Guptas was an institutionalized cultural center. Some of the great Gupta emperors were Samudra Gupta, Chundra Gupta II and so on. These great Gupta emperors maintained a court culture in which cultural exponents like poets, like musicians, like dramatists and other literary scholars etc. They received uh stipens, they received honors, they often received land grants, right? And because of this this because of this policy this this caused the professionalization of these disciplines of high culture. Okay. Um Chandra Gupta he had a gathering of nine jewels navaratna in his court. One of the navatnas of Chandra the second was Khaledas. Right? So this is another example of of this policy of concentrating talent at court and giving it sustained support. Right? Uh then you had uh state resources would would go into monument building, temple building in India today. How many temples do you see see being built? Do you see any new temples being built in India today? You see other structures being built in India today but not temples anymore. You hardly see a new temple being built anywhere. During the Gupta period, state resources were used for monument building and temple building. Uh the empire financed temples, stone temp temples, uh sculptural programs. They gave religious endowments to uh communities to guilds to merchant guilds to artisan lineages long-term endowments long-term contracts u and prestige right so this is called this is essentially directed investment focused invest investment and this generated lasting centers of uh pilgrimage of of uh of artistic excellence of urban activity all of Um and this obviously supported schools of art, schools of iconography and so on so forth. Stylistic experimentation you know flowered during this period and these schools of art like the Gandhar and Gupta art and Matura school of art and so on these eventually inspired the whole of India. They became panindian models. Right? So that is about uh arts governance. So during the Gupta period you had very strong central rule but you also had a lot of decentralization. Yeah. Central very strong central administration and at the local level significantly decentralized administration with with local u local prominent people local merchant guilds taking uh you know taking the initiative of of uh taking care of the local ground level administration of the empire. So you have a strong monarchy, a strong central system which take cares of the geopolitics of the of the of the military of the defense of the empire and so on. But you have a lot of autonomy given to provincial officials, a lot of autonomy autonomy given to village assemblies, a significant amount of autonomy given to merchant guilds. So, so these low-level structures, ground level, grassroot structures managed localized justice, they managed local trade rules, they managed the local infrastructure with obviously financial support from the empire from from Patutra or Matura wherever it was eventually, right? So um this caused a great flowering a fluoresence of of u trade and so much more in the empire in in in India you know uh this encouraged long-distance trade. It made it easier for surplus money to be reinvested in infrastructure in roads irrigation um temples civic buildings so much more. Right? So um it was a very good system and that's the kind of system we had for for the longest time in India decentralization plus strong centralization whenever you had great empires and that's what the Gupta empire also did and it was fantastic. So uh can modern India replicate any of these things in a democracy we can't replicate any of this won't work in a democracy you need a return to dictatorship for this to happen imperial dictatorship. So yeah, that's kind of uh some of the policies. There's so many more policies that you can speak about from the Gupta era, but that that will take hours. So yes, a little bit of science, arts and governance. Amisha says, why is South Africa the only African country where the population of white colonizers and their descendants remained throughout the 20th century and even after the 20th century? So South Africa is kind of exceptional, isn't it? in in in in terms of uh the colonizers remaining after decolonization right when you look when you look at nations like Mozambique when you look at Angola when you look at Zimbabwe Kenya etc a lot of a significant portion of the colonizers population left after decolonization when it comes to South Africa I think it's at least 5 million white people still live there so South Africa is definitely exceptional in this So why is that? So first of all uh the colonizers roots the settlers roots go deep in South Africa. Uh South Africa was was colonized by Europeans, Dutch primarily eventually the English also. So it it it all begins in the 17th century. So it's centuries old. And these people they set down deep roots in the land and they develop their own distinct identity which is no longer purely European. It's the Africaner identity. They have their own dialect of of Dutch Africer and yeah so their entire identity is distinct from the English or Dutch identity. Right? That's one of the causes. The roots go so deep in South Africa. And unlike the other countries in in Africa that that that uh deolonized for example Algeria, you had a war of independence, a brutally violent war of independence in Algeria and all white people were essentially expelled from Africa brutally through force as a consequence of Algeria winning their war of independence. when it comes to various other African nations, Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya and so on so forth, Zimbabwe um you had you know essentially u the the colonizers being forced off right in Zimbabwe you still have a significant non non-negligible white population in Botswana uh which are the African nations let's take a look at uh the map. Botswana and Namibia, you still have, you know, white populations. Um, Zimbabwe, you have a reasonably uh visible, non-trively small white population. Kenya, you have a very few white people now and so on. But South Africa, yeah. So, um, so in all these other nations, there was a violent overthrow of colonialism more or less. More or less. not entirely always the same but yeah uh but in South Africa there was a negotiated transfer of power okay it was a negotiated transfer of power um the path to majority rule in in South Africa did not come about through violent overthrow of the government or revolution or a revolution it came through negotiations and the the colonizers voluntarily gave handed over power to the to the to the majority population of the country right the ANC was unbanned Nelson Mandela was rehabilitated and so on so forth right um that's another contributing factor and most importantly the economic structure in South Africa um it would have collapsed if the white people left okay the white presence in South Africa was and still is very materially really useful to the South African economy and it is useful to the old elite of course the white people and also the new elites the people who run the South African government today and that's why the white people still remain there are obviously tensions and so on from time to time you have some issues uh Elon Musk Elon Musk keeps complaining that there is a genocide of white people happening in South Africa u I'm not sure how true or false that is I haven't looked into it so there are obviously issues but the white population is still central uh in some ways to the South African economy and they have very deep roots in South Africa and now you have white people marrying black people and also eventually after a few generations it may it may not be an issue anymore possibly so that's why South Africa is an exception in the among the African countries in the case in the sense that their white population more or less remained intact after uh the transfer of power Krishna of the suryamir Netherlands says, "Were the Yanas or the Yoners actually Greek? And is it true that they were related to the Cambodas? I have heard and read that both races and ethnicities were actually degraded or fallen chhatrias from northwest Batwa. What's your view and opinion about this?" Okay. Um the Greeks, the Yavanas, the Yonas. So in Indian literature uh ancient literature we speak about the yavanas and the yonas right that refers to the Ionian people Ionian people so what is what do I mean by Ionian people let's go to the map let us open the map and if we go to the Mediterranean region okay well um this is the agency here this region and then here you have the sea of cit where's the Ionian sea um um the Ionian se is supposed to be somewhere here isn't it okay uh let me just search for Ionian Sea. Oh, it's here. Okay. The Ionian Sea. Okay. I was looking at the wrong in the wrong place. It happens sometimes. This is the Ionian Sea. It's between uh Greece and uh Italy essentially. And these here are the Ionian islands. Okay. So when we speak about the yanas we are speaking about the Ionians the people who lived in this region that's what we whether it is yanas or yonas we we are referring to the Ionians and uh this is what we the what ancient Sanskrit texts write about they write about the people of this region uh even panini is known to have spoken the yavana language which is the Ionian language or So essentially he's referring to the Greeks, western Greeks. So the the Yanas were actually Greeks. No question about that. Now in later literature, what do I mean by later literature? So there is this event in India, right? Alexander's attempted invasion of India which failed uh 320 something BC, right? After that there is the presence of Indoactrans and Indo Greeks in the northwestern region of India right so those were also called yarners in later literature post Alexander literature and later on in the far northwest of India the Gandhar and beyond there was this kingdom called the Cambodas we had 16 Mahajanapadas great republic Republics. The Cambodas were one of the great Mahajanapads of India. But the Cambodas were not exactly in what we now call India. It was Afghanistan, Tajakistan, Turkmanistan, that region. Uh let me let us let us take a look at that, shall we? Once again, let me open this. The Cambodia Mahajanapad was essentially not in present day not inside the subcontinent. It was kind of outside the subcontinent. uh Kamboa Maha Janapada. So Cambodia um that's where it is. It's beyond Afghanistan right Cambogia Mahajanapada. uh if I open as always Wikipedia is not a reliable source of information but let's take a look at the map which is displayed on Wikipedia on the Wikipedia page. So if you open this you will see that Cambodia is northwest of Gandhar it's kind of Afghanistan Tajakistan etc that area. So that is the Cambodge of Mahajanapad. If you look at today's map, the the map of the world as it is today. Give me a second for that. Okay. So, here it is. So, we're talking about this region um Afghanistan, Tajakistan, Usbakistan, Turkmanistan that region that was that was the Cambodia region. Tajakistan, parts of Afghanistan, parts of Turkmanistan and Usbakistan that was Cambodia. So that also bordered the Indogreek regions. So there are texts in which the Cambodas and the Yanas are kind of categorized together. Categorized together. And in the in the manuspriti in the manusmitti the cambosjas and the yanas and the shakas and the paratarajas etc are are referred to as degraded khatrias or fallen chhatrias which means that they are khatrias but they don't really follow vic practices properly. So they're kind of degraded khatrias. They've kind of they're kind of slightly uncultured chhatrias. So the the the the yanas the cambogas the shakas which is the skithians etc were classified as degraded chhatrias. So um and and there have been times where the cambas and the yanas invaded certain parts of India together as allies. Okay. So it's like one Mahajanapa fighting another Mahajanapa. That's kind of how it was. The Cambodas were their own Mahajanapada and they once came into Madya Bharat on an invasion. So you have various Indian kingdoms fighting Indian kingdoms and that's kind of what it was like. Uh but the Cambodas and the Yavanas were distinct. The Cambodas were obviously either Indian or Indic or Indo-Iranian or whatever. They were obviously our own people. The Persians are at that time were our people. Today they're not but whatever. So um the Cambodas were either Indian or Indo-Iranian. The Yavanas were of Greek origin. But the Cambodas and the and the and the Indo Greek and Indo Indobactrans were they ruled in roughly the very similar region northwest of India. That's why they are often classified together and their lifestyle may have been similar degraded Chhatria lifestyle. So that's why they are often uh categorized together in various ancient texts. Anisha Mishra says there is a saying that if the ancient Egyptians were as old to the Romans as the Romans are to us. So then who was ancient to the ancient Egyptians? Okay. So the Romans let's say they are 2,000 years before us. um let's say 1 AD or let's say 30 BC or something. That's the Roman Empire. When was the Roman Empire at its peak? At its peak, 1st century BC to third 2nd century AD. Around that time, the Roman Empire was it at its peak. So that's roughly 2,000 years before today. So the Roman emp,000 years older than us, let's say. Now the beginning of of of unified Egypt is about 3,000 BC. So that's 3,000 years before the Romans. So if the Romans are ancient for us, 2,000 years older than us, then unified Egypt was 3,000 years older than Rome. So it is more ancient to the Romans than the Romans are to us actually. Uh but the question you're asking is in that case, who was ancient for the Egyptians? To the ancient Egyptians? So there's many u answers to that. uh ancient Egypt let's say it's 3,000 BC well 3000 BC is the what they call the mature phase of the Saraswati Hindu uh phase of Indian history right the mature Saraswati Hindu culture which is Indian culture obviously that's 3000 BC so that was contemporaneous with ancient Egypt let's say the beginnings of ancient Egypt are 5,000 BC well the beginnings of Saraspati Hindu of The harapan phase of Indian history is what 8,000 BC right it's about 8,000 BC that's 10,000 years before today so who was ancient to the ancient Egyptians it was us it was us um there's obviously goipe but go it's about 11,000 years old that archaeological site but it's like two three archaeological sites in just one small geographical area. It's not thus far the evidence of a proper civilization. Clearly, it was old and so on so forth, but we don't know who the people were and what their beliefs were and what civilization were they part of if they were part of some civilization. So, go is old but it's not really part of some civilization that we know of. When it comes to the Saraswati Hindu phase of Indian history, it's part of our civilization and it its origins its archaeologically attested origins go back about 8,000 BC roughly. That's about 10,000 years before today. So it was ancient even to the most ancient of Egyptians. Sam the Gamer says, "Could India have leveraged its massive World War II contribution and Britain's weakened state after the war to negotiate independence on far better strategic terms, for example, more favorable borders, stronger defense guarantees, control of key parts, or was the partition and Messi exit essentially unavoidable by 1945-47 given the political realities?" See, it's like this. 1945 Britain is destroyed by the war. Okay. Britain is in is in shambles. It is in ruins because of the war. Second world war it's ended. In India there's no damage. We lost a couple of million soldiers fighting for the British. Sure. But in 1947, in 1945,446, the Indian Navy was the most powerful navy in Asia. The Indian Army, the British Indian Army was the most powerful military force, land-based force in Asia. The Indian Air Force was the best air force in Asia. We had a few British officers who commanded a millions of Indians. Now we talking about negotiating independence. Negotiating means diplomatic talks. Now if you have learned anything from me, you would have learned this that diplomacy is war by other means. Diplomacy works when you have leverage. What leverage did India have on the British? The leverage was that we had the most powerful navy, military and air force in Asia owned and not owned but operated by Indian military personnel commanded by a handful of white guys. The leverage was that if we shot them all, we took everything. That was the leverage we had. My question is was there any need to negotiate every anything at all? All Mr. Gandhi had to do was to give a direct order to the Indian military personnel. Shoot all your British officers and take control. It would have taken less than a day for India to become independent. That's all it would have taken. There was no need to negotiate anything. Imagine the the opportunity Mr. Gandhi had give one every everybody would have obeyed him, right? People worshiped him as a Mahatma. All he had to do was say one thing. Shoot them all. Shoot all your British commanding officers. Shoot them all. In hours, India would have been free with the most powerful navy, military and air force in Asia. Why do you need to negotiate anything when you have this? Why you know how you enslave an elephant? You you put the slave mentality in his head, right? So even when he's huge and massive and can crush you just like that like an ant, he won't do it because he has got the slave mentality. How do circus trainers enslave lions? By by whipping them from the from the time they were little cubs so that even when they are huge and massive and monstrously powerful, they will still act like frightened cats. That's the Indian slave mentality which still exists today by the way. Which still exists. Why was there any was there any need to negotiate anything? All Mr. Gandhi had to do was to issue the order. Issue the command. Serve your motherland. Serve your nation. Shoot all the white guys. Shoot the British. Shoot them all. Take back your independence. It would have taken a matter of hours. Do you remember the 1946 naval mutiny? The Navy mutinied. The British lost control of the entire Indian Navy bar two three ships. And who ended the mutiny? Mr. Gandhi and Mr. Patel. That's why we are where we are today. Okay. Amisha Mishra says, "Why did Orurange try to enforce Sharia law on Hindus but also spent years fighting against Muslim states in the Deakan? Was doing both at once a strategic error? Orangzip wanted to rule the whole of India. Whole of the whole of the subcontinent. There were some Muslim nisams and whatnot who were independent who refused to be who refused to be or was. So Orv wanted to crush them all. So he wanted to have the whole of the subcontinent under him and then impose Sharia on everybody across the subcontinent. That's what he wanted. It was not a religious matter in this in this sense. Him fighting the Muslim rulers was not a religious matter. It was a geopolitical matter. He wanted control of the whole subcontinent. He did not want his nisams and whoever else whoever it was those those various small independent states, Muslim states, Muslim ruled states. He did not want them to be free. He wanted their territories also inside his empire. And that's why he kept his spend his life fighting them and the maratas and so on. It's it was not a strategic error. Um strategic his strategic error was focusing his entire energy for decades in the dean. You know he made some strategic errors but fighting the Muslims Muslim states was not quite a strategic error. Okay. Sam the gamer says, "How do you assess Shouba Subbas Chandra Bos's decision to align with the Axis power strategically, not morally? Was it a realistic path to Indian independence or a geopolitical dead end?" It was strategically correct and morally correct. My enemy's enemy is your is my friend. That's the that's that's the logic. And morally, he was fighting the enemies of the occupiers of India. So, it's morally correct too. Bose's decision to align with the Axis powers was was a gamble, a logical gamble, kind of desperate because see why am I saying desperate? Because he was aligning himself with Japan. He would have known what the Japanese were like, what the imperial Japanese were like, were like, what the post maji Japanese empire was like. Brutal. Absolutely brutal. And he would have known absolutely he would have known what they intended to do with India also. But he would have gambled that you know if if I leverage the Japanese support until I conquer India then I can turn the Indian population against the Japanese when required. That sort of thing. So it was a gamble a desperate gamble. There was nothing wrong with it. It was strategically correct. It was also morally correct. It was the most realistic path to Indian independence that he had. In 47 what we got was not independence. It was a transfer of power from one set of crooks to another set of crooks. That independence we got is illusory because the structures institutions of the British Empire have continued and they still continue today. It's not really independence. You think it's independence because you are mentally enslaved. So Subhashundra was doing the right thing. Didn't work out for him. But he tried. He put his life on the line. He paid with his life. True son of India. Okay, that brings me to the end of the questions I had selected for today. Let us see if I have any super chats waiting for me. Oh yes, I have 33 super chats waiting for me. Okay, let's uh let's take some super chat. Sure. All right. Snik Acharia says US Supreme Court has kicked out Trump's tariffs. Orange man is now orange man is now blaming Indian origin lawyers and all. Why is he such a crybaby? What does it tell about the deep state ecosystem? Why is he crybaby? Um look, yeah, an Indian origin lawyer went out went and litigated against Trump and he won. Uh if Trump wants to blame somebody, you should blame the US Supreme Court. You should blame the US laws. You don't blame the lawyer, right? Why is he a crybaby? Well, he that's the kind of guy he is, right? When something goes against him, when he doesn't get what he wants, he throws a tantrum. That is Trump. That's who he always has been. Uh what does this tell about the deep state ecosystem? Nothing much. They're going to get what they want anyway. One way or the other, they're going to get what they want. Okay. Katos Aryan Ary Aryawasi says why Greece Rome claimed as western European Christian civilization if 90% culture trade territory was in Mediterranean Egypt West Asia Persia India today the white man rules so he will claim Western Europe as he will claim everything he will claim claim Greece and Rome as as as western European Christian civilization look Rome wasn't Christian. Rome was polytheistic. Greece wasn't Christian. Greece was polytheistic. They claim Alexander as their own, but they hate polytheism. Alexander was a polytheist. They claim Julius Caesar as their own. Julius Caesar was a polytheist. Augustus was a polytheist. Marcus Orurelius was a polytheist. All these great emperors and these people the hero worship were polytheists. But they hate polytheism. Yeah, these are the inherent contradictions in the so-called western civilization. Whatever they claim was great, they destroyed it. They destroyed their own greatness. Of course, today they are they dominate the world and so on that makes them great. So I suppose from that perspective um but Greece and Rome were hardly western. I mean if western if western civilization is um if if to be western you have to be Christian Judeo-Christian or whatever then Greece and Rome are not western neither is Egypt neither is west Asia Persia India nothing right so inherent contradictions in their worldview si kachare says don't you think the whole entire galotia university mess is a reflection of our po poor B tech education system most students I have seen during Beta keys were not even interested in the real science just some control C controlV project. Yeah, like I mentioned in the beginning of the live stream this is what we what we have seen this issue that happened which embarrassed India uh it is simply a symptom of the underlying disease. The underlying disease is the rotten education system the corrupt education system and yeah it's a reflection of the education system itself. So I I totally agree with you. Like I explained in detail, I agree with you. Abai Singh says, "What is the deal with India confiscating Iranian oil tankers?" I'm not sure. I have heard something about it, but I've not looked into it. India confiscating Iranian oil tankers. Is India doing the US's bidding? Is India doing the what America is telling us? That's that's a question that is an open question. I don't have the answer to it right now. Is it part of an emerging pattern? Can't say as of now. I'm going to have to wait and watch and see and I have to see whether more such events happen that are part of a certain hidden pattern. As of now, it's too early to say. It's kind of perplexing. Kind of perplexing. And I don't quite know what the deal is. Until a proper pattern emerges, I will not be able to say exactly what what the real deal is. So I can't say as of now. But good observation good that you noticed it sir by saying what did you mean by your recent tweet a Kaiser? Okay since you asked I must uh show you first of all what is why is Yeah. Okay. Let us go to Twitter. uh we go to Twitter. Let's open Twitter and you will see my actual account page. Let's go to this and uh yeah this is the tweet you ask me about right uh the US Indoacific command uh Twitter Twitter account said stronger together US Indopaccom commander Admiral Samuel J. Paparo visited India February 14 to 19 2026 to collaborate on US India paired security interests and to strengthen the nation's closed military ties and they put out these pictures of the guy sitting in a pages fighter plane Indians showing him the works and uh this sort of image where the Americans are center stage and Indians are on the fringes and uh this sort of thing whatever it is and this as Well, so that's the tweet they put out and I said a Kaiser. A Kaiser means hail Caesar in Latin. Hail Caesar in Latin. So it's simply um a commentary on the Americans u seeing themselves as the as the Julius Ces in the Roman Empire of the world. It is not quite a commentary on India becoming a vasal state yet. It's too early to say that. But yeah, it's a it's a commentary on the Americans, you know, behaving like a modern day Roman Empire. Seizure says, "Is modernday China pure arthastra?" Well, they are way more chaken than India for sure. Yeah, they are way more pragmatic and way more practical and uh um more proactive in geopolitics, geostrategically than India historically has been. So yes um is it pure are their policies pure of the shastra? No, they are also uh they also derive a lot of their their playbook from Sunzu the art of war which is a book of tricks which is a book of strategys not strategy or it's not strategy it's strategims uh but yeah um their their policy is uh legalistic and sunzuic sunzuish more than yes they they play the game of geostrategy much more proactively and and much better than India India historically has done. Sandy says with US Supreme Court striking tariffs should India rework the trade deal. Uh look the trade deal hasn't been signed between India and the US. It has not been signed yet. What has been announced is a a framework for an interim trade deal or a framework arrangement for an inter interim trade deal. So a trade deal has not been signed. We can certainly now kind of rework it for sure. We we now have some more leverage like I explained in detail some time ago. We have more leverage. The US are the Trump administration will now operate will now operate under more constraints, more legal constraints that in that it than it previously did. So it is certainly advantageous to us and we can try and rework and renegotiate uh some of the parameters of this uh trade agreement. Right? It's it's not become an agreement yet. We haven't signed it yet but uh we should certainly um push for um sector specific arrangements if possible. We want our objective should be to reduce our reliance on the whims and fancies of the American president the emergency style presidential powers of Trump right we should try and shift the relationship the India US relationship into treaty based commitments and maybe sector based commitments that what that's what we should do and this uh Supreme Court judgment in the US has certainly give us uh given us more negotiating leverage Okay. Sam the gamer says of Afghanistan and Israel how somehow sovereign. Please compare the two. Afghanistan Afghanistan's economy is next to nothing. When your economy is so small, you have tremendous constraints that essentially make you non-s sovereign. You are tremendously dependent on other countries. Then if you're dependent on other countries like the like the Taliban is dependent on the US, the US pays the Taliban a weekly stipend of anything between 50 to 100 million in cash when that is what runs the Afghan economy and government. How can the Afghanistan how can Afghanistan be sovereign even if you're not taking a stipen from some other country? Let's say you are Mongolia small country with a small hu big country with a tiny population and tiny economy. You are dependent on on so many other countries for everything. When you are dependent on others, you don't have full sovereignty. So Afghanistan, there's no question of sovereignty. Israel, come on. Israel is super sovereign. Israel is super sovereign. Uh Kakashi says, "Imagine if India chose to become a massive Hindu communist industrial state on the scale of USSR or China, not a US Anglo Vasal with cast divisions. Hindu communism, that's really interesting. Hindu communism, communism means collectivism. Can that work within Hinduism? with cast divisions. So we did not have cast divisions. We had the vernati divisions which were not divisions which were occupations. Obviously a goldsmith and a missile manufacturer will not be the same occupation right and let's say your whole family is invested in this thing and it's it's a family occupation you're going to have different totally different lifestyles and everything. So that's what we had. There was a jati verna jati system and of course there were the four rough subdivisions of society which are the oral verers there was mobility among the among the verers and so on um Hindu communism means collectivism it doesn't work that way if you have cast divisions divisions you can't collectivize things um but imagine if India be chooses to become to revert to its civilizational roots and all that would be fant Fantastic. Cole Ken Kane says, "What's a P and junction diode?" H that's a blast from the past. A P and junction diode. That's a semiconductor thing, right? PN junction diode. Uh this electronics, a subject I loathed. It's it's very interesting for a lot of people, not for me. I don't It's a transistor. Yeah. depending on the current it I I' I'd rather say you look it up man I don't remember right now P and junction diodes transistors yeah first year second year of BSE or whatever nothing that ever interested me so I I don't remember right now sorry maybe I should kind of remember it because it's basic physics not really basic physics but but yeah I am I'm into pure theoretical physics. This sort of thing was always anthemma to me. It's a switching junction of some kind. You apply current and the whole thing becomes uh starts conducting the Yeah, look it up please. Applied electronics. Yikes. Gora TV says, "Do you possess Do you think the US possesses some kind of alien technology? only the US is able to develop tech like the SR71 Blackbird, F117, um the stealth bomber, B2, super carriers, etc. While no country, not even Russia or China are even close. Well, first of all, the Chinese are building super carriers now. The Chinese are building super carriers. Uh when it comes to to the stealth technology, well, I'll tell you what, the Horton brothers did it before the Americans. What am I talking about? I'll tell you what, the Horton brothers. Okay. Horton brothers. Ah, so Walter Horton and Rhymer Horton were were German brothers, okay? And they came up with this design. They came up with the flying wing design. The Americans obviously acquired German technology after 1945 and they it's DARPA and the Americans who eventually developed it into the um flying wing technology that we have that these US stealth bombers have today. Right? And the Russians also have the okay. The Russians also have that. See oknik uh S20 S70. Right? Here we have it. The Russians also have it. Even the Chinese have various flying wing designs now. It's not some alien technology. Okay. So the flying wing design is a German Nazi design from the 1930s and 40s that the US then took forward and with advancing technology they were able to make it work. Then the Russians also have it. The Chinese also have it. India also has this DRDO um gatak thing. Right. Yeah. When it comes to super carriers, the Chinese are building super carriers. They have plans to build super carriers that are bigger than the US super carriers. Uh SR71 Blackbird Blackbird incredibly fantastic aircraft. Uh but 1970s technology it's retired now because because of various reasons. Uh so you know that's about the specific examples you've given. So the question is do I think the US possesses some kind of alien technology? I don't I am very very skeptical about this. The US has the best research ecosystem in the world. They put their money in the right places. DRDO in India of India was founded in 1958. DARPA of the US was also founded in 1958. DARPA has given the US incredible groundbreaking technology. DRDO, what has it done? Why is why is it so? DARPA has 150 employees on its payroll. Not a single manager only 150 employees their budget is whatever it is like twice of DRDO a few billion dollars but DRDO is is not like 10 times less funded than DARPA it's only half as funded as DARPA which is tremendous it does a tremendous amount of money but DRDO has 30,000 employees out of which 25,000 are non-scientific employees that's why DRDO gets nothing done nothing of any significance nothing groundbreaking so the US has a right system. They have the money and they put their money in the right place. I doubt if they have any alien technology. They are simply 20, 30, 40 years ahead of everybody else because they choose to be that way and they put their money where the right in the right places. That's why they are ahead of everyone. Gora TV says, "Do you think that with silver's increasing demand for its use in advanced technologies, it could eventually re reach price parity with gold?" I doubt that. Silver and gold is just way more rare than silver. Silver I mean how much silver is on the planet? How much gold is on the planet? Okay, let's see um how much silver and gold is there in the world? Let's see estimated approximately 212,000 metric tons of gold have been mined throughout history. Um for silver 1.74 million metric tons have been mined. Okay. So way more silver than gold. Way more silver than gold. So I don't expect silver to ever reach price parity with gold. It it's very unlikely in my opinion. Ken Kane says, "What do you mean by a power factor and the concept of phase difference current and voltage? Why do you mean by voltage phasers like voltage having angles? I don't remember any of these concepts now. I'm very sorry. This is applied electronic uh applied electromagnetics. Uh this it's been too long since I studied this stuff. This was probably during my BSC and I have never used it after I got out of my BSC. I've never used this stuff. Phase difference five. I remember that stuff. Yeah, I mean I vaguely remember it. Phase difference current and voltage V voltage phases power factor. I I don't remember these concepts anymore. It is it I've never used it after I left BSC. I went straight into quantum mechanics and other stuff. So this stuff I don't remember. I'm very sorry. You make me feel like I'm giving a Yi and I've not studied at all. But no, it's been too long and this has not been ever relevant to my work. So sorry. Gear TV says, "Is there any way India could render Pakistan's nuclear infrastructure ineffective? Why cyber warfare? And could Pakistan potentially do the same to India? Why cyber warfare? Well, if Pakistan's nuclear infrastructure is if the command and control uh if if it's controlled um through the internet in some way or if it is controlled electronically in some ways and there is no air if there is the lack of air gapping or whatever it you could possibly do it uh cyber warfare wise. Otherwise, uh if their if their warheads are not mated to missiles and if we know where the warheads are stored, we could take out those locations through massive uh missile strikes. Yeah. So, the key is to know exactly where the warheads are stored. And if you have very fastmoving missiles like the Brahmos, then you could take those locations out in a matter of minutes after the launch. So for a brahmos missile to to hit a location in Pakistan let's say karatunwa would take maybe 5 minutes after it's launched that's not enough time to take out the warheads from wherever they are stored and all. So if this can work only if India knows exactly the pinpoint locations of where the warheads are stored and in case they are already mated to launch systems then it is then it becomes much more difficult. So overall it's very very difficult and similarly for Pakistan they would have to know exactly where India's warheads are stored which is almost impossible because India is so large right India India is a gigantic nation compared to Pakistan how will the Pakistanis know where we have stored or where they are storing various warheads so it's easier for Pakistan it's easier for India compared to Pakistan it's almost impossible for Pakistan to do that do to do this current electronics I don't electronics was a subject I did not ever like. Okay. Um so I I don't remember this stuff. Electronics I I loathed the electronics. Every moment I had to study electronics was one moment taken away from quantum mechanics or something more interesting. So I don't know. I'm very sorry Ken Kane. Electronics is not my cup of tea at all. It I I for me it was a waste of my life. It was a waste of my time. Electronics not the thing for me. Sorry sir. Gura TV says, "Could you please suggest a few skills or qualities that one should aim to acquire in their lifetime?" It depends on what you want to be and what you want to achieve in life. One skill that will always be useful to you is reading because reading rewires your brain in a way that other people don't that that other brains don't have. You see, reading takes patience. And reading also increases your vocabulary. Reading broadens your horizons. Heading reading uh sharpens your focus. It builds patience. It gives you a longer attention span. One central skill I mean is reading. The people who run the world, who rule the world, the most successful people in the world are all readers. They read. today's generations, youngsters today in the teens and all, they can't read a book. They don't have the patience to read one page. That's that's a big problem today. So, one skill is reading. Other skills and qualities and all, well, it depends. It depends on what you want to be, what you want to achieve and so on. But one thing I will say is please if you want to stand out, if you want to be abnormal, not be normal, be abnormal, be different. If you want to be different in today's world, reading is a superpower. Reading will will it it gives you superpowers. So that's one thing I would say. Other skills and qualities, I don't know. Uh other skills and qualities Critical thinking obviously is is a great skill to have. Um what else? Other skills and qualities be strong, be fit, eat well, all that stuff. Eat clean, do pranayam and so on. Deep learner says playing catch-up with AI is chasing a fastmoving target. India should instead as a civilizational force try to infiltrate a deep tech industry as much as possible and try to colonize them from inside. Well, sure I am not opposed to that but uh it's not that easy, right? Um the US treats is its its tech se tech sector uh as as as you know the US treats its technology as uh as as vital. Um the point is it it uh treats its technology as as state secrets and there are lots of these companies for example take the example of Space X. You can't be an employee of Space X if you are on a green if you're on on a H1B visa or something. I don't know if we even if you have a green card I don't know if you can be a SpaceX employee. Let's see. Uh, can a green card holder become a Space X employee? Space X employee. Uh, yes, a green card holder can become a SpaceX employee. Can a H1B visa holder? H1B visa holder. Yeah, very difficult. So there are certain sectors where the Americans won't even allow foreign citizens to work, right? Um the Chinese have tried all kinds of things to to and they have been successful in a lot of ways in extracting uh vital technologies out of the US. So my point is everything is fair in in in in geopolitics. Uh but for this to happen, India needs the right leadership. India needs to have a clear long-term goal set of goals and mission. I'm not sure if that is the case. I hope I'm wrong. I I hope I hope I'm completely wrong. But what you're saying is is I agree with you, but it's very easy to say this, very hard to do it, but I agree with you. I agree with you. Colin Kane says, "I am an electrical engineer." I could say I could sense that you're an electrical engineer. You're currently in research and design power electronics products. Designing a PFC rectifier. Look it up. Vienna continued. Since it has a very complex system, its control algorithm is pretty complex. Continued. Yet Chat JPD generated a working control strategy and code in seconds. Very accurate. Yeah. Well, Chad GPD is if you if you know how to use AI today, AI will will solve so many of your problems. Chat GPD and various other AI systems are very advanced today. Uh you know what they talk about? They talk about onehotting one code. You can just vibe code stuff today. Apparently, you just tell tell the AI what kind of website you want and in in a matter of like 3 4 minutes, it will create a whole website for you. And when it comes to these uh engineering problems, electrical engineering problems and so on, it can give you solutions strategies like essentially on demand. Incredibly accurate, incredibly powerful uh these LLMs are. So imagine how power the kind of power that technology gives in your hands. Now, the US and China have AI systems that are like thousand times more powerful than what you what you see behind closed doors. The US military has access to military AIs that are way more powerful than the most powerful and expensive AI system available to the public. Uh what's the most expensive Chad GPD subscription? Like $200 a month or something. Yeah, that is the most powerful Chad GPD version, right? That will be nothing compared to the power of the US military's AI. Nothing. So imagine the power that the US has in its hands today. And even the Chinese have such products products and that's how far behind India is in this matter. But yes, I what you are saying is absolutely accurate. Died with Priusian says is Ukraine finished forever? Future of Russia and EU. Uh Ukraine's demography is is destroyed. Most of their young men are dead. Uh is it finished forever? It depends. It depends on the outcome of the war. If the war ends soon, then the process of rebuilding Ukraine can begin. Ukraine should be rebuilt. And look, the Ukrainian people are Slavic people just like the Russians. They are almost the same people as the Russians, right? So I suppose Ukraine and Russia can be reintegrated sometime in the future and then the demography will be fine. Um future of Russia and the EU we'll see about that. EU doesn't seem to be in good shape now. Uh Europe is going to slowly decline uh economically the next couple of decades that is that much is quite clear now as long as it is dominated by by NATO. Russia it once again depends on the outcome of the Russia Ukraine war and it also depends on the uh on the transfer of power whenever it happens from Putin to whoever comes next. So lots of factors that are in play and and can affect the outcomes. So can't say as of now u okay current has said normally takes days to design and simulate in in mat lab. Okay, Mat Lab. Yeah, the the work that you do takes normally takes days to design and simulate in MATLAB. But Chat JPT can give you the answer like that. Like that like in a matter of minutes, right? If you give it the right prompt, if you give it the right context and exactly what you seek to do, Chhat JPT can solve the problem for you. Incredibly powerful system indeed. D with Priosian says, "Your opinion on the talk of additional S400 orders by India?" I think it's a good good idea. Um the S400 system is one of the most powerful uh air defense systems in the world, integrated air defense system and it's performed really well in operation and u it can also be very useful when it comes to the defense of our northern and far eastern territories. So it makes sense to have more S400s. Uh if we are ordering more, it means that we have been very impressed with it. Otherwise we would not order more. So I think it makes sense. It makes sense to have more. Abishek Singh says how how did how castbased regiments formed must be abolished. The British formed these ethnic and castbased regiments and then after 1947 the slaveminded Indian rulers continued that Rajput regiment, Marata regiment, Sikhar regiment, etc. regiment, that regiment, um Gorha regiment. So there the so the British did a great job of dividing India. um they classified certain groups of people as what marshall races and they classified certain groups of people as as as criminal tribes or something. They did a great job of dividing India and they named various regiments after um these this cast right now we have Naga regiment we have continued the same policy. So if you can have a Naga regiment, why can't you have an Arunatal regiment? Why can't you have a Manipur regiment? Everybody will then ask these questions. If you can have a let's say a Sikh regiment or Garwal rifles, why do you have to name regiments based on on on casts or ethnic groups or or or regions? The Romans never made this mistake. They gave their their legions numbers. So I think it's not a good idea. Just because it's a tradition that has come from British times doesn't doesn't mean it's a good tradition. I would say this should be abolished. But will the government of India abolish this? I don't know. I don't think it's a good idea at all to have this. Abai Singh says do you why do you think we'd be unstoppable after 5 years? Wouldn't they just vaselize us 5 years later? What can change in 5 years? In five years, India can become a very powerful nation. In five years, if we really really get our act together, we can double our GDP. In 5 years, we can become a very dangerous military. In 5 years, we can acquire, let's say, 200 more fighter planes, maybe u 20 30 more ships. and uh we can develop technology for technologies for um better missile systems. Maybe in 5 years we can create a stockpile of let's say 50,000 missiles. So we can do a lot in 5 years. Once you reach a certain stage of your economy and military power, it's very hard for the others to vaselize us. In 5 years we can potentially become the most powerful force in the Indian subcontinent more powerful than the US presence in the subcontinent. It's possible. So 5 years is a rough estimation. It could even be 10 years but it's possible in 5 years. And that's why I say it'll be hard to varize us after 5 years. If we remain independent and sovereign for five years then we'll become possibly unstoppable. Yep. Okay. E Republic of India says reduced oil imports from Russia. Stepped back from Chabahar Chabahar port reliance received approval for Venezuelan oil joined US-led pack silica. Seized three Iran linked coast tankers. Are we now a US vasal? I am keeping score sir. I am I am keeping spo score. I am keeping track of all these developments. I am also looking into the AI developments. Tax silica is very interesting. Um and you have done a very good job of listing out these concerning matters. One thing I can tell you is that we have not stopped oil imports from Russia. We seem to be still importing oil from Russia. We haven't stopped it entirely which is a good thing. So that is the absence of one red flag. If we had completely stopped oil imports from Russia that would have been a very big red flag. Chabaha happened before but it's also recent Venezuelan oil. Okay fine. That in itself doesn't make you a Wasal join USled Pilica. We will have to see what are the terms and conditions of Pilica. seized three Iran link host tankers maybe we is doing uncle Sam a favor so these all these different data points all these different actions they kind of seem to lead in one direction but that doesn't necessarily make us a vasal just yet just now as of now see when Chadati Maharaj was starting off he also had to make certain compromises right so right now we are not powerful. So sometimes you have to make these compromises. Uh but certain red lines must not be crossed. So I would say we are not yet a US fasile. Not yet. But these developments when seen together like you very well pointed out are concerning but we are not yet a US vasar still too early. Vladimir Ayar says, "Is it weird that I feel like Buddha's Shunata and Adi Shankarachari's non-duality are just different sides of the same coin? Also, the renounced debate was not actually the fall of Buddhism in India. I am not very cons convergent with deeply with these concepts whether it is adwit nonduality or shunata I have not I have not studied these in depth so I don't think I'm the right person to comment about this but like I've said most Buddhist concepts are just they're just older concepts repackaged right Um what do you call Hinduism and Buddhism are essentially the same thing. Uh like Alan Watts said, Buddhism is simply Hinduism stripped down for export. Uh Alan Watts uh Alan Watts was a British American writer philosopher blah blah blah. So uh Buddhism is Hinduism stripped down down export. uh his assertion that Hindu that Buddhism is Hinduism stripped for export refers to the idea that the fact that Buddhism distilled the essential universal spiritual philosophies of what we call Hinduism while discarding various complex localized rituals and so on. So Buddhism is nothing but repackaged Hinduism stripped down for export so that non-Indians could understand it better. That's it. That's what it is. Dark Side of the Moon says, "Study guide. Why weak Pakistan shows zero fear of India's navy and missile sustains terror 2611 humiliates seven jets? Humiliates seven jets." Well, that's interesting. Is it bed bad tech terrain? Why no real deterrence? So, this claim of seven jets humiliated, that's that's uh in my opinion BS. Okay. Uh why does Pakistan operate with impunity and not show fear or whatever? First of all, they have nothing to lose. They are a ruined nation. Sadly, and they have plenty of cannon fodder people. The Pakist the people who rule Pakistan, they don't care about their people in their nation. They don't care if India guns down 50 terrorists who are trying to infiltrate or cross over the border. They don't care. Those people are car for them. If India, if there's a war between India and Pakistan and India, let's say uh and let's say 10,000 Pakistani troops are killed fighting India, the Pakistani generals don't care. And lastly, they have the support of the superpower, the US, against India. They know the US will come and intervene before Pakistan is destroyed because Pakistan is important to the US and Pakistan. So because of these reasons Pakistan behaves the way it does. I don't agree with this claim that Pakistan shot down 27 or whatever Indian jets. That's that's BS. But uh yeah and also because India historically has behaved like a punching bag that has also emboldened Pakistan. Now it's not the case but historically India has behaved like that. So because of these reasons Pakistan has historically behaved the way it does and still tries to behave that way. Amul Desh Pande says, "Does the US amplify or suppress certain social media voices to shape narratives? How can Indians tell if influencers are genuinely independent or backed by political or financial interests? Does the US amplify or suppress certain social media voices to shape narratives?" Yes, it does. They will. Why not? The social media platforms are American platforms. The US will do whatever it wants. Should we blame them? I would do the same thing if I owned a social media platform. I would I would suppress all anti-India voices. I would do that. I don't believe in democracy on social media. So the US does that. I don't blame them for doing that. Uh how can Indians tell if influencers are genuinely independent or backed by whatever interests? When you have an influencer who comes out of nowhere and becomes suddenly super popular with 10, 15, 20 million followers overnight essentially that's not organic that's artificial and especially if they give platforms to deep state voices or whatever and I'm just saying not necessarily deep state I will not discuss Indian politics local politics but the same principles apply even in local politics. So yeah, I mean if you are sensible, you can tell what is artificial, what's not. Uh Rush God says, "What's this new DNA study saying of Indians?" I have no idea. I haven't seen any new DNA studies of late of Indians. So I can't say, sir. Sorry. If you can tell me the name of the study and who did it, I could perhaps look into it, but I have not seen any new study recently. So sorry, can't say. Katos says if rigid date 1500 BC is blender then WB opishad 600 BC Buddha 500 BC Chanaka Moria Ashok 300 BC puranas whatever date Adeshanka whatever AD I think all these dates need to be revisited to be very honest um it's very possible that the date of the Buddha and the Mahavira in Mahavir could be maybe a0 thousand years before what we believe it is. It's it's quite possible. We also had multiple rulers named Chandra Gupta. How do we know which is which? The ruler we call Ashoke. Most of his inscriptions say Dwanama Priya Priya. How do we know it is actually Ashoke? Adish Shankarachara. Once again we I don't know about the date. I think a lot of this Indian chronology has to be revisited. And a lot could potentially changed. The date of the rigida it's being 1500 BC is an absolute laughable joke. It's reasonable. Yeah. So Ani Sharma keeps reminding about Tumb. I haven't seen it yet. I haven't seen it. Sorry. I'll see when I can. I can't promise exactly that this week I'll see it or whatever, but I I've put it on my to-do list to watch list. So I shall see it when I can. And thank you for keeping me keeping on reminding me sir. Anish Sharma. Thank you sir. Amisha says sir you are best Jam Ju Krishna. Thank you ma'am. Thank you so much. I really really appreciate you asking all these very interesting questions. I I sometimes wish I should I should do one episode only for the questions you ask but then everybody will be very upset with me. That's why I take like four or five questions from you every time. But thank you so much ma'am and thank you so much for your very kind words. Jes Ram and Jesh Krishna to you as well. Pratep Kumar Roy says about 1933 Moolok ceremony. I have no idea what that is. 1933 Moolok ceremony. Um 1933 ceremony. What is that dramatic scene in the Romance of a People? Soldierfield Chicago etc. MO. Uh do we have images of that? Okay, I'm not aware of this stuff. Looks like something happened in Chicago in 1933. Why did it happen and so on? I I'll need to read about that. But interesting. Pratip Kumaro is about Professor Jang's channel, Predictive History. I haven't seen that yet. I haven't seen Tumbad yet. I haven't seen this channel yet. But thank you for the reminders. I will look it up. Thank you. Angad Graval says, "Why do our Indian people cater to white people when they come to India? they complain here and mistreat the our people in their country. Um multiple factors. First of all, Indians believe that we should treat all guests with tremendous respect and love and courtesy and all that. And when people come from other countries to India, they are all our guests, right? Uh that sort of thing. Treat all guests as if they are God themselves, as if they're called God himself, right? That sort of thing or herself, whatever. So we treat our guests as if they are go the Sakshhat incarnation of God. And secondly, Indians have the slave mentality, inferiority, complex slave mentality. All that that also contributes to the way Indians are so obscious and slave slavish in their behavior when it comes to foreigners. You will see that uh in uh hotels, in restaurants, the the the waiters will will treat foreign guests with extreme courtesy and lot of attention and they will not pay the sim same amount of attention to Indian guests in restaurants. That's one example. In hotels, if you are a white-skinned person, you will get a special attention from the concierge and all that. If you are not white, if you're just Indian, you will be treated courteously but not with that same level of attention. So it's it's slave mentality also. So it's a combination of multiple factors. Litar says why does Iran continue uranium enrichment despite heavy sanctions? Giving it up could boost economy, oil, trade and reduce unrest. Why is it so reluctant? Because Iran desires to be a sovereign nation. That's why give everything up become a slave then you will have better economy trade all that agree to all the American demands you will have lifting of sanctions why does Iran resist this because Iran wants to remain sovereign as sovereign as possible that's the reason why Iran has self-respect that's why Iran does this and if if Iran can continue uranium enrichment Then they can build up their stocks of file material which can not only be used in nuclear reactors for power generation. They can also be used if the file material is highly enriched. It can also be used in nuclear weapons. If you have nuclear weapons then other nations will be very very worried about poking you. That's why Iran does that. You see Pratip Kumar Roy says about the film The House of Roshild 1934 and the Rochils 1940. Also check out Assassin's Creed logo. Okay, I haven't seen these movies. Let me check out the Assassin's Creed logo. Yeah. Uh Assassin's Creed logo. What is that? Okay. Is that something to do with the Freemasons or something? Looks like that perhaps. Uh okay. Interesting. There are hidden there is hidden hidden symbolism everywhere, isn't there? Looks like that. It's possible. Priam says, "More power to you, sir. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much." Um Sam the Gamer says, "I meant Afghanistan can't be armed twisted on Dan border." Well, every nation has some red lines and the Afghans, the Taliban has some kind of deal with the US, right? The the DHA accord. There will be clear terms and conditions in that and one of the terms I expect will be that the US will not, you know, bother will not interfere in Afghanistan's territorial dispute with Pakistan. That could be the case. Pratep Kumar Roy says, "Are there any Hindu religious institutions in India free from Freemasons or the West?" I don't know about Freemasons in the west. So I can't say about Freemasons. RSS, ISha, RKM, Iscon, etc. Everyone seems to have links to Freemasons. Okay. I don't know anything about this. I haven't studied the Freemasons. I don't know who they are. I don't know what their agenda is. I know they exist. I know some famous Indians are said to have been Freemasons. I know that the Freemasons have a definite presence in India. They have the Grand Lodges or whatever in India. But u beyond that, I don't know much. I don't know if all these organizations that you're talking about are have links with the Freemasons. I'm not sure about that. So I don't have the answer to your question sir. Sorry. Vihanka says how are you? I'm good sir. How are you doing? Uh the question is why is it in the 20th century where skills should matter the most? We are still stuck on degree based and college based hiring and salaries in most of industry. Well, it's changing in the US. For example, Elon Musk doesn't care about your degree. If you are, you know, applying to Tesla or SpaceX, no one asks you about your degrees. They only see what skills you have. And that's increasing the case, increasingly the case in the US. Many of these new startups and companies and even older companies don't no longer care about your degree. They want to see what you're capable of doing, what skills you have, what portfolio you've built up for yourself. So, that's the case in the US. US is the world's leader in technology and it's the greatest nation in the world, the most powerful nation in the world. No question about it. India is this third rate backward country today. The system is third rate and backward. Why is India third world country? Because of its third rate backward system where entrenched interests ensure that change change doesn't happen, reform doesn't happen. So for example, if you have degree based hiring, which means students students need to study and pass exams and get degrees, then that sustains this entire coaching class mafia. The coaching class, the people who run coaching classes are very very rich, very wealthy. They are invested in the system. If the system is reformed, it will destroy their their their their business, their their means of creating wealth. So they won't allow it to be destroyed. So these parasites who suck, who leech off the lifeblood of the country, they will prevent they will do their best to prevent the system from from being reformed. And that's why India is still stuck in these archaic modes of education, this archaic system. Right? That's one example of of what's wrong with the Indian education system. Lar says your take on the release of the UFO alien files. Well, it's not been released first of all. Yeah, it's not been released yet. Trump has said that he will release some documents. Well, we'll see what it is like when it's released. Um, it's possible the release could be similar to the Epstein files release where a lot of the key information is blacked out. It's redacted. That's a possibility. Uh, the second possibility is maybe this will be done to to draw the world's attention away from where the world really should be paying attention. Maybe a US invasion of some nation or something. That's possible. The third possibility is that maybe these UFO files will have these documents, American government documents that claim that we have been visited by aliens and we have communication and all, but it's just a claim printed on paper. They will not release any actual evidence of alien life or whatever. So my position, my take is that I am super super skeptical about this matter. Let's wait and watch what's released. I am pretty sure no actual evidence of alien life will be released. I'm pretty sure. I hope I'm wrong. I'll be thrilled if I'm wrong, but I suspect I'm going to be right. We'll see. Many Kazarees says with the shift towards agentic AI and coding agents, what's your take on the future? How do you see India evolving in this new agentic era? Well, these AI agents, you know, agentic AI, it's like a it's like a digital employee. So agentic AI is AI that can do things on its own. You you give it the context. You tell it what you want to achieve. You give it access to whatever files, folders you have, and you train train it over time. It's like training uh a fresher, right? A person who's just come out of college and is is starting as as first time, you know, employee of yours. So you got to spend some time training that person. Maybe a couple of weeks you train the person, right? At least a couple of weeks. Typically it's like a few months you train the person over time you make them better. So you train these agentic AI systems, these AI agents and they will learn very fast if you know how to prompt them, if you know how to what what kind of context to give them and they're going to replace entry- level employees, right? This is going to decimate the Indian IT sector and AI is getting more and more powerful each iteration and the time frames are getting more and more compressed. the uh time between chart GBT 4.5 and whatever the current iteration is you know 3 what's the current chart GBT version whatever it is let's let's say it's 4.2 then the time it took between 3.0 and 3.1 may have been 6 months but the time it took between 4.1 and 4.2 to maybe like 6 weeks only right so the time frames are getting compressed and the AIS are getting more and more powerful this is going to decimate the Indian IT industry yeah and the Indian IT industry is one of the major sources of Indian India's foreign exchange foreign revenue so how do I see India evolving in this new agentic era where it's going to be very very tough for the Indian IT industry it's going to be great for Indian startups who will leverage American AI systems Chinese AI systems and whatnot Um what this this new thing I've heard about uh moldbot open close or something which seems to be even more powerful works 24 by7 if you give it a MacBook mini or something or whatever. So it will be great for entrepreneurs. It'll be great for you know lean startups. It will be disastrous for the monolithic ancient outdated Indian software industry IT industry. That's how I see it going. Hanish Sharma says Sergio Gore was in western command and apparently the higher command is not happy with the person who approved the visit but it looks wishy how could anyone even allow this while we at a paused war look I don't know but apparently who's happy or unhappy I don't know about this to know this you would have to be in the echelons of power which I am not so yeah Sergio G did visit the the western command US military the officials did visit. Um I'm not sure who approved the visit. I'm not sure who's happy, who's not. I don't think it was a good thing that we allowed this to happen. Give access to a US ambassador to our western command. I don't think it's the right thing for India to do. It sends a very bad message to the world, to the people of India. It it sends vas wasal vibes to the world which is not good because we are still not vasals yet at least at any case. Uh so yeah it was disappointing for me. Pratitumar Roy says about the book concepts of physics by Etsy WMA. I haven't read that book. Uh Etsy Verma is the is I believe at the same level as resting and holiday right? Resting and holiday is somewhere up here. I have never studied HCMA. For me, it's resting and holiday. If you ever want to go back to the very basics of physics, you know, college level physics, high school level physics, you know, brush up your concepts, holiday and resting is the way to go. I don't know about it, so I can't say. Vihank Kuran says as we have seen success and effectiveness of air defense systems is it possible that using AI to build an air defense system effective against MI missiles and MI themselves you use AI to do the decision-m and controlling of the assets but building the air defense system is a physical process so the AI can be the command and control center and the brain of your air defense systems are hardware They are not software right so you what you can do is you can have multiple batteries of let's say Akash missiles all connected coordinated with a single AI system maybe a decentralized AI system or some something a redundancy given AI system and the AI system is given eyes in the of what kind of eyes the battle space awareness that comes from the integrated battle battle space awareness u uh network which is multiple radars and Awax and whatnot all of that creates an integrated picture of the battle space and that way you can see what's coming and let's say there's a ballistic missile coming in and it releases this MI thing so multiple independently uh you know targetable warheads and that gives you very short reaction time but if you have a realtime view of what's happening then an AI system could potentially take out all of those warheads so yeah AI gives you these superpowers and that's why India needs to have indigenous AI sovereign AI and we are making baby steps in the taking baby steps in the direction but it's it's something India really needs to have u yeah so it is definitely possible to do what you're saying using AI as a brain time space theory why counting similar to Indian shell counting um I don't know about mech counting I can tell you who themes are themes are this mysterious vanished civilization in Miso America all they left behind was this gigantic ic stone heads. And if you look at the facial features of the stone heads, they look like people of African origin. Let's see. I'll show you. Okay, I'll make uh heads there. We have it. Colossal heads. And as you can see, the facial features resemble people of African origin, right? They don't look very Miso American. I mean, they don't look like the people who live in Miso America today. Mis America is Central America, right? So the Olme heads uh Mexico's Gulf Coast and so on. Now I am not aware of what kind of counting system they had and it's it's certainly possible that you know two distinct civilizations could eventually come up with a very similar way of counting things. It's possible. I mean clearly the India and Miso America are separated by more than 10,000 kilometers and these make heads like are like what 3,000 years old or something um yeah about 3,000 plus years old. So it's highly I mean it's not impossible that India and Miso America did not have any connections but uh unlikely. So most likely coincidence but who knows who knows. Died with precaution says your opinion on the Golodia Golgotia incident in the AI summit. I gave my opinion. I spoke about it in detail so no point repeating myself. Uh once the live stream is over you can you can revisit that. Uh overall it's it's terrible. Yeah. And it's it's a symptom of the rotten education system of India. The rotten and corrupt education system of India. Terrible. Terrible. Really now Miss Patel says are we trying to do a China hoping US would aid our rise? Surely it won't happen a second time right also we should learn some stealing from the Chinese too. You know what there's a lot we can learn from the Chinese. There is a lot to admire about what China has achieved and the way they have gone about doing that. And the Chinese played the US. The Chinese did not pray and hope the US would aid the rise. They engineered things in such a way that the US needed to aid China's rise. Right? Because the Chinese had something very substantial to offer the US. But that was the 20th century and early 21st century. The times have changed. Now the US will not aid and abet the rise of India. They won't do that. Um so I don't think India is under the illusion that the US will help us the way the they help the Chinese. I don't think the government of India is under that illusion at all. The government of India knows exactly what the US wants from India. They want a vasal state. So u the question essentially is what do we do about this? We should do we resist or do we just give in? That's uh a choice the government of India is going to have to make. Uh yeah and I agree we should lead learn some stealing from the Chinese too. Look in geopolitics there are no rules. There is no right or there's no wrong. There's no ethics and morality. It's perfectly fine to steal stuff in geopolitics like the Chinese have done like the Americans have also done. So if everyone plays the game in with a certain set of rules why should we have a different set of rules for ourselves? We should also play the game. So I agree with you. Okay. Ritik Yaduanchi says India is one of the oldest continuous civilizations. No, India is the oldest continuously existing civilization. It's not one of the oldest. India is the oldest continuously existing civilization. Continuing, we have ancient texts on music, art and philosophy. Did we also have cookbooks or recipe texts? What did people eat back then? And did any have any of those records survived? I can I I can tell you about one cookbook. Okay. Um, it's not merely a cookbook, but it has culinary data in it. Manasa, a book by Somaswara the third and uh, Sumeshwara the third, the Chalukian Emperor. Once again reminding you the Wiki that Wikipedia is not necessarily a reliable source of information about Indian history. The manas also known as Abilash Abilash Shitamani is a early 12th century Sanskrit text by composed by Kalyani king Kalyani Chaluka King Somish the third who lived in present day Karnataka. Okay. And it is a work covering topics such as polity, governance, ethics, economics, astronomy, astrology, rhetoric, veterinary medicine, horiculture, perfumes, food and so on and so forth. So, it has information about what kind of food our ancestors ate back in the day. Now, let me see if I can open the text. Uh, okay. Uh, is this in Sanskrit? Is it in English? This is the original Sanskrit text. But I'm sure you can find the Indian text also. Okay, I'm not going to waste your time trying to find the English version of the text, but it's available online and you can see that it has recipes, you know, cook. It's kind of, you know, it's got a section which is kind of like a cookbook. It's got recipes in it. So, you can find out for yourself what kind of food our ancestors ate back in the day. Some records have survived, a few. Yeah. Cere serendipitously. M 1169 says, "Can you upload book review compilation video?" Yes, thank you for the reminder. I need to do that. I've done a whole bunch of book reviews which are still stuck in those live streams. I need to extract them and put them out separately. I'll do that. Thank you. Died with precaution says absolutely right about coaching mafia. Even the owner of my coaching used to say that people who criticize Indian education system are idiots and everything is fine. Of course they'll say that they their entire you know source of income and wealth depends on the rotten corrupt education system. So they'll say that everything is fine. The truth is the students know exactly how painful and how horrible it is. I mean some students understand most students just just sleepwalk through everything without ever understanding how rotten the system is. So yeah, the coaching mafia is is is a parasitical entity that that leeches off the lifeblood of of students and their parents. And the new education policy 2020 or whatever the hell it is, does it address this issue? Does it address any of the major iss etc. should be introduced early in the education curriculum rather than only in high higher education. In my opinion, in basic education, you should learn language, critical thinking and arithmetic. That's it. Language means communication, verbal and written communication in your mother tongue and in the civilizational language. Only two languages, not no foreign language. If someone wants to learn foreign languages, they can learn in their own free time. No question, no problem with it. But the education system should be in the mother tongue and it should teach the civilizational language, civilizational language, nothing else. Two languages. So you should learn communication which is verbal and written. Secondly, you should learn critical thinking, how to how to discern what's right from what's wrong and so on, decision- making, all of that maybe national interest, what it is. And thirdly, you should be taught arithmetic, multiplica, addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and interest, compound interest, all that stuff and maybe some history. That's all you should learn in your basic education. All the other stuff should be I mean when it comes to research and all most people don't want to do research why should be they have to learn research. Why they teach algebra at what 8th? 9th00. Who who uses algebra in life? They teach trigonometry. They teach calculus. Once you are out of school, do you ever use calculus? And I'm saying this as somebody who loves high higher mathematics. You don't need all that. So I would say you don't need to do any research, publications, etc. when you're in school. Absolutely not. Just teach the basics and stop wasting people's time. Why do you have to spend 20 years in the education system? You should be able to become an intern or an apprentice in in in in an industry by the age of 15 or 16. That's what I believe. Dhir Kamat says, I don't completely completely agree with your take on the Indian education system. These days in the US, there's a pandemic of high school students who are unable to perform basic algebra and cannot read at even middle school level. I think other than the Abrahamic history brainwashing India's school system somewhat effective. Having gone to a CBS school, I found myself at an advantage in my engineering program at top tier IV adjacent university. All right, sir. I'm glad it worked out for you. I believe the Indian education system is rotten to the core and you don't have to agree with me. That's fine. That's fine. Um maybe it turned out okay for you. But it could have turned out stupendously well for you, right? And you obviously are someone who left India and went to the US and studied there and what you studied in India, whatever preparatory work you did kind of helped you to a certain extent. Okay, fine. Good. Good for you. But I'm talking about the education system as a tool of India civilization revival. Right? Do you understand? It may be okay for you at from a personal perspective. I am talking about the education system as a tool for creating highquality individuals to raise the standards of the Indian population right it's somewhat effective who wants godamn somewhat effective I want the best education system in the world I don't want a somewhat effective education system so that's my perspective sir Han Sharma says it might come as a weird question but is it normal to abuse when we with friends. Did our ancestors do it? And allow me to ask this. Do you abuse when you get frustrated? Sorry if it's a weird one. Uh, is it normal to abuse when we with friends? I think it's pretty common. I think it's pretty common. Did our ancestors do it? Well, I don't know if our ancestors did it or not, but in the Sanskrit language, there are plenty of words that are not very nice. I will not give you the words. I know of a certain Russian word which is used when you're frustrated and you're very upset which has a direct root in Sanskrit. It's a word you use com you commonly hear in Russian videos when people are frustrated. So, look, I'm pretty sure that it was pretty common even in the past for people to uh use u naughty words, gross words or whatever. It's a it's okay. It's no big deal. Do I do it? Well, that's for that's for me to know. Uh Brown Leprechaun has become a new member. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Shivar Ali says, "Any update on American history podcast?" Well, no update right now. No update. No progress on that front right now. I'm not sure what happens with that podcast. It's currently on in cold storage. It's not dead. It's a great project, but I have plenty of projects to work on and I'm not sure I can do all of those things at the same time. So, right now, it's in cold storage for now. Okay. And and thank you very much for, you know, asking about it. I'm glad that some people were interested in that. Okay. Brown Leprechaun again is a member. Thank you very much. Um, Lit Paw says India could have got independence in 1920 or 1947. Well, if Shri Muandas Gandhi had given a clarion call in 1920, first of all, you know, Mr. Gandhi used to tell the people of India, non-ooperation with the British. Don't do violence, do non-ooperation. Why did he not tell the police and military to do non-ooperation? He only told the civilians of India to do non-ooperation with the British. He never told the police and the military to stop cooperating with the British because if you do that the British Empire is over. So we could have got independence in 1920 itself and in 1920 if Mr. Gandhi had given the order to all Indians. Go out, go out of your house today morning, tomorrow morning, find one British person and kill him. One evil foreign occupier of India and kill only one person and go back home. By the end of day, there would not be a single British person alive in India. Yeah, sure Indians would have died, but India would have been free. Freedom is not free. Maybe tens of thousands of Indians would have died but India would have become free within 24 hours. India could have become independent with the right leadership. We had the wrong leadership. Seizure says don't you sometime somewhere think the American military power is an illusion or just showcase if they fall in anarchy what's the point of being a superpower? That's why you don't fall into anarchy. The American military power is not an illusion. It's very real. Showcase are you kidding me? They have flattened entire nations. One American submarine has the has the capability to destroy an entire nation. There's no illusion here. There's no showcase stuff over here. There's nothing. It's not It's not only for show. It's very real power. Those two those 800 extra territorial military bases are not for show. And they're not falling into anarchy. They have issues. Sure. Every nation has issues. So diet with precaution says how about teaching AutoCAD and Photoshop in education? You mean me? I don't know AutoCAD. I am hardly a beginner in Photoshop. So not for me. But but in the education system. Yeah. Teach skills. Teach skills. There's nothing wrong with teaching skills. So this can be a component of education in the education system. For sure. Yeah. Okay. That brings me to the end finally after three and a half hours of this live stream. So, thank you very much everybody. Thank you very much for asking all these questions. And I shall end this live stream over here tonight. It's what 11:30 India time. That's pretty late. So, let's end it over here. Thank you very much everybody. And the next live stream episode 333 is on Monday evening India time. 8:00 p.m. Not Sunday evening because there's a cricket match and everybody will watch that and I'll be sitting here doing the thing. So, I'll see you Monday evening. Thank you very much. Thank you very much everybody. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. See you very soon. Obate.