Heat. Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Abij show. This is episode 347 and we are going to discuss whatever is happening in the world right now. Whatever you want to discuss, but we we're going to focus a little bit specifically on what's happening in Iran and a lot is happening in Iran, right? The Iran war, the war that the US and Israel have launched upon Iran. There was a ceasefire and uh what's going on in the ceasefire. So, we're going to discuss that. But let me see before we start any of that let's see who all is there on the live stream on the live chat. Uh who do we have? We have Lavish Lovish Tindil Sarkcar Bhavy Gupta uh Retita Retita Salatia Retita Salatia Nan Nilan Nilan Jan Go Nanjen Gosh. Okay. as Niling Goo and Ritik Pawar uh Tapishi Tapishi Karthik Karthik is here KR Singh Man teaching tricks manha geopolitical way from Indor good evening sir Anurva Ashwani Sharma Anurva once again Rohani Bahad Dan Patel Bonjour really love Miss Patel Kushal Mangal Yes ma'am. Uh DI Shrian Arvind Kr Singh wonderful evening indeed. Alkashukari namaste Tuhin Ray uh Tanesh Pande Anoj Dikshit Sharat Menan Ishwar 8457 Nirvana Shanks A um Hitchhiker's Guide Good to see you third volume started excellent good excellent uh excellent book. Uh Dvik Shrian Samraat Shukla Tanesh Pandi Mahul Rajes Babu Cintillating Kids Pratt Namaste G Samra Chukla Gru 75 Aush Singh Good evening Ran Hapana good to see you Ran Hapana Samra Chukla Honey Badger of Kolinga good to see you Danush Nanesh Samra Chukla um Swami is here from Jaipur Navit Samanik Ankush Sharma photography Um who else we have? PG Deutsland. Hello from Deutschand. Hello to Deutsland. Uh Dad Panchal Panchi Sudanha Sur Suresh Sibatch. Hello watching from Ireland. Well good to have you. Good evening I suppose in Ireland. Yes. Kahan is here from Sakit New Delhi. Fanloop is here. Ashwameda from great Nikobar Island. Fantastic. Outstanding. Brave robot Dak Si from Jaipur. Kumar Xi she Trump um Sagav Marshall Si and Brown Leprechaun again from Ireland. Um Cosmic Lab is here from Rome Rome in Italy. Yes, Italy. Hi Penguin is here from Kathmandu. Good to see you Heni Penguin again. Wise idiot. Ashish Chabra um Kahan Manhattan I6W pain to see ready always ready present present good to have you wenesh from Bangalore Kapil Singh from Uttarakhan Rashi Kudin uh Jayant from Berlin Vinay from Azamgar Mlevin once again and everybody else okay so I won't be able to greet you all individually but thank you so much for being on this live stream now let's discuss what's happening what's the these days things are moving so fast in this war the war that's been launched against Iran you know things are happening so fast that um if I do a live stream after 3 days it's like half the half the world has been you know things have I mean that failed American attempt to steal Iranian uranium it's now it it now seems like old history even though it happened less than a week ago The Americans tried to steal. They sent multiple large transport planes and multiple helicopters and god knows so much more. And they they they tried they landed in Iran on a makeshift airstrip and they tried to steal uranium from Iran and the whole operation turned uh ended up being a complete disaster. They lost they lost about 12 aircraft in the process and then they declared victory that you know what we were able to extract that one pilot that was missing. The pilot was missing 200 km away. So that's old news now. It it happened just five five or so days ago. That's old news now. Now yesterday what happened is that a ceasefire was announced and then everything the ceasefire has collapsed. So let's quickly recap from Twitter what's happened in the past uh past day or so, right? Um okay. So here we have this tweet um this this post by Shahbas Sharif. This is from of course yesterday. He says, "Diplomatic efforts for peaceful settlement of the ongoing war in the Middle East are progressing steadily, strongly and powerfully with the potential to lead to substantive results in the near future to allow diplomacy to run its course. I earnestly request the great magnificent uh Dyur Mahapur President Trump to extend the deadline for two weeks. Pakistan in all sincerity requests Iranian brothers Iranian brothers to open the state of Hormuz for a corresponding period of two weeks as a goodwill gesture. We also urge all waring parties to observe a ceasefire everywhere for two weeks to allow diplomacy to to achieve conclusive termination of war in the interest of long-term peace and stability of the region. This is what Mr. Sharif tweeted and then this this came out. So Sharif initially okay Sharif is the so-called prime minister of Pakistan. He has never been elected but he's the prime minister. So it emerged that this guy Sharif had actually uh posted the the the message as a draft earlier. So it it was titled draft Pakistan prime minister's message on X and then the whole thing was copy pasted for him. So he or whoever is running his account copy pasted the entire thing including the title draft Pakistan's prime minister message on X. Now if Shabbah Sharif's interns or employees would have drafted the message for him, they would have said that this is the prime minister's message on X, not the Pakistan's prime minister message on X. So clearly this this this draft came in from somewhere of outside of Pakistan. Right? It came from somewhere outside of Pakistan. Someone one of his masters probably in Washington or something, they drafted this for him and they asked him to post this. So then he edited the message and uh that is this message that we see here. So it was given to him by one of his masters whoever is handling him probably from from Washington DC maybe some other u some other national capital maybe not far from here maybe but definitely not. So uh Sharif is essentially a message boy an errand boy. Okay. So uh this happened and then after after some time okay a few hours later he tweeted this. Shabbaz Sharif with the greatest humility I am pleased to announce that the Islamic Republic of Iran and the United States of America along with their allies have agreed to an immediate ceasefire everywhere including Lebanon including Lebanon and elsewhere effective immediately. I warmly welcome the sagacious gesture and extend deepest gratitude to the leadership of both the countries and invite their delegations to Islamabad on Friday 10th of April which is tomorrow to further negotiate for a conclusive agreement to settle all disputes. Both parties have displayed blah blah blah remarkable wisdom and understanding and all that. We earnestly hope that the Islamavad talks succeed in achieving sustainable peace and wish to share more good news in the coming days. and he has tagged uh Trump who is his boss, JD Vance who is his vice boss and all his other bosses. He's also tagged Dr. Peskan Pijkan the uh president of Iran and uh and so on. Okay, so this is what happened then um this came out. Okay, this came out yesterday once again. Uh this is a message by Trump by by the American president Mr. Trump. The United States will work closely with Iran, which we have determined has gone through what will be a productive regime change, a very productive regime change. So, according to Trump, there's been a regime change in in Iran. And he says there will be no enrichment of uranium. The United States will working with Iran dig up and remove all of the deeply buried uh nuclear dust. It is now and has been under very exacting satellite surveillance. Nothing has been touched from the date of attack from last year when when Trump had attacked these these Natans and for sites. Uh we are and will be talking uh tariff tariff and sanctions relief with Iran. Many of the 15 points have already been agreed to. That's what Trump claimed yesterday. Now this was uh the this is the white house official account and they tweeted this on Twitter uh the official statement of Iran. So Iran says on behalf of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I express the gratit I express gratitude and appreciation for my dear brothers the prime minister of Pakistan Sharif and Field Marshall Munir for their incredibly tireless efforts to end the war in the region in response to the brotherly request of Prime Minister Sharif in his tweet and considering the request by the US for negotiations based on the American 15-point proposal as well as announcement by the president of US about acceptance of the general framework of Iran's 10-point proposal. As a basis for negotiations, I hereby declare on behalf of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, if attacks against Iran are halted, our powerful armed forces are tweeting like Trump will seize their defensive operations for a period of two weeks. A safe passage through the state of Hormuz will be possible via coordination with Iran's armed forces and with due consideration of technical limitations and signed by Sayyad Abbas Aragi, the minister of foreign affairs, Islamic Republic of Iran. So this is something the white house officially acknowledged that this is this is what Iran has uh stated officially. Then Trump also made this statement based on conversations with Prime Minister Shabbaz Sharif and Field Marshall Marshall Aim Munir of Pakistan and wherein they requested that I hold off the destructive force being sent tonight to Iran and subject to the Islamic Republic of Iran agreeing to the complete complete immediate and safe opening of the state of Hormuz. I agree to suspend the bombing in Iran attack on Iran of Iran for a period of two weeks. This will be a double-sided ceasefire. Trump says the reason for doing so is that we have already met. We have already met our beautiful military objectives. We have already exceeded all our beautiful big beautiful brilliant military objectives and are very far along with a definitive agreement concerning long-term peace with Iran and peace in the Middle East. We received a 10-point proposal from Iran and believe it's a workable basis on which to negotiate. So Trump says that we've received the 10-point proposal from Iran and we believe it's a workable basis on which to negotiate. Almost all of the various points of past contention have been agreed to between the US and Iran uh by a twoe period uh but the twoe period will allow agreement the agreement to be finalized and consummated. consummated. Okay, consummated if you say so on behalf of the US of America as president and blah blah blah all that okay so Trump says that it's it's uh an honor to have this long-term problem close to resolution okay so thus far things are going fine and then the white house tweets tweets this okay uh god knows how many yeah this these are the white house's claims these are the American claims of what they've achieved in operation epic fury then Israel tweets this Israel defense forces okay they tweeted said this yesterday afternoon India time uh 1:39 p.m. India time in accordance with directives from the political echelon the Israel Defense Forces IDF has seized fire in the operation against Iran and is highly prepared to respond decisively against any violation. Overnight, the IDF conducted a widecale wave of strikes targeting missile launch sites and launches across Iran in order to significantly degrade Iran's launching capabilities simultaneously and this is interesting. Simultaneously in Lebanon, the IDF is continuing to target to conduct targeted ground operations against the IDF will continue to operate across all fronts to defend Israel. So they are saying that simultaneously in Lebanon in Lebanon they are continuing to conduct targeted ground operations against Hezbollah. Now Shabbash Sharif says the ceasefire includes Lebanon. Okay. And Israel says we are now targeting Lebanon. We are simultaneously targeting Lebanon. So what kind of operations did is was Israel doing yesterday against Lebanon. So this is a claim from by someone from Lebanon. Okay. I don't know if it's true or not, but a lot of similar claims have come out. So this lady, whoever she is, she says that I don't think people around the world realize how bad the attack on Lebanon was today. Okay, it's bad. Like 911 bad. Hospitals are overflowing and do not have enough blood. We still don't know what the death toll is. This is terrorism allegedly, pure and simple. April 8, never forget. So it looks like Israel did very massive air strikes and other operations on u on on Lebanon Beirut also right and looks like a lot of civilians may possibly have died allegedly. I don't know how true or not it is but this is what it this is what a lot of people from that place Lebanon are saying. Then this is what Iran said. Okay, this is the Iranian u uh embassy's account from from India and they say that you started the war but Iran set the conditions for its end and this these are the 10 points. Okay, this is the Iranian 10point proposal that was accepted by Trump as a as a workable basis for for negotiations. So Iran's 10-point conditions that the US has accepted as workable say u that the and and the US has fundamentally committed to non-aggression continuation of Iran's control of the state of Hormos acceptance of Iran's uranium enrichment lifting all primary sanctions lifting all secondary sanctions termination of all UN security council resolutions termination of all IAEA board of governors resolutions payment of compensation to Iran withdrawal of US combat forces in the region from the region and secession of war on all fronts including against the heroic Islamic resistance of Lebanon and where is it? Trump said that we received a 10-point proposal and believe it's a workable basis on which to negotiate. So Trump said it's fine. We can negotiate bas based on these 10 points these 10 points including secession of war on all fronts including against Lebanon uh you know continuation of Iran's control over the state of Hormuz u uh acceptance of Iran's enrichment of uranium and so on. So Trump said it's fine. We can negotiate on the basis of these 10 points. It's it's it's a workable um you know set of conditions. Then what happens then it look then okay this is still we don't know if it's true or not but it looks like this is what happened. This is yesterday once again in the afternoon. It's now confirmed that the UAE air force UAE air force has conducted a large scale operation targeting Iran's oil and petrochemical plants plants in the Persian Gulf region. They have bombed refineries on the islands of Siri and Lavan and targeted multiple other petrochemical facilities using not only Winglong 2 armed for armed drones but also Mirage 2000 EAD fighter jets. operations are in ongoing with reports that Emirati aircraft have also flown over for the southern Iran. Now, this is incredibly perplexing. Why would the UAE do this? I'm not sure if it's confirmed or not that the UAE did this, but what on earth? So, clearly there was action going on against Iran yesterday. Now, there's there's more. Um, this is u Trump considering a plan to punish. So the the thing is yesterday there were attacks against Iran. There were there were uh let me see what else do we have there. There were explosions in Thran. There were strikes on Iran's uh oil facilities. Okay. Petrochemical facilities yesterday. The war that Israel has launched against Lebanon is continuing. It's they they're doing very heavy bombing uh you know bombing operations over Lebanon on Beirut and Iran says that this is not a ceasefire. I mean you are not uh adhering to the the the what we had agreed upon as part the terms that we had agreed to for the ceasefire. So what's happened is that Iran has now once again closed the state of Hormos. So the ceasefire essentially has collapsed. Is it retrievable or not is the question. So let's before we analyze this, let's let's move forward. Trump is considering a plan to punish some NATO countries by moving US troops out of countries which are deemed unhelpful to the Iran war. The proposal would involve moving US troops from unhelpful countries into countries that were more supportive of the Iran war. Um it's going on. They're discussing how to NAT how to punish NATO. The US has 84,000 troops roughly stationed across Europe and countries that could benefit from more American troops. Yeah, that's benefit. Um include Poland, Romania, Lithuania, and Greece and US NATO relations are degrading. Um this is another tweet by Trump yesterday. um all American ships, aircraft, and military personnel with additional ammunition, weaponry, and anything else that's appropriate and necessary for the lethal prosecution and destruction of an already substantially degraded enemy will remain in place in and around Iran until such time as the real agreement reached is fully complied with. If for reason it is not, which is highly unlikely, then the shooting stars starts bigger and better and stronger than anyone has ever seen before. It was agreed a long time ago and despite all of the fake rhetoric to the country, no nuclear weapons. No nuclear weapons. So Trump uh where here he says that we are fine with the 10point proposal that Iran has given and the 10-point proposal included enrichment uranium enrichment by Iran. Okay, that was a workable basis for negotiations said Trump. And now he says that u no nuclear weapons which means no enrichment right and the straight for straight of hormones will be open and safe. So Trump is saying that we and and what else do we have um withdrawal of US combat forces from the region is one of the points that Iran had uh put forth and Trump said it's fine and now he is saying that you know what we are not withdrawing anything we are moving in more forces. We are potentially moving in more forces into the Gulf region. Yep. Russian Gulf region. America is back. So, looks like very rapidly the ceasefire started unraveling. Uh, now we have this. Okay, now we have this. Okay, it's muted. Boop boop. Okay, so this is from today more today afternoon massive American buildup. The this is from Reuters. The US has now deployed more than 50,000 troops across the Middle East with numbers continuing to surge. Thousands of Marines are being rapidly transferred from San Diego right straight into the region. Anyone who thinks that President Trump sent this entire Armada fleets, Marines and all just to accept a truce with Iran is completely delusional. a fullscale ground intervention ground this ceasefire this two week ceasefire as a means to bolster their presence in the region and then they will carry out further attacks it looks like on Iran and Trump has given Europe an ultimatum within days they must commit actual military forces like warships to the straight of Hormos this is being reported by their spiggel the kegel Germany. So that's what's going on. That is what's happening. Okay. Now I So essentially what's what what is the deal? Two week ceasefire. It's already collapsing. Okay. The Israelis have ensured it collapses. The deal the ceasefire deal the points the 10 points it included that there'll be it included Lebanon. there will be no no military action on Lebanon. Karif tweeted that Iran said that and now immediately Israel yesterday started really going hard on Lebanon and they seem to have caused a lot of casualties among civilians possibly potentially allegedly. So Israel ensured that the ceasefire collapses and looks like the UAE did some military action against Iran and there were explosions in Thran yesterday. So Iran has closed the state of Hormos and now you know Trump is saying that Iran is not holding or you know it's it's not uh being true to its commitments as for the ceasefire and so on. So the ceasefire is collapsing. Now what actually happened? How did this entire the whole thing go wrong? Iran gave a 10-point proposal. The United States has a 15-point proposal. The U the US president said that the 10 points Iran has given are workable workable basis for negotiations. Then he said that no we never knew that you know Lebanon was not included. Leberon was not included in the 10 points. That's what he claims. And then JD Vance the American vice president said that there seems to be a genuine misunderstanding. What they communicated is not what we received. That's what he claims. Now who is the intermediary in all of this? It's Pakistan. Pakistan is the intermediary in this entire matter. Pakistan is the mediator. See, Iran says we will not speak to the United States face to face. They are aggressors. We don't want to negotiate with them. But if Pakistan wants to mediate, okay, we will deal with Pakistan. So Pakistan has been the intermediary. They have spoken to the US because the US is their master and they've spoken to Iran because they are a neighbor of Iran temporarily at least. So they are the intermediary and they have spoken to both sides but both sides haven't spoken to each other. So both sides have spoken to Pakistan. So looks like one of two things has happened. Scenario one we'll keep it here on this side. Scenario one. Scenario one is Pakistan gave a s certain made Pakistan made a certain set of set of statements to Iran and a totally different set of statements to the US. So it said one thing to Iran and said a different thing to the US and that has caused the complete devastating misunderstanding if it's a misunderstanding which means that Pakistan has essentially um botched up the whole thing. Pakistan has lied to both sides essentially. That's one scenario that Pakistan has its own agenda. It is playing its own game. They lied to Iran about what the American proposal was and they lied to the US what the Iran Iranian proposal was. They said two different things to two different sides and that's why there's a fundamental mismatch and that's why the ceasefire has collapsed. That's one scenario of this scenario here. The second scenario here is that the Pakistanis are simply obeying American orders. The Americans told Pakistan to go ahead and mediate and all that and you take the Iranian proposal give it to us and we will claim that we have never agreed to this even though we have put out all these tweets. So in that case Pakistan has played the role of a faithful servant of the master the United States and in both scenarios Pakistan has backstabbed betrayed Iran. Right? That is what's going on. So yesterday a whole bunch of Indian commentators were saying that Pakistan has become this great great power in so-called South Asia. They have leapfrogged India. They are so relevant now. They can mediate and get get the war to end. But the truth is that Pakistan has played the role of a backstabber and betrayer against Iran. That's the role Pakistan has played. Okay? And this has led to a complete collapse of Pakistan's image and standing worldwide. If you see Iranian Twitter, Persian Twitter, see right now there's a internet blackout in Iran. Like there is a blackout in various parts of the Gulf region. Okay, there's a lot of censorship. In Iran, there seems to be a complete blackout. In Israel also you're not allowed to post images of the you know uh of the devastation that that has is happening in Iran. in Israel in the UE also you're not allowed to post images and videos of know you know whatever has happened there so there's censorship across the place and there seems to be an internet blackout in in Iran but there's a big Iranian diaspora outside of Iran and many of them don't like the regime of the moolas and Ayatollas but they still support their country so if you see the tweets coming out from the Iranian diaspora they are in one voice condemning and essentially abusing Pakistan right now. It's it's a it's an interesting phenomenon that that you can see on Twitter right now. The whole of Iran is is joining together to to condemn and abuse Pakistan. So Pakistan has somehow found a way to bring India and Iran together the people of India and Iran together at least. So that's what's happening. So Pakistan has played the role of of a mercenary of of of a backstabber of a betrayer of Iran and uh it looks like the ceasefire is no longer holding now I don't know if the missiles and drones are are flying again uh but it looks like even if the ceasefire holds hypothetically okay even if the ceasefire holds hypothetically what happens uh so let me bring in my tweets from which I tweeted yesterday and uh give me a second. Okay, I'll put that on the screen. So, why why has the US agreed to a ceasefire? The US Give me a second. So, here we have it. Um yeah, here. So, so I said that the war's current outcome, a USIra tactical victory and a Iranian strategic victory has be became irreversible at the point where fresh reserves or resupplies could no longer turn the scale. The US and Israel now have two weeks if the ceasefire holds for two weeks, they have two weeks now to move in enough reserves and resupplies to tip the scale and then go for the kill against Iran. and Iran is in is in no position to press in new reserves or resupplies unless Russia or China or both step in which is highly uncertain. So unless Russia or China or both step in, Iran has two weeks left to establish deterance by demonstrably testing the one weapon that can guarantee its long-term survival. And what's that one weapon? I think you all understand what that one one weapon is, right? Um and the US air bridge to the Middle East continues. The US is still even though the ceasefire is going on allegedly at that time it was going on at least the US is still bringing in new supplies, new troops etc to the Middle East. So something is not right the ceasefire is simply a means of buying time by the United States and uh then you have all this happening. Israel has born Beirut in a devastating attack that could have caused hundreds of casualties potentially says Alzer. So the ceasefire was hanging by a thread and I don't know if it still exists or not the ceasefire. So that's the day that's what's happened thus far in the past day day and a half right. So even if the ceasefire holds the US is bringing in more troops the US is bringing in more equipment more supplies more whatever else. If if you're serious about a ceasefire you don't do that. Right. And one of the one of the conditions Iran has given is that the US must move out its military etc from the from the Gulf region. The US is doing the opposite of that. So this ceasefire is not viable and the longer Iran waits you know the more uh disadvantageous its position becomes actually. So this is so this war is not over. This ceasefire may in the be the process of collapsing. It may have collapsed already. Even if it holds for 2 weeks, the US is not going to agree to Iran's conditions of uh continuing its enrichment of uranium for whatever reason. And Iran's trump card is its hold over the state of Hormos. If it gives that up, well, what does it have? So the US will bring in more reserves, more supplies, more arms, ammunition, rockets, missiles, whatnot. And I think in a in a couple of weeks at most or maybe whatever the time is, I think the war is going to resume. This is not over by any stretch of the imagination. Okay. So now let's take some questions from you all. What questions do we have? All right. We have a question by Ritik Pawar. Despite having larger economies and military power, why don't China or India invade at least one oil rich country to secure oil resources for themselves? Because the oil rich countries are under American protection except for Iran which is under American attack and still America can't defeat Iran. So you think if America and Israel combined can't defeat Iran, do you think India or China can defeat Iran? And does India even want to attack Iran? For what reason would we attack Iran? In 3,000 years of history, we have never attacked Iran. Why would we attack Iran? Are we crazy or what? And when it comes to attacking hypothetically some of the Persian Gulf countries, they are under American protection, you attack them, you come under full under the full spectrum of American um you know offensive measures. It's madness to do that madness. Okay. Uh the PI core says, "I have great respect for your initiative, but your dismissal of feminism as propaganda was hurtful. Unequal distribution of labor and safety threat is lived reality for women. My dismissal of feminism is propaganda. No, feminism, I've never said feminism is propaganda. Feminism, you see, understand this. Feminism emerged out of the United States in the 19th century. It was much needed in the United States of the 19th century. Women were secondass, essentially third class citizens. They had no right to property. They forget about rights to the right to vote. Forget about the right to vote. They did not even have the right to property. They were non-persons. They were essentially non-persons. They had no recourse to legal legal aid or whatever the hell. Women were were deeply deeply oppressed in 19th century United States and and 18th century in 17th century United States whatever whatever the US was born in 1776 or whatever it was right that's in the 18th century and women were deeply oppressed. So it was necessary for a movement to uplift women to come into existence and that's how you have the rise and the the the genesis of feminism in the United States and feminism was kind of in alliance with the civil rights movement in the US. Okay. So understand feminism was very necessary in a place like the United States in a deeply oppressive in inegitarian unequal society like the United States and also Europe. The same was the case in Europe as well around that time. I mean since the Christianization of Europe it's been like that right? So it was necessary for feminism to emerge and strive to give women the same rights as men. It was very important and they achieved that eventually. Women, you know, women got the right to vote. Women eventually acquired the right to property whenever it happened probably in the 20th century. So those things were necessary. Feminism was necessary. Then what happens is 1950s and 60s onwards feminism got hijacked by the Marxists. Okay, by the leftists. The leftists eventually hijacked a lot of these movements that were originally uh very important that were created for very good reasons. So then feminism transmogrified into something totally different. It transformed, it morphed into a tool for dividing society. Once women get equal rights as men, once once women get, you know, equal salaries as men, yeah, once women get the right to pro property, the right to vote, all of those things, most of feminism's job was done. But no, you got to go forward now. And Marxism, it always seeks tools to divide society. So it's it took over feminism. It hijacked feminism. The Marxists slowly gradually infiltrated the feminists feminist scene and they became the voice of feminism. Essentially they hijacked it and then they start using the same ideas for dividing society for say that women should not be content with equal rights. Now women should take over society. And if you look at the United States today, men are oppressed today. Okay? Men are oppressed. The US, you could say, has is becoming in more and more of a gyocentric society. Now, feminism is about putting men down, oppressing men, and essentially women want to become men now biologically. And that's led to all these weird manifestations of god knows what in the United States like transgenderism and uh physical mutilation of of children and god knows what else. Okay. So it's not propaganda. Feminism arose for a very good reason in that part of the world where it was required. You understand? Now distribution of labor and safety threat. Safety threat. That's why we have families. Okay. That's why we have families. And in some cultures, there's always going to be a threat to the to women's safety. In those cultures, well, please send your feminism there. Please send feminism there. Right? But it's not the case in all societies, in all cultures. There are cultures where women have the highest of respect. For example, Indian civilization, we always had the highest of respect for women. Women's rights were enshrined in everything. In the Art Shastra, for example, right? in in dharma women's rights are enshrined and women and men they are complimentary to each other in Indian culture right the rules yeah there are gender rules in Indian culture you don't like that well please go somewhere else but there's no gender rules maybe you could go to the US but all cultures are distinct and unique and you've got to respect all cultures you don't like a certain culture please go move elsewhere please move to the Middle East perhaps maybe that's more egalitarian for you and so on. So there are safety threats in some cultures, unequal distribution. Well, why don't you become a lumberjack if you're a lady? Would you like to do that? Become a lumberjack. Why don't women want equality of of labor? Why don't 50% of women I mean why why don't we have women equally represented as as lumberjacks or in oil rigs, right? Because there is a difference in the physique of men and women. It's a biological fact whether you like it or not. There are certain jobs in the labor in which fall under the category of labor that women simply can't do because of their physical limitations that are simply a consequence and a factor of biology. So please understand let's think of things think about things let's analyze these things logically rationally keeping emotions aside okay I have never said that feminism has to be dismissed and should be dismissed feminism was necessary in the west in the United States now now superimposing feminism on societies where it has no relevance I don't think it's the right thing to do for example I don't agree that feminism has any relevance in India. Feminism has relevance where women are canonically oppressed, subjugated, relegated to third class citizen status. It's never been the case in India. So there's no need for feminism in India. Right? So understand the the whole discussion is nuanced. It's complex. Feminism has great relevance in some parts of the world or it had great relevance in some parts of the world. But then it's been weaponized in those parts of the world and so on. So it's a complex nuanced discussion. All right. Please don't feel hurt by this. Think if you find if you come across some ideas that go against what you believe. Well, you could you can choose to have an emotional reaction to it which is getting hurt or you can choose to think about it. I know thinking is hard. It's hard for all of us. Thinking is hard. It's hard work. But if you think it through, then you will grow and become a more mature person eventually. So that's what I would say. Please, please look into what I'm saying. Think about it. Look into the history of feminism. Okay? read read a book or two about the actual history the genesis the origins of feminism why it emerged where it emerged and then see how it's transformed over the 1950s60s7s onwards and what what it's done to the United States and western society etc all right tapish k thank you so much ma'am thank you karthik uh keti thank you very much karthik gene okay but says I live in the United States and no one knows about Pakistan's role in the ceasefire. It's okay. Yeah. Um Pakistan is not an important nation. They have not really played any actual role in the ceasefire. They have played the role of a spoiler. They've played the role of a backslabber. And in the United States, no one cares anyway about Pakistan, right? Pakistan is simply an errand boy, okay, for the United States. It's simply one of the minions you can that exist that that that exists at your beck and call and who exist to serve you in some way or the other. Right? So right so over here in India there's been a whole bunch of people the usual suspects who have been lording Pakistan and saying you know Pakistan has become more relevant than India and so on. That's what they were doing yesterday. Today I suppose they must be quiet about this. Right. Push says like you previously said that in the past NATO nations went with the US everywhere because the previous US administration considered them to be equals and now they are not siding with the US because this um US administration is treating them like third world nations. So if the NATO nations of Assad then why do they need respect from Washington to obey their orders this time? Love from Bihar. Um if the NATO so let's yeah in the past NATO nations went with the US they did not go with the US everywhere they um they agreed with the United States and its geopolitical uh agenda and decisions and they participated in various US geopolitical initiatives. which means wars and whatn not sanctions etc. The NATO nations have done that in the past and the deal was that the United States gets to control Europe physically by putting ground by putting troops on the ground boots on the ground in various NATO nations. Okay. And the US finances a substantial amount of NATO's military budget all of that. And in exchange the US gets the privilege of essentially controlling physically the the whole of Western Europe. That was the deal. There was a there was the unspoken contract in NATO. So the NATO nations give up a significant amount of their sovereignty to the US. In exchange they get all these things. So both sides benefit. That was a win-win. And the US they did not consider NATO nations to be their equals. The United States was always aware that these are our minions. These are our vasals. These are our puppets. The US always knew this. They never considered them to be equals. But see understand please there is nuance in this. Now somebody tomorrow will say on Twitter that you have said there America considered NATO nations to be equals. No, the US has never considered themselves these nations to be equal to the US. But the US has always treated them as if they were equals. They the US has always given them due respect in the past. Okay? The US has never disrespected these nations. And then Trump comes along. Trump comes along and Trump disrespects the hell out of the NATO nations. He makes it a point to humiliate their leaders. He makes it a point to disparage each nation individually turn by turn. Right? So that is deeply hurtful to any people. Even if you are a vasal state, as long as you're treated with respect, you will swallow the fact that you are a vasal state and you'll keep quiet about it. But you are first of all a vasal state and then you are repeatedly humiliated on an ongoing basis. the people won't tolerate that and that makes the position of the leaders very difficult that I see the leaders they typically benefit in some way or the other for being the leader of a vasal state which means a nice puppet see these leaders they benefit in some personal ways which obviously you will not know about and that's why they are okay with you know with with steering their nation as a vasal state but when the people get upset and when they are being humiliated personally there is friction between the US and those nations. Right? So that's the situation and and beyond that beyond that the US now is now demanding that these NATO nations they double their contribution to NATO's excheer now by 2030 mean you've got to pay up double of what you were paying until now which means that the u social welfare measures that these countries were spending on now have to be cut on these nations also have to accept refugees from god knows what places from certain nations. So the US and and and these nations NATO nations can no longer buy you know cheap Russian gas. So the US is slowly clamping down on Europe. They are de-industrializing Europe. They're forcing immigration of certain kinds into Europe. They're forcing these nations to pay more. They're forcing these nations, the Americans, they're forcing the NATO nations to spend a lot of money supporting Ukraine. The US is putting a tremendous amount of pressure from all different directions on NATO nations. It not it's not just about the respect matter, right? That's why there is increasing friction between the US and NATO. And now many of these NATO nations are kind of fed up. Do you understand? It's it's a complex process. It's not like you did not respect me so I will not like you. Now, it's not like that. It's just one of the factors. It's a multiplicity of factors coming together. Please understand things that it's not just surface level analysis. We have to do we have to look at things from a multiplicity of angles and it all comes together into all the pain points the NATO nations are experiencing and that's what is the deal. All right. Anarva thank you very much Anurva. Uh Tuhendra says how did academia get hijacked by the left? How can what does what does that mean? HWCN STD. Okay, I don't know what HWCNS STD means. Uh, but how did academia get hijacked by the left? Leftists infiltrated academia by getting PhDs. Okay, then becoming lecturers, then becoming readers, then becoming professors, then becoming administrators, especially administrators. Okay, you can also hijack academia by infiltrating the Ministry of Education and appointing your handpicked mediocre historians and mediocre academics in in high positions. So, how do you hijack an institution? You hijack an institution by infiltrating all the levers of the decision-m process step by step. It's a slow process. Sometimes it's a fast process. So that's how academia gets hijacked. You control the budgets. You control the appointments. You control the promotions. You control the demotions. You control what kind of people are allowed to enter the system. You control what kind of people are allowed to get PhDs. You control what kind of research is allowed, what kind of research is prohibited. All of that you have to start controlling. So you to control and you have to infiltrate and take over the decision-m process at multiple levels. That's how you that's how you um hijack an institution such as the academic institution. Panesh Pande says this um we know that this is not a win for Pakistan. They were just a messenger for the U messenger board for the US. But with Israel attacking Lebanon, is this a pause for the US to redeem its failure? Um so um yeah Pakistan Pakistan is not important. I I I rarely speak out Pakistan. You all know this right? I rarely speak out Pakistan because Pakistan is not important. Pakistan is not relevant except as a vasal state an errand boy a minion an asset of the United States. That's all. It's a nuisance value for India for Afghanistan for for Iran. Pakistan has three neighbors. It has India as a neighbor. It has Afghanistan as a neighbor. It has Iran as a neighbor. And it has Chinese occupied Tibet also as you know a little bit. So the three neighbors that matter, India, Iran, Afghanistan, each of these three neighbors dislikes Pakistan intensely. No one likes Pakistan and Pakistan. It's simply a nuisance in the region. Artificial temporary terrorist nation. Yeah. So that's about Pakistan. It's not that important except as a nuisance except as as a pain in everyone's neck neck. Um Israel attacking Libran is this is this a pause the US to redeem his failure. See if there is a ceasefire then the US gets some time to bring in re reinforcements like I discussed like I showed you. The US is put bringing in more troops. The US is bringing in more uh reinforcements, more supplies, more arms, more ammunition, more missiles, what not. the US is bringing in these things into uh into the the Middle East region. Okay. So, it's not like the US is just sitting and waiting for two weeks to have a discussion with Iran. No, they're going to bring in much more. So, this is simply a time a twoe window of time. If if the ceasefire holds it's a twoe window of time for the US to regroup, to rethink and then move in for the kill again. The war is not ending. the US is not going to just just let this go. And so I'm not sure how why Iran agreed to the ceasefire. What did Iran get out of it? I'm I'm not really sure what they get out of it. Uh and but the US wanted a twoe ceasefire clearly. But they had Pakistan play this role. Maybe they want to blame Iran for the failure of the ceasefire. Maybe the Americans want to blame Iran for the ceasefire's failure. And that's why they had Pakistan play the role of a betrayer and backstabber right of the spoiler and looks like Israel doesn't want a ceasefire and that's why they went ahead and they knew the Israelis that one of the points Iran had put forth one of the conditions that Iran Iran had put forth was that the ceasefire will extend to Lebanon also not just to Iran but also to to Lebanon and the Israelis the moment this was announced they went and bombed Lebanon so the Israelis ensured the ceasefire doesn't happen right the ceasefire collapses. So that is the situation, right? The US and Israel have both failed thus far in their objectives. They kept kept on changing goalposts. Day one it was about regime change. Day three it was something else. Day five it was something else. Day seven it was hormones. Day day 10 it was it was Iran's missile program. Then it's nuclear program. Then it's drones. This that. Now again when Trump said that we're going to destroy your civilization, he once again said regime change. Now in yesterday's tweets again he said regime change. So what is it that they seek? They actually seek regime change in Iran. Okay. And they seek military defeat of Iran. But that's not happened. So the US has failed. Israel has failed. So that's why they want to use a breather. The US wants the breather couple of weeks to rethink everything to restrategize to bring in more more capacity in the region and then attack again. They are not serious about a ceasefire. I expect this to once again become a conflration maybe worse than what we've had thus far. Right. Right. Okay. Ashotosh, thank you very much. Ashotosh Malgangar G, thank you. Uh Raghav Raghava, thank you very much. Raava G, very nice of you. Thank you so much. Sachidv Satya says, "In your studies of history, have you seen any have you noticed any common symptoms of or patterns when an empire civilization declines and what we can learn from them?" Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. It's it's a cyclical process. What happens or what what what precipitates the decline of an empire? Well, first of all, the empire becomes super successful. Okay. The empire becomes super successful. It becomes it it acquires more and more land, territory, influence, power, including power over kingdoms, kingdoms, nations that it doesn't physically control. But it still vasalizes them. That's why it acquires power over them. And as a consequence, the empire becomes super rich, very prosperous. And the people become accustomed to luxury etc. So why did the empire first rise and become powerful? Because the people were dynamic and the people the people were all you know geared towards progress and rapid transformation which means the people were okay with being uncomfortable. But now you have this period of prosperity where everyone is happy enjoying luxury. You know there are no real problems left anymore. So the people become soft. They stop focusing on what matters. They start focusing on things that don't matter and then the government becomes lacks. So essentially hard times create uh strong men, strong men create good times, good times create soft and weak men and weak men create hard times. So overall eventually you see the civilization declining and then leaner hungrier peripheral forces then can then take can can start yapping and biting at the heels of the civilization or the empire and eventually it collapses. It's it's a cyclical process happens over and over again. So what can we learn from them? What we can learn from them is that discomfort is important. You can't become too too complacent, too complacent, uh too too accustomed to luxury and and a soft life. Discomfort is important. It's it's it's it's vital for a civilization remaining strong. Okay. Um war keeps rejuvenating your civilization and your empire. If you don't have war often, well, it makes you soft and weak. War is obviously terrible. War is terrible for the innocent and and the civilians. But war is what keeps you young as a civilization and as an empire. So, it's it's it's a two-edged sword. On the one hand, it keeps you young and strong and hard. On the other hand, it is tragic. But from a macro perspective, war is important. You don't go to war often. You become soft and weak and then you get shocked by what happens in war. So lots lots of things you can learn from this right. Okay. Um brother Dana says stage two fast breed reactor will still require initially uranium 238. Yes I think it does. Look uh I had put this tweet out. Uh let me put this um for you out here. Give me a second. So there are three stages in India's u three-stage program. Okay. uh nuclear pro program, three-stage nuclear program. Um all right, so here we have it. Okay, just look at this tweet. This gives you everything you need in in in very brief instead of going into the details. So Prime Minister Modi on April 6th uh he announced that India's first prototype fastreeder reactor at Kalapakam has attained criticality which means the nuclear reaction has started in this fast breeder reactor. Okay. So this is the beginning of the two of the second stage. So there are some experts who will tell you that India has reached the end of the second stage in and we are entering the third stage. Some experts will tell you those experts have no idea what they're talking about. India is now beginning the second stage of its three-stage nuclear program. The first stage started in the 1960s and we are now entering the second stage with one reactor. All of our other reactors are still first stage reactors. So India is still mostly in the first stage with one reactor that has entered the second stage. So if we have let's say how many reactors do we have 25? Let's say 25. Out of 25 one is second stage and 24 are first stage. Okay. So we are 4% into the second stage and initial second stage and 96% still first stage. That is where we are. Understand this very clearly. Now understand how this works. So this three-stage program was uh this plan was created by Dr. Homie J. Bha. Okay. So the first stage is pressurized heavy water reactors. This stage is complete and operational. So we are still most of the reactors are stage one reactors. Okay. India runs about 22 pressurized heavy water reactors. Heavy water is is is is is uh proteium uh it's it's treatitium right? No what what do you have? You have dutium right? So heavy water uses a heavy isotope of hydrogen. So India runs about 22 pressurized heavy water reactors which generate power and accumulate plutonium 239 which is the fuel that we need to re reach to feed second stage reactors. Plutonium is an iso it's it's a it's an element that's not found naturally on our planet. Okay but we need plutonium 239 fuel to feed stage two. Okay. So that's our stage one pressurized heavy water reactors. We have 22 of those roughly 22 24 whatever the actual number is roughly 22. The second stage is fast breeder reactors. The second stage reactors they use the stage 1 plutonium as fuel and they are loaded with uranium 238 and thorium 232 around the core in a blanket in a blanket like configuration. Okay. So the Kalapakam fasted reactor which is the prototype it will convert uranium 238 into thorium 232 into more file fuel more plutonium 239 and uranium 233 which will be bred from thorium 232. So the pressurized so so the fast breeder reactors in stage two they will breed more fuel than they burn. Imagine a reactor that burns fuel but produces more fuel. So that's a stage two reactor. Okay, fast breeder reactor. So the Kalapakam FBR frostbreeder reactor is now sustaining a controlled fish chain reaction. Okay, it's successfully uh sustaining a controlled fish and chain reaction. So a kalapakum type type reactor, a fast bidder reactor will produce maybe a few grams, maybe a few kilograms, okay, of uranium 233 per year. per year. So we're going to need a lot of these reactors if we have to reach stage three whenever it happens. So stage three is advanced heavy water reactors on thorium. So first of all in stage two you need um uranium 238. Okay. And you also need thorium 232. So you need uranium 238 and thorium 232 both. Um and without the thodium you will not be able to breed the uranium 233 in stage two. So in stage two you need thorium. Okay. Stage three is advanced heavy water reactors. This is the end goal. Advanced heavy water reactors will use the uranium 233 bred in stage 2 as their main fuel along with thorium 232. And India has the world's largest reserves of thorium. So this will give India virtually inexhaustible indigenous clean nuclear energy for centuries. So India is now beginning its transition into stage two and we have demonstrated indigenous mastery of one of the most complex reactor technologies without foreign assistance. It's uh it's a great achievement. No question about that. It's a great great achievement. But we have a long way to go. It's going to get it's going to take decades for us to reach stage three because a fast breeder reactor like Kalapakam so Kalapakam is a prototype. It's an experimental reactor. We're going to operate it for a while for two three years. We're going to initiate the breeding reaction by by having thorium in the blanket around the the core. Okay? And we're going to see how it works. At what rate do uh is it generating is it breeding the uranium 233 fuel and the plutonium. We're going to have to see that based on our study of how this re this reactor performs for a while for two three years. maybe four, five years. Then we will build one more reactor. Then we'll see how that performs. Then we'll build two, three more. Eventually we'll build a few dozens of reactors. And then let's say each reactor produces a couple of kilograms or whatever. Maybe 5 kg, 10 kg of uranium 23 233 per year. We're going to need tons of that. So we're going to have to run these reactors for decades each of them. Hopefully, we have 50 of those. Let's say, let's say we're going to have to run them for 10, 20 years to get enough fuel for stage three. So, minimum 10, 20, 30 years to reach stage three sitting sitting where we are right now. Maybe 40, 50 years depending on how quickly we we we uh kick off stage two, how quickly we scale up in stage two. So, we are just starting now. Understand? We just starting stage two finally. Finally. But we have a long long way to go before we can start stage three with the first stage three reactor which will also be a prototype and that will take 10 20 30 years to get going and then so maybe 50 60 years from now we will have proper stage three going hopefully in 50 60 years. Okay. It is a long long process my dear friends. All right. Okay. The Eternal Witness is a new member. Thank you very much, The Eternal Witness, and welcome to this channel's membership. I really appreciate it. W says, "Please upload new Askab episodes on Spotify." Yes, I shall have it done at the earliest. Thank you for the reminder. Appreciate that. Uh, Soldier Boy says, "Your take on UNOI sir? Where's our nation heading?" UNOI, one nation, one election. I haven't thought about this. I look into geopolitics, history, science and one nation, one election on paper, it sounds like a good idea. I've not put given much thought to this. But in India's electoral democracy, which is a Westminster style democracy, let's say you have one year, one nation, one election. So let's say in a certain year you have all the state elections and the general election at the same time in one year. Okay. So each state is going to vote differently. The nation is going to vote differently for the parliament of India. And let's say in some some states you have coalition governments or you have a hung assembly. Then what do you do? If if there's a co coalition government in some states let's say uh we have 20 odd states. Let's say five states you have hung assemblies or you have coalition governments and after 2 years 3 years these governments fall and the assembly is hung and you need new elections then what do you do then after 2 years only do you once again have one nation one election or do you put that state in the president's rule until the next cycle of elections 5 years down the line from the initial starting point what do you do for one nation one election we need to transition to a presidential form of moment. This parliamentary system, this Westminster democracy system will not work. If you want to have one nation, one election in a presidential style system, once a president is elected for the nation, that person takes on the role of the executive leadership and that person stays for four years, 5 years, whatever it is. And if you apply the presidential style system to states then you will have state assemblies but the state will have a chief minister or a governor who will rule for 5 years or four years whatever let's say 5 years for India. So even if the state assembly is a hung hung assembly or whatever the person who was elected as governor or chief minister will stay for 5 years they can't that person can't be removed unless there's impeachment which is very rare. So if you want a one nation election, it will not work with this current system which is ridiculous and which which the system is not suitable for India. For 80 years roughly almost we have been saddled with a system that is terrible for the country. Ideally we should have a presidential file system. Then you then you can make one nation one election work. Otherwise you can't. It just won't work. It's it will not be practical. It will not be feasible in in the real world. On paper it'll look nice. In the real world it'll break. Sergeant Skylin says Rafal versus 57. Look, if the French are unwilling to give us the codes, the source code of the Rafal, then it makes no sense to pay so much money for those fighter plates. So I would say if the French after paying so much money, if they are not willing to give us the source codes, then we should not go for the Rafael. Dump it. go for the soa 57 and acquire the full technology including source codes the Russians will give it and for a less lesser price but the main thing is India should now focus because these aircraft will take years to come even if we start the production now it'll take 5 7 10 years for the first aircrafts to start rolling out because you to first build the factories the production lines assembly lines all those things takes time so it'll take at least 10 years for these things to become for the first aircraft to start ruling out of the of the assembly lines. Until then, what do we do? We have to start focusing full scale on ballistic missiles, cruise missiles and drones. You have that it can completely offset the the the shortfall in in fighter planes and the future is going to be all AI and robotics. The human operated fighter planes are going to be like dinosaurs very soon. So India needs to wake up and realize this is the 21st century no longer the 20th century where the heads of a lot of these planners seem to be right a lot of our planners etc they seem to have their heads still in the 20th century they're still thinking from the 20th century perspective it has to be drones and missiles now so I would say focus on the AMCA let it however long it takes focus on the indigenous jet engine however long it takes in the meanwhile If the French are being difficult then dump the rafal and get the soy no matter how good or bad it is at least we'll be able to manufacture it entirely over here in India and then we'll be able to if required tweak it and improve it which you'll be great at doing actually yeah so I would I am leading towards a soy even if it's not the best aircraft in the world so what at least it will be your aircraft because you'll be able to control every aspect of it that's better than having some fantastic aircraft that you can't control and you need permission to update every time. You don't want that, right? Okay. Hot potato says, "What path could lead India to a presidential democracy or dictatorship? What could trigger it? Is changing this changing the system still possible? Thank you. I have no idea. I am no expert in India's constitution and laws and whatnot. Um the constitution is impossible to understand and read. Hundreds of pages, right? If you ask any two constitutional experts, they will disagree on various things. Um and I don't think the pres the Indian constitution allows you to transition to a different system. The constitution of India is such that it doesn't allow you to transition to a different system. The constitution of India doesn't allow you to scrap the constitution. I'm sure there is there must be some way ways or means of changing the system but the process will be incredibly difficult because you're going to need twothirds majorities in all the state assemblies and god knows what else. I'm not sure how it works. It's incredibly difficult. Yeah. So how does India transition? Forget about dictatorship. Okay. Dictatorship is completely out of the question from the constitutional perspective. But let's say the con we want to transition from the westminster style prime ministerial system to a presidential system. How do you do it within the ambit of the constitution of India? You have to ask a constitutional expert about this. I think the the way forward will be very difficult. So how do you make it happen? Uh you will need a situation where there is some look it's all I'm giving you an academic hypothetical situation. I'm not recommending any of this first of all. Okay, this is completely academic and completely hypothetical. Maybe let's say hypothetically someday, complete hypothetical scenario, maybe there's a war and whoever is ruling the country, prime minister has to impose a uh not emergency on the country. Okay. And then when there's an emergency, you can do stuff like what the great Madame Indra Gandhi G had done. She changed our constitution, changed the preamble, what not. She had this done. So maybe whoever is the prime minister at that time because there's an emergency and the he or she has emergency powers, maybe they can change the constitution at the time and give the the the the president of what Mrs. Gandhi had done. Maybe that's one way to uh quickly have a change in the system. Yeah, maybe that's one scenario. I'm not sure if it will be completely constitutional or not or whatever. But I'm sure that what was done in 1975 or thereabouts was also not completely constitutional but it became part of the constitution. So maybe that's one scenario that could hypothetically work in a in a completely hypothetical scenario perhaps. I'm sure changing the system is possible. Changing the system is always possible but it is very hard to do in normal circumstances. You will need extraordinary circumstances for these things to happen. In normal regular circumstances where everything is business as usual, it's almost impossible to change the system. But if the country is is it finds itself under extraordinary circumstances, then things are possible. Hey okay. Okay. So this is the same question once again but yes that's the answer that I can offer you. Uh Agni Rudra says good evening. Well good evening to you. Uh watching your channel for more than two years. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Agnudra, uh, thank you for all the knowledge you have shared over the years. It changed the way I think about GP. You are very welcome. Uh, GP, what is GP? Geopolitics. Okay. Geopolitics. You're very welcome. I'm very glad that I could I could help you in some way. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. The Eternal Witness has gifted one Aijit Cha membership, one channel membership to someone, some one lucky person. So I thank you on behalf of the one lucky person and I thank you on my behalf as well. Thank you so much. Thank you. Arismantic says is Trump trying to exhaust in Iran's missile stock and drones by getting NATO involved too. Iran would extend its target range to Europe if NATO joins question mark. Uh see the situation right now is that the Americans and Israelis have have have uh done tremendous damage to Iran. They've bombed universities. They they've bombed bombed children's schools. They've bombed factories. They've bombed uh uh refineries. They've bombed um petroleum reserves, oil reserves. They have bombed uh military military installations whatever they can. They've bombed bomb bomb. They've bombed cities. They bombed Thran. They've done assassinations. So Iran is in a situation where I it most likely is not currently manufacturing or producing more missiles and drones. Whatever stockpile it had accumulated, that's all it has to play with. That's most likely the situ scenario because to manufacture more missiles and drones you need factories and factories you can't bring underground most likely unless Iran has done the almost impossible and factories the Americans would have identified where are the factories and they would have bombed them and if a factory is bombed you can't manufacture new missiles and drones there because it's all destroyed so most likely Iran is not able to produce more missiles and drones right and whatever stockpile they have, that's all they have to play with. That's what I imagine is the most likely scenario. So if Trump brings in more arms, more ammunition, more missiles, more whatever and forces Iran to keep firing missiles and drones, then in that case, if the US has more missiles and drones than Iran or more targets to hit at than Iran has drones and missiles, then they could potentially exhaust Iran's missile stock and roads possibly. Um so but Iran would have most likely they would have planned for these scenarios and if Iran is is in a situation where it's it's starting to slowly run out of their stocks then they'll be more careful with their missiles and drones and how they're using them. So it's a game of cat and mouse on both sides. So I personally have no idea how many missiles and how many drones Iran has. They probably would have more than 100,000 drones when the war began and they probably would have had at least 10,000 missiles when the war began. So what are the stocks now? I'm not sure how many have they fired. Maybe a few thousand they fired missiles which means they perhaps have a few thousand missiles left and maybe they have a few 10,000 drones left perhaps. So um it depends on various factors on how many actual missiles and drones the Iranians have. Most likely they have way more missiles and drones than the Americans can can have globally. Most likely. Um, now what if so, so what Trump can do is get NATO involved, drag NATO into the into the war. But how does NATO get involved? He wants them to NATO to to send ships to to the Hormos region. Well, if they send if NATO sends ships to the Hormuz region and they try to fight Iran, Iran will take out those ships. Ships are essentially floating targets. You can defend them for a while, but if you send just too many drones, the ship is a s set sitting duck. But Trump wants this to happen. He wants NATO to make make the move and send warships and other whatever assets to the region. I think eventually he'll be able to force NATO to do that. But if NATO gets involved, will Iran start targeting NATO nations? Uh I think it's the likelihood is less. Right. I I imagine that Iran will not want to start fighting everybody in the world. Um if NATO gets involved, I think Iran will strike at the NATO assets in the Gulf region, not the NATO nations over there. Unless I am completely um wrong about how Iran thinks. Satellite says, "Welcome back. Long time no see." Well, I have been here every week. Maybe you're not get getting notifications from YouTube. Perhaps that's a possibility that maybe you're not get getting notifications, but uh it's good to see you once again. So, welcome back to you as well. I've been doing the live streams to two three live streams per week since the war began, but it's good to see you again. So, thank you so much and good to see you back. All right. Min says, "Can the US bring thousands of missiles in just two weeks?" Very hard to do that. It depends on what kind of missiles we're discussing. See, if you're talking about ballistic missiles, ballistic missiles are very large and they're very hard to transport. Very hard to transport because they're so large. Ballistic missiles aren't small. If you're talking about surfaceto-air missiles like the man pads or Stinger missiles, the US can bring in lots in two weeks. If you're talking about a cruise missiles like the Tomahawks, I'm not sure how many tomahawks the US has globally. Uh let's try and find out. Let's ask our friend Google. Um, let's see. How many Tomahawk missiles how many Tomahawk missiles does the United States have in total and how many does it produce every year? Let us see what Google's AI has to say. So, as of early 26, the US is estimated to have a total inventory of about 3,000 3,000 Tomahawk missiles um following heavy usage in recent conflicts. Production is currently low with about 100 missiles expected this year and there are plans to increase production in 2027 to 785 less than a thousand. So currently the US has between 3,000 to 4,000 active missiles and over 850 of these were used in the first month of the American war against Iran. So if it's Tomahawk missiles, these cruise missiles, well the US only has 3,000 4,000 and about a thousand of these have been used up in this Iran war. Roughly roughly a thousand approximately order of magnitude thousand and there are other enemies the US has to worry about. So I think it's very difficult for the US to bring in thousands of missiles in two weeks. Even if they have the capability to transport missiles, do they have that many missiles? That's the big question. Very hard for the US to do that. Okay. Um Shivan says, "You were right about the Indian prestige complex. Everyone's calling this a failure of our policy since we are the land of Gandhi and should have mediated instead of Pakistan. My entire ex timeline is just about this." See, understand. Okay. It's an interesting topic. Let's let's let's unpack this a little bit more. So Pakistan has mediated and they've mediated disastrously. They have essentially taken a knife and stabbed Iran in the back. Okay. They've betrayed and backstabbed Iran. That's what Pakistan has done. But they have mediated. They have been the mediator between the US is between on one side the US and Israel other side Iran. Okay. So lots of Indians are saying why was India not involved in this process? Why did India not mediate? India is a bigger nation than Pakistan, more relevant nation, more prestigious. We we should have done this and our standing has has decreased. It's fallen in the world and Pakistan standing has has increased in the world. That's what some Indians are saying. Many Indians are possibly saying this. Understand this. The first question is should India have mediated? Hm. See, it's like this. Pay attention. Let's say there are two guys fighting or two nations fighting or three nations fighting. So there are two on one side and there's another one here and they are fighting each other. Now if you want to mediate then you will be able to mediate only if both sides agree that you should be a mediator. If one side says I don't like you, I don't want you to mediate and one side says I want you. But if the other side says I don't trust you, I don't like you, I don't want you, then you can't be a mediator. So for you to be able to mediate, both sides in the conflict must trust you and want you to mediate. Only then can you mediate. Now tell me, does the US want India as a mediator? No, the US doesn't want India as a mediator. The US wants their trusted servant Pakistan as a mediator so that they can do all kinds of shenanigans or they can have Pakistan do nasty things. And Israel also trusts Pakistan. By the way, the US and Israel are on the same side. They are essentially at least in the context of this war, they are essentially the same thing, same entity, US Israel. And they trust Pakistan. Pakistan is a US asset. It's also an Israeli asset by the way. News to you. Okay, good for you. So if the US doesn't want India to ne to mediate, then how can India mediate and if the US doesn't want India to mediate, is that some disaster for India? I say great for India. We did not start this war. We are this is not our war. We are not involved in the war. And if one of the sides in the war doesn't want us to mediate, well, we'll stay out of it. What do we anyway get by mediating? Do we get something? Do we do do we gain something from mediate? By mediating, we gain nothing. So to hell with prestige, look out for your national interest. And Pakistan's prestige has fallen now very badly. Look at Twitter. Look at what the Iranians are saying. Look at what half the world is saying about Pakistan. Pakistan is an unreliable intermediary. Pakistan is a treacherous intermediary. Pakistan has backstabbed both sides or one side. JD van said that you know what it's a genuine misunderstanding. Our mediator did not convey the right information to both sides. Pakistan is being made to be the fall guy. Pakistan is okay with it. Pakistan is completely fine with with the Americans saying whatever they want from Pakistan as long as Pakistan gets what it wants which is that generals get some money. That's all. Okay. So this is not a failure of our policy. Our policy our our government's policy is to look out for India to to look out for India's national interests and mediating in this matter is not in any way advancing our national interest. Okay. So whoever is calling this out, they must be newly minted geopolitical experts, but they have no idea what they're talking about. Right. Okay. Aki Janu says, "If the US leaves GCC, Iran becomes a local power." Right. Right. Iran has already become a regional power, a great regional power. You you could say that Iran has emerged as a consequence of this war as a global great power. Not a superpower but the most powerful nation in West Asia. Okay. If Iran decides it can destroy any of the nations in West Asia, it has that that kind of power. Maybe Iran also did not realize how powerful it is, but now it does. So whether the US leaves the GCC or not, whether the US leaves the region geographically or not, Iran is now the most powerful nation in West Asia. And that is something the entire world can see now. It's not a local power. It's a great power in the region. It has more missile and drone firepower than India. It can wipe Pakistan out tomorrow morning if they want. Iran can do that to Pakistan. Iran can flatten Pakistan tomorrow morning if it wants. Okay. Right. Arian Gorty says, um, how has the influence that our orange fool in the US has over Pakistan impacted the outcomes of past wars from a BAT perspective? As an Indian-American, I don't understand why Pakistan is our ally. Okay. Um, how has the influence that your orange fool means Trump? So, how has the influ influence that Trump has over Pakistan impacted the outcomes of p past wars from a bat perspective? See, when we talk about past wars, the one past war that comes to mind is the 2025 operation Synindor, which was a three-day conflict. It was an aerial conflict. There was no naval dimension. There was no land dimension. It was an aan aerial conflict. So it was a three-day war between India and Pakistan be before that the last war was 1999 was it Cargill war right was it 98 99 whatever year it was it was 99 most likely or 2000 whichever year it was cargill war 2001 okay since I'm not able to remember let me just quickly see cargill war which year okay 1999 like I said first all So before operation Shindur, you had the Cargill war in 1999 and in 1999 Trump was nowhere near being anything like the US president. He was just a real estate guy at the time. Uh so the orange fool came to power like you say orange fool. He came to power in 2016 as you will know very well. He went out of power in 2020 and then he's back in power 2024 onwards. In that period of time, there's only been one war which is the operation sindur three-day war and Trump had a big role to play in ending the war because India's suddenly visible domination of Pak over Pakistan and the damage India started doing over the in the last day of the war on on uh against Pakistan the US suddenly became alarmed and they rushed in and they essentially you could say forced India to stop the war. The Indian government doesn't agree with this. The Indian government says that the Pakistanis begged us to stop. That's why we we stopped the war and it's a paused war. It's not an ended war. Whatever. Right. Um so Trump had had a role to play in ending the operation war. uh beyond that any any other past wars Trump had no relevance or or or or uh influence or role to play in any past wars. Um as an Indian-American you don't understand why Pakistan is your is America's ally. Pak see the US seeks to project power everywhere in the world. The US seeks to establish specific balances of power in various theaters or regions. So in West Asia, the US wants a certain balance of power. It wants all the nations arranged in in specific ways with certain amounts of power. You could assign a certain hard power score to each nation and you have a US ally which is Israel. You have other US assets like Saudi Arabia and other countries and you have an American adversary such as Iran. So you want the whole region to be balanced in such a way that the American allies and and puppets have cumulatively more power than the American adversary which is Iran. So that's how they have created a balance of power in in West Asia after 2003 by wiping out Iraq. In the Indian subcontinent, the Americans want India to be encircled. They have a containment policy against India. And one of the greatest tools to leverage in the subcontinent is Pakistan, right? And that's why the Americans always prop up Pakistan and that's been the case since the 20th century. Right? After the USSR invaded Afghanistan, Pakistan became very important for the US. And Pakistan was very happy to play a constructive role in in doing whatever the Americans wanted them to do as long as they got their green backs. So Pakistan is a mercenary state. US has always preferred to work with dictatorships. They don't like to work with democracies. Democracies are hard to control. Dictatorships are very easy to control. The US loves working with dictators. And that's why the Americans have always propped up Pakistan and Pakistan plays a great role as as as a nuisance for India as a tool to bleed India with. See, as if you are the US, you don't want to get your hands dirty and do nasty stuff. So, you have somebody else do it for you. So we know that from 1980 roughly onwards the Pak the Americans have been funding and financing Pakistani activities and that's the time when Pakistan not only was involved in Afghanistan but also in terrorism in India against India in Punjab and then in Jammu and Kashmir who funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India. It was the United States. It is what it is. Right. Right. Okay. Okay. Wun Bajage says, "Does the education one receives shape a person's moral values, right versus wrong and good versus bad for society, or is it independent?" See, whatever um experiences you have during your formative years are going to shape your worldview for the rest of your life. What are your formative years? the years when you were a child and a teenager. And when you were a child and when you're a teenager, you spend more time in your classroom with your teachers than you spend with your parents. Especially in today's world when your parents are all busy working, toiling away. So you are more influenced by your teachers and your education system than by your own parents. And who shapes the values? Who who determines the values that the teachers and education system and textbooks impart to you? It's the government mostly and whoever is running the private educational institutions. And whatever you learn from your teachers and textbooks in school and college and university, you're going to absorb that because you genuinely believe as a child that your your elders are telling you the truth. So the education you receive it does shape most often permanently your values, your moral values, how you see right versus wrong, whether you can think or not. If you do think then in what ways do you think? What are your thought patterns? What are the mental models you use? If you use any, what is your conception of good and what is your conception of bad? What is right, what is wrong? How do you do decision? How do you make decisions? All those things, all of that is shaped by the education you receive. It's shaped by the important uh people you see as role models in your in your early life. Typically, you will see some teachers as role models and people who are very influential in your life. So, it's it's it's most important you know the the role that education uh plays in your early life. It's going to shape the rest of your life unless you are strong enough to completely deprogram yourself. So it's very important the education system, the education you receive is extremely extremely influential. It's it's critical. It's vital in in shaping uh your entire worldview as an adult. Hotspotto says if history is written by the victors in the internet a in an internet age, how will history of the future be? History of the future. Okay, let's say 100 years from now, what kind of history will be written about today? Well, if the internet still exists 100 years from from now, then whoever controls the internet will be will determine how the history is written. See, today you will see if you try to search on on Google um what's happened in the past 3 days of the Iran versus US Israel war. It will say that so and so things have happened and these are confirmed and so and so things have happened and they're not confirmed, not verified. So when you say what is verified what is not verified it means it will say that whatever the US government and the west has said has happened is verified information and whatever Iran is claiming is un unverified information. You can see already there's a bias here. The Iranian government is making certain statements but those are unverified according to Google and BBC and CNN and whatever claims the US is making and Israel is making and the west is making those are verified statements. Right? So history is already being written by those forces that control the internet that own the internet. Even if the US loses this war, the internet will show the will will will show it in a certain way. Right? So assuming the internet remains the way it is right now for 100 years or it is controlled by the same forces then the history that you will see 100 years down the line will be the history that that the west wants to portray. That's how it's going to be written. Rut Rujakulkarnney thank you very much uh for becoming a new member and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you very much. Groove Street Hobie says, "Does pressurized past breeder reactor use a uranium 238 blanket with plutonium fuel, meaning no thorium blanket yet, and thus no plutonium 2 33 stabilization, which is deferred to stage three. In stage two, if you want to breed uranium 233, you're going to need thorium in the blanket along with the plutonium fuel. So the core is going to be plutonium and the blanket you're going to have thorium. It's going to breed uranium 233. Okay? and the uranium 233 which we're going to breed in in stage two. It's going to be used along with thorium in stage three. That's how it goes. So a fast breeder reactor it breeds new fuel. It breeds more fuel which you want to use in stage three. The fuel that is being bred is uranium 233. For that to happen, for that reaction to happen which breeds uranium 233, you need a thorium blanket. You can run a pressurized fast bidder reactor without the thorium blanket but in that case it will only generate heat which gives you electricity. It will not breed the ur uranium 233. So if you want to use it as a breeder not just an electricity generator then you need a thorium blanket. Okay. So without a thorium blanket, the reactor still operates but it doesn't breed new fuel uranium 233. It only generates electricity heat which is then converted into electricity. But we want to breed uranium 233 for the third stage. For that you need a thorium blanket. So initially what you do you have the reactor go critical when it's a new reactor and you stabilize the reactor. You stabilize the reactions. You control them with the cadmium etc rods and all that. You do that. You have it run for a while, few weeks, maybe a couple of months. And then you introduce the thorium blanket and see at what rate is it breeding uranium 233. So you can operate it without the thorium blanket but then it defeats the whole purpose of breeding uranium 233. Okay, that's the deal. Right. Jooshi says apparently Pakistan getting claps. How do we care? How will the US and Iran expose their lies? Why will the US expose Pakistani lies when the Americans are the sponsors? Okay, let me read the whole thing. Apparently Pakistan is getting claps. How will the US or Iran expose their lies on a global stage such that they are blamed for the violation? Clever move by Pakistan. First of all, Pakistan is not important. I don't know why Indians are so obsess obsessed with Pakistan. Secondly, Pakistan has betrayed and backstabbed Iran. They will not dare betray and backstab the US. If they have done such a thing, the Americans will punish them tremendously. And the Americans seem to be very pleased with Pakistan. Okay? The Americans aren't saying a thing against Pakistan. The Iranians are very upset with Pakistan. So, it tells you who has been on the receiving end of the backstab by Pakistan. The Pakistani prime minister yesterday claimed that we have successfully engineered a ceasefire. Well, is the ceasefire holding? Now both sides are blaming each other and one side is also blaming Pakistan. The Pakistani prime minister very clearly wrote yesterday. Okay, let me show you once again. He very clearly wrote yesterday that the ceasefire includes Lebanon. See you look here. See, he tweeted this yesterday. The ceasefire will be effective uh immediately and it will be it will include li Lebanon and elsewhere. So Sharif said Lebanon and elsewhere and the Israelis immediately violated that. Right. So do you think this is a successful move operation whatever by Pakistan? It's been a colossal failure. Right. And not just has has the ceasefire process, engineering process failed, it has betrayed is Iran. So what the Pakistanis did, okay, is they the the Iranians have a 10-point proposal and the Americans have a 15-point proposal and these two have to somehow be viable starting points for a negotiation. So the Pakistanis took these to 10 points from Iran and they gave it to the Americans. Trump said that we are fine with that. It's a workable starting point and so on and then the Israelis go ahead and start bombing Lebanon which was not supposed to happen as per the cispire cisfire thing. Then then JD Vance goes and says that you know uh this was a genuine misunderstanding. The mediator has seems to have given the wrong sets of things to to both sides or whatever. So he's indirectly blaming Pakistan for this right that Pakistan somehow has messed up. But overall what's happened is that the Pakistanis gave the ill the illusion to the Iranians that the ceasefire would work that you can rely on the Americans and Israelis and uh the exact opposite happened and even Iran was bombed yesterday. There were explosions in Thran. Allegedly the UAE bombed some some petroleum refineries or whatever prochemical complex of Iran. So Iran has been backstabbed and betrayed and even if you disregard what's happened to Iran and that the fact that they have again closed the state of Hormuz. No, you don't disregard that. You if you disregard the Leberan bombing and all that the ceasefire has failed and Pakistan has been exposed as a duplicitous nation. So by for what reason are they getting claps? From whom are they getting claps? They're getting a tremendous amount of abuse from the Iranians. I'll not put it on Twitter because on the screen because the language is very abusive in Persian and some Persian abusive words are also understandable intelligible in in India. So we don't want to see that here on this screen on this channel here. Um so I don't know who's clapping for Pakistan. There must be the same old usual suspect in India who always bat for Pakistan who may be clapping for it. I don't give a damn about them. Those people are irrelevant dinosaurs. Okay. But Pakistan has been totally exposed exposed and there is nothing clever about this move. The only clever thing is that they will get a pat on the back in private from the Americans. Okay, good job. You did a good job. That's it. Okay. Shivaj Rajput says, "Watching you since your Arian invasion video 6 years ago on the SAM talks channel." Well, that was a long time ago. Thank you so much for having been such a longtime uh watcher of mine. Thank you. Uh I do remember that forum. Yes. Uh how likely is operation Synindhu 2.0 in 2026? Well, the likelihood is non zero. The probability is non-zero which means it could happen. But see, understand this. Right now, India faces one problem which is the fact that the Navic system, the IRSS system is no longer fully functional. It's no longer giving us accurate positioning information. What is the Navic or IRNSS system? It's a satellite positioning system. In a satellite positioning system, you have satellites, a bunch of satellites that are placed into geostationary orbit above the Earth. So geostationary orbit means the satellite is about roughly 36,000 kilometers above the Earth's surface. And then you have you need at least four satellites to give you signal so that you can get a proper fix of your location coordinates latitude and longitude in in you know accurately on the earth. If less than four satellites are operational your latitude longitude coordinates will drift by kilometers maybe hundreds of kilometers at least 100 kilometers which means you don't get accurate data accurate positioning information. Now, if you're launching cruise missiles and you want the cruise missile to hit exactly where you want it to hit, you need accurate positioning data from your satellites and now NAVIC is not working properly. It's not giving you accurate data. So, you can rely on GPS which is American and when there's a war the Americans will switch off GPS for your military. Then what will you do? You can will you ask the Chinese for BEu? They won't give it. Maybe Russia may help you with GLONAS. But why have we allowed Navi to fail? It did not fail suddenly. We could see the failure coming a decade ago. We you can say you know things went wrong which we didn't expect. The the PSLV rockets failed multiple times. Well that also you could have foreseen in the 1980s. The Aryan rockets failed in the same way. There was a spy involved in this. There was sabotage. There could be sabotage in the PSMV system also. So can't you foresee all these things that these things could go wrong? So this is a problem and because of that I think it doesn't make sense for India right now to go to war with Pakistan until we have a fully functional NA system again which means we'll have to launch at least two three satellites more at least a couple of satellites more and I think the satellite launches are planned for sometime later this year perhaps so that is India you know not you know being caught napping a little bit so I It doesn't makes make a lot of sense for us to have operation sindur until we have a fully functional Navic system. And there will be some very very intelligent G you know experts who will tell you that India has low earth or satellites LEO satellites low earth orbit satellites which will do the job of Navik which is nonsense. Low earth orbit satellites are spy satellites that take pictures detailed high resolution pictures of the earth's surface. And these satellites, LEO satellites, they typically operate between 150 to 500 or 700 km above the earth's surface. So they can't give you positioning information like the geostationary satellites do which are at an altitude of 36,000 km. The low earth orbit satellites are at 200 to 500 maybe 700 km above the earth surface. They can't do the job of a navic satellite of a GPS satellite. So those experts who will tell you that because we have LEO we are fine. They have no idea what they're talking about. Okay. So um that's the deal. So I think India should stay away from any military entanglements this year if possible until we have Navic operational again. Mr. Rohit says loved your America series. Any upcoming series Britain? Well, I'll have to resume the understanding America series first and complete it and only then can I go towards Britain. Uh so right now um it's on pause right now because of whatever is happening in the world right now. But eventually I will resume that because I need to I've just you know that understanding America series has a long way to go before I can move on to something else. Goat ghost says latest deed by Shri Cookies ignored by the legacy media. Are you talk Shri Cookies? What is Shri Cookies? Are you talking about the cookie terrorists in Manipur? They have done something very nasty in Manipur, right? And obviously the legacy media will ignore that. And I'm not sure why this is being allowed to happen. That's the internet blackout in Manipur now. So if you are an entrepreneur, if you are a business person who relies on the internet, your business is over. Finished. This is the way we treat our far eastern states. And then we wonder why that these people why these people they they they are upset with us. Why they feel like we are giving them step treatment. Then we wonder why there is separatism and all that. I'm not saying I'm defending separatism. Absolutely not. Separatism can never be tolerated. But do you understand? You're creating the situation, the scenario, the the the fertile soil for the for such discontented people to take up stupid actions. Right. We should treat the people of every state of India the same. Right. Give everybody the same opportunities. Make sure that nobody faces terrorism. That nobody has to face weeks without internet. We should do that right and that we are not able to provide to the people of Manipur. The indigenous people of Manipur the foreigners who are on Manipur territory they getting everything they want. So big problem in Manipur. Manipur is an ongoing disaster. Ongoing disaster. Right angle says why is the government allowing foreign AI everywhere? Is BJP deep state is compromised? Nitin Gudkar is bringing Tesla in India now allowed foreign AI in agree and road I will not comment about the political angle whether BJP is compromised or not whether Mr. Gudkari brings in I have no idea what's happening. Okay. I don't look at that. I look at the geopolitical angle outside of India. So no comments about the the the local politics domestic politics but I am very strongly a very strong proponent of India not allowing foreign technology to infiltrate various parts of India especially artificial intelligence especially a satellite internet like Starlink. India should not allow any of these things. India should develop sovereign AI. We should not allow foreign AI to infiltrate our system, our government, our bureaucracy, which seems to be happening, which is unfortunate if it happens. Okay. Empty boxes, insidious preparation. How to become a competent lieutenant? I am not a military person. I cannot tell you. No idea. Um, so I'm sorry. I'm not the right person to answer this question. Competent lieutenant. What is the role of a lieutenant? Where does the that rank stand in the hierarchy of military ranks? I I'm not very clear about this. Sorry. Very sorry. That's a very specific military question which is why if I attempt to answer it, I may actually end up misleading you because I'm not sure. So, I better not answer you at all because I don't know. Okay. Sorry. Um Ara Prabhare says, "Big fan." Thank you very much, sir. Given today's global climate, is an EU passport still advantageous? What is its key benefits and drawbacks? Well, the key benefit of an EU passport is that there's a big there's this big shenhen zone that you can travel in and live in and work in without any restrictions. So, it gives you visa-free access to a very large portion of Western Europe, most nations in Western Europe. That's a great advantage. So, if you have a decent amount of money, you can go and settle down wherever you want. You can move out and go to another country if you want. no restrictions, no problems, right? So that's that's a great advantage to have. And all most of the EU nations, they have very high living standards. There are issues in every nation more these days than before, but overall they've got way better living standards than India, right? Um so overall, if you if you ask about right now today, it's still great to have an EU uh passport, right? You can go and settle in whichever country you want. You can move to whatever country as and when you feel like or as and when you desire or need to. Right? So it gives you great mobility. If you have a EU visa, you can visit lots of countries outside of the EU without visas. If you have an EU passport, you can visit lots of countries outside of the EU without a visa at all. Uh so lot it opens a lot of doors for you. Even in today's climate, even in today's geopolitical climate, it still opens a lot of doors for you. Um so overall it's it's still advantageous I would say in 20 years time maybe the situation will change significantly potentially possibly but as of today um it's still very advantageous says Abijitra disagrees with the concept of kill switches and fighter jets what are your views on this I am very clear I've said it very clearly you can fighter jets are demonstrated to have kill switches demonst demonstrated I have given examples of this no I would tell you slow forget about what people's opinions are what my opinion is or what Abijitra's opinion is or what somebody else's opinion is forget about people's opinions right why don't you do some research of your own why don't you do some research of your own instead of asking me about my opinion figure out for yourself whether this is a reality or not. Now, let's so let me try and do some spoon feeding to you all. Okay. Um, Australian fighter jets kill switch. Okay. There is no physicala. Okay. Let's ask this question. Which American fighter jet did Australia purchase in the 1980s? Let's see. Come on. FA18 Hornet. Okay. FA18 Hornets. Now, um, Australian FA18 Hornets. Australian FA18 Hornets. Uh, 1980s issues. Let's see what it says. There were no issues. Initial design deficiencies. Uh D concerns with immaturity. It won't tell you. It won't tell you. It won't tell you. Uh target 1980s target acquisition acquisition system. Let's see what that says. Let's say let's see. Let's see. Let's see. H radar issues scenarios warso backed. See, look at this. So now it's it's beginning to throw up some issues. The radar warning receiver limitation. The systems were initially programmed for scenarios against Warsofact forces. They were not configured to detect radar emissions from US or other Western aircraft operation operating in Southeast Asia, which limited the ability to identify potential hostiles in the region. My point is this. See the radar, the target acquisition system, if you have purchased a fighter plane, h then you should be able to make it lock on to any target you want. Yeah, you should be able to make it lock onto any target you want. So I am flying my fighter plane. I see I'm just doing it as an academic exercise for for practice. I don't have an actual missiles but I want to lock on to so and so ship I see there or I want to lock on to that aircraft that is flying around there. Let me try and lock on. It won't allow you to. So the American aircraft FA18 aircraft they did not allow the Australian pilots and the Australian Air Force to lock on to targets the Americans did not approve. And when the Australians tried to change the system, they were not allowed to change the system. The Americans did not share the source codes of the software. That's what the French are doing to India. That's one example of a disabled partially disabled aircraft there which 2019 or something Israel has. Okay, let's let's see this. Okay. Uh Aaraijan Israeli systems failed. Let's see. Let's see what it says. Oh, really? Uh no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Uh give me a second. See, these things are deliberately hidden from you. Okay, just give me a second. I'm going to search for something here. Okay. I'm going to search for something here. Uh here. Okay. Where where do we have it? Let's see. Ah 2014. Let's see now. Um 2014 Azerbai Azarbaijan Israeli manufactured UAVs failed to launch. Let's see what do you have what we find here now. There is no credible information. Oh well well let's see let's see see the they're going to they're going to hide this information for you. So all I can do if you want I can write a detailed article finding all the actual information and sources because these sources are going to be hidden from you. Uh the world doesn't want you to want you to know about this recently. Okay, let me try and find some more actual uh verified information for you. Let me see. Okay, let me do that. Uh so let me go to my Twitter account. I had found something somewhere. Um, my Twitter account. Let's search for Let's search for 35. Let's search for 35. What do we get? D 35. 35. 35. Uh, okay. There's so many tweets here. Let me see. Um, there have been admissions in the past, in the recent past, that the F-35 has kill switches. But I'm going to have to dig it out from wherever it is. I'm going to have to dig it out. Not this, not that, not that, not that, not that. Um, so if you want to be spoonfed, you're going to have to be a little patient. Fake news unclear, right? It was a couple of months ago and there's so many tweets in between. Okay. So, um this may take time. Let me try for a couple of seconds more. Looks like it'll be difficult for me to dig it out. Where is that? Where is it? Um yeah. Okay. So, I'm I'm not going to do that. My point is there is evidence. Uh if I want to spoon feed you all, I'm going to have to dig it out and it'll take time. But I stand by what I say. Kill switches, back doors, all of these things exist. I think anybody who is very intelligent knows this. Abijitra is a very intelligent person. I have the highest amount of respect for his intellect. Okay. So I stand by what I what I have said multiple times and now you have NATO nations corroborating what I'm saying also. Okay, you just have to find it. You need to have the patience to find the information. So my point to you and everybody else is to hell with my opinion or his opinion or somebody else's opinion. Why do you care what someone's opinion is? Search for the information yourself, right? And find out, figure out for yourself whether it's true or not. The information is all out there in the public domain but it's hidden away. You have to know how to search for it. So please learn how to search for information yourselves instead of relying on someone's opinions. Uh Noman Ratnani thank you very much Noman G Pratip Kumar Roy says what's a stage three nuclear reactor? A stage three nuclear reactor is a reactor that uses uranium 233 and thorium to produce uh nuclear power. Okay. And India has the world's largest reserves of thorium which means that it gives is going to once we reach stage three it's going to give us essentially limitless power. Hot potato says because of oil shortage global economy suffers but US suffers the least. Relative US gain weakens China boosts dollar assets demand. Thoughts? Uh yeah I agree with you. I've said this multiple times. I've spoken about this in great detail. Because of the oil shortage, the glo global economy suffers and there's a demand for oil. Because the straight of hormones, it's not giving up giving out the oil that it the world needs. It's the world's most important energy choke point. Straight of hormones. The US is the world's largest producer of oil at least on paper. So if this situation continues for a long time, the world and and the Ukrainians on the behest of on the behalf of the US start you know degrading Russia's ports and so on that are used for exporting oil then the world will start will have to start relying on American oil which strengthens the petro dollar system which weakens China which boosts the demand for dollars and so on. Very clear. Very clear right Priya. Thank you very much. Pi Priya G. Thank you very much ma'am. Uh WYBKD says some people claim professor Jang is Ankit Sha of the hand race. I have no idea. No idea. I shall not comment about various specific people in any way whatsoever. Uh I think professor Jam Jang whomever I seen seems to be a very intelligent person. Uh I don't watch his videos so I don't know what he says but uh yeah. Okay. Rishies dish Pande says do you believe the US can have control over smartphone companies like Apple, Google through which they can attack any nation by launching a cyber attack? How to stay safe in the situation? These smartphone companies Apple, Google etc are American companies. All American companies are geopolitical assets. Okay. If you are an a person of any importance and if you have an Apple product they're listening to you in real time it's a fact you have to leave live with if so you see there are two major operating systems one is Apple the other one is IO one is iOS Apple's thing the other one is Android now most of these Android companies are either Chinese or American if you have a Chinese phone the Chinese will take your data and listen to you if If you have an American Android phone, the the Americans are going to listen to you, right? You can't launch cyber attacks, but you can do all kinds of stuff, you know, like like essentially siphoning off all the the personal data of a of a person. So if let's say hypothetically 70% of India's phones the the phones that Indians own um are of American origin let's say then the data of 70% of Indians resides in the hands of the US all your patterns they understand you better than you so they won't launch a cyber attack a cyber attack is a one-time thing what's the point of cyber attacks the more important thing is to actually understand the nation, understand the patterns, consumption patterns, movement patterns, all the patterns that is much more viable and much more valuable than launching a cyber attack. So the solution to this, how to stay safe from all these things is for India to have its own cell phone brands, to have its own highquality cell phone models. Now you will say that you know some of these cell phone brands are South Korean brands, Samsung and Huawei. No, it's Chinese. At least some of these are South Korean, right? Samsung, but Samsung, I mean, South Korea is controlled by the US. It's a US vasal. So, once again, it's US. Okay, please. So, somebody's going to ask that question. But you said America, but South Korea is also there. South Korea is a US asset. It's a US vasal. It's controlled and owned by the United States. So, how do you stay safe in the situation? The only solution is for India to become a major manufacturer of indigenous cell phones. But India doesn't bother to do that, right? So here we are. Pratitumar Royce says, "Your views about the freight equalization policy of 1952 by NU government major reason for the downfall of Bengal. Maybe I don't know. I have not studied this. So I can't say I don't know everything in the world. I have not studied the freight equalization policy. I have heard about it but I haven't studied it. So I shall refrain from commenting." Uh as KC says likely US now declining like the UK during Suez 1953. Su was 1958 56 56 58 whichever year it was Sue crisis 195 what 56 or 58 it was also seiz crisis year come on 56 yeah so it was 1956 that the sew crisis happened okay um and the sewish crisis was this stamp of the final downfall of the UK as a major world power. It made it official that the UK was now a second rate world power maybe and it it now is a third rate world power. So Suez was that kind of thing for the UK. It made it very clear to the world that the US is the top dog and the US in the UK is a subsidiary nation that takes orders from the US and has to obey American dictates. That was 1956 for the UK. Okay. Now 2026, this war against Iran that the Americans are waging right now, the US is declining very clearly. The US no longer has the ability to project power and destroy countries, especially Iran. It still can do it to other countries. Okay? The US still can do it to other countries, but it can't do it to Iran. So, Iran has shown the world how to inflict a strategic defeat on the United States. But the US isn't declining the way the UK declined in 1956. The UK, the US still has hundreds of military bases across the world. It still occupies so many countries. So it's not declining the way the UK declined in 1956. In 1956, UK went from here to all the way down here. Went from here to here. Here like big big fall from here to here. There's a big fall for the UK. Straight down. For the US, it's it's it's it's more gradual. The US is slowly declining. It's it's nothing like the UK in 1956, but the decline is still is still there. It's visible now. When I recalculate the hard part of the US, it's going to have decreased. It It's going to have decreased. Okay. Roman Gil says, "Smart Dust DARPA/Rand Corporation 1992 MEMS project finished in 2022. Potential use in chemtrails with 6G interface thoughts. I have no idea, but let me look it up." Um, okay. Smart dust DARPA. What is that? DARPA funded smart dust refers to minuscule subm wireless micro electrochemical electromechanical systems. Sensors known as modes modes in God's eye. Okay, that's different. Sensors known as modes designed to monitor data like light, temperature, and vibration. So, yeah, that's that's definitely a viable technology. Yeah. uh microscopic micro electromechanical systems. So these are like tiny robots essentially or tiny u sensors tiny sensors um potential use in chemtrails uh originally funed funded to enable massive distributed sensing for and eventually military environmental and industrial monitoring. tiny sensors that combine micro electro mechanical systems, power source and wireless communication. They can detect environmental conditions including light, magnetism, acceleration and humidity. So this became projects like neural dust which focuses on millimeter scale wireless implants for monitoring nerve activity in the body. Yeah, they they may implant this within a person without the person even knowing about this potentially uh power management, high energy density, etc. turbulence uh precision agriculture etc. Now, what about a chemtrails? Chemtrails. Idiot. And what was it? 6G. 6G. Good God. What's wrong with this thing? Okay, let's see now what it says. It'll say it's all conspiracy theories. Uh chemtrails, chemical mapping, conspiracy theory context. There you have it. There you have it. Conspiracy theory. Um 6G network black backbone future wireless networks. Okay. So, so um what are my thoughts? So, this this technology does exist. It was started in 1992. It will have been taken to the next level and next level of that by now. Uh it's definitely a viable technology. I'm sure you can implant that that dust into people's bodies without them even knowing about this. Right. Uh 6G technology whenever it comes about will definitely augment the capabilities of the MEMS project. Yes, definitely. Chemtrails I have no idea. I've not studied chemtrails and as you can see the Google AI say it's it's conspiracy theories. But overall what are my thoughts? My thoughts are that there are these these technologies that exist today that nobody is aware of. There are all kinds of very advanced uh secret technologies that DARPA and Rand Corporation not Rand Corporation but DARPA will have developed. Rand Corporation is a think tank. It proposes projects and ideas and then it is organizations like DARPA etc that take it up and what DARPA does is mostly secret. So there will be technologies in existence today that are like 20 30 years ahead of anything you can imagine and they'll be deployed in the real world. So that is is a certainty and something like smart dust can be very very useful for whoever owns and operates the technology for for the purposes of surveillance and infiltration and god knows what more spying etc. Suri Chawan Suri Chawan says, "Thank you for your val valuable live streams. Because of you, I've started analyzing news from different perspectives. Now I surprise people by building a constructive argument. Thank you once again. Thank you so very much so very much ma'am. I really appreciate your very kind words." Thank you so much. Suri G. Aries Manticor says, "Operation Synindur could be turned into a lone moving operation. As you said, war keeps a civilization young rather aligning everyone together and creating the effect of unity across society for someone for some time. Lawnmoving operation means you keep on yeah the Israelis do lawnmowing right that sort of thing. You see theoretically you can turn operation tendur into an ongoing project. But in the real world, Pakistan is supported by the United States. And the US is way more capable and way more powerful than India. They have received a very very very nasty surprise at the hands of the Iranians. And the Iranians are almost too strong for the US regionally in West Asia. But India doesn't have Iran's capabilities. India doesn't have a 100,000 drones and tens of thousands of ballistic missiles and cruise missiles, right? And if you try to go to war against Pakistan and start and turn it into a lone moving operation, the Americans will get involved in in multiple ways and they'll make life very difficult for you. They will even impose sanctions on your economy which will destroy your nation's economy and GDP. Do you want that? Hm. India doesn't want to be involved or be be embroiled in any major military activity or operation for 20 years because we want to grow our economy and become a middle- inome nation because that's what the people of India want. The people of India are super soft, very demanding. They want all kinds of comforts and whatnot. All kinds of, you know, they have all kinds of complaints. So if India gets embroiled in a war, it can have multiple effects. If the Americans decide to crush India's economy, they can do it. And understand one thing, my dear Indians, India is not sovereign from an energy perspective. We are not energgetitically self-sufficient. If the Americans decide to blockade India and cut off India's imports of oil, what are you going to be able to do? The US can do that if you if they want. So then you'll be at war. Everyone will be fighting. Your civilization will be young but your e economy will be crushed. So India needs to find energy sources of its own that it it owns entirely and can defend. So until we do these things, we should stay out of war essentially. That's that's my point. Beckenbower says namaskarum. Yes. Uh, France wins by using overseas talent from Africa. Oh, you mean sports? I mean, if you look at the French football team, it's more like an African Union football team, isn't it? Now, it is. It's a fact. It's a fact. Okay, I'm not being racist or whatever. It's a fact. Most of the French football teams players are of African origin today. We have a few who are French. Is one. And who else do we have French? was fully French like ethnically French was one zidad was north African whatever okay so France wins by using utilizing overseas talent from Africa why can't Indian football use highquality foreign trained OCI players to build a world-class squad for future world cups we can explore the options but first of all the Indian football association is it even interested in uplifting uplifting uplifting the standards of football in India. We have so much money in India. But India is what? Ranked what in the world in football? Maybe 100, maybe 90. India's global football rank. What is it? Oh my goodness. The Indian football team is ranked 136th in the world. At least we should be in the top 50, right? If we are not in the top 50, it means the Indian football association doesn't even even care about Indian football. And I wonder what is the objective of even having a football association that does nothing. After all these years in the 21st century with all the money India has, we can hire the most expensive coaches today if we want, but we don't do it. It means this the Indian football association looks like it doesn't give a damn about improving the the quality of football in India right so when you can clearly see the Indian football association doesn't care do you think they will do all these things you know highly high quality foreign trained overseas citizen of India players we should do it why doesn't India have a football league like the IPL even the IPL Well, actually it's not the best league in the world despite it being the richest league in the world in terms of cricket. A a serious professional league, it operates for 8 to 9 months of a year. Not it's not a two-month circus. A professional serious professional league should operate 8 or 9 months of a year. It should not be a two-month circus. So India has this football super league or something. I don't know what's going on in that when the the thing started it was a good idea. I I even watched some matches the the first year you had the Indian football super league or whatever it is called these days. So if you have a highquality uh football league in a country like India which operates eight or nine months a year and every year the standards improve then in a decade or so India is going to attract the best football talent in the world. The Chinese have done that. The Koreans have done that. The Korean league, the Chinese league, the Japanese league. That's how China Japan China still isn't a great football nation. But Japan qualifies for World Cup. South Korea also does that. Even North Korea does sometimes. So it's it's about the fact that the Indian football association is not doing what it is supposed to do. And secondly, the Indian government also doesn't seem to be very interested in sports. The sports is something that is very important for a nation. It brings the nation together whenever you win. The best way to unify a nation is through success in various domains. So what you're suggesting makes a lot of sense. And why is this not happening? Well, you have to ask the Football Association of India. Why is it not happening? Why is why isn't there a worldclass IPL quality better than IPL quality global EPL quality football league in India? Why not? Why don't we have it? We have the resources. We have the money. You can have these franchise teams just like in in the EPL. These are all privately owned teams. You have plenty of wealthy private people in India. Why can't it happen? There's something wrong fundamentally in India. These sporting associations are doing, they are not doing what they're supposed to do. And I wonder how the funds are being managed and so on. That's the biggest question. I'm just wondering. I'm not saying anything. I'm just wondering what's happening. Rahman Priit says, uh, I want to know what will be the long-term impacts of this war of this war on Canada and how do you see Canada as a country on the world stage? Okay, let me answer the second question first. How do I see Canada as a country on the world stage? I see Canada as a non- entity, as a geopolitically insignificant nation and I see Canada as a non-s sovereign nation. I see Canada as a US vasal. Canada essentially is owned by the United States. It's not a real nation. It's it's an artificial nation. Canada doesn't have any actual culture, any any any culture that binds the people together, right? And it's not a sovereign nation. It's an extension of the US. It is a de facto 51st state of the US. It's like a USowned territory. The US tolerates the Canadian system that they have prime ministers who come and go and no Canadian prime minister actually matters at all in any way whatsoever. Most of them are a joke like you had the Mutau who was an absolute joke. Right? So Canada is is a known entity on the world stage. Its importance is that it's one of the it's it's a huge territory which means it has huge amounts of resources of various kinds. Uranium good uranium, good quantities of uranium, oil, shale oil etc. and other kinds of oil also I suppose uh lumber so Canada has natural resources which makes it important from a resource perspective which is why it's important for the US to control Canada it does right and on the world stage Canada is is increasingly become a nuisance for India of late through its espousal of the Kalistthani uh separatists right in Canadian territory and they tolerate everything the Kalistpanis do. So that that that's why Canada has become a nuisance for India. I mean the worst terrorist attack that the that Canada has suffered was done by Kalistthanis. The Kaneska bombing and what has Canada do about done about it? Nothing nothing whatsoever. So overall Canada is a nuisance for India and overall on the global stage it is a non- entity. It doesn't really matter. It's it's a US-owned entity. Now, what are going to be the long-term impacts of this war on Canada? Nothing much. Overall, the the world's economy is going to suffer as a consequence of the war, but it may have a good effect on Canada because Canada is a major oil exporter. Uh what is Canada's ranking on in the oil exporters league? Uh what how does Canada rank in the global oil exporting nations? What is Canada's rank? uh fourth position you see Canada is a major massive producer of oil Canada supplies over 60% of US crude imports and holds the world's fourth largest proven oil reserves right so Canada is a see if if if Horus is impacted if Russia's oil exports are impacted by because of Ukrainian military activities then Canada's importance is going to grow significantly. So overall it's going to be good for Canada and for the US. Apart from that I don't see much of a bad impact for Canada sitting on the other side of the planet. It it's going to be okay for Canada. Now VK says how are you? I'm good sir. How are you doing? I hope you're doing great. What is the significance of India's nuclear reactor attaining criticality and its role in energy security and defense in the current geopolitical context? So I explained this maybe I can explain it all over again if you feel like and I shall refer to my own tweet to explain what the deal is because I have put everything succinctly in one place in that tweet. What is the significance of of of India's U reactor one reactor attaining Pritiki Khal? Let me give you a brief um overview of what's happened. Okay. Uh so here we have my tweet and check check out my tweet. So the the prime minister of India tweeted that today India has taken a defining step in its civil nuclear journey advancing the second stage of the nuclear program the indigenously designed and built prototype fast builder reactor at Kalapakam has attained criticality and so on. So I have said that this is the landmark moment India has now officially begun its transition its entry into stage two of Dr. Homi J Baba's three-stage nuclear program. Okay. So our phase 2 is now mature and complete. It is still operation of phase one. Phase one our phase one is now mature. It is complete. It is still operating. And this new reactor is our first stage to reactor. First ever stage to reactor. We are now officially beginning the initial stage of phase two. Okay. And we have a long long way to go because stage two reactors are going to breed additional fuel. Stage 2 reactors produce more fuel than they burn. And that fuel that we seek is uranium 233. Okay. So uranium 233 is going to be used in the stage 3 along with thorium. Without uranium 233, stage 3 doesn't happen. So that's why we need stage 2 reactors to breed large quantities of uranium 233. So right now we are entering stage two. It's our first reactor in stage two. We're going to see how it performs. Right now it's only generating heat. It's only generating electricity. Then we're going to put a thorium blanket on this stage 2 reactor and we're going to see how at at what rate does it start breeding uranium 233. We're going to have to test it, observe it, do various experiments with it and find out what is the optimal you know configuration of the blanket and what is the highest speed or rate at which it's able to breed uranium 22 233. Then after a couple of years, 2, three years, we will have some understanding of how what is the best way to operate this reactor. Then we'll build one more and then we'll see how that works. So then we have two working reactors. After let's say uh 10 years from today, then we build five more. That takes another 10 years. So 20 years from now, let's say we have seven of these pressurized fast reactors ideally hopefully. Then in 30 years we may have 20 if we don't become lazy. Then in 50 years we may have enough uranium 233 to start sta to start stage three. And it's in stage three that we have to again start testing with one prototype reactor. Test it. How does it work? And in stage three we use uranium 233 and thorium. We have the world's largest thorium reserves. But to use those reserves, we have to enter stage three, which may be 40, 50 years down the line, at least 30 years down the line. Then we can start testing the stage three reactors and that may take a few years. It's only when we have like 30 40 stage three reactors that we will have large quantities of energy that this will start producing for the country. Ideally eventually we will want to have a 100 200 stage three reactors that may be 70 years down the line perhaps that's when we have unlimited energy because of the huge quantities of thorium that we have all right it's a long story it's a long way to go for us let's be patient all right says I don't want us to even step into this conflict as mediators even if they want us either party is likely to break any terms. This is a fight of an impass. It's not our place to fiddle around. I would say I agree with you completely like like I've said, I've said that India should not be involved in any of these mediation processes. It's not our war. It's not our war. We don't want to get tangled in these matters in this fight between two implacable adversaries. Okay? Especially the Americans who are not fighting fair. There is no sense of fighting fair with them. They don't have any sense of any any desire to fight fair. This is not supposed to be a this is not meant to be a fair fight. That's what Mr. Hexath said, didn't he? We don't want to be involved in this matter at all. Let us stay out of it. The Americans and Israelis started the war. Let them end it or and let them use Pakistan if they want. We should stay out of it. Okay? We should stay as far as possible away from this conflict. So I completely agree with you. Matabish says India at nuclear stage two real big deal this decade after moon landing hardly getting any traction globally although as good geopolitical impact as current war undervalued deliberate inconsequential look this is something most people don't understand okay um it's a big deal that we have now finally entered stage two but we may be 30 40 years away from stage three also understand that and this government future governments will have to ensure sure that the program continues as fast as possible without going too fast that so so that nothing breaks. So we're going to have to invest sufficient amounts of money in the nuclear program not treat the nuclear program the way we are treating our space space program right now. So it's important it's definitely important. Okay. Ideally we should have been halfway through stage two by now. We have been very lax, very lazy, very unambitious so far. We should have completed stage two by the end of the 20th century actually. Okay, we have been very slow at this matter. Past governments have not taken the nuclear program seriously. But thankfully we still have about 22 or something nuclear reactors. And this one, the new Kalapakam one is is the next generation reactor, stage two reactor. So we need to study how it operates, how it how it functions. We have to test with various parameters, various configurations, various configurations of the of the thorium blanket whenever we bring it in and eventually we build a second one based on what we learned from the first one. So whether we have then we have two reactors working then we learn the lessons of the second reactor. Then we build five more. Then we learn the lessons of the five to of the seven first seven reactors. We build 10 more and so on. So iteratively we make it better and eventually we have a fleet of let's say 50 stage two reactors in 40 years time perhaps and then we need those reactors to to keep running for years and years and years so that we start accumulating sufficient amounts maybe tons of uranium 233. Then with the first batch of uranium 233 we can start the stage three reactor. There also you have to design properly. It takes time to design all it and plan it and implement it. So it's a long long process. Okay. And globally why should it get traction? The whole world wants India to fail. So no one wants to talk about this globally that India has achieved this incredible thing that the Americans couldn't achieve. Right? So globally it's not going to get too much traction but at least locally domestically in India it should get traction but most people don't understand what this is all about. That's why yeah Krishant the Bordo says have you watched the movie yet? I still haven't watched it. Maybe I should go and watch it tomorrow. I know Durander 2, right? I still haven't watched it, but I will of course watch it. Uh when it comes to Durander one, I watched it after a month and a half it was released. When all the hype was all over the place and then hype started dying down, that's when I went and watched it peacefully in a theater with not packed with people. Uh maybe I'll go and watch it tomorrow. Let's see. But eventually I certainly will watch it. Even if I don't watch it tomorrow, I look forward to it. Prattana says, "Assuming I'm sure Harapans are Vic people. I am certain they are our ancestors, the Vic people. 100% certain." So, does the second tire, upper city, lower city hypothetically indicate two classes, rulers, elites and common citizens? No. I've seen no evidence of two tires, two two classes of people in um so-called harapen cities. uh upper two-tier upper city lower city where do you see that you don't see that in Kalibangan you don't see that in Rakari you don't see that in Mojaro do you see that in Harapa no in Harapa and Mohen Mojudo there are certain u constructions or buildings that are pretty large those are public works like a meeting house or or or or the great bath they say or whatever it is right and then there are standard houses which are for regular uh so the public works are going to be larger because you want big assemblies of people who can be accommodated within those buildings. So that obviously makes sense but I have not seen any any such classification of of two different tiers of buildings in the in the various cities. The buildings on the cities all look the same essentially they look very similar. It's not like the you see no evidence of there being more lavish, more grandiose buildings and then buildings that are more modest. You don't see that at all. Right? So I don't I have not seen any evidence of this. Okay. Aon says a Aon says why is it that that we are friend to all but do not have that much of an influence to do what we want and stop wars maybe or stand up and condemn the US. Why should we stand up and condemn the US the most powerful nation in the world? We don't want to do that. Why should we go and stop wars which we did not start? Why is it our business to stop wars? To stop a war, you have to go and spend time, effort, money, energy. Why should we do it? Why? And why should we condemn the US when it is the most powerful nation in the world? It's like you go into the lion's den and shout at the lion that you are bad. Why do that? Instead of doing all this verbal nonsense, we should shut the hell up and ourselves become a lion. That's what we should do. And that's why we are friend to all. Whoever wants to work with us constructively, we'll work with them so that we can benefit from everybody and they can also benefit from us. That's why we are friend to all. What we seek to do is not to be the person who is little but shouts at everybody and points fingers in their face. No, we want to stay quiet and we want to become the next lion. Okay, that's what we're trying to do. Forget about influence. We don't want influence. We want power. Influence is overrated. Power is what you want. So that's what India should do to hell with be be with standing up and condemning the bullies to hell with stopping wars that we haven't started. We will simply mind our business and be selfish as all nations are. Finally, we are waking up to these things slowly. some of us at least. Vinodov says, "Why are Iranians and Hindus often so self-correcting, philosophical, hopeful about people and world despite being betrayed or taken advantage of historically?" Well, there are lots of traits that are common to Iranians and Indians, Iranians and Hindus, right? Persians and Hindus because we have the same origin. Uh the Persian and the Hindu people have the same origin. Our ancestors back in the day like 3 4 thousand years ago were the same. We all have common ancestors, right? And we had a common shared culture which event which eventually Persia lost because of unfortunate circumstances. The Rashidun Caliphate invasion and occupation of Persia 680 AD or whichever year it was I forget doesn't matter. So um so so India and Persia started drifting apart after the Rashidon invasion and occupation of Persia and the forcible conversion of the majority of the population to to their religion the religion of the Arabs Islam right but even if your religion changes your deeper cultural traits persist so Persia is an old civilization 3,000 years old before the Akameid dynasty you had the Median dynasty and so And the origins are the same for us and the Persians. And we are an even older civilization, right? 10,000 years. And that's where Persia's roots also lie with us. So there are a lot of similarities between us and the Persians. Similar cultural traits, civil similar civilizational civilizational traits, shared ethnic origins, all of that. So you're going to have a lot of similarities and whatever drawbacks you have, you know, whatever flaws and drawbacks Indians have, you're going to see a lot of that inong among the Persians too. Yeah. So yeah, you know, we tend to see the world not through the lens of, you know, um that we should be predatory on the world. we should ex be extractive from the world not we haven't we don't see the world that way right we we Indians think of the world in in an idealistic way the world is not one family we should all live and let be we should all get along together the Persians also kind of see the world in that way and historically they did see the world that way so yeah because of these shared traits uh we kind of you know get betrayed from time to time and we are taken advantage of from time to time and I think we should you know together learn the lessons of history India and Persia right says how important is risk and discomfort in individual life discomfort is important because it keeps you it keeps you discomfort is a good motivation to improve your standards Right? If you're not comfortable, if you're not happy, you want to be out of whatever situation is exists that makes you uncomfortable, that's motivation to to stay to keep moving and to keep improving. So that's important. Discomfort is important and discomfort is the antidote to complacency, right? So discomfort is important. Risk is also important because risk does bring you discomfort, but risk has to be managed properly. You have to learn risk management. You can't take ridiculous risks that that can be very counterproductive. So risk has to be managed properly. You have to understand what risk is. You have to understand how to manage it. You can take risks but you take calculated risks and be if you take a calculated risk, you have to be genuinely willing to deal with the consequences if things don't go well. So yeah, that's the relevance of risk and discomfort in individual life. Uh my views on Greenland and future trade routes in the Arctics. Greenland is a fantastic piece of ice. Uh Denmark owns it. The Americans occupy it. There's a tremendous amount of resources on the territory apparently. But it's covered under kilometer or two of ice which is fine. We can you know if with technology can deal with it. And Denmark is a uh Greenland is a strategically important location. So let's open the map and take a look at Greenland. Right. Greenland where does it sit? Why is it strategically important? Um, see Greenland, it sits between Russia and North America. So if the Americans said that Russia is evil and it'll launch missiles someday, right? So if the Russians hypothetically launch missile missiles in North America, if you are in Greenland, you will be the first to see those missiles. So that's why Greenland is important. If the Russians want to dominate the Arctic region, if you own Greenland, then you can prevent the Russians from taking over the whole region. So Greenland is valuable from multiple perspectives. Okay, in the map, Greenland looks like it sits between Sweden and and and Canada, but actually it sits between Russia and North America. If you look at it from this perspective, look here. See, Grinland is between Russia and North America. Very important place strategically. And if you own the place, it will be you can make it difficult for the Russians to navigate the region. So, it's like a geographical choke point. It's it's one of a set of choke point in the region. So, very important overall. And if the Arctics start thawing and they are more navigable for more months of the year then Greenland becomes even more important. Yeah. All right. Uh Pratip Kumar Roy Iran versus India. Hypothetically who would win? Well, we have nukes. They don't see hypothetically. Okay, we can talk about this in the real world. We never want to fight Iran. Why should we fight Iran? Our cousins. Why should we fight our cousins? There was a time when they were our brothers. There was a time when we were the same people. Today we are cousins. We are blood cousins. Okay. India and Iran. Why should we fight them? What has Iran ever done to us? Okay. You will say Nadesha. Nadesha was a godamned bloody Turk. He was a Turk. He was not Persian. He was like Orurange for Iran. Orang was a Turk who ruled over India. Nadasha was a Turk who ruled over Iran. That's the only time Persia did something bad to India. But there was there was a Turk who did it right. But historically when has Persia ever fought India? They have always consciously fought westwards. They've always expanded westwards. They never ever expanded eastwards east of the Indas of the Cindu. Never. The Sindu was the border between India and Persia historically. And then the borders keep shifting over time. That's fine. So there is no reason for India and Persia to ever ever ever fight no matter what the religions are of the two countries. But hypothetically if India and Persia fight conventional war, Persia has the overwhelming advantage. Too many missiles, too many drones. India doesn't have that. Yeah. Um I don't know how many missiles we have, but Persia has more. Quantity has a quality of its own. And drones, Persia has way too many drones for India. But if you talk about the non-conventional weapons, we have them. The Persians don't. So there we have an advantage. Air Force Air Force doesn't matter today. Missiles and drones matter. You if you send an air force into a foreign country, you're putting your pilots and your valuable equipment equipment at risk. The Iranians have been able to shoot down American F-35s, American F-15s, American drones of various kinds. Better not send your air force there. So hypothetically conventional war Iran has the advantage. Uh non-conventional war obviously the Iranians don't have nukes. So we have the advantage but we never want to fight a non-conventional war. You see Iran is a great power now. They have proven that. But India Persia should never ever fight. Why why should we fight? There's no need for us to fight. There's no reason for it. Okay. Iran says the way Jh Shankar says we that we don't listen to anyone and yet we sought American permission to resume buying Russian oil. We had paused our buying of Russian oil. Now we are buying that oil at premium premium price. See look we never actually stopped buying Russian oil. We had uh slowed down our purchases of Russian oil. We had uh we we we we we had uh if we were buying let's say a million barrels per day hypothetically we had like brought it down to maybe half of that or something right so we had re we had reduced our consumption of Russian oil we hadn't ever stopped it completely but we had reduced it because of the American pressure yes and then now we are buying that oil at a premium price because the whole world needs Russian oil it is what it is earlier we buying it at at big discounts. We spent four years buying Russian oil at huge discounts. Then we reduced our consumption. Now we have increased it again because of no we have no choice and now we are paying a premium price. It is what it is. Uh and we did get pressurized by the Americans in a variety of ways. It is it is simply a fact of life that the Americans are too powerful and they can arm twist India in various ways. It is simply a fact of life. It doesn't mean J Shanka is a bad bad foreign minister. It it only means that India is a weaker country than the US. And no matter who is your foreign minister, if you think Jay Shanker isn't good enough, somebody else has to be brought in. Whoever you bring in as foreign minister, the US will still be able to arm twist India. So it's not J. Shanker's fault or Modi's fault. It is the fault of India's weakness, relative weakness compared to the US. India is not comparable in terms of hard power to the US. Okay. Iran regionally can overcome the US. I don't think India can right now regionally. So India has to work on these matters. Work on these things. Katos Aryan Shawwasi says Tajakistan small 98% Muslim country but of proud Persian roots rejects the RN invasion theory step theory arguing for indigenous continuity roots. But we don't really I have no idea of what Tajakistan thinks about this. There are lots of people in Persia in Iran who believe in the RN invasion theory. So maybe I should reconnect with Porsche and teach them some of what I have discovered as with the evidence but whatever. So I am not aware of what the Tajik people believe about this. I was under the impression that most Persian people at least in Persia in Iran they believe the RN invasion theory but Tajakistan rejects this. That's interesting. I will have to look into it. That's that's complete news to me. The first time I'm hearing this. The Tajakistan the people of Tajakistan are are of Persian ethnicity. They are not Turks. The other stans like Kyrgystan, Kazakhstan, Usbakistan, etc. These are Turk nation. Turkmanistan. These are Turk nation. The people there are Turk people. They speak Turk languages. But Tajakistan is an is an Iranian nation. The people are of Iranian Persian origin and they speak Persian. Um so they reject the invasion theory, the step theory arguing for indigenous continuity roots. We don't well we should learn from the Tajjik have in that case we should learn from the Tajiks I really appreciate that and I I'll check it out what the people of Tajakistan believe in good I'm glad to hear this thank you for letting me know Ashish Gautam says India policy of isolating Pakistan failing your viewpoint my viewpoint is I am not concerned about Pakistan we are not isolating Pakistan we are ignoring Pakistan we will not talk to Pakistan we will not negotiate with Pakistan we will not give Pakistan the information the the importance of bringing them to the same table as us whether they isolated or not is not important to us. We simply don't want to have any kind of conversation or dealings or dialogue or anything with Pakistan and that's our policy. We are not going out of our way to isolate Pakistan. The Americans love Pakistan. The Americans see Pakistan as a great asset. So we can't isolate them but we can ignore them and we can keep them out of our dealings and that's what we are doing and we are doing spectacularly well at that. Okay. Uh, Vinod says, "One leftist once leftist guy drank and claims most of the Hindus are emotional and have not don't have great IQ. Fill them with moral utopia, install guilt in them and suddenly take out the problem in them. Use words like democracy and secular." Um, okay. Okay. So, is there a question? Is there a statement? What what is what is it that you want me to say about this? I have no idea who is this who this leftist guy is. He drank he drank what? Alcohol. Very bad. Very naughty. U most Hindus are emotional. That's true. Most Hindus are emotional. Most Indians are emotional. Whether they're Hindus or not. Most Indians are emotional. Very emotional people. Indians. IQ or not, that is a different story. I'll not go into that matter. Fill them with moral utopia. Installed guilt. Yeah. Yeah. Installed guilt works very well with Indians. So lot of what these people say actually is true right I don't know certainly take out problem in them democracy secular yeah so the the root cause of all these problems in India is the education system which keeps Indians dumb so we to fix the education system but no politician will want to do it because the politicians benefit from Indians remaining dumb and stupid so they will not change the education system which means I will have to do something about it on my Okay. Sujel Rajput says JD Vance going to Pakistan to meet Iran to meet the Iranian delegation or whatever. What talks can happen? We'll see. We'll see what happens. The Iranians seem to be a very trusting people. They're still going ahead with talks with JD Vance. How can you trust the Americans? The Americans are simply waiting for a better opportunity to to to crush Iran. In the meanwhile, they will do all these these the this this you know they'll make a big show of having negotiations and all but at the end of the day they're waiting for an opportunity to kill you all. So if this happens if the talks go ahead then there will be talks. What will happen? I don't see much happening as a consequence of that. Maybe JD Vance will convince the Iranians that yeah, I truly want peace with Iran and maybe they will make some big announcement that yes, now we finally have a ceasefire and maybe it'll last for a week or so. Or maybe it'll last 15 minutes before Israel again breaks the ceasefire. Who knows what will happen? At the end of the day, big story, big picture. The Americans and Israelis are waiting for the opportunity, right time and the right opportunity to crush Iran completely. In the meanwhile they will do all this negotiations and all that makes no difference long long term. Ratip Kumar Roy says your views about the theory of evolution. It's the correct theory. This is the absolutely correct theory. I agree with the theory of evolution. I do Sunni says how to think any process to make right decision. How to think correctly? Well, that's I can't tell you in a few minutes how to think correctly. How to make the right decisions. You know understand decision- making for that and decision making it depends on what what domain of decision you're trying to make. Is it a financial decision? Is it a strategic decision in business? It is a is it a decision about what to do in your personal life. They're all different domains with totally different decision-m skills and and mental models and worldviews and all that. It's it's how to make the right decision. It has to be taught to you over multiple multiple years as as a person who is growing up. It's impossible to teach you that in 5 minutes here, right? You to learn mental models. You to learn you to learn probabilistic theory. You you you can think of making decisions in in terms of you know what if I bet this much money on this or that much money on that. I am not saying you should bet money ever. I'm saying think in terms of bets and probabilities. Right? You have to use different approaches for decision-m. It's very hard to teach it in five minutes. It's impossible to teach it in five minutes. But yeah, you can make a proper course on decision-m. You have to think from a game theoristic game theoretic game theoretic perspective. Which is why I've said in the past multiple times that if you want to learn one skill that I I would recommend it would be game theory. learn game theory, basic game theory. Start with the p, you know, prisoners dilemma and all that basic stuff. You understand how how decisions are made based on game theory. So yeah, that's what I would recommend. Start with that. Uh, Ban Bhan Mikari says, "If the government of India throws infinite rupees at S2, can we get S3 critical in 10 years?" No, not in 10 years. That's the problem. And it's going to take time irrespective because you have the first fast media reactor that we have just operationalized. It has just gone critical which means it is now producing a a nuclear reaction that is ongoing. We are controlling the nuclear reaction. We will have cadmium rods and whatnot and we are controlling that and now we're going to run it. We're going to see what are the characteristics of the nuclear reaction. what is the maximum energy output that we can generate safely. Then we're going to put a thorium blanket on it and we're going to see you know what what kind of thorium blanket gives you what kind of um breeding of uranium 233. So we're going to have to do multiple experiments over a period of time on this reactor to understand how to operate it optimally to generate power and to breed uranium 233. So after doing these experiments for like let's say 2 three years we will have a decent understanding of how this kind of reactor works. Then based on the lessons we learn on on this from this reactor we're going to make a bigger let's say fasted reactor and we're going to then do all all the same process all over again on the second one. Then based on the lessons we learned on from the first two reactors we may let's say build a third batch of reactors maybe three more. So that takes time. So after 15 years, you may have five fast breeder reactors that are operational and then you study the whole thing for another few years. Then we build another batch of five. Then after 20 25 years we have got 10. Then by this time your project your program is mature. But now we understand very well how these fast bid reactors work. So after 20 25 years you build 10 more. So by 35 you may have 20 reactors. In 30 30 let's say in 30 reactor 30 years ideally you have 20 reactors then by 40 years you may have let's say 30 or maybe even 40 reactors then let them operate for another 5 years and you may have sufficient uranium 233 to start the first reactor of stage three. So no matter how much money you spend you throw at this stage two it's going to take you time and because these fast breed reactors they will generate I don't know a few kilograms of fuel at most per year. Let me just ask Google Ive not done the calculations how much fuel it generates but let's see how many grams of uranium 233 can India's prototype fast breeder reactor generate per year. Let's see if Google has any answer. How many grams? Um, it's designed to breed plutonium 239 production 233. What does it say? Yeah, all that is fine. We want to convert, we want to breed uranium 233. And it's not giving you the answer. Not publicly confirmed. Obviously, it's just started. Okay. So plutonium we can produce which is fine but we actually are after the uranium 233 right and that we don't know. So okay I I may have to do some calculations to actually understand how much it can do based on various things. So it may be able to produce a few kilograms of uranium 233 per year and that is the fuel we want to use in stage three and we want to have at least a few tons of that before we start start stage three. No, it's going to take time. It's going to take time. Okay. Shubam says, "Do you think Bhutan is a vasal of India?" We never speak of Bhutan like this. We have the greatest amount of respect for Bhutan. We have the greatest amount of love for the people of Bhutan. Bhutan is a brother nation of India. Okay? And we cherish our relationship with Bhutan and we shall always take care of Bhutan and we will ensure Bhutan's safety and prosperity. All right? That's that's how I see Bhutan. Okay. uh soldier boys's current vasahood probability and chavda index. So I have said in the past that India has a 50% probability of becoming an American vasal in the next 5 years. What is the current vasal probability? I would say it's dropped by at least 10%. At least 10%. Chavda index I will have to put it out in in a month or so maximum. So this war right now is it paused? Is it not? Has the ceasefire collapsed? I don't know what's happening right now but it's been a month that the war is going on and I said that I'll I'll reconstruct the index and recalculate this course after the end of the war. I don't see this war ending now soon. So I will put this new index out the 2026 index out within a month at mo at most. Okay. And I should publish it in a website. Um current probability has come down by at least 10%. based on the US the the American the abysmal American performance in this war and that obviously affects its hard power and its ability to coersse nations like India. Okay, Vinodov says Anglo claims China is a paper tiger. Russia is a gas station with nukes. India is just a market for the US with a 100fold climbs we control. We rule world we rule the world still and continue to rule the world. I suppose is that what you think? The US sees the world in these terms. I agree. They claim China as a paper tiger. But what if China has a million drones that they can launch at Taiwan? Is that a paper tiger? That's not a paper tiger. That's a frighteningly powerful nation. The US is turning out to be a paper tiger in West Asia right now. Thus far, its performance has been that of a paper tiger. China is no paper tiger. If this is the effect the drones and missiles have, then China, I promise you, has way more drones and missiles than Iran. And China, the Chinese are not stupid. They are very keenly watching what's happening in the war. And they have already understood what it takes to defeat the US. And they will take what it takes to defeat the US and multiply that by 10 or 20 or even 30. That's what the Chinese do. China is no paper tiger. If there's a war tomorrow morning in Taiwan, the Chinese will defeat the US. Guaranteed. So, China is no paper tiger. Russia is a gas station with nukes. Russia is more than a gas station with nukes. But the nukes are essential to Russia's hard power. India is just a market for us with 100fold lives control. More or less. True. What does India produce that the world needs? Tell me what does India manufacture that the world needs? What? What? Right. India doesn't manufacture anything the world needs in in great numbers in great quantities. India has a tremendous amount of fault lines that we aren't working on. We aren't solving. We aren't we aren't fixing those fault lines. So when it comes to India, the Americans are mostly right. Okay. Rahul Mahajan. Will Pakistan's image improve because of this involve? I have been speaking for the past 3 hours that Pakistan's image has taken a big hit because of what's happened. Their image is going down. What improve kar improved? It's not improving. Pakistan has backstabbed Iran. They've betrayed Iran. Their claims have turned out to be hollow. The Pakistani prime minister said that Lebanon is included in in the ceasefire and Israel then in 5 minutes goes and bombs Lebanon. Where what is Pakistan standing in the world after that? Pakistan's word what value does it have nothing right nothing soldier boy says India's 5 to 10 year outlook with the current system 5 to 10 years India will continue go making like you know econom like growth between five see 6 to 8% was supposed to be but after the Iran war maybe it will come down so we're going to keep on going keep on going at a decent pace but no major reforms are happening so India will kind of in 10 years also be the same kind of nation but with a larger GDP somewhat larger GDP maybe 10% 20% larger maybe maybe 50% larger GDP I don't know what it is but what you need is massive transformative reforms right if you want to truly unleash the potential of the of the people and of the civilization that is not happening so India is going to keep on going at the at a linear growth rate more or less the way things are current system Abida Singh says did Russia really tip How about Van Djke or did we just want to catch him in West Bengal? And can we use him as a tariff discount once the Iran war is off? We can't use him as a tariff discount. The Americans will not give into any kind of blackmail or arm twisting. Yeah, we can't. Did Russia really tip us off? Well, I don't know because I am not involved in the RAW or in the government. So, I have absolutely no idea. There are many YouTubers who know everything. I have these I am I am a past member of RAW. I know everything what's happening in RAW. I have a direct hotline with a DAL. There are many YouTubers who do that. I have no connection with RAW and I have no connection with the government of India. Which is why I have no idea whether Russia really tipped us off or not about Van Dyke. If Van Dyke is in India, why do we need Russia to tip us off? He's in India, right? Why do we need Russian help to understand what's happening inside India? Are we that dumb and stupid? So let's not get ahead of ourselves and imagine that Russia has helped us catch a guy who is already in India and doing nasty stuff. Okay. Godliness says staying positive is good but Indian state uh the Indian state has to wake up. I fear for the northeast now. Yeah, northeast is the mess. Manipur is a disaster ongoing disaster. All states in northeast now have Anglo culture and that what is happening in Manipur is the same in Kashmir. I agree. What's happening in Manipur is actually worse than Kashmir in some ways. Manipur is under foreign occupation. Yeah, you can now give those foreign occupiers other cards and say they are Indians but they are not Indian. Even Bangladesh have other cards. I am sure many Bangladesh have passports now, Indian passports. Does it make them Indian? India is under Bangladeshi occupation and Manipur is under foreign occupation. at least half of Manipa. At least half. It's a disaster, right? So in in a lot of ways it's similar to what happened in Kashmir. It's happening right now. Happening right now. Right now as as we speak there's a reign of terror in Manipur. And why is this being tolerated by the government of India is something I I fail to understand. So yes. Yes. problems. Yeah. Okay. Goat Ghost says, "Please see Koochie fire missile. Excuse me. Ky fire missile in Made Civil Land." What is Kusi? Okay, let me see what it what it says. K U C I fire missile. I don't know what's Kushi or Coochie or whatever it is. What is that? K U CI I'm sorry I'm not able to get what you're saying sir. If you could be a little more clear then I would be love I would love to take a look at it. Okay. Okay. Roshan Panei Panigra says UN failed. The UN is long obsolete. US the UN is long obsolete. Right. The UN failed and the international organizations are useless. Right-wing parties are winning. Are we heading to preWorld War political scenario impact on trade? In some ways we are kind of in a preWorld War I kind of scenario right lots of yeah nations that are waiting for an opportunity to to set things right that sort of thing kind of the situation kind of reminds you of the preWorld Wars one scenario u little bit impact on trade trade is going to be impacted now the world is splitting up into different blocks right you no longer have a global trade system and the energy crisis which is the result of the current war against Iran, it's going to have another impact on trade. So, we are kind of like in some ways we the situation today is in some ways reminiscent of the preWorld War I scenario. Uh the UN has obviously failed, completely utterly failed. It's completely irrelevant today. The United Nations, international organizations are useless. The Americans have rendered them useless. Rightwing part is I don't care right-wing, leftwing, who wins, whoever is popular should win, that's fine. uh impact on trade there there's obviously going to be impact on trade so overall it's a disrupted system that we have right now it's a fracturing system that we have now right we have multiple we have essentially two big blocks is one is the US-led western block the other one is the China China Russia uh Iran North Korea block and then you have a bunch of global south nations like which includes India India wants to be in various places uh that sort of thing and overall trade is impacted lots of things are impacted says your views on the new moon mission by NASA. I think it's going well. Right. Uh they are it's not a it's not a lunar landing mission. It's a lunar uh orbit mission. There's going they're going to do one orbit of the moon, partial orbit of the moon and then going to they're going to return back to the earth and it's going very well. I suppose the images they they've sent back are pretty spectacular. So I think it's a great initiative by NASA. The Americans are serious about going back to the moon, about taking ownership of parts of the moon and they're going to achieve it soon. they're going to start the process of achieving it soon. Yeah. So I think great for the US and uh it makes me a bit jealous because India has no ambition similar to what the Americans have. We have the resources, we have the brains, the talent but we don't have the ambition sadly. Aeron says we are why are we dependent? Why not build our own jets? Ask the politicians. We should have been building our own jets long long ago. We had the Marut H Marut jet which was one of the best fighter jets of the 1970s. It was underpowered because we used the we used weak jet engines in that but the fighter plane design was brilliant but our politicians killed it. They decommissioned the fighter plane. If we had not decommissioned it and if we had iteratively improved upon it and you know created offroot fighter planes from it, we would have multiple fighter plane families today which would have been top of the class in the world and we could have if we had started the jet engine program in the 1960s we would have had high quality jet jet engines today. Even today we can go forward with the carav jet engine program. I think it's almost good enough to become operational in in a fighter jet fighter jet right and u yeah so it's it's it's a question of political will why we are where we are right Pratip Kumar Roy says about antimatter transport experiment I've never heard of it no no such thing exists antimatter transport experiment that's something you will see in some Philadelphia experiment movies and all that no such thing has actually happened as far as I Antimatter is a real thing. Okay. But antimatter transport experiment. No, I I don't even need to look it up. That's all um that's all what they would call what conspiracy theories. Sumit Kumar says, "What are your unbiased sources of information?" In fact, thank you for your channel. I it's not like I have like five five sources that I look to look forward to that I that I rely on. I look at every source of information and all sources of information are biased. All of them are biased. Everybody is biased. The BBC is biased. Syrian is biased. Chinese sources are biased. German sources are biased. Japanese sources are biased. Russian sources are biased. Indian sources also have their own biases. Every source is biased. So you have to understand what each source what is the bias of each source. And then based on everything and all the sources you have to based on your own understanding and wisdom and judgment and experienced you have to try and construct a picture of what's really happening. That's how I do it. I don't have any unbiased sources of information. All sources of of of information are biased and polluted. Okay, that's the fact of the world. There are no unbiased sources. Podcast Punjabi says World War II. Did the US help Germany backhand so UK fall? I am not aware of that. Did the US help Germany behind the scenes so the UK falls? No. The US went ahead and destroyed Germany with the help of the UK. So there was no behindthe-scenes help that the Americans gave to Germany during World War II. No, they first went ahead and defeated Germany. Okay. Bombed it to the bombed it to bits, firebombed Dresden. Okay. But the actual winning against Germany was done by the Soviets, not by the Americans. The the Soviets defeated Germany, not the Americans. Um, yeah. So I I I don't see I I've not come across any any evidence of this sort of backhand backdoor deal with Germany to help the UK fall. No. God leader says Iran is not ready to give up its on its uranium. The war is not over with the use of the mother of all bombs by the big eagle stone age is possible is scary. You see Iran will be really stupid to give up you know one of its few assets. If it gives up the option of enriching uranium and and building nuclear weapons then it is eventually defenseless because even if it has a million drones eventually it will run out of drones. Right? The only thing that can guarantee Iran's survival is nuclear weapons. Iran will be stupid. It will be foolish to give up that. And the Americans will say, "As long as Iran doesn't give that up, we're going to keep fighting you." So the only thing that can save Iran is if it tests a nuclear weapon or two in the coming days, right? Long-term survival, that is required. Short-term survival, I'm sure Iran can survive short-term and keep hitting the US and Israel hard. And you know, even if Isra even if Iran runs out of drones and missiles, if the Americans and Israelis invade, they will still lose. As Saddam Hussein discovered, it's impossible to defeat Iran through land invasion, ground invasion. It's suicidal. So Iran will not lose its sovereignty unless there's a coup from within, which is very unlikely because of the distributed nature of the system. The war is not over, but stone age is likely. It's it's not likely, but it's possible. Stone age is possible. The Americans are perfectly fine destroying and killing a civilization. They have no moral qums about this. So yeah, this war is far from over. This war is far from over. I agree with you completely. Pratep Kumar Roy says Technos J Barat asks how do East Asian engineers work if they don't know English? Since most of the software programming languages and other global uh technologies like cloud services AWS etc is in English they learn that much English. They learned the Latin alphabet. See this this alphabet that you see down here. It's not the English alphabet. It's the Latin alphabet. Okay? It's not the English alphabet. It's the Latin alphabet. So these software engineers, they will learn the Latin alphabet without having to learn English. And they'll learn this the programming language. They'll learn that much. So you can do programming if you are a Chinese speaking person. You learn that much. You learn the the the numerals 1 2 3 4 5 in English in the in the that's used in the English writing system. You learn this the Latin alphabet. Then you learn the programming languages and your managers will communicate with whoever needs to be communicated with. So you don't need to learn the actual English language. Okay. There are many countries where nobody speaks English but they use all these things and they're able to do a great job of it. Dirj Kamut says Australian Ryan Williams gave up his Australian citizenship to play for Indian football team scored on his debut. We need dual citizenship for such players. If there are uh you know athletes and sports people of Indian origin who are willing to play for India. Well, we should we should roll out the red carpet for them. We should be very grateful. See this guy Ryan Williams, he gave up his Australian citizenship, became an Indian Indian citizen. I think he has Indian ancestry, right? And he has scored on his debut. I think we should really really you know make him feel welcome in India. Yeah. And dual citizenship is not possible. Unfortunately, India can't give dual citizenship. That will be not possible because of security reasons and so on. You can allow dual citizenship only if you are the most powerful nation in the world. Otherwise, you can't. So, that won't work. uh but we should at least roll out the red carpet for such players and make them feel very very welcome in India right and we should not create problems for them and you know tie them in tangled webs of red tape and all that that we do to our citizens at least that these people should be exempt from that manticores we have never used the rights of propaganda on ourselves we let western studio stoages win if we want to propagandize others we start with the basics of the dark arts on us and then screw those stooges with it. See, a lot of this is the fault of the government of India which simply doesn't care about playing the propaganda game at all. Right? I mean, there are so many nations that play the the propaganda game on social media that create all these millions of bot accounts. The Chinese do that. The Pakistan, even the Pakistanis with the little poulry money, they do that. India doesn't do it. Why doesn't India play this game? Why is the government of India blind to this? I don't get it. So, we should do it. I mean you have Indian citizens fighting a good fight on Twitter and social media but that is a disorganized disjointed effort because each individual does what he or she feels is right. What you need is a top-down level concerted effort on social media across various social media platforms playing by the same rules that the other countries play creating bot accounts and spewing propaganda. You should do that. I don't know why the government of India doesn't do it. Maybe they think it's morally superior not to do it. I don't know what it is. Maybe there are practical reasons. I have no idea. But we should do it. We should. Pratabsi says, "Tips on one meal per day. Is it good for health?" It depends. Our ancestors sometimes they did not eat for days. Yeah. Before the agricultural age. See, our human body, it's evolved over millions of years. We split from the chimpanzees about 2 million or so years ago, right? Our distant cousins, the chimpanzees, who share 98 something% of our DNA. Almost the same day. almost the same DNA. So historically we have we have had the kind of lifestyle where the next meal we had no idea when it was when it would come. The next meal was not guaranteed. We were hunter gatherers. We would gather what we could eat from plants and vegetables. We would hunt what we could what we could hunt and that was an uncertain way of life. Next meal was not guaranteed. So you would go multiple days without food sometimes and that is what kept you healthy and strong. Today we eat three meals a day plus snacks, three and a half, four meals per day, it's not good for health. If you eat one meal per day, if you're a healthy person with no health issues, you'll be perfectly healthy. So depending on your activity level, you will need to ingest a certain amount of calories per day. For the average person, it's 2,000 calories. It is said for some people, depending on how active they are, it may be 3,000 calories. So if you can ingest that that amount of calories with a balanced diet in one meal, well, you're good to go for the day. You don't need more food, right? You can do it over a period of 1 hour if you want or over a period of two hours if you want or if you are a big eater, you can do it in one meal. As long as your full body is functional and healthy without any issues, you'll be perfectly fine. Aris is manticor says even if Iran will wins the US will still come after us next. We are soft flesh currently for them. We need to be prepared for it anyway and not succumb succumb to it. We should be prepared for the worst at any given point in time. We cannot be complacent. Why don't we have 3 years worth of strategic oil reserves or at least one year worth of strategic oil reserves? Why is it 84 days or whatever the government claims? Why why don't we have strategic gas reserves? Maybe it's difficult to do that. At least oil reserve. We should have at least 365 days. Why don't we have it? We are complacent. We are complacent. We should be prepared for the worst possible eventuality, including alien invasions. But forget about alien invasions. We should be prepared for an invasion by the most powerful countries in the world. We hope it never happens, but if it happens, we should have the answer to it and we should be able to win. Which means in the current scenario we need to have a few million drones and a few 10 thou 10 20 30 40,000 missiles of various kinds minimum maybe a 100,000 missiles of various kinds. That's what how that's how we should prepare. We should have multiple submarines much more than what we have. We have to militarize. We have to be prepared. Right now we are not prepared at all by the way to the extent that we should be. We are prepared to fight Pakistan and defeat Pakistan. We are prepared to fight a short war against China. We're not prepared for a long grinding war of attrition which could happen. We are not prepared at all for that. So our military planners I don't know what they're doing. And the government I don't know what it's doing. But these things we need to forget about what happened in the past. Let's let bygones be by. But now we have to quickly adapt and prepare for any eventuality. Akshai Janu says why are Europeans not poor at all? Even small irrelevant Gora countries still have so much GDP per capita even better than Japan, China. What are Goras doing right? Industrial revolution and the benefit of colonalization right they devastated all of the countries plundered all their wealth whether it is Africa they completely devastated Africa took out everything of value from Africa. Even now there is neocolonization in Africa which people don't understand, people don't realize it's still happening right now. African nations are being deliberately kept impoverished and poor and they did the same to India and and China to some extent. They devastated India. In 1947, India's GDP per cap GDP overall GDP was less than one less than 2% of the world's GDP and India's life expectancy was 30 31 or 32. That's how badly they destroyed India. They took they sucked everything of value out of India and they have ensured that there is peace, harmony and good quality of life in their countries and they they benefited from the industrial revolution and all that. So there are multiple reasons why the Europeans are so wealthy so wealthy per capita and why other nations are under it's a long story but yeah okay developer sai says Pakistan knew how to betray what did they get explain your strategy Pakistan is the the people who run Pakistan are the generals of the army shabbah sharif is the puppet and they are puppets of the US what did Pakistan get Pakistan got a pat on the back from the US and the generals got some cash, some pesa in their bank accounts in the US or London or wherever it is. That's what they got. That's what they got. And the US got to blame Iran for anything that goes wrong. And maybe the US wanted us to w his fire, but Israel didn't want it. Okay. Mr. Rohit says, "Similar to the north in the game of thrones, Jud Marwar kingdom was hostile, brave, loyal, and men of their words. Why is it not studied in general history? In India, we don't talk. We don't say anything good about Indian kingdoms. We only exalt the fake greatness of the Muggal Empire and the various Turk invaders who ruled over various parts of India at various points in time and the Europeans and the British who devastated India. But we portray them as great uh liberators and great colonizers and great uh uh social reformers. But Indian kingdoms we don't speak about them. We don't study that you are this is the education system is designed to produce an inferiority complex in you and us all of us. That's what it it's designed to do. It's designed to keep India feeling inferior to everybody else. It is done this it has been done this way by design. Why don't we teach it? Because the people who run the education system don't want you to know these things. Aries Manticor says the US is heading towards a soft red blue cultural divorce. The liberals are driving it. They are literally being dangerous criminals destabilizing their own society demographically. Are they mad? WTF? I don't know. Um, it makes no sense to do the kind of things that they do. It makes no sense for them to allow children to to be physically mutilated irreparably. A lot of the things they do make no sense in any civilized society, but they do it. The the the reds are the Republicans, the blues are the Democrats. The blues four years that that Biden was the puppet head of the government, they had opened the southern border, the Mexican border. They were allowing all kinds of dangerous people, undocumented, illegal immigrants to enter the country. And the deal was that they have to vote Democrat. So they were treating these people as as as a vote bank. The same way that various Indian politicians, various parts of India treat Bangladesh as is a vote bank, captive vote bank. Then this is crazy. It's stupid. It's very bad for the country. But that's what politicians do for their own personal gain. Cryptochimp says clear signs of an internal rift in Iran. Reformist lobby around Pesh, Kan, Zarif, and Rouhani pushing soft coup. They push for negotiations and issue threats on X instead of retaliating Lebanon massacre. Looks like that. Looks like that. Yeah. Well, the IRGC needs to um look into this matter, I would say. And if certain people like Pzashki, Zarif Rouhani are allegedly hypothetically doing something that's not good for the country which will eventually lead to the country's fall. Well then, you know, if that's a soft coup, then you can do a counter coup against that. But it looks like what you are saying is, yeah, it's interesting that somebody said this on this live stream. Pesashka and Zarif and Rouani are pushing for negotiations when negotiations are not going to solve any of finance problems. Only a clear victory is going to ensure Iran's survival. Negotiations are going to lead you down the road towards disaster if you are Iran. So I agree with you. Yeah, I agree. Okay. Akshai Janu says even when poor the west even when poor was Iran still sophisticated unlike us? I don't know what is the meaning of sophisticated. Can you define sophisticated? In what way was Iran sophisticated? Iran has a higher GDP per capita than India. By the way, even today, despite all the sanctions and despite all the horrors that the West have imposed on Iran, Iran still has a higher GDP per capita than India. Let's let's quickly check it out. What are India and Iran's GDP per capita today? So Iran's GDP per GDP per capita India's GDP per capita is $3,51 today. Iran's GDP per capita is 3,897. It's higher than India. It's 33 3897 to 5190 significantly higher than India if it is 5190. Okay. So in Iran is per capita richer than India first of all. Secondly, Iran has a far better education system than India. If it offends some of you, deal with it. Facts don't care about your feelings. India, Iran's education system is far superior to India's education system. First of all, there is no reservations there. It is merit-based. And secondly, education in Iran, Iran is free for all even at the university level. There are private institutions also but you have universities at the highest level with the highest uh level of sc technological education that is free for people who the best of the best can get free education and healthcare is free I mean if you need heart surgery or something you may have to pay for it but basic healthcare is free so overall Iran has a much better system than India there's far less allegedly corruption in Iran right okay abai parasar says I'm not able to buy the history course. It keeps telling me payment gate authorized. I was trying to pay by G GPA. Can I still buy it? I will have to look into it. I have not seen that platform for a while. Uh and if the platform is not working, I'll have to transfer this to a different platform. I suppose I'll have to look into this. Okay. So, I'll look into it. Thank you for the for letting me know uh what you had uh experienced about this. I'll look into it. There is manticores. I did a thought experiment. Maybe the reason we haven't why we haven't found a theory of everything is because we haven't leaned into our acoustic and vibration senses. Maybe we need to try to understand physics from that side not from that side non- light. See acoustic and vibration senses are also electromagnetic in nature. Light is electromagnetic. Sound is also at the fundamental level electromagnetic. Okay. Vibrations. Vibrations. Well, sound is vibration. It is the vibration of atoms and molecules. And atoms and molecules they do feel and they do operate by the electromagnetic force. Right? So once again you have at the fundamental level electromagnetism being involved in the matter. We have to I agree that we have to understand physics from the nonlight side which means non- electromagnetic side. See electromagnetism also involves a weak force the electroeak force. So which is the force that we need to understand better? it the the force that doesn't involve electromagnetism or light which is gravity. We don't understand gravity and that's the problem. We don't understand gravity at all. I mean we have the best theory so far is general relativity but that theory isn't it is flawed. We know that very well. It's flawed. It throws up infinities. It flow it throws up singularities. It doesn't work with quantum mechanics. You can't mix the two together. There is there are flaws in general relativity and unless we address that we won't we won't get a theory or we won't get progress towards a theory of everything. So the issue is it's gravity we don't understand gravity that's the issue. Okay next question Modi G recently announced reservation of women in legislative bodies. My views I am all for Nar Shaki. We should have more reservations everywhere. I think we should have 300% reservations everywhere maybe 500%. should go against nature. I mean you can't have anything beyond 100% but we should go beyond 100%. What can I say? My views I am against reservation of any kind. Ericson says the US will use EMPs against Chinese drones. They won't use it against Iran. Also if it wasn't for straight formos Iran would have been flattened by now. Okay sir, if you say so. EMPs electromagnetic pulses against Chinese drones. Well, to use EMPs, you need to do something very nasty. What is what is an EMP? It's an electromagnetic pulse. How do you generate a massive enough electromagnetic magnetic pulse to destroy well to cause significant damage? You have to detonate a nuke. Without detonating a nuke, can you generate a significant electromagnetic pulse? Very hard to do that. Um, if it wasn't for the straight of hormones, Iran would have been flattened by now. I don't understand the logic. Iran is strangling the choke the is it's strangling the state of Hormuz, right? So why doesn't the US if it is capable of threatening Iran, why doesn't it flatten Iran? That will end the strangle hold on the state of Hormuz. If the US can flatten Iran and Iran is strangling the straight of Hormuz, then why doesn't the US go and solve the problem by flattening Iran? The problem is the US can't flatten Iran. And even if they flatten Iran and use 10 nukes, Iran will still keep fighting. That is the problem. And Iran will still be able to strangle the the state of Hormuz. So yeah, the US the problem isn't that the US can't threaten Iran. The problem is that the US can't open the state of Hormos. Okay. And the state of Hormos is not some kind of fragile thing that has to be kept intact. It's it's a natural geographic position location formation. Okay. Um Jagada says BB tweeted pause on attack on Lebanon. Looks like Pakistan will get media to clean up from terrorist nation to peacemaker. We'll see about that. Has Netanyahu tweeted something? Let me take a look. Um yum yum yum. Okay. Let us see Netanyahu Twitter. Shall we see? Give me a second. Okay. Uh you know what? I'll not go and research this right now. I will look into it later. But if in case in case Netanyahu is pausing the attack on Lebanon, then maybe the ceasefire could become viable, then we'll see about it. I don't care about Pakistan's image, whether it is rehabilitated, whether it goes to hell. I don't care. Pakistan is not important for us. Please keep your eyes on the ball. What is important for India is India keeps going forward in the right direction. If Pakistan's image is built up artificially, I don't care. It is not going to make life better in Pakistan. We have to make life better in India. We want to make India a great nation, a great power. Pakistan's image being artificially uh you know artificially artificially glorified or whatever it's not going to make Pakistan a great nation in in the real sense right so please forget about all these things about about cosmetic appearances let's let's focus on the substance substantive matters which is the actual growth and progress of a country manticor says the whole ceasefire farce was engineered by the US to lower the domestic pressure and shift blame to Israel, Pakistan, Iran in an attempt to save midterms and try to fool Iran into giving them more time. Yeah, I agree. I agree. I agree. Pakistan was simply a willing tool, a willing accomplice for the US. They are happy to be the fall guy for this as long as the generals get money in their pocket every time. That's all it is for the Pakistani generals. They don't care about the nation whether it is its image is is is tarnished as a consequence of their actions or whatever. Right? this whole thing see there are two possibilities either Pakistan has its own agenda and it betrayed the US and Israel and and Iran at the same time but if it betrays the US Pakistan won't survive so the second scenario is way more likely that Pakistan simply acted at the behest of the US and did all this you know the whole ceasefire farce and the backstabbing of Iran um so this gives the US the opportunity to blame others they can blame Pakistan they can blame Iran they can blame Israel also if required. They won't blame Israel ever, but they can blame Pakistan in Iran for the whole debacle and this can also fool Iran into giving the Americans more time. So you have a couple of days where the ceasefire doesn't hold then you again bring the ceasefire back into operation and then say another two weeks and the US is bringing in more troops, more reinforcements, more supplies all the time. They're not they've not stopped that. The US clearly is waiting for the right time to start the war again and go in for the kill against Iran and Iran would be stupid to fall for this stupid for for this farce. For some reason Pzashia and other Iranian leaders are willing to negotiate and and pause the whole matter. So maybe there is some hidden weakness of theirs or maybe they are I don't know. Yeah, doesn't make sense. Iran doesn't benefit from a ceasefire. The US benefits from a ceasefire. Israel benefits from a ceasefire. Iran does not. So I don't know why they are going for a ceasefire. Okay. Arismantic course says the Manipur issue is mostly hubris by the government as they negotiated by with similar militants in other parts of the eastern bat. They don't get the fact that Manipur issue is fundamentally different. What can I say? The government has its own experts. Right? The government of India has certain domain experts who are allegedly experts in northeast India. Experts on northeast India. Experts on Manipur. I am a Manipur expert. I will now go and give the give the government of India at various levels advice about Manipur. What is the right strategy? What is the right policy we have to adopt in Manipur? And then when everything goes to hell, I will now stop saying I'm a manipur expert. I'll go and do something else. So um the problem is in India, we don't understand our far east. It's too complicated for us. We don't care about the far east. those people there who who cares what happens to them. It it's it's sad what is being done to uh to Manipur especially Manipur is an ongoing disaster. Arismantic says it's not that we don't have ambition the it's the fact that the government is ignored ISRO and let it get infiltrated by traitors. Okay. Only saving grace is that NSA seems to have finally woken up. Very shameful. Okay. I am not aware of ISRO being infiltrated allegedly by traitors. I'm not aware of this at all. Okay. But yeah, ISRO has been ignored. ISRO doesn't get enough funding. If it gets a little bit of funding and if the projects are done with less funding, you to return the money to the government and no major projects are approved. No ambitious projects are approved. We have these little rockets PSLV, GSLV, which we say are the most powerful rockets compared to what this the Americans have. These are little rockets, little little. And now even the PSLV has failed a couple of times. Maybe it's sabotage. So uh if you ignore ISRO, it means you have no ambition for ISRO. If the government of India is ignoring ISRO for years, it means the government of India doesn't consider the space program to be important. Which means the government of India doesn't have any ambition for India and space. What? So disappointing. I I I hope that we have woken up now. I don't know about the NSA what he is doing, what he's not doing. I don't I have no idea. But if he has woken up, if we have woken up, well, I'm glad in that case. Yeah. But overall, the way we have completely neglected our space program is super disappointing. Super disappointing. It's like we have no understanding of where the future lies. Anik is a new member. Thank you very much. Anukit and Vanit and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Udai Kumar says US Congress confirming aliens. Grouch credible. I don't know who Grouch is. US Congress confirming aliens. Show me the evidence and I'll believe you. If they say put out a statement that we have met aliens, I don't believe it. I want to see actual hard incontrovertible evidence. I don't care what somebody's opinions or claims are. Whether it is a so-called conspiracy theorist or a so-called American senator, if they make claims without any evidence, I will not take it seriously at all. Credibility is built on evidence. I don't know who Gush is, but is if Gush makes a claim without producing evidence that substantiate substantiates it, then that person is not credible. As simple as that. If the US government puts out a statement and puts this stamp of approval of the US government, it doesn't mean it becomes automatically credible. You need hard incontrovertible evidence for credibility and that is missing thus far. Hershan says what what according to you would be an ideal approach moving forward for the fighter jet program of India? Could the GE engine be replaced and replaced with 10 years R&D? What's the ideal approach? ideal approach. If the French are being difficult, dump the Rafal. Buy the Russian Zuko 57. As long as they're giving you full technology, full manufacturing in India, not assembly, but full manufacturing in India and full access to source codes. Pay them whatever it takes. It will be cheaper than the Rafal for sure per piece. And you will be able to integrate all the Indian weapon systems with the Suka 57 instead of the Rafal. So take if this French are being very very very very difficult then dump the Rafal get the Suka 57 number one. Secondly keep developing the AMCA the advanced medium combat aircraft of India. Keep developing it. go ahead with the u with the partnership with Safon with the which is the French uh jet engine manufacturer and co-develop jointly develop a jet engine with the French as long as you get full u you know control over the over the technology it becomes indigenous technology and at the same time don't kill the cowry project keep developing it pour in sufficient money in the cavary project and make it eventually viable for the AMCA, right? That's what we would do. It's a long-term thing in 10, 20 years. In the meanwhile, India should go all in on drones and ballistic missiles and cruise missiles. So that way, if we have a few million drones and maybe 100,000 different kinds of missiles, then it doesn't matter if our air force has is short of the sufficient number of squadrons. Anyway, long-term air force is not going to matter. It's going to be all robotics. It's going to be all unmanned combat very vehicles, unmanned aircraft and drones and missiles. That's that is the future. Fighter planes with humans inside are increasingly going the way of the dinosaurs. It's already apparent now. So is India should go ahead with this program in my opinion. Krishant Bordoy says watch the move watch the movie in a houseful houseful hall. It's more amazing. I always prefer to be in a peaceful place with no crowd around me who's shouting and screaming and passing comments. I don't like that. I like to be genuinely immersed in a movie. I have been in situations where I've had a whole bunch of people around me and you typically have people just commenting and chattering and talking and shouting and clapping and hooting and and raising slogans that distracts you from what's happening in the movie. I like to be genuinely immersed in a movie. So that's how I prefer to watch movies. I like to prefer watch movies in while being immersed in that world, not while being distracted by all the monkeying around around you. So that's why I would prefer to watch it in a in a hall there where there's less people. Pratep Kumar Roy says AI says the antim antimatter transport experiment was carried out at CERN near Geneva, France. I know friends. Uh inside CERN's antiproon decelerator complex they trapped it using magnetic containment system. Okay, let's see. Antimatter transport experiment. Let's see. Antimatter transport experiment. CERN base experiment. Uh CERN succeeds in transporting something or the other. Do you have the CERN career here? Okay, it's been transported. Okay, that's interesting. Okay, maybe I should have um reject. Okay. So, nature says 24th of March 2026, antimatter has been transported for the first time ever in the back of sun's truck. Okay. Okay. You're transporting antimatter. Okay. Uh so they have succeeded in doing all that. So, okay. Before I even read this, let me tell you antimatter is the most ephemeral volatile substance ever because it consists of antiparticles. See what are the what are the particles that we have? You have protons, neutrons, electrons, right? That these are the particles that make up our atoms. Protons, neutrons, electrons. So antimatter is matter in which the particles have the opposite quantum numbers, opposite charge, opposite everything. So an antiro so protons are positively charged particles. Antirotons will have the same mass but the opposite charge. So antirotons are have the same mass as a proton but the opposite charge negative charge. Anti-electrons or posetrons have the same mass as a as an electron but a positive charge. And anti-utrons are not neutrons. They have opposite quantum numbers. Okay. So antimatter if it comes into contact with regular matter it immediately disintegrates. It it just gives off pure energy. It's an explosion. Pure energy is is released as a consequence. And that's why if you have antimatter, if it comes into contact with air, it will explode. If it comes into contact with the glass of your container, it will explode. So antimatter has to be kept in vacuum, complete pure vacuum. And it can't be allowed to even touch the walls of your container, which is why you need magnetic confinement. That's why it's so difficult to transport antimatter. So difficult. So now let's read. With that understood, let's read this. So, physicists have succeeded in transporting for the first time this thing antimatter da. So the so 92 antirotons were transported in a in a specially designed bottle that traps the particle using magnetic fields, magnetic confinement. Once again, like I said, the bottle traveled at the back of a truck, taking a 30-minute journey around the lab's site. So essentially you want to take the antiparticles to a location free of experimental noise where antiprotons can be studied with greater precision then it's possible in discern antimatter factory where they are produced. So it is the only place in the world that produces usable quantities of antiprotons. Uh okay okay okay so that's the thing that's the thing they transported antimatter and the antimatter was confined in a container using magnetic confinement and it was put into a back of a truck it was moved around for 30 minutes. That was the thing. Interesting. Okay. Nice. Nice. Good to hear. And thank you for letting me know about this. Thank you, Pratip. Thank you. Amandiari says, "Why Palestine land given to Israel and no compensation for them? Might is right." And historically the the Jewish people, it was their homeland also, right? It was of course historically the homeland of the Jewish people this region which is called by some people as Palestine. Right? So so 2,000 years ago the Jews lived there and then they were expelled from there by because of various reasons. the Romans had a hand had a part to role to play in this and so on historical reasons for this and that's why the the Jewish people were wandering around around the world and then then in the early 20th century they decided to reoccupy the place to return to their homeland and they found Arabs living there so the Arabs also were living for a while and then the Jews returned and said this is our land so who's wrong who's right there's no wrong there's no right so whoever has the might has the right and that's what And whoever is the might is under no obligation to give any compensation unfortunately. Jagada says India key problems. One poor education policy. Second northeast issued disaster. Third it job disaster. Fourth infiltration and demographics issues. Fourth army flaws jets subs Navik. Sixth no leadership. Seven language war. Eight civic sense. Nine dual poly in key sectors. 10 Babu minister families in US EU EU. Agree. Rank it. Um I don't know what the duopoly in key sectors is. Apart from that I understand everything else. Uh what are the worst issues? The root cause of so many issues is the is the disastrous education system of India. Trash garbage. Utterly utterly garbage. New education policy is is nothing. It's going to solve no problem. No issues. Uh so there is that. Yeah. Uh the education system is the root cause of most of India's problems. Secondly, infiltration in demographics. Big big big problem. Completely agree with you. Huge problem for India. I don't know why we not doing anything about this. Thirdly, uh leadership. I'm not saying Prime Minister Modi is a bad leader. I'm saying overall if you look at all the leaders leadership positions in various parts of the country at various levels, overall overall there are some exceptions who are brilliant, some brilliant leaders, but overall super mediocre or less than mediocre. Um next um you know jets, subs, Navic is a big issue of course. Yeah. And the 20th century mindset that many of our military planners seem to have that's a big issue. Uh the import lobby is a big issue. The lack of indigenous manufacturing of weapons in India is a big issue. Right? Uh language war is a big issue. We need to have a common civilizational language that needs to be reimposed in India which is Suskrit. But no no no no Sanskrit imposition. Right? So language war um um northeast issue is a big issue right completely agree with that. So I don't know exactly how to rank it but I completely agree with pretty much everything you say. I'm not sure what the dual poly in key sectors is but it's obviously an issue you know baboos bureaucrats ministers etc having families settled in the US in the EU with citizenship there and why are you here your future is there your family's future is there why why are you here so that's an issue all these things are issues I don't know definitely I would say education system number one long-term but most urgent is the illegal infiltration of god knows how Tens of millions of Bangladeshes in India and cookies and Pakistanis and Rohhingyas and God knows what else. Why that is the most pressing and immediate issue and all the other issues are ranked in various rankings I suppose. Yeah. Overall I agree with essentially almost everything you say apart from the dual polinctors. I'm not sure what you mean by that. I have not studied that. Okay, Katos Artasi says, "Tajix declared official state ideology as Arianism arguing for ancient continuity using archaeology in Avesta while still while we still spout Arian invasion theory." Really? Let me let me see once again about this 2006 Tajakistan Arianism. Sir, the government of Rajasthan in 2006 under President Imam Al Mali Rahman declared the year of Arian civilization. This was an official state initiative focused on celebrating and studying the ancient heritage of the Tajik people with a strong emphasis on connecting modern Tajic national identity with ancient Arian roots which is Iranian Zoroastan roots. The initiative was not related to the early Christian heresy. Okay. Um so it's a socopolitical secularized national identity project often referred to as the Arian myth or Arian civilization project and so on. Uh the government promoted the idea that Arian civilization marked the beginning of history for the thic nation. Um okay okay what else? Uh Arian symbols. Okay. So okay okay okay I will look into this looks interesting and the Tajik seem to have a certain amount of self-respect at least okay aniket says small correction no one gives source code Russia did not give source code for soy 30 nor will they for soy 57 but France can give access to weapons integration like Russia I think Russia will be even willing to give source code no one gives source code the Americans have given source code to Israel by the way for the F-35 Israel can do whatever it wants with the F-35. Okay. Um, and if you're paying a tremendous amount of money, you want the source code. You want it. And if the Russians are also not giving the source code for Suka 57, don't buy it. Don't buy it. Just produce more of whatever you can. So India should insist on the source code. You see you can also say that nobody shares nuclear technology right nobody will share nuclear reactor technology nobody will but Russia has shared that with India India's nuclear submarines they have miniaturized nuclear reactors who helped India with that technology Russia did. Does anybody give nuclear submarines to anyone? Russia gives to India. India and Russia have that amount of trust. Russia will give the Sukoy 57 source code to India provided we give them a fair price. Okay, please be aware of this also. Generally, I agree with you that source code generally nobody gives that. But India and Russia have a different relationship than what happens at the general level. Okay? It's a special relationship. So as long as see source code is is obviously a prized asset. It's developed by your specialists over years and it's built on top of the source code for the RUK30 that also took years. So it's it's a very valuable thing and you don't give it to most nations but for India they will make an exception as long as India pays a pays a fair fair price for it. So I would say yes. Jakar says stealth solutions especially it is finished Baba. It is finished. Why is it finished? Artificial intelligence models are getting better and better. Right now the models that you have they still need human supervision. Okay. but allegedly anthropic mythos allegedly is almost AGI and they don't even releasing it allegedly to the public. Maybe it's a maybe it's a publicity stunt. Maybe it's a marketing stunt. Maybe it's real. Eventually, let's say in 3 years time, you will have AI models that will essentially do the job of multiple um med middle level programmers at the same super fast. So, the real skill that you will need is how to handle teams of AI agents. The solution, there's no solution. This is the new reality of the world. So only senior developers will be valuable. Senior developers, senior programming programmers and engineers that will be valuable solution. India has to develop its own sovereign AI systems that are on par with the best system in the world. Today you have opensource systems that are almost as good as the the current anthropic models. Open-source systems that you can install in your local machines and run privately. open source open weight systems you have India has to become an AI power that's the only solution and uh yeah overall AI will take lots of jobs that that's going to happen aon says education system would take 20 years to improve if we start today minimum 20 years which would not affect the current government regime but then why not improve education because politicians are in this game for the long run. Politicians are in the game for the long run. They care about today, but they also care about 20 years from now. Let's say you're a 50-y year politician. You you you're a politician, you're 50 years old. 50 years old means you are a reasonably young politician. At the age of 50, you are reasonably young in politics. And as a politician, you will want to be ruling until your mid 80s. In 20 years when you are 70 if the education system has come created a whole breed of young people who think very differently from you and who you can't fool then you will not want this to happen and let's say you are from a political family which means you want your son and your daughters to also become politicians and rule over the Indians then why will you want the system to change why do other countries fear not fear educ educated population how did they manage to educate the Iranians don't seem to fear an educated population their education system is far better than India's The US did not fear fear an educated population in the 1950s. They had the world's best education system in the 1950s. Then they dumbed it down. The Americans today fear an educated population. Today they do. That's why they have dumbed their education system down today. If you see the let's say seven standard mathematics exam questions from the 1950s and you compare that with today's seven standard mathematics exam questions today the standards have declined very drastically in the US. So the US does fear an educated population. The the Iranians don't. The Chinese don't. The Indians very much do. Pratitumar Roy says, "Space episode request. Good night, sir. I could make videos about space possibly. Space episode. I think there'll be like 50 people watching maximum." Uh anyway, maybe I'll do it. I've done in the past, so maybe I can do this sort of thing once in a while. Thank you so much for the recommendation and thank you for the questions and everything. Good night, sir. Good night to you. Divodas Putra says, "Persians finding Indian cousins on X. I'll go tuning." No, that's happened out of the blue. Just happened. Wasn't expected. Wasn't supposed to be that way. But yes, Persians and Indians are suddenly finding common cause on Twitter. It's good to see India and Persia started drifting apart after the Rashidun Caulifhate's invasion and occupation of Persia and the imposition of the foreign religion. And ever since India and Persia have slowly gradually drifted apart now we are somehow we seem to be you know Indian and Persian jenzi seem to be fighting finding each other now and it's good if India and Persia the people come together we seem to have inhabited very different spheres of existence until now yeah but now it looks like India and Persia may the people may once again start discovering each other which will be great I'll be happy if that happens So good overall. I don't think it's algorithm tuding. Maybe the algorithm will change now to to prevent this from happening. But right now Indians and Persians are liking each other's posts and tweets and whatnot and talking to each other. Fantastic. I'm glad to see that. Ghoulibar says BB stop after call with Leberan PM. Indian e effort to isolate Pakistan is a diplomatic fail. I know war is bad in India benefits from peace but want talk to fail. India is not doing any efforts to isolate Pakistan. As long as the Americans have Pakistan in their pocket, India can't isolate Pakistan. India's only job is to stay out of the war and ensure that the war doesn't have too much of a fallout effect on India. India's policy towards Pakistan is of ignoring Pakistan and not dealing with Pakistan, not bringing Pakistan to the table. You can't do a thing about what the US does with Pakistan. As long as the US finds Pakistan valuable, Pakistan will not be isolated. India is not making any efforts to isolate Pakistan. Okay? If you imagine so then you are imagining wrong. Maybe your news anchors are saying India is trying to isolate Pakistan. Maybe your favorite YouTubers are saying that India is trying to isolate Pakistan. I have never said that. So because of this fake image that's this fake narrative that your Indian YouTubers and media have created of India trying to isolate Pakistan maybe that's why you believe that India has been trying to isolate Pakistan India is failing India is not trying that at all the government of India has a very clear policy we ignore Pakistan we're not trying to isolate them is your your great news anchors they are the ones who have created this narrative All right, please understand that the government of India has never tried to isolate Pakistan. We have simply refused to engage with them which is the right policy. Um BB stop with call with Labor and PM. Okay, that's that's breaking news. It looks like I am not seeing the news right now so I don't know but okay, we'll we'll we'll see what happens. Um okay. All right. Akshai Janu says, "Will we reach $15 trillion GDP? What do you think?" Someday we will. Someday we will. Yeah, someday we will. When? I have no idea. Vir Kamat says, "Sorry, but glorified autocomplete can never be AGI." Well, we haven't seen mythos, so I don't know. I'm saying it is alleged. Allegedly. So in your opinion, you think that all AI systems are chat bots and they are simply autocompletes. Don't be so sure about that. Okay, there are certain AI systems that have made advances in mathematics that have not happened in decades. Maybe you are not aware of that. That is new information being created, not not autocomplete at all. That's breaking barriers that have existed in mathematics for a very long time. Pure mathematics. Okay. AI is creating actual new information. It's not just autocomplete. Most of it, you know, the vast majority of people the way they use AI is they use it as an autocomplete mechanism as a chatbot. Don't be like the vast majority of people. There are ways of using AI in which are completely novel ways. You're you're going into novel directions definitely not not autocomplete and and you have different tiers of AI, right? You have the um extended effort AI models and and deep thinking AI models and then you have the fast AI models and so on. Those are autocomplete models. But there are AI models that are not autocomplete that take time to think and they give you depending on how you handle them. They can give you really surprising results. Right? So it's not all autocomplete. It's not all autocomplete. Don't be so complacent about this matter sir. Don't be so complacent and don't be so sure about this being autocomplete. Okay. Mayor says Mayor Goar says how did we fail important project like Nav'i? So many satellite failure. We should have been we should have been superpowered in satellite technology by now. We should see how many space launches does India do per year. Five six rockets we launch. How many does SpaceX launch in a year? 150 200. Let's see. Let's see how many rockets did India launch per year from 2023 until 2025. So 2023 seven launches 2024 five launches 2025 five launches 755 Now let's see Space X okay India 755 Space X it's a private company SpaceX India 755 SpaceX 98 138 165 Do you see the scale So India simply has no ambition. Space X is you can't even compare India space program with SpaceX. SpaceX is a behemoth. India is a tiny little mosquito compared to that. Five launches per year. Are we even a serious country? Right. And our rockets are measly little rockets compared to what SpaceX and NASA has. Yeah. Payload to to low earth orbit is what a few tons, three, four tons, five tons, whatever it is. H zero ambition. Zero ambition. And this Navic thing, we knew that each Navic satellite will last maximum 10 years. So we could have started planning 10 years ago. We should have had backup plans in case rockets fail, satellites fail, whatever fails. We should have had backup plans. We should have developed our own atomic clocks in case foreign clocks are failing. This is simply I don't know what to say. So stupid failure. Stupid failure. We we we could have seen this coming 10 years ago and we let we let this happen. This is a failure by the government of India. There is no other way to put it. Aka Janu says in Japan I saw Sarasati Ashokand Shakuni ditarashtra and old temples your tip on this part of festival Japan about influence. I've been speaking about this for years. Saraspati is called Benzan in Japan. Ben Zaiton. Okay. She is regarded as a Buddhist goddess, but she's not. See, Benzon. Um, Japan. Benon. Oh, come on. Benon. Benthon. Okay. This is the same goddess. Instead of the Vina, she has a Japanese instrument, right? Same goddessi benzan. Then we have kangitan. Who is kangitan? It is shrianh binayakan. Kangin. It is Shri Ganesh, right? Japan, India. So we have all the Hindu gods and goddesses who are part of the Buddhist and Shinto pantheon of gods in Japan. We also have the to Japanese to which are just like the Ashokas Tamba, right? Tori gates. Look at this. This is obviously modeled after the ancient Indian gates that we we had during the Morian era, right? So, Japan's culture is founded on a bedrock of Indian culture and the connections go back almost 2,000 years. And this is something I've been speaking about for years. But now thankfully uh more and more people are beginning to realize this not just because of me but because you travel to Japan and if you have the eyes and if you your eyes are open you will begin to notice things right so yeah it's it's a very deep connection between India and Japan you have Shinto rituals in Japan in temples which are essentially fire rituals which are and and the chanting is Vic Sanskrit chanting they still chant in Sanskrit and they use the the I think the not the shardas script but the siddhum script in Japan. So there are all these deep connections between India and Japan and we should explore this more. So our culture is essentially the same but it manifests itself in very different shapes and forms but still the foundations are the same. India and Japan honest human says always loved your style of working and and been implementing in my life. Please don't mind this quick question. How to make yourself thick skin. Thank you. How do you make yourself Well, first of all, thank you very much. Thank you very much. How do you make yourself thick skinned? I have no idea. Um, it's not like I used to be thin skinned and then I developed techniques to make myself thick skinned. I was just born this way. I simply don't care what anyone says. You please, you say nice things about me, I will say thank you. It doesn't go to my head and become make me egoistic. So if somebody praises me, I'm grateful. I'm thankful. I I I will thank you. But I it will not, you know, secretly make me feel great. Ah, everyone's praising me. I don't care. And if people say nasty things about me, once again, it makes no difference to me. It makes no difference. I know who I am. I know my flaws. I know my deficiencies. I know my strengths and strong points and all that. I know exactly who I am. And what somebody says makes no difference to me whatsoever. I simply don't care. Okay. So, how do you develop a thick skin? I think the way to develop a thick skin is by thick skin is by genuinely understand who you are truly who you are. Who who are you as a person? What are your characteristics? What are your strengths? What are your weaknesses? What are your likes? What are your dislikes? Why are you here? Why have you been put in this world? If you truly understand yourself then you will not need any inputs from anybody else and if somebody passes judgment or whatever you'll essentially feel like laughing okay you think so good for you so I think the way to develop a thick skin is by truly truly spending the time which takes maybe weeks or months maybe even years to genuinely understand who tr you truly are deep inside. Most of us human beings never take the time to understand who we are. Most human beings live their entire lives without truly knowing who they are. Yeah. You just absorb thoughts and and and and ideologies and all stuff from other people and the language you use is recycled language used by others. But what is your actual standard of the world? You don't even know what it is. So that don't be that person. If you are like that, you will always be uh you'll you'll then naturally and automatically be thin skinned, right? If you truly know understand who you are, you won't give a damn what anyone says. So understand who you are. I think that is the true way to to develop a thick skin because then other people's opinions don't matter will not matter to you. All right, sir. Uh all the best. Pad Manabhar says Hindu temples should be run by devotees and not by government servants. I completely agree with that. The government if it is a secular government has no business interfering in the affairs of Hindu temples when it doesn't interfere in the affairs of the religious uh um structures of other other uh non-Indian religions. The government of India should has no business running Hindu temples. This needs to change. I completely agree with you. Krishnant Bordaloy says, "No, people were immersed like there was some hooting, but when the movie was over, they were all emotional and traffic. It was amazing. See all the post post credits." Okay. I'm glad you had a great experience. I'm glad you I'm glad you enjoyed it with with everyone together. Awesome. Awesome. Jagara says, "Deopoly Telecom, airline, economy, etc. Who is Bijnak? What the relation with the CI or false?" I have no idea. I have no idea about these matters. Uh teleony telephone telecom airlines new poly oh you mean there are in in in the airlines there are two major players oh that way okay e-commerce etc uh I don't know about bijop relationship with CI or not I have no idea whatsoever I will not even discuss that because first of all I don't know and yeah okay so I understand what you mean by police you you should you should neither have monopolies nor do police the US is is a poly Republicans and Democrats, that sort of thing. Okay, I get it. I get it. Yeah, that also is an issue. We should have multiple players in a fair playing field, level playing field. I agree with you. Okay, and I think that brings me to the end of today's questions. Thank you so much everybody for the questions. Really appreciate the time you spend with me, the questions you asked me. So, I'll end this here. Thank you so much everyone. Keep raising your standards, keep asking questions, keep learning and I'll see you this Saturday evening India time. Until then, take care and see you soon. Bye for now.