[music] Hey. [music] Heat. Heat. [music] [music] >> [music] [music] >> Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to the ask show. Today we discuss geopolitics. We discuss everything that's happening in the world. It will be driven by the questions you all ask in the super chat. So let's get going. But before that let us see who all is there on the live chat. I can see HB chat DSP IPK_1s Kotinabind Vin Hitanu Meta from Gujarat anonymous scientist Bonswar animals from for laugh from Mumbai. Jiram, Swami Jane from Jaipur, Aayush Singh. Um, Shekish, namaste. Brian, Kabona from Assam, good to see you sir. Amand Pata from Melbourne. Good evening. Um, yeah, good night I suppose to you. Beneath Swami Jan, Geopolitical Dubai from Indor, Ainta, Anand Namaskar, Alvin Rodriguez, hello. Hitan Shu meta once again from Gujarat. Tjas SV, Tjas V from Kashmir. Dave Jay Jaganat from Udisha. Kaneska Koshik Namaskarum mastermind homo sapiens [laughter] uh Adita Kakare Tas Vin Jooshi Abhishek Shukla from Kpur Laki plays from Nepal Mlavin What's up Rachav Nabali Tadas Namaste Anime once again Dave Somi Jane Shrias Dave from Pune Prardana Namaste Kanesh Kakoshik United Challengers Animeish namaste Maya Mana Batam from MP Rahul Himani from Mumbai nationalist Sachi Verma namaste umik maar um Suesh Pande Vishbala namaste Priyanka Javalia good evening Sumit Agarwal Ram sir namaste Pashant panor from Uttar Pradesh naman Aurora hello Kishor Chabria hello Natizen what's up Beneath Holligo God was Suyas Pande Ajay Kumar Akula Chetanar Sab a 17year-old from from Laknau namaste namaste uh Adok Shaja from Mangalore Ojasitkumar Nutan Rosh and God was alive Bruce Wayne Vishala once again Mana Batam Aay Birulkar Shive Hindul Sharma Chetan Ajay uh Aravsha from Gujarat the Kim in the Fourth [laughter] uh Priyanka Javalia is a JNV math teacher by profession. Good to see that mathematics. I am I'm a very big fan of mathematics as some of you may know. Uh Manticor is a new member. Well, thank you so much and good evening. Beneit is joining a stream after two weeks. Well, good to have you Beneit Nam Aurora and everyone else. Okay, let us now get going with some questions. Amisha Mishra is also here. Good evening. Right, Titan is here from Diker and everyone else. Okay. Hey, hey, him from the north. Right, let's take some questions. We already have a whole lineup of questions in the super chats. So, let's go and take the questions. Let's see what's question number one. Basar Kaywal, dear sir, congratulations on crossing 300 episodes. Love and support from Moscow. Thank you for guiding us in raising our standards and making us better. Bharati is hearing your voice in house. My mom says you're part of our family. Well, thank you so much. Thank you so much. I really appreciate your message and please give my my respects in in regards to your dear mom. Thank you so much. I really appreciate this message. That's the most fantastic message that I could start off the session with. So, Basar G, thank you so much. Thank you very much. Uh Basar Kaywal says what's the strategic loca strategic strategic significance of the Gilgit Baltistan region corridor from Gilgit Gilgit through Wakan to central Asia? How might that benefit Bhat? Okay, for that to understand this to take a look at this place and understand its strategic location, we have to look at the map. So let's go and put the map on the screen. Right here we are. And here's the map. Okay, we're talking about Gilgit Baltistan. So we're talking about Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir. So uh the parts of Gilgit Baltistan that are under Pakistani occupation are as you can see there's this place called Gilgit and essentially it's this region over here and it is the part of Pakistan occupied JNK that is attached as you can see it has a common border with Afghanistan and which part of Afghanistan? It's the Wakan corridor that we're talking about. So what's the strategic significance of this? Well, first of all, it's the one part of BAT that is connected to Afghanistan. And obviously since it's currently under Pakistani occupation, we as of now don't have a direct access to Afghanistan. If this border was accessible to us, then we would not have to deal with Pakistan to access Afghanistan. And uh yeah, that would be great. Uh the second thing is that look what you're asking is a corridor from Gilgit through Wakan to central Asia. How might that benefit Barat? Well to understand whether that is this is a good idea or not. It is not sufficient to merely look at the map as we see it right now on the screen that's not sufficient. We have to look at the topography of the region. So we have to take a look at the satellite imagery. Now let's take a look at the satellite imagery to understand the topography of the region. So if you want to create a corridor from let's say let's go back to this map for for a moment. Let's say you want to build a corridor from Batwar from India into central Asia through into central Asia through uh Gilgit Baltistan and through Vakhan which is uh Afghanistan. So you would imagine that you you may you know perhaps build a road or or a railway or something from Shinagar through Gilgit through Wakan into further central Asia. That's what you might might imagine. Now let's take a look at the topography of the region. As you can see, it's a frightfully mountous region. We are talking about the Himalayas themselves, right? So where is Gilgit? It's here. Gilgit is here. And as you can see, it's it's in a valley surrounded by mountains. So it's extremely difficult to build a road or roads over here. If you have been to the northern parts of India, the the Ladak region, the Kashmir region, you will see that the roads are you know typically single lane roads up in the in the mountains and it's it's really difficult to traverse those roads and building railways in this region is essentially next to impossible. It would be a huge huge undertaking to build a railway in this region. You would have to build hundreds of tunnels and whatnot over here. Now here is Gilgit as you can see if you zoom in it's just mountains and valleys and in thin rivers. Yeah the Hunza river you have over here. And if we go further north into Wakan which is here let's once again see the map for orientation. So this region is Vakhan. Now if you look at the topography there's no borders visible here and it's just mountains. If you were to build a road through Wakhan, it would be extremely challenging and from Wakhan into you would have to do it into Tajakistan. So between India, between India and Tajakistan, you have this small sliver of land which is Vakhan, right? So that's the deal. So theoretically it would be great for us to have a corridor into Central Asia through this region but practically it's extremely difficult. If you want to have a high-speed connection to Central Asia it would be next to impossible. So ideally what you want to do is have a corridor into Central Asia through some other region maybe bypassing the Himalayas. So go from Jammu westwards, go through uh Purushpur, go through Jalalabad, go into Afghanistan and from Afghanistan you go into perhaps Turkmanistan or Usbakistan or even Tajakistan. Tajakistan will be a little difficult because the terrain is challenging. So you would have to do it that way. That's that's the right way to do it. Go from Jammu, go westwards or go from Amritser, go westwards through Punjab and go into Kabul, go into Afghanistan, Gandhar and then go westwards into Turkmanistan or Persia or Usbakistan you can even include Tajakistan that is the right way to do it from a geographic perspective from a topograph from a topological topographic perspective that's the way to do it. Now the problem is that we have allowed all these artificial borders to come up and impede and to and to hem us in. We have allowed foreigners the British to create these artificial borders in our own lands. And that's why we now because of this artificial borders don't have access to central Asia. So what needs to happen is that we as a nation need to develop the cohes fortitude to dismantle these artificial borders. going through Gilgit etc etc is going to be huge challenge huge challenge it will be better just to just fly you know transport everything by air but ideally you want to do it through road and rail networks for that we have to deal with the issue of Pakistan okay inventing all these roundabout ways to access Afghanistan and access central Asia it is well it's feasible but it will be very timeconuming very uh you know inefficient And it's the coward's way out in my opinion. We have to find a solution to Pakistan. Pakistan is the issue. Right? That's how I see it. I may be idealistic. I may be impractical. But people who think impractically and make that possible, they are the ones who achieve real change. Right? So, okay. Baskar Khal says how Israel a sovereign nation lost the narrative war in this Pakistan Gaza Hamas issue assuming they allegedly have quite a juicy grasp in the US tech space. Okay. So you can you can say that Israel has lost the narrative war in the Palestine Gaza Hamas issue, right? Because if you look at the world's media, a lot of the media is is anti-Israel and they said the Israel has been doing this or that or whatever, right? That's true. A significant percentage portion of the world's media is against Israel. So you could justifiably perhaps say that Israel has kind of lost the narrative war. Boo boohoo boohoo boohoo but okay they lost the narrative war assuming that is true but they have won the actual war. Who cares about narratives when you achieve your actual objectives? There is something Indians simply don't understand. When you win nothing, then it's okay to try and fight a narrative war and win a narrative war. But when you actually achieve your objectives, your long-term objectives, then who cares about the goddamn narrative war? You got what you wanted. They have essentially finished off Hamas. They're going to take over Gaza. Syria is dealt with. Hisbullah is dealt with. What else do you want? To hell with the narratives. They want actually what they wanted on the ground. Please understand this my dear Indians. What is really what is more important is actual victory not the narrative but the actual victory has to be a genuine victory. So for example, operation Sindur, you could say that the narrative war once again the Pakistanis because they're supported by the western media, they are kind of on the upper hand and they are kind of winning the narrative war allegedly, right? They claim that they shot down six, seven, eight, nine, God knows how many fighter planes and Donald Trump supports that. That's why you could say that Pakistanis are winning the narrative war. But the question is what actually happened? What actually happened is that we destroyed so many of their assets and we created their their airfields and we destroyed many of their uh we rendered many of their airports, military airports, air bases inoperative for a while etc. But did we achieve any of our objectives? What is the objective of a war with Pakistan? If India and Pakistan fight, are we keeping score like a cricket match that you I destroyed X number of planes, you destroyed X number of planes, I got seven, you got two, that's why I win. Is that what we looking for? What is the objective of war with Pakistan? If we go to war the next time, whenever we do, the objective is to end the nuclear blackmail and the terrorist blackmail. That is the objective. Even if you take back P but Pakistan continues as a Pak as a terrorist nuclear armed terrorist state, then you have really achieved nothing. The only objective real objective of a war with Pakistan is to effect a regime change and bulcanization of Pakistan. If you don't achieve that, you've achieved nothing. So in case of India, operation Sindur, you can keep claiming this that that that that. But you we actually did not achieve that objective. Correct? There's no point of going to war unless you achieve your objectives. Oh, we we gave them a stern beating. Who cares about your stern beating? you have to achieve long-term objectives. So when it comes to Israel, they have achieved their long long-term objective. They're on the verge of achieving their long-term objectives. Hamas is essentially done. And even if Hamas tries to go back to terrorist activities, this time Israel is going to wipe them out of existence. They they're going to entirely flatten Gaza and then they take over Gaza. That is victory. Who cares about the narrative? So please understand the difference between words and actions, between narratives and actual outcomes that you seek to achieve. Israel is one and that's what matters. Narratives can go to hell. Buskar Katwal says how Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia were allowed to retain their civilizational identity given that they are American vas. Have you been to Thailand? It's very nice to go to Thailand. I have been to Thailand once. I've been to Bangkok. I went for the World Hindu Congress uh late autumn uh 2023. It's beautiful to see the way that they've been able to preserve some of their culture. One thing you you will notice when you go to Thailand is nobody gives a damn about speaking English. There is no mental colonization like the Indians. Indians are like, "Yes, sir. I speak very nice English in a foreign accent that makes me superior." The Thai don't care. That makes the Thai people superior to Indians. Okay. Secondly, they still are they they they don't feel ashamed of of flaunting their culture. You go to Sarabumi airport, first of all, it's named Subarabumi airport. Imagine an Indian airport having a Sanskrit name. No, you will name Indian airports after random politicians. Sometimes it will be somebody great like Chhatravad Maharaj as in Mumbai airport. But typically you will have some politician after which an airport is named. Nobody of of immense stature. Secondly, uh if you go to Subarabumi airport, you will see samudra mantan there a tableau of the samudra mantan. You will see Lord Hanuman there. Thai version of Lord Hanuman. You will see Thai culture which is our culture but their culture also depicted in in a proud way. You won't see that in India. You go to various parts of Bangkok, you will see statues and temples of Lord Vishnu there and people actually go and pray. So you will see all of that in Thailand. But and I am not familiar with this, okay? I'm not being funny or whatever, but uh there are lots of Indians who go to Bangkok for other purposes. They don't go for the culture, right? They go for the red light district or whatever the hell it is. Why does it exist in Bangkok? This entire prostitution business, why does it exist? Why do all those lady boys exist and so on? Who do they serve? Do they serve thigh clients? No, they serve western clients. That's what the westerners have done to Thailand and to a lot of the nations they have vasalized. Go to Japan. Go to Korea. There is this this underbelly that people don't talk about. Indonesia, Malaysia, everywhere you have something or the other. So the Americans where whichever nations they vasalized they've turned each of these nations into some form of Disneyland for themselves and that is detrimental to the to those nations cultures. When it comes to dharmic culture of which which is Thai culture all of this large scale prostitution and all of that that is not part of our culture and yet it exists to serve the the white man. So you see in some ways they are retaining civilizational identity as long as they are pliable and they do whatever they told otherwise there will be a student's revolution anytime on the street on demand. So all of that is there. So each of these nations serves a certain purpose for the master and as long as they serve that purpose they are allowed to exist in some way. That is the deal. Muskar Katwal says, "Estimates suggest 25,000 something crores or $3 billion worth of narcotics vessels seized by our agencies in Bat 12 months of 2024. Is it correct to assume that drugs are a front for indirect funding by certain powers? Without going into any details, yes. Yes, drugs are a fantastic front for indirect funding by certain powers. That's why a drug industry exists because drugs are are kind of a substitute for gold. Cocaine or heroine, I don't know what the price is, but it is like a very stable price and the price appreciates. If you hold gold for 10 years, it's going to increase in value because the currency typically deflates. Similarly, if you hold cocaine, heroine, whatever narcotics, that also has has a similar effect sadly, unfortunately. Right? Why is there so much drug trade, drug cartels in in South America, Central America? They serve a certain purpose. Why is there a drug epidemic that e emanates out of Pakistan and and spews over into western India? Why is that? Why is there po cultivation in certain foreign occupied portions of Manipur which is connected to the golden triangle eastwards? All of this, this entire drug industry, drug drug business is something that allows foreign powers to inject cash into u into activities and entities that serve their interests in various countries including our country. So that is indeed the case. Basar Kaywal says since fifth generation military aircraft aircraft are stealth, what will seventh and seventh generation have in terms of technology? Might fighter jets be obsolete soon and UAV the generations will start. Okay. So, fifth generation is stealth enabled aircraft like the F-35, like the Sukoy 57. Uh the the Rafal is a 4.5 generation fighter plane with some stealthy characteristics but not entirely stealthy. The F-22 Raptor probably is a fifth generation fighter plane, probably the best in the world. Um so, you have that. Sixth generation fighter planes will have what? They will have AI obviously and they will have wingmen, autonomous wingmen. Some of those sixth generation fighter planes and aircraft could be entirely autonomous. Yes, AI enabled. So I would imagine sixth generation fighter planes will have proper stealth uh technology as well as artificial intelligence and wingmen aircraft which would be like you know uh UAVs, unmanned aerial vehicles. That is the sixth generation. What could the seventh generation be? I would imagine the seventh generation aircraft will be space. They will be able to access space and fight from space or fight in space. That's what I expect would be the seventh generation, right? So you have stealth, then you have stealth plus AI plus, you know, networkcentric warfare and UAVs that fight together with your aircraft. And the seventh generation most likely will be all of that plus space-based warfare. That's how I see it. I have not studied this but yeah logically it makes sense for me that way. Basar Kayatwal has a lot of questions today. Baser says we spoke about why bhat needs more nuclear submarines and not aircraft carriers but how exactly do nuclear submarines work in warfare and deterrence. Okay. So typically if you have a ship, forget about surface ship or below surface ship, any ship, any oceangoing vessel, it needs propulsion, which is typically your propeller goes around and around. Now how does the propeller propel? Why does it rotate? It needs something, some source of energy, some sort of source of fuel. Typically, it's diesel or whatever, right? So you have a huge gigantic ginormous diesel engine or whatever engine that provides the power that propels the propeller, rotates the propeller and takes the ship forward. And for that to work, you need a certain amount of fuel to be stored on the vessel. And the same goes for diesel electric submarines. They will need diesel fuel, which means that once the diesel fuel is getting over, you have to bring the submarine back to the port. Otherwise, it will be stuck at sea without any power. So that determines so if it's a diesel diesel submarine the amount of diesel the the engine uh the the the motor consumes per hour or whatever it is it determines how long the submarine's legs are mean how far it can go. So, so if you have a diesel engine submarine, then it typically has a certain range after which you have to refuel it. Either you can refuel it at sea which will expose it or you will have to bring it back to port. Now, if you have a nuclear submarine, then it doesn't have to be refueled for several years because that's how nuclear energy works, right? So, that's why nuclear submarines typically have shocking advantages over diesel submarines or conventional submarines. Now how do these things work? What you have in a nuclear submarine is a miniaturaturized nuclear reactor. So nuclear reactors, some nations have those. India has has a few nuclear reactors. There are several nuclear reactors and nuclear reactors generally produce electricity and they also serve other purposes like you know generating plutonium fuel for nuclear weapons. I mean you can have a nuclear re reactor that does that. But how does a nuclear reactor work? It works by generating heat from file material. The file material under goes fusion and emanates. It emits heat and you control the rate of the fusion reaction through various processes through various means. You have cadmium rods and so on that you inject and pull out at in various ways to control the speed of the nuclear reaction and to control the amount of heat heat that's emitted. If you stop controlling that you undergo nuclear meltdown which is what happened in Chernobyl in Fukushima etc. So you control that and that heat that is produced it drives a steam turbine like a steam engine and that that produces electricity. That is essentially what a nuclear reactor is. Now you miniaturaturize that and put inside a submarine. Then you have a submarine that is nuclear based that has nuclear propulsion and that's how [clears throat] it works. Now, nuclear submarines can stay submerged for months as long as you have the proper equipment on board to scrub the carbon dioxide from the air and give oxygen back and as long as you have sufficient food and water on board and that can be dealt with. You can even recycle water if you have you know the right technology. So as long as you can keep recycling the air, removing the carbon dioxide, giving out oxygen and as long as you can keep on purifying the water and you you may even be be able to do aro reverse osmosis of the sea water and you know that may also be a thing and in that case you can have essentially a submarine that can stay submerged for 6 months or even more potentially depending how how what sort of crew you have and how much food you can store on on on board. So that is how it works. So if a submarine can stay submerged for 6 months, incredible deterrence, right? Imagine the deterrence it gives you. Imagine the stealth capabilities of such a submarine and obviously a stealth also depends on how much noise the submarine makes and all that. That's a whole different story. So that's that essentially is how nuclear submarines work and how that's how if you have a submarine that is on patrol for 6 months. It can be a supremely deterrent uh entity very very stealthy. It can stay submerged hundreds of feet below the surface and if it it contains if if it carries ballistic missiles, cruise missiles then it can you know be a extremely u valuable source of deterrence and it'll be it could be anywhere in the world. That's the whole point right that's how it works. Basar Kwal says allegedly a sir is certainly the reason geopolitics feels like Netflix of our generation. I'm certain it's not just allegedly true. Thank you sir. >> [laughter] >> One has to use certain terms sometimes you know right okay Basar says in conjunction to the above question can can countries like South Korea, Japan, Thailand, Philippines etc. only be classified truly sovereign if US military presence for from their soil goes away entirely? See there are when it comes to sovereignty you have different classes of sovereignty. You have military sovereignty which means that your military is entirely controlled by you. Second, you have territorial sovereignty, which means you control all your all your borders. Nobody gets to decide who comes in, who goes out. You get to decide that. There is territorial sovereignty. Then you have economic sovereignty, which means that you control your currency and you control your economy and nobody gets to say what happens with your economy. That's number three, economic sovereignty. Number four is legislative and political sovereignty, which means that your head of state and your government, they're answerable only to the people or and to themselves. They're not answerable to anybody else. and they decide what laws will be passed and what laws will be applied, what policies will will be applied in the nation and so on. So all of these different things they constitute sovereignty overall. Now if the US military presence from a certain nation goes away, it doesn't necessarily mean that the nation becomes sovereign. The US may still control their economy, the US may still control the government, the US may still control their politicians, the US may still control what kind [clears throat] of policies will be applied in the country. So it's not enough for simply the military presence to go away. There's a whole lot more that that goes into all of this. And that's why things are so complex. I mean when it comes to many uh EU nations, European Union nations, there's not a single US soldier on their soil. And yet these EU nations are not sovereign because they don't control their economy. They don't control their borders. They don't control their legislation and their policies. Right? They have pulled sovereignty in so many issues. which is why even if you take away the military presence the sovereignty isn't still there and that's an issue. So similarly when it comes to any other country the same applies. The removal of a foreign military is not enough to guarantee sovereignty. A nation may still you know be non-s sovereign. They may still acknowledge someone else's suzarentity. Basar Kayatwal says our friend Google says US today possesses 5,000 nuclear weapons today. Why? What did they do with the remaining 25,000 they had in the 60s and 70s assuming all of this is true? Well, that's just the official figure that is given. We don't know ex exactly what the deal is. I mean, nobody has gone and checked, right, how many nuclear weapons the US has. So, the US government says it has roughly 5,000 something nuclear weapons. It is a figure given by the US government. Now, they can obviously choose to under report the numbers. Maybe they have 70,000, but they are saying they only have 5,000. You never know. You cannot take these words to be entirely true. You should not. Right? I can say that I am 12 years old. I can say that I identify as a unicorn. So will you believe me? Right? That's how it is. uh and certainly it's true that the two nations the US and the USSR in the 20th century late 20th century uh agreed to reduce the number of nuclear weapons and they brought allegedly the stock piles down from very large numbers to very reasonable numbers and I suppose there were checks and balances in such that both nations could kind of understand and and and verify to some extent that the numbers were brought down. So maybe in the 80s it really did happen, maybe in the 90s also, but then today you don't have the start agreement anymore and so on. So maybe they have 5,000, maybe they have 25,000. And in case that really did bring down the number from 25,000 to 5,000, what does it mean? What happened to the remaining 25,000? They would have been dismantled and the file material would have been taken out and the file material still remains available with the US and they can build more weapons on demand with those. They have the designs, they have the factories, they know how to build more nuclear weapons. In a couple of years, they may have 5,000 more or maybe 20,000 more. Right? So that's how it is. What really matters is the file material, the uranium or the plutonium. That's is that's what really matters. And as long as you have the technology to to to construct certain kinds of explosive nuclear devices, then well, you can make as many as you want if you have the file material. But if you don't have facile material, then even if you have the ability to make 30,000 nuclear weapons, you can't because maybe you have you only have enough file material for for a 100. So file material is what matters. The US has a has a ton of that. Basar Katwal says people are getting hyped as the new Japanese PM says that she will take care of immigrants. Right to think nothing will happen because the Japanese PMs are revolving doors. I would agree with you. I am very skeptical of of words. Indians I mean I don't know about other countries but Indians love words right? If you say a few words that Indians like my god they'll become your big fans. Um and Indians love slogans and Indians love headlines. Indians don't go below that level you know surface below surface level analysis. Most Indians I'm sure some Indians aren't like that but most Indians are surface level people. Look at headlines and that's it. Aha. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Right. So the Japanese media has said that she doesn't like immigrants. She'll take care of them, etc. Good. Fantastic. Let's see how long she lasts. I I am extremely skeptical that anything will happen. Whatever the Americans want is going is what is is what's going to happen. And the Japanese PM can't do a thing about that. Right. Rajendra Chula says, "How is the US anti-India if its vasals are finding FDA and defense deals with India?" Right? Its vasals UK, Australia, EU, etc. are find signing FDA and defense deals with India. Have you seen sir the US actions vis Pakistan? The US is investing tremendous amounts of money in Pakistan. The US is taking Pakistan sides side against India. The US is going to supply more missiles to Pakistan. I think that that should be enough for you to understand what the situation is right the have you seen the kind of tariffs they've imposed on India? India buys less Russian oil than China but China tariffs are way lower than India. Now they're they're even lower now after the recent summit meeting between the two leaders. But India 50% tariffs you think they are they are pro- India based on all of that sir you to look at forget about what the vasals are doing. The vasals play their own role. So if you look at the US actions it's clear that it's not not pro- India. It's very pro Pakistan. It's very very it's going very hard on India. Rajendra Chula says if the US becomes second rate world power who controls 7 if the US becomes second rate world power who controls its 720 plus on an official basis and offshore nuclear weapons can we buy it if we become a double digit trillion dollar economy no if the US becomes a second rate world power it will happen only if no long it no longer has those 720 plus official bases in offshore nuclear weapons you cannot be a first rate world power. You cannot be a second rate power if you still have all those things. See what comes first is what you have to understand. Does becoming a second rate world power come first or does losing all those bases etc come first. You cannot become a second rate world power if you still have all all those things then you are still a first rate world power then you are still a superpower. So becoming a second rate world power means that the US has already first lost all those things. See India today you could say is a second rate world power. India doesn't have any power production capabilities comparable to the US. India is you could say a great regional power in its region but beyond that it's not economically it's a very major economy but militarily overall it's it's not in the same league as the US, Russia and China. India so India would you could say in the is in the second rung of global powers. the US, China and Russia are in the top level. If US has to come below in to where India is today, it will have to first lose all those fantastic things, right? So yeah, so it means that by the time it all those official all those bases will already have been lost by the US. Can we buy it if we become a double digit trillion dollar economy? You don't buy military bases. You have to bully others into giving you bases. It's not the US did not buy these military bases. Yeah. They [snorts] give some money and etc etc etc. Yeah. They have leased the bases etc. They oops. And we're back. So the US you see it it it it has um you can't buy it. You have to lease it and you can only lease it if you are so powerful that the other nations will fear you. You can't simply just buy things like that. You have to be powerful to to get that. All right. James James is here. Look at the state of India. Dirty roads are in horrible condition. No infrastructure for pedestrians. I have been to India. about this visual guru about it. You know what James, you're absolutely correct. India is not there's nothing vishwaguru about India. The dirty roads are in a horrible condition in so many parts of India. Pedestrians it's it's it's hell for pedestrians. You are absolutely correct James. There is nothing vishwaguru like about India. There is so little that Indians can feel proud or proud about. Indians imagine that their cities are the best in the world or whatever. That's what they imagine because they've never been outside. Kabul allegedly has better roads than many major cities allegedly in India. The city of Kabul. What's the correct what's the issue? The alleged issue is allegedly corruption. widespread alleged corruption allegedly everywhere all over the alleged place. So thank you James for pointing this out and I agree with you. There's nothing Vishu guru like about India really now says did you see how Takachi behaved during the Trump visit the Japanese on X are hailing her and Koreans are feeling envious that they aren't better vasals. Wow. Please explain what benefits Japan and South Korea got via the Apex summit. I unfortunately did not see the videos of how Taki behaved during the Trump visit. I suppose Trump was Trump. He behaved the way Trump generally behaves and Taki I suppose would have done her best to be a gracious host. Um that's all I know. What benefits Japan and South Korea got from the Apex summit. I am not really sure. Nobody gets benefits. The benefit you get is that you continue to exist and you and nothing really bad happens to you. That's the best benefit that you can expect for when you're dealing with a master like the United States. Um so I I don't really know what benefits Japan or South Korea have got from the APC summit. And uh unfortunately I've not seen the visuals of Trump and Takachi together. I I briefly saw something where Takachi is standing and Trump just wandered off somewhere. Well, Trump tends to do such things. So, I I really don't have an answer. I don't really know what benefits Japan or South Korea has got from this summit. Nothing substantial obviously. Uh Kaneshka Koshik, thank you very much for becoming a member. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it very much. Aries Manticor says, "How would a next generation mobile submarine base improve our naval capability? Could it support Indian in operations in potential Sir Creek incursion? A submarine is not a coast guard vessel. The Sir Creek issue is a local coast guard level issue. Okay, let's go to the map. Yeah, let us go to map and understand what first of all the Cirreek issue is briefly. So sir creek sir creek or sir creek whatever it's here it's between kach and it's between the border of Gujarat Kach and uh Pakistani occupied sind this region here and apparently the Pakistanis apparently they say there's some kind of border issue or something I'm not sure what right so there is significant military presence here I'm sure if we zoom in over here we'll be able to find something you military activity. Now, when it comes to any fighting that potentially could happen here, why do you need submarines? Why do you need a submarine for this? There's no need for a submarine here. This is something you can deal with with with the air force, with some missiles and with some soldiers. You don't need submarines here. Submarines are not meant for coastal operations unless you've got a very poor submarine capability. Submarines are meant for blue ocean activities, cloak and dagger activities, deterrence activities, um you know hunting of of naval targets and things like that. So forget about sir sir creek um submarines are not relevant in sir creek. Now the question is what would a next gen stealth mobile how mobile submarine base? I'm not sure if mobile submarine bases exist anywhere in the world. What's a mobile submarine base? A stealth submarine base I can understand. It's a submarine base that nobody can see. It will have the secret tunnels that submarines can enter through and there will be a huge underground cavern where you can have like 20 submarines sitting there and being uh refurbished or or or or or serviced or whatever. That's a stealth submarine base. What's a mobile stealth submarine base? I'm not sure what that is. So, if we have more submarine bases and if they are stealthy, it will certainly improve our naval capability significantly. But only if we have more submarines. If you build 20 new stealth submarine bases, but you only have 16 submarines, what the hell is are you going to do with it? What you need is more submarines first. And as you build more submarines, you can build more submarine bases that can ideally be stealthy and hidden. That's good. But first, you need more submarines. How many submarines does India have? 15, 16, 17, 18, something like that, right? I'm pretty sure it's not 20. That is actually rather disappointing. extremely disappointing. A nation like India doesn't even have 20 submarines. I don't know what the government of India is doing. Honestly, I don't know. Rohan Surja says your views on delusion of Indians and have been saying have seen many saying this if we don't go to the US for work the US will collapse as our education system is the best. Okay, look our education system is one of the worst in the world. Indians imagine that because they are taught English in the education system that's why it's one of the best. It's because the education system makes them believe that the education system is the best when it's one of the worst in the world. What's the objective of an education system? It is to produce extremely confident, extremely capable, highly skilled young citizens who understand the world thoroughly, who understand what it means to succeed, what it means to fail and how to succeed, how to not fail and they can they should be able to start contributing to society as soon as they are out of the education system. But Indians when they come out of the education system, they're confused. They're clueless. They have no skills. They have no confidence. When they join a company, they have to be trained all over again. It's one of the worst education systems in the world. It's it's a system that not only does all of this to you, it also mentally colonizes you. It it gives you this massive inferiority complex and it teaches you all kinds of wrong things about your own history, culture, and heritage. Right. And uh yeah, so that's one thing. The education system is one of the worst. It's garbage. The education system of India is garbage. Trash. Third rate. Third rate education system. When it comes to going to the US, if we don't go to the US, the US will collapse. That's a joke. Yeah, it's true. A lot lot of the US tech companies and all, they depend on various Indian immigrant workers and um so on and so forth. It's not like if Indians see if Indians were to withdraw immediately, if you do run a thought experiment where tomorrow morning all the Indians disappear, then it will be a disaster for the US. But if Indians stop going to the US to work slowly gradually, the US will replace these Indians with somebody else. There'll be lots of other people who want to go there and people who who will come there from countries with with better education systems. There are plenty of Filipinos who aspire to go to the US. plenty of well Pakistan is an even worse education system than us plenty of Chinese but now the Chinese don't really want to go to the US the the Chinese are becoming uh high income nation in their own right now in a pretty developed nation in their own right and the Chinese are proud unlike Indians the Chinese don't have an inferiority complex they are developing a superiority complex that Chinese are superior even to the Americans Indians are like yes sir you are best uh so if Indians stop going to the US the US will be able to find other people to work for them. Right? So this is all delusional thinking and it's it's it's because of the education system that imparts that imparts this delusions to Indians. Okay. Next nationalist says AI funding bubble your thoughts should how should India act? Look AI fund AI is is here to stay first of all and the there may be kind of a bubble right now to some extent. uh maybe there is too much being invested into AI companies and most of these AI companies could go bust eventually and the bubble may burst but AI is a transformative technology that is here to stay and it's going to transform human history that is for sure so what should India do India should pursue AI determinantly India should be very determined very very clear about India becoming a major player and a leader in the AI space India cannot afford to get left behind like it is currently completely left behind in the area of space space exploration. India is left behind now. So we can't allow that to happen in AI but India is right now not even a player in AI. So what should India do? India should do whatever it takes to become a major player and one of the leaders in AI technology and for that it it is not enough for the government to act and to to coin some slogans and give maybe $10 million to some kind of scheme somewhere. H the Americans are investing hundreds of billions of dollars. The Chinese are also doing that. Whatever the Americans do, the Chinese are trying to emulate and and exceed. And in India, what are we doing? Ladly, behas and all that. India should act otherwise we're going to be left behind and we will essentially be colonized all over again. Rywick says Bangladesh is now East Pakistan. Yes, indeed. Tourism is increasingly is increasingly tourism is increasing exponentially in the northeast mainly Megallay. Should we be alert of any terrorist attack at Dawoki Umangot border because it's a high tourist place. Okay. I I don't know what this is Dawokiangot border. I've not been there. Uh if tourism is expanding in the far east of India that's fantastic. There was a time when tourism was booming in Manipur until 2023 early 2023. There was a time when business was booming in Manipur. Everything is crashed now. So you already see a disaster there. Now as we know as you rightly say Ritwick, Bangladesh is now East Pakistan all over again. And Megallaya is a state of bat which borders uh Bangladesh East Pakistan. Let's go to the map. So we are talking about Megallaya. Here we have Megallay which is north of uh East Pakistan. And what border is it? Daoki Umangot border. Let me see if I can find it over here. Diangot border. I'm not sure if I can locate that. Diangot. Let's see. Umangot. Okay, this is the place. Um, so there's a border here and it's a high tourist place for some region for some reason along the border with East Pakistan. Why would you need a high tourism place? Maybe there there are some there are some attractions perhaps over here. I don't know. There's a night camping thing and all and the border is right right over here. So yeah, I suppose that the government of India will have to well be on high alert because yes, Bangladesh is now back to being East Pakistan. Uh I hope that no such untoward incident happens and so on. But we have to be careful. No question about it. So I agree with you. We should be very alert. They should be on high alert for any kind of uh you know for any kind of such action that could could come out of Bangladesh for sure very important really now says it's also a shame that many of the 8,000 plus meter peaks like K2 are in Gilgat Paltistan and now Pakistan exploits the hills and allows a lot of hunting of rare fauna. Pakistan will do that, right? Pakistan is up for sale as we know. What what is the difference between India and Pakistan? Both are nations with allegedly high corruption and blah blah blah. But India is it focuses on infrastructure. It to a large extent does care about its citizens way more than the Pakistanis do. And India is not up for sale, not blatantly up for sale. So Pakistan will will exploit everything. They will allow hunting of rare fauna. They will allow exploitation of mineral resources, mining of mineral resources. They will allow whatever whatever outsiders want whatever a more powerful richer country wants they will allow them to do whatever they want as long as the Pakistani generals their pockets are being lined. So it's a very unfortunate obviously peaks like K2 which are Indian peaks are currently occupied by Pakistan. Gilgad Pakistan isn't currently much of it is currently occupied by Pakistan. Yeah. So that's the case. So if you want this to end then we have to take some action in that direction. UMX says, "I study in a so-called top college where a 60-year-old professor worships Churchill, ignores actual learning and pushes his own glorified glorified book instead." You see, this is India and this is the Indian education system which is utter garbage. A 60-year-old professor worships Churchill, the man who who engineered a genocide in Bengal. That man Churchill who said that Indians are a beastly people with a beastly religion right that is Churchill and and these idiots these imbeciles these imbeilic professors they they worship people like Churchill. So many of these professors are are are super mentally colonized. They are they they they hate their own country. They consider their own country to be backward and that and they try to impart that that brainwashing onto f onto new generations and they succeed to a large extent. someone like UMX is is a rarity because I I'm pretty sure many of his or her co- students will be very impressed with this professor right and these professors are typically have some third rate book that they have written and and they they teach you from that I I have been through that also personally some third rate book written by some third rate Indian professor that becomes the standard book through which you're supposed to study and if you try to study from that you will learn nothing you will end up more confused than ever. So that's the deal with the Indian education system and apparently we are in this new education policy thing and that is the best thing in the world which is a non which is a joke. It's nonsense. The new education policy is is is nothing but like it's like attempting to to to to put a bandage a band-aid on a gunshot wound, right? It doesn't solve any of the real issues. It just tries to cover everything up. Sad. Aris Manticor says, "If Pakistan and Bangladesh cross our red lines to such a deep extent, would we be forced to change the geography to end the problem? Should we do it in a hyper blitz way that others can only watch it happen?" Look, Pakistan and Bangladesh are entirely different entities. Bangladesh is no match for India. If Bangladesh tries to cross a red line, Bangladesh will be obliterated. Its geography will change. And Bangladesh simply can't stand up to India if a war happens. They can say whatever they want on social media. You know we people in the subcontinent, we love slogans. We love boasting. Right? So the Bangladeshes are just like us. They do the same thing. We'll do this, we'll do that, we'll take the seven sisters, blah blah blah. They they boasting on top of that, you know, from the rooftops. But if something actually happens, they're going to scurry. they're going to run. So Bangladesh, forget about Bangladesh. If if they try something funny, they're going to pay a very bad price for it. Very very high price for it. When it comes to Pakistan, if the Pakistanis cross any of our red lines, will we have to deal with them? Now the question is what do we do and how do we deal with them? Do we again slap them on the wrist and make some of their air bases inoperative for 6 months? Is that enough? Will that change Pakistan's behavior? We did operation indur. We took out a bunch of terrorists. Sure. In those drone strikes. Then there was an escalation and we to we uh rendered many of their uh air bases, military air bases inoperative. We hit about 11 air bases in about 20 minutes or something. Right? We did all of that. We took out their AVAC aircraft. We took out many of the Chinese issued radars and much more. But what's the outcome of that? Pakistan is still there. Their objectives haven't changed. Their behavior hasn't changed. They now have a very strong backing from the US. What did we achieve? We achieved nothing actually. We did not achieve any long long-term beneficial objectives for us. So my point is if we go to war the next time, we need to be very clear about what we are trying to achieve. Are we trying to teach them a lesson? Are we trying to uh have a scorecard like a sports match? like a football match 3052 whatever. Is that what we want? What's the point of doing all that? You will kill let's say 200 terrorists. They'll bring 3,000 more in 6 months. What's the point of all this? If you're going to have a war with Pakistan, it should end in a decisive victory. There should be a regime change and bulcanization. Otherwise, why are you going to war? What is this? Some kind of sports match that you're seeing live on hot star or something? Gioar, what whatever that is. Is that the objective of warfare? we have to be a little more serious about what we do right and since we have decided that we are no longer going to worry about the Pakistani nuclear blackmail then let's do something about it so if we go to war the next time it can't be something that lasts 7 weeks it can't be something that we slowly escalate over 3 days like we did in operation sindur first day we had certain rules of engagement and the uh air force was not allowed to do certain things and so apparently allegedly that's what some military personnel are saying we can't have that we have to give the armed forces a clear objective regime change bulcanization and we have to tell them make it happen as far as fast as possible ideally 72 hours so that for that you need a hyper blitz blitzkrieg right fast snail I love that name [laughter] fast snail yes should political science be a mainstream course alongside STEM just like the US. Maybe that will help more deserving people in to be in governance and policy. Well, first of all, the ter the the the name the term political science is I don't agree with it because if you know what actual science is, then you will know that political science isn't science. It's the study of of state craft. So I I would say it should be called state craft, not political science. First of all, that's a minor disagreement I have. I I despise the term political science and social science, those two terms, because th they are so wrong. There's nothing scientific about these things. So, I would call it statecraft. Could statecraft be a mainstream course alongside STEM? Well, it depends. It should be offered as a mainstream course to those who seek to understand the subject. Uh, it should be offered as an optional mainstream course. And those who want to to to take it full-time, well, it should be definitely available for them. Um, and there are people who want to, you know, be in governance, be in policy. They also for that they you need to understand science, technology, engineering, all of that. So yeah it it does make sense to to offer something like political science or state state craft state craft as a mainstream course. I suppose in Indian universities you have master's degrees and whatn not in political science right I'm not sure what the syllabus is like and what the study I've known students when I was a student myself who was studying political science I had no idea what they were studying but okay political science fantastic good for you that's how it was so my question is today if you have master's degrees that are being offered in political science what exactly are the teaching I have not seen the syllabus I hope the syllabus is good and what they're teaching is something that is genuinely of some use because uh look In India, they teach everything like they teach philosophy. It's all theoretical. There's no application that is taught. Ideally, you should teach everything in a way that you can apply in real life. So, if if that can be done, I would be very much in favor of that. Yeah, I would have loved to study state craft alongside alongside STEM. Uh that would have been great. Kan Mor says, I have come up with a few scenarios that might be that might change our education system. Number one, military rule. Number two, single party winning elections in all states. Number three, freedom of temples in establishments of Google. Number four, pray to God. Any other scenario? Well, sir, I'll tell you what. If you have military rule, you won't have elections. Okay? If you have military rule, then why do you need elections? You decide who be who who rules each party. If you have military rule then the military dictatorship will decide. We'll appoint people to rule each state. Why do you need elections for that? Right? So that's one. Freedom of temples, establishment of gurugs. Sure. Freedom of temples very much important. Yes. Pray to God. Well, you can't force people to pray to God. Let people decide. Give them the right education. An education that is grounded in your culture and your cultural values and your heritage. In that case more people will be aligned with your culture and civilization. That's what you can't force people to pray to god. And even in in historically in our civilization there have been people who have been agnostics and atheists. What is charvak philosophy? It's atheism isn't it? That was still part of dharma. So you can't force people to pray to god but you can give them the right education. Um so how does military rule change our education? It can because it can do things that otherwise you know a democratically elected government can't because we have this democratically elected government for the past 11 years that has changed nothing of any genuine consequence in the education system. So yeah, you would certainly need a more powerful government at the center without which education reform is next to impossible. You would need the kind of government at the center that has the same kind of powers that the Chinese Communist Party has. In that case the education system can be significantly reformed. Um so my single criterion is it's not military rule. It is an all powerful central government with the same kind of powers that the Chinese Communist Party has. But it should not be a communist government. It should be government that is inclined that is aligned with India's civilization and civilizational heritage. the dharmic government that's what you would need in that case everything else flows from that kartikishi says the US wants to finish Hinduism and India both China wants to finish India only is this statement right what exactly does China want from India let's ask ourselves what does China seek let's set the US aside for a moment let's think about China what does China seek the Chinese obviously see India as the only nation that can challenge them in in Asia in Eurasia there's another beast called Russia which is an issue for China but if you look at only Asia exclude the Europe part then it's India of course much of Russia is in Asia but let's talk about the nonRussian part of Asia then yeah there's India and the Chinese what do they want from India they would see in an ideal world for China you would not have India you would have different kingdoms in India or different states. That's the ideal situation for China. So they want ideally India to be bulcanized and then they will deal with each local government, each local government individually. That's the what that's what they want. They they don't care about Indian culture. They don't love it. They don't hate it. They couldn't care less whether it lives or dies. If it lives and thrives, they're okay with it. They have they have nothing against India's culture and civilization right that is the one thing they actually respect about India that we once were a great civilization and today why do they mock India because we are no longer aligned with our own civilization we are slaves of the west that's why they express contempt towards India and towards Indians you see they don't respect India for this reason because we have moved away from our own civilization we are now slaves of the So, so you're right. The Chinese don't want to finish Hinduism. They couldn't care less. They only want India to be balconized. When it [clears throat] comes to the US, they also want India to be balconized. But that's not enough. They want India to be Christianized also. That's the difference. Ankit Koshel says, "Appreciate your position on Buddhism, Hinduism." Attisha says said that the only three persons in India Atisha said that only three persons in India who can differentiate between Buddhism and Hinduism. There's plenty of differences between mainstream uh Hindu dharma and both the dharma. Plenty of small differences. Let me give you some examples. H if you see various paintings or or or or mortis of Buddhist deities, you will see that they are standing on some other figures, right? Let's let's take a look at this. Let's go to uh Google. One second. Uh let's put that on the screen. Here we are. Here we are. So let's say Aalokeshwara. Uh let's us see a depiction of Aalokiteshwara. Okay. Alokitwara is just seated. Okay. Let's see Vajraani. Let's see Vajarani. Vajraani. This is a Buddhist deity. And you will often see um vajraani you will often see that these deities are depicted as trampling over Hindu gods. [snorts] Okay. Who do we else have Buddhist deities? Buddhist deities. So let us see Padma Samhava. What do we have? Trampling over Hindu gods. Let's see this trampling. Let's see. So which gods is this? Trampled gods and deities. That's very interesting, isn't it? So for example, over here this uh this Buddhist deity is trampling over Lord Shiva. as you can see. So you will not see any Hindu deities behaving in a disrespectful fashion towards deities of of uh other dharmic uh path. Right? Trampled figures underfoot. Who is this here? Not sure. So you will see this very often in in Buddhist imagery that Buddhist deities are are trampling on Hindu gods. [snorts] So that is one difference between Buddhism and Hinduism. Then you have other issues also like you know other other factors also between Buddhism and Hinduism that are different. So you can for example the way the atma is regarded the soul in mainstream Hindu dharma uh the soul is permanent. Right? In both the dharma the soul is not permanent. The soul itself is is something that can be destroyed. But then why are you taking reincarnation after reincarnation? If the soul itself is not permanent, then who is being reincarnated and why are you doing all this? So that's another question in Buddhism that is different from Hinduism and so on. So you can certainly find all kinds of nuances and small differences here and there, but overall overall the morality is very similar. For example, you can find similar lots of differences different kind of differences between between let's what we call Hinduism and Janism. We can even find significant differences between Shvite Hinduism and Vishnava Hinduism. So why isn't Shvite Hinduism different separate religion and Vishnav Hinduism the separate religion? In the future they may even ask for that that let's make shite shaism different a different religion and vishnavism a different religion and everything a different religion because there are so many differences. So you know our our our our civilization has a very ancient history. It's rich complex and super diverse and you can find all kinds of nuances and differences. Prattana says once may need a white wife to be a pus. Erica Kirk of all of a sudden seems sees similarities between her husband and JD with her husband in JD and that kind of hug is not normal in the US or anywhere in the world. By the way, that kind of hug is not normal anywhere in the world. I will not go into the details of the hug because there's no point. Um for if you want to know what I'm talking about, let's Google it. Uh JD Vance Erica Kirk hug. Let us see what this hug was like. So this is the hug we're talking about. And uh that is definitely not normal, inappropriate behavior. I would say that's not um I don't think it's normal behavior in any any kind of society but whatever. So the point is that u JD Vance his constituency is the is the MAGA crowd the white rednecks the white uh supremacists the the Christian supremacists that crowd that's the Republican base isn't it and um what it so happens that JD Vance's wife is of Indian origin and she's a practicing Hindu now he claims that she's an agnostic she's not really a practicing Hindu she's agn she's kind of agnostic in In the past she was a practicing devout Hindu according to himself but now he's changed his tune she is now an agnostic person and he hopes that she comes around to accepting his flavor of Christianity whatever it may be right but even if Usha converts to Christianity caves in gives in and converts to Christianity will that be enough for the Republican voters the problem is she will never be white right no matter how much she tries to become more and more American, convert to Christianity, uh, get baptized, go to church 78 times a week or whatever the hell it is, she'll not be white, she'll not be good enough, right, for the racists. So JD Vance, if he wants to be the president of the US in the future, maybe run for Porus in 2028 or whenever it is, then he may find Usha to be a liability. So what do you do about it? Well, if you're American, it's easy. You get divorced. The Americans, well, for them, divorce is a way of life, isn't it? Not like not like Indians where divorce is still a rarity and and matrimon alliance, husband, wife, that thing. It's it's essentially for life. That's how it's supposed to be. [clears throat] So, what could JD Vance do? Well, it's it's possible that he may divorce Usha. And it looks like from that hug that we saw, there may be a match that has already been made for him with Eric Khak, the the with the widow of that fellow, Charlie Kirk, who was shot about a couple of months ago. Just a couple of months down the line, she's already angling for a new guy. And if he does marry her, then he's going to be like the best candidate the the MAGA crowd can ask for because he is a Christian who divorced his wife because she's not Christian. that that makes him a hero and he marries a deeply devout apparently Christian woman Erica Kirk. So that will be a match made in heaven and a political match made in he heaven for him. So I think that that is a scenario that may actually unfold. Ankur white says India's digital sovereignty sold to open AI and AWS already. If you say so. Is it true? Open AAI, Amazon Web Services, there also Google. Um I hope the government is taking the right calls on these matters because when it comes to all the different kinds of sovereignty, one of the weakest points for India is digital sovereignty. I would not consider India to be digitally sovereign or technologically sovereign nation. Anonymous scientist says forecast for India Pakistan issue. Will India punish Pakistan without any provocation? Longer we wait the more difficult it will become for India. forecast. I think India it will be I hope I am completely wrong about this but I think India will not punish Pakistan without Pakistan doing some kind of provocation. I hope I'm completely wrong because like you say the longer we wait the more difficult it will become for India because the Americans the Saudis etc will will bolster Pakistan with arms ammunition weapon systems funds whatever right so the longer India waits the stronger Pakistan will become it's the stronger Pakistan's position will become but if India punishes Pakistan without provocation then India will be demonized India will be taken to to to the United Nations the UN will force a change issue a resolution condemning India maybe the Americans will will impose sanctions on India. So you see if we punish Pakistan without provocation then India could be hurt very badly by the Americans. The Americans may be waiting for India to do this. And the problem is that even if you punish Pakistan after a provocation the Americans will still try their best to stop India. So that's where we are. We are caught between a between the devil and the deep sea kind of between a rock and a hard place. And the government of India has to do what's right for the longerterm national interest of India, not the short-term interest. Maybe we have to swallow some short-term pain. What's my forecast? My forecast is that India will not do anything without provocation. I hope I'm completely wrong about this. Pratana says, "Will the US nuke the world if it gets nuked by Russia?" The US will nuke every single major country in the world, not just once, but completely flat out if it gets nuked by anybody. So not by anybody, by Russia or China. If the US finds itself in a position where it is on the verge of losing a nuclear exchange, it will launch an all-out nuclear attack on all the major countries of the world. The the logic is that if I go down, the whole world goes down. Nothing survives. So yes, they will do that. Critical critical says, did the US really train ravens to drop bugs and dolphins for spy missions? during cold war. Could gene editing and modern technology look make animal spies useful again? Let's take the first half of the question which is a separate question. Did the US really train ravens to drop bugs and dolphins for spy missions during the cold war? I am trying to figure out how can a raven which is a crow a crow is roughly this size depending if it's a mountain crow it's a large crow. If it's a regular crow, it's a smaller crow. A raven is a is a crow like bird. If you for the uninitiated, it's it's just a crow. So I'm wondering how can a raven drop a dolphin? A dolphin is well the standard issue dolphin is larger than than a human being. How can a raven drop a dolphin? My point is please phrase your questions properly. Okay. [laughter] I know that's but not what you asked. You asking whether the Americans trained ravens and dolphins to do various kinds of things. Yeah, I'm sure they did. Dolphins for sure. Ravens, I'm not really sure, but it's why not? Ravens are pretty intelligent creatures. Ravens are among the ravens and crows, all the corvids, they are among the smartest, the most intelligent birds around. So if you want if you want to to to to train birds to do various things, I would say the crows and the ravens and the corvett are at the top of the list. So I'm pretty sure they must have done that. And dolphins for sure they even trained dolphins and whales to to deliver explosive devices on suicide missions and the dolphins and whales obviously wouldn't know what what's going to happen to them. Yeah, they did that. Could gene editing in modern technology make animal spies useful again? They could very much do that. it they could even have all kinds of effects on human beings also. Yes, very much so. Rene Kumar says looking at the intents of countries what's the future cold war is the future a bipolarization of the world there's not going to be a multipolar world order there is not going to be a multipolar world order it's going to be a bipolar world order now what kind of bipolar on one side you're going to have the US and all its vas on the other side what do you have do you have China and vas like Russia and India or do you have ra even if you have ra who dominates it obviously China will dominate it so it looks like that's the that's the future I hope that's not the case I hope there's a tripolar world order with India somehow as a poll but it's very unlikely given the direction that India is taking not becoming a technologically sovereign nation not becoming a leader in AI not becoming a leader in the space race not uh revamping the education system not dealing with the alleged corruption India will remain mediocre this way so the future is a bipolar world order most likely with the US and China as the two poles and everybody else vasals buai says there were more than 100 million Germans in Eastern Europe today in its It's less than 1 million today. What happened to them? We do not speak about it. It is not supposed to be spoken about. What happened to all those Germans? 10 million Germans. Today it's less than 1 million. Where did the 9 plus million Germans go? No, we don't talk about it because that's after the Second World War. That's when the Allies had won. The Allies were the good guys. The Germans were the bad guys. So in case 10 million, 9 million Germans disappeared, they were bad guys. We don't talk about it. It was a genocide. Aramal Biju says, "What is the end goal of people behind power? Why create instability in small and emerging economies? Are there any powers resisting them?" What's the end goal of people behind power? To understand that to understand that we have to first ask ourselves what is power? What is power? Power means is it control? Is it money? What is it? So then a better way to ask ask this question is what's the difference between influence and power. Influence and power are not the same thing. They're very different. Maybe I am to some extent influential. Me I have what is it 949K subscribers on YouTube and I have what 200 something thousand on Twitter and so on. So overall if you add it up maybe maybe close to a million. So me so what it means let's say I have a million followers across the spectrum h subscribers followers what whatever you want to say what does it mean it means that when I speak some of them will pay attention sometimes yeah some of them subscribe to me because they think that I have something important to say some of them subscribe to me because they perhaps like me for some reason some of them subscribe because maybe I'm funny for them maybe I'm entertaining whatever so it means that if I so I have the influence over some kind of influence over 1 million It means they will listen to me sometimes. That's influence. What's power? Let's say I have 1 million slaves, highly armed, highly trained slaves who will unquestioningly obey my every command. Does that not make me a totally different beast from a guy with a with a 1 million subscribers? 1 million strong army who will do whatever I say. That is power. That is how do I get that? So why do I have the power? Because they will do exactly what I say without question, without hesitation. So I have complete control over them. Power is control. So if you want to do something alone, it's very hard. But if you have a million people doing everything for you, you can do you can make miracles happen. You can shape the world in your image, you can create the kind of world you want. That is power. It's addictive, I suppose, right? So some people desire it. So the end goal of people behind power is to control the whole world to have more and more and more power. That's essentially the end goal. People who who want power, the people who desire power, the people who have power and they want more, they essentially want to control the whole world. And to do that they will to achieve that they will try and do anything. Create instability, create wars, create strife, create create mayhem unless they are good people who want to use power for good reasons. In that case it may not be the case. Teen Talks Dharma says love you sir. I'm growing long hairless just like you will. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. I really appreciate that and all the best for your hair growth journey. Okay, Bishuai says I think choke points harmed Russia and the USSR a lot and India has been lucky that we don't have that problem. I completely agree with you. So what choke points is Bijai speaking about? Let me show you. Let's go to the map and let's understand what choke points we are discussing over here. So when it comes to Russia, let's go to the far east of Russia, which used to be the far east of the USSR. So see if you go to the north, okay, if you go to the northern parts of Russia, you will see, okay, this this photo was clearly taken in the summer. If you zoom out, you will find that these places are all at very high high latitudes and typically the oceans are frozen over here in winter. So you can't really have naval bases this high north. You need to have naval bases where the water is liquid and not frozen year round. Even if you go to a place like Vladivito, okay, Vladivito, even at the port of Vladivito, several months of the year the sea is frozen. So Vladivosto in this region you have a major Russian and formerly Soviet naval base because no further north there's no point having one. So they have a naval base here and to take your ships or aircraft carriers, so submarines out into the open sea, you have to either go past this choke point here, this narrow passage where the Russians, sorry, where the Japanese can keep an eye on what you're doing and Japan is occupied by America, so the Americans will do that. Or you can go through maybe here, which again is through Japan, and the Japanese will know exactly what you're doing. Or you can go through here once again over here. The Japanese and even the Koreans, South Koreans who are again under US occupation will keep an eye on what you're doing. So it's almost impossible for Russian activity to not be monitored. It's impossible for them to keep it secret, keep it stealthy. Massive problem with this choke point further north. It's impossible to have a major naval base because of the freezing problem. If you go westwards, okay, so if you go westwards, you have St. Petersburg, major naval place. Once again, if you want to go out into the open sea, you have to go through all these choke points where you where everybody will keep an eye on you. If you want to go north from the Baron Sea into the Norwegian Sea and so on, then once again, you have to pass through places where the Americans and the West can keep an eye on you. Um, if you are in the Black Sea, the Russians have a Black Sea fleet. The USSR also had the Black Sea fleet. If they wanted to go into the Mediterranean, they had to pass through two critical choke points, right? the straight of Bosphorus over here and also uh the other one after crossing the sea of Marmma the straight of Galipoli uh the D the Darden straight and once again you have to pass through the Asian sea the Ionian sea where you have all these Greek islands that are controlled by the US so you see the the Russians and the Soviets were completely choked off they were cut off through these island chains and that was a huge detriment for them. When it comes to India, we have no problem. We dominate the Indian Ocean region but we are a nation without any ambition whatsoever. At least our leaders don't seem to have any major naval ambition which is why India is a second great world power today. See we are lucky we don't have the problem but we are not lucky in in terms of the kind of leaders we have had in the past. Anonymous scientist says why MAGA supporters hate Indians so much. Pakistanis, Bangladesh and other ethnic ethnicities don't get similar hate. It's because Indians are mainly Hindus, polytheists. The Pakistanis, Bangladeshes, etc. They are Muslims and Abrahamic religion which doesn't get that kind of hate because they are people of the book. It's simply to do with Hinduism and Hindu phobia. That's all. And when it comes to other ethnicities like the Japanese, the Koreans who used to the Koreans used to be Buddhists, now they are mainly atheists or Christians, well that's good. And the Japanese are still mainly polytheists. Those of them who are not atheists, but the Japanese are under US occupation, so they are good. They're good boys. That's how it goes. Ankit Gupta says, why do nations to have Japan, Nihon, Iran, Persia, Germany, Deutseland, son, Sri Lanka, etc.? Is it just names or what's the origin of this India Bharat? When it comes to Japan and Nihon or Nepon, Japan is a name given by foreigners. What is India? It's a name given by foreigners, right? We are like India, India in a cricket match should be bat bat. But no, we are India India. We have become mentally coronized. So India is a name given by foreigners. Our actual name is Bharat. Similarly, when it comes to Japan, it used to be Nihon or Nepon. But Japan is a name given by foreigners. When it comes to Iran, well, that's a name that has been recently used for the country Iran Shahar. Historically, it was Persia. That's why we called the people who came from Persia Paresis from the land of Paris. Uh so that's a deal with Iran. Germany is a word. It's a name given by foreigners. The actual name of the nation is Deutscheland. Tlan son is a name given by foreigners. The actual name of the island is Lanka or Sri Lanka. That's how it is. So if you have two names, one is a name that's given by foreigners. And that's China. I'm Jeang Wo. Do you know that the real name of China is Jong Wo? It's not China. China. China. China. China. That's a name given by foreigners. So that's the deal. It's typically your own name and a name that foreigners use for you. That's how it is. [sighs] Anonymous scientist says, "Which country will soon feel the wrath of Uncle Sam? Nigeria or Venezuela? Any forecast?" I think both could very rapidly face the wrath of of Uncle Sam. See, these are both helpless nations. These are not nations that can mount any challenge to a US occupation, invasion, whatever to US attack. They could both feel the wrath of Uncle Sams soon. Venezuela maybe it has slightly more advantages than than Nigeria. Nigeria is a nation in Africa that's a very poor third world country. They have no defenses, nothing. If Uncle Sam decides to walk in this, Uncle Sam just walks in. There's nothing Nigeria can do about it. Nigeria won't dare to take any kind of action. Venezuela will try to defend itself. So, I would say that Venezuela is a little harder nut to crack for the US compared to Nigeria. But Nigeria is further away. Um, so what could happen first? What could happen first? I don't know. I can't say which is first. I in my opinion both could soon face the wrath of Angula unless Nigeria takes some actions against Boo Haram because Boo Haram has been running rampant in Nigeria and perpetrating all kinds of atrocities allegedly against Christians for a very long time and that's why Trump is unhappy. Right? So Christians obviously are the first citizens of the world today. So if that doesn't end soon then maybe maybe Trump will take some action. Venezuela it's a different different case. I can't say which will be first. Anakulkarni says thought on OG Cholukia are the are they and Solen is related. See today we're discussing geopolitics. We'll not discuss history in detail. Maybe I took one or two history questions by mistake. Chalukia there is the there is the Soleni dynasty in western India. There's the Chaloki dynasty in southern India. Are they related? Most likely they have some some kind of relationship. Yeah. So the Solinkas Solenis are called Chowukas today for some reason. uh maybe there's some reason good reason behind it but as far as I regard them I regard them as Solankis not as challas maybe there is some relationship okay Pratt Dana says how do we have AI based defense system by the US AI is being used in technology behind the scenes question mark missile accuracy also so show showed some AI in action [clears throat] Um is AI being used in Indian Indian um weapons? It's possible some form of AI is being used. You don't need very advanced AI. See the kind of AI that people are used to these days, the the consumers are used to is your uh generative AI, the chat GPD kind of things, right? you ask a question and it it generates a response based on probabilistic statistic probabilistic whatever thing right um that's the kind of AI that we are accustomed to as customers consumers but in military AI it's a whole different beast uh and it doesn't have to be that advanced so all you need see for example um the missile defense system the the air defense system that we have uh that was operational that was u that was seen in operation during operation Synindur which brought down all those Pakistani drules all those Pakistani missiles etc. I am sure that the targeting was not done by human beings. The targeting was done by computers. So those computers they are not really artificially intelligent computers. They [clears throat] have tracking tracking mechanisms. They typically will have radars that can track multiple targets at once. Right? And you can network all the guns that are part that have the to a bunch of radars. So each gun knows how many objects are intruding into your airspace and then there may be a collective computer that directs each gun individually so that you are not wasting your your ammunition on the single target. So that's not really AI. It's it'sworked. It's aworked system. It's not really you don't really need a very high level of artificial intelligence for that. You just need a powerful computer for that, you know. Uh so I don't think it's a proper AI based defense system. It's just a computerized defense system where the computers they track the targets and they direct the guns. They keep the guns aimed on the on on individual targets and fire at the right time. That is the deal. The missile accuracy well the missiles they have their own microchips on board and they have radars that keep on talking to the microchip. So it's like a miniature computer on board the missile. So as the missile is homing on on the target, the tiger target will take will take evasive action. Let's say you're trying to take down take out an aircraft fighter plane. Now the when you launch a missile and the missiles radar locks onto the target, the target will also know that it's been painted by by radar. So it's going to take action. It's going to take evasive evas evasive actions. It's going to deploy flares and whatnot. And the missiles computer will know what flares are like. So it will ignore the flares and keep on looking at the radar signature or the heat signature of the target itself. So the target maneuvers and the missile maneuvers behind it. So that's not AI. It's just the microchip and and the logic built into it. So you see that's the difference. So I'm not sure that we have proper AI systems right now. In case we do have them, I'll be very glad, but I am a little skeptical at this point. Kapi developer says to be human is to be skillful. The hope is to deploy these talents for meaningful contribution, making the world a better place for all. Well, that's the hope of a good person. If you are a good person, you want to deploy your talents for a meaningful contribution to make the world a better place. But if you're not a good person, you may deploy the talents for non-meaning contribution or contribution that's only meaningful for you, not for others. And you may make the world worse place. There are people like that too. Um, so yeah, to be a productive human being and a good human being, you you should be skillful. If you are skillful, you have something to offer to society, something good to offer to society. Yeah. So if you want to have a great life, if you want to be someone who feels happy with their contribution in the world, then you have to be a skillful person. You have to develop skills. If you have no skills, you will not have any sense of selfworth. You will not be confident. You will feel that you are not, you know, worthy of various things and so on. So you have to develop skills right and then you deploy those skills talents for meaningful meaningful contributions and make the world a better place as much as possible that well that's a fulfilling fulfilling life in my opinion so I agree with you sir Aries manticor says with the new USPakistan deal terror camps will now spread across Pakistan like poisonous mushrooms with instead of a few potent snakes it will be more decentralized and more integrated with Pakistan civil Pakistani civilians that's a possibility that's a possibility ilityworked terrorist camps, terrorist infrastructure, decentralized terrorist infrastructure. It's it was already the case in Pakistan because so many of the civilians have terroristic tendencies. But uh yeah, with if if the Pakistanis get significant US protection, this could proliferate more and it could become a real problem for Pakistan as well as India, for Pakistan as in the Pakistani civilians and for Afghanistan as well, maybe for Iran as well. So the sooner we deal with Pakistan, the better it will be for us. So your assessment seems to be dangerously correct. Yeah. Yeah. If you if you have the blessing and the protection of a major power like the US, then you can and if you're a terrorist nation, you can act with impunity and you can you know do exactly what you're saying. So yeah, that's that's a real danger for us and for all the neighbors that Pakistan has. Kapay developer says why are Indian companies not buying up GPUs? It's because Indian companies are not those companies that are not buying up GPUs are the companies that are not developing AI or not concerned about AI. Right now let's say you are a manufacturer of vehicles automoils. In that case, you don't need to buy up GPUs unless you want to uh develop cuttingedge automobiles, futuristic automobiles that will outperform everything else in the world and you want to to leverage AI to help you design and develop those. In that case, yeah, it makes sense. But Indian companies are they they use human designers who do things on with with pencil on paper and all that, right? So, yeah, it's India is mired in the past. India doesn't have any ambition. You have some people like Shrider Wimbu of Zoho who is taking this challenge head on. I'm glad to hear this. There are other companies that are taking the forefront in various other domains right in in infrastructure development not just in in India but outside of India and those companies are being targeted by by the US and and actors within India they are being maligned etc. And that's the case but overall India doesn't seem to have taken AI seriously at all. The US will develop AI we will use their products that's it. That's the kind of mindset the Indian companies have. The Indian companies don't have real leaders with any real vision. The only vision is to make money and and plate the shareholders. That's all. Rajendra Chula says, "You skipped two of my questions. I asked four questions." Well, if I see your questions, I'll take them, sir. I'm taking all the super chats one by one. All right, sir. Thank you. 6P70 Delta says, "Please take my super chat." Well, I just took your super chat. Am I skipping super chats? I think I'm taking every single one one after the other. So, I'm not sure what has been skipped. In case something has been skipped, I apologize. I am taking all the questions I'm seeing one by one. In case the system or maybe the platform YouTube is I don't know making not allowing me to see some super chats, there's nothing I can do about that. And for that I'll be I apologize in in case some have been skipped. All right gentlemen, ladies, I'm taking all the super chats I can see one by one by one. Right. Okay. James says, "We were just 30 million and your people more than 1 billion. How did we colonize your country? It just proves how weak and fragile your country was up for sale. Still is." So what James says is that the UK is 30 billion. We were more than 1 billion. Look, when it comes to the past, when it comes to the 16th, 17th, 18th centuries, India's uh population was in the in the vicinity of 300, 350 million. And the UK, I'm not sure what the population was, maybe 5 million or something, whatever. The point is that at the height at the height of the British occupation of India, there were about 20,000 British occupiers in India. If you include the families and all that, it will be close to a million British people in India. But the actual occupiers which means that the army and military officers and the uh civilian government officials if you add those [clears throat] up the British people it's about 20,000 at the peak of the British occupation of India. So 20,000 people men ruled over 350 million Indians. Right? What does it tell you? It tells you that nonviolence is such a lie. There are some individuals who pedled nonviolence to us. They said that we will defeat the British through nonviolence. What you did through nonviolence was delay our independence by several decades and allow the British to plunder India for several decades more. That's what nonviolence did. Let's say we had a leader in 1915. Okay, let's say 1915. And this leader gave a clarion call to all Indians. Tomorrow morning go out of your house, look for a British person. When you see a British person, kill that person. You may die in the process. That's fine. We have to sometimes die for our motherland. Your job is to go out, seek out a British person and kill that person. Only one person you have to kill and then go home. You your job is done. And if Indians had done that by the end of the day there would be not a single British person left in India because we are 350 million there are 20,000 at most and India would be within 12 hours independent. Is it unjust to kill your foreign occupiers who are murdering your your your people and plundering your country? Of course it's not unjust. It's perfectly It's perfectly legitimate to kill foreign occupiers. Kill them all. Right? So, it's because of leaders, fake leaders who pretend pretended to be your leaders but actually served the foreign master that 20,000 British men were able to rule over 350 million Indians because of fake leaders and because of the divisions that were swed in Indian society. Right. So yeah, India was super weak, super fragile and today it is even weaker and more fragile because of the divisions that have been swed in India and the divisions are being widened today. Lang linguistic divisions. My language and your language, your language is the language of enemies. My language is better. My people are better. Linguistic divisions, religious divisions. The the today the the British imposed cast system has been solidified. Everything is based on cast, reservations based on cast, votes based on cast, everything cast. So cast divisions now right north, south, east, west divisions, all kinds of divisions, foreign religions, Indian religions, Indian religions. Within Indian religions, you have other divisions that you want to create. Veshava versus Shvite, uh maybe Rajput versus X or Y or Zed. Everybody wants to fight each other. And the education system tells you that you all you have to do to win is to issue words. They will defeat you with words. My slogan is greater than yours. Indians don't understand what it means, what it takes to to be powerful. They don't understand the concept of power. They don't understand the concept of civilization. They don't understand the concept of national interest. All thanks to the education system. And why is the education system not being changed if it is so harmful? Maybe it serves some people. So, I am grateful to James for pointing these things out. I really appreciate you, James. Thank you, sir. Secret billionaire says what is actual power? What with what kind of strings can one control a nation or multiple nations? Okay. Let's say you want to control a city. Forget about nation, right? Let's start with the basics. Let's say you want to control your neighborhood. Let's say your neighborhood, let's say it's a village, okay? Village of 1,000 people. You want to control a village of 1,000 people and half the people are women. obviously and then you will have maybe 20% children. So it leaves you with 300 males, uh 200 kids and 500 women. That's the village. How do you control them? All you need is 20 thugs. 20 thugs who will terrorize the people or who can potentially terrorize the people. If you can control those 20 thugs, you can import them from somewhere and you give them some promises. We'll give you power. We'll give you, you know, we'll give you money. Whatever, whatever it takes. You know, human nature. If you understand human nature, you can have 20 thugs at your disposal. As as long as you have some money and you can give them some benefits, whatever benefits human nature seeks. So with 20 thugs, you can control a village of 20,000 especially who if they're Indians because Indians are nonviolent, right? So with 20 thugs or maybe 30 thugs, you can control a whole village of 1,000 people. Now let's say you have a town of 10,000 people. You may perhaps need 300 thugs, maybe 500 thugs. I think 500 is overkill. For Indians, 200, 300, 300 is enough. So for a for a town of 10,000 people, you need 300 thugs, gundas, hired gundas. For a city of a 100,000, you may need 3,000 gundas. For a city of million, you may need three need 3,000 gundas. That's how it works. Real power comes from the streets. If you can control the streets, you can control everything. You can control the votes. You can control the votes if you can control the streets. Do you understand? So power is about control. The more you can control, the more power you have. Once you get the votes, you go into you can you can control the laws. You can control how the money is distributed. You can control the budgets [clears throat] and so much more. What is actual power? The actual power is your ability to unleash violence on demand. You may never use it, but you need to have the ability to unleash violence on demand in a calibrated fashion wherever you want to apply it. That is actual power. That's the secret of power. Power is not a uniform. Power is not a seat somewhere. Power is fear. You won't fear somebody who is in a seat but who actually doesn't have the potential, the capability to unleash violence on demand or to unleash mayhem on demand or to ruin someone's life on demand. actual power is that like Maetong said political power flows out out of the barrel of a gun. So that's power. Ritik Vishnoi says when will Mr. Gandhi and Mr. Nehu's true image be shown to the people of India by the government of India? Do you see anything coming like this in the future? I see nothing like that coming in the future. No, nothing not going to happen. Sorry, I mean I don't have to apologize but yeah says since landing of Indian Globe Master C7 on Bagram air base a few days ago speculations are going on that the Taliban has offered control of Bagram air base to India. What is going on? Wouldn't it infuriate the US and we will have to face certain consequences? So, a few days ago, like you rightfully say, an image emerged on social media of a C17 Globe Master aircraft landing at what looks like very much the Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan, not very far from the capital Kabul. Now, the image that one sees, it is not something that can be definitively identified as an Indian aircraft. And it's got some other editing on the on the picture showing some some cartoon like Pakistani general running away or something. So that image has some edits on it for sure. Uh let's let's I'm not sure if I can find it. Anyway, uh the point is so it's it's not something that can 100% be verified as an Indian aircraft because the the image has edits and secondly you can't see Barati Vayena or anything on the aircraft as far as I saw. So I am not 100% convinced that first of all this is an Indian C17 that landed in Bram now. So that's number one. We're not sure. Maybe it's an old image of an American C7 that landed there because the Americans controlled Bram, didn't they? Right. And maybe the image has been modified to to a certain extent and edited to make it look like maybe it's an Indian one. Maybe. I don't know. But assuming it's an Indian C7, maybe there's a 10% probability that it's an Indian C7 that actually landed there. So assuming that probability is correct and it's assuming that it's an Indian aircraft that landed there, what what does it mean? It could potentially mean that India simply landed an aircraft there to to to uh deliver some supplies to Afghanistan because we are sending supplies from time to time to Afghanistan. We typically send it through Chabahar port or through some other route. Typically through through Chabahar port in Iran from which it is taken by road into Afghanistan. But that takes a lot lot of time. Maybe we needed to we needed to do to deliver something a little faster and that's why maybe we sent a C7 which is a pretty large aircraft which can deliver a lot of cargo. Maybe that's the case. Um and maybe that's the one air base that can take a plane of that size because it's a pretty gigantic aircraft. So that's another possibility. But what if the Taliban has actually offered control of Bagram to India? The question is will Taliban will the Taliban do that? See the Taliban are a PTO nationalist government. They are extremely allergic to any kind of foreign presence in their country. They fought for decades to to evict the Americans. Right? The Americans occupied Afghanistan for 20 years and the Taliban fought them consistently and it was believed that the Taliban are a Pakistani puppet. Well, [snorts] that's not the case and I had said this in 2021. The Taliban are not going to be Pakistan's friends. They're going to be India's friends. So, that has exactly happened. Now, so considering the fact that the Taliban are push nationalists and they have fought against foreign occupation of their country, will they hand over Bagram to India? They won't most likely they will not most likely but they may offer some kind of usage rights to India. Maybe India will be given permission to land aircraft there and maybe park aircraft there for some time as long as we don't take over the whole air base. That may be possible. They may allow Indian air traffic controllers to to train Afghan air traffic controllers and maybe to co-jintly operate or whatever as long as the sovereignty and authority lies in the hands of Afghanistan. So it may be a delicate kind of situation, delicately positioned situation where Afghanistan and the Taliban actually control the air base but it's kind of operated at least partially by India and that sort of thing may happen. So that is a possibility that is definitely up there. Now if that happens and if India starts partially operating this air base with the permission of the Taliban, what happens with respect to the US? Will it infuriate the US? It will very much infuriate the US. The Americans want the air base themselves. They want complete control of the air base all over again. The Taliban won't allow that obviously and that may cause friction and it may have consequences for the Taliban too. We'll see about that. Uh but if India starts partially operating it, jointly operating it or whatever, maybe the Americans will will will make life difficult for India also in some way or the other. Maybe you could have Pakistani action of some kind, maybe terrorist activity, maybe Pakistan tries and hits the Bram air base. You know, maybe Pakistani aircraft air strikes may try to hit Pak the Bram air base. Maybe Pakistan launches terrorist attacks on India, maybe an Afghanistan. So the Americans may weaponize Pakistan if India starts operating background or maybe something else. Maybe something more direct, maybe sanctions, maybe more tariffs, I don't know. So the Americans have lots of options in their arsenal when it comes to uh retaliating against India and Afghanistan or armwisting India. So if India does start operating BAM to some extent, we should expect trouble for sure. Vitic Vishno is a new member. Thank you so much sir. Thank you very much. Vive Singh says how much role a military-industrial complex can play in our GDP. India can easily share their missiles and ad export v varants to the buyers. Well, it depends on how GDP is calculated or obviously if you have major exports then your GDP rises. Uh so if you have highquality weapons that the world desires that the world seeks and if you're able to export these in large quantities in large volumes and that brings in major major foreign exchange into your country it can significantly grow over GDP significantly. Right? So yeah uh if if India becomes a major missile exporter let's say we export 10,000 missiles a year okay let's say that's a small number actually but let's say we're exporting 10,000 a year and each missile costs a million dollars so that's 10 billion of revenue coming into India which is not a big big deal actually but let's say we are we are bringing in a hundred billion dollars of revenue that is what percentage of India's GDP India's GDP is 4.5 trillion And 10% is for what? What? 10% of that is 450 million. So it's like it's like half of that 5% is about 225 million and half of that so it's about 2% of India's GDP grows if we have if you're exporting a hundred billion of missiles only. But let's say we are exporting $500 billion various of worth of various things. It's a 10% leaprog in our GDP, right? So that sort of thing. So the military-industrial complex, the more we are able to export and sell to other countries, the more our GDP grows clearly. So as you can see, it's it's uh it can have a major beneficial impact on our GDP. Blur says, is in is the US making way for other countries to get a nuclear bomb? I was wondering when will this question come? It's almost two hours and this question comes now. So the so Trump Mr. Trump the US president uh recently put out a post on social media saying that he has greenlighted nuclear testing by the United States nuclear testing nuclear weapons tests. So what does that really mean? He's saying that other countries are testing and the US has the world's largest nuclear arsenal which is which is not the case according to whatever the western outlets are saying. Russia is number one but he says America is number one and he's saying that other countries are testing apparently no one has tested a nuclear weapon but he claimed that that other countries have been testing it testing nuclear weapons so he has greenlighted American nuclear tests apparently so when it comes to Mr. Trump, we can't really tell what is what is the truth, what is hyperbol, what is fact, what is not. You can't really take his his words at face value. That's the kind of president you have today. Half the things he say makes no sense. So, is he actually going to have his military start conducting nuclear tests all over again? If that happens, I guarantee that Russia will immediately start conducting nuclear tests of its own. If that happens, I would say India should not be left behind. India should also test various kinds of nuclear weapons, whatever we need to test. So um so the US may be paving the way for other countries to start testing nuclear weapons. If they test, other countries will follow suit immediately. Right? That that is that is almost a guarantee. But are they paving the way for other countries to get nuclear bombs? I'm not sure about that. Not sure about that. But nuclear tests looks like that could be imminent if the Americans go ahead with tests. Vive Singh says Putin to visit India. Put Putin visit to India in December. India has reduced oil exports from imports from Russia. How can we still help Russia? Also US removed sanctions from Javahar. What's happening? The US has given a temporary extension on the sanctions on Chabahar. I don't know 6 months or something. So it means that every 6 months we have to go and beg the Americans. Please please sir, please give us another extension. That's blackmail. Okay, that's blackmail. They have not given any any big favor. They have not done any big favor to India. It's it's a continuing blackmail. It means we can keep we can keep on blackmailing you and you to keep keep on coming and begging us every 6 months. That sort of situation. So it it automatically signals to India that you are in an inferior position and we are in in an in a superior position. Now when it comes to oil exports and all it looks like India has somewhat decreased our the imports that we are oil imports from Russia. I'll have to see about that. Is it because of an US arm twisting? Is it because of oil prices? I'm not sure. But it's definitely it's not like we have ended the oil imports from Russia. We are still importing oil from Russia but it looks like there could be a decrease in the in the volume of oil that we are importing right. So we'll have to keep an eye on that and if if this has really happened and if there's a decrease significant decrease then it's not well it's not the greatest thing but Putin will visit India in December and let's see what we can do with that visit. That visit should not be just handshakes and hugs and nice talks and smiles and all that. It should be substantive and and something many things of actual substance need to come out of it. A visit is not for it's not for socializing, right? It's for achieving some objectives that cannot be achieved at lower levels. So the two leaders of the two countries should should take things forward. So what would I expect this visit to to produce? First of all, the Sukoy 57 deal. I would like that to happen, right? I would like India to manufacture so 57s within India. Maybe 100, maybe 200 of those at least. Set up a production line in a factory in India. Not just assembling but manufacturing those with [snorts] transfer of technology. Then maybe the S500, maybe some other things, maybe submarines, maybe maybe ships, maybe maybe various other kinds of weapon systems, maybe talk about other issues. So I would like to see substantive outcomes coming out from the uh visit of of of President Putin to India and that would be great right so that would be mutually see it's not like it's it's not about us helping Russia whatever happens has to be mutually beneficial it should help us it should help them so if we start if we agree to uh set up a Sukoy production line or multiple production lines sukoy 57 production lines in India up with transfer of technology it will not just help India it will also help Russia right because they will get the revenue we will pay for that but we will produce it over here so we get the aircraft they get the money and it's it's a win-win kind of thing we can even reexport it back to Russia that sort of thing so that's what I would like to see happen says AI in biological weapons seems to have been slept on by mainstream people have forgotten COVID pandemic imagine a newer more lethal virus AI design. Well, I assure you it's happening behind the scenes. You see, whenever there is a frightening epidemic that emerges in Africa, let's say for example, Ebola, you sometimes have these outbreaks of Ebola in certain parts of Africa. Quite rare, but it happens once or twice a decade. So, when there's an outbreak of Ebola in Africa, what do you see happen? You see a team of scientists rushing there from the United States. You also see a team of scientists coming in from China. They go into this region of Africa, this part of Africa where there is this most frightful epidemic that's raging. They go into that region, that very dangerous region with the objective of helping the people. Are they really helping the people? What they're doing is they're taking virus samples. Why are they taking virus samples back to their countries? to study them and potentially weaponize them. Secrecy in secrecy. Right? So the US, the Chinese, they have all kinds of viruses in their labs and obviously they are studying the viruses for various kinds of effect and maybe secretly they are you know editing those viruses because viruses are essentially genetic ideas. Viruses are somewhere on the dividing line between alive and dead. They're neither quite alive, they are neither quite dead. Viruses, they they have some of the properties that crystals have, but they also have some of the properties that living beings have. One of the main properties is that they have DNA. Some of them have RNA, but they don't have full-fledged DNA. They've got bits and pieces of DNA. They are like genetic ideas. Some are good ideas, some are terrible ideas. The terrible ideas are very dangerous. So you can take those ideas and take them forward further further forward further what whichever right and once you have AI you can exponentiate that process yeah so obviously this is something the media won't report this is something that happens behind utmost secrecy but it's happening but it is indeed happening Rajendra Chula says Russians see India at par with Africa, Africans, dirty, gross, etc. You say, you said we saved Russia from China. Similar propaganda in Central Asia. Who is doing this? Russia ungrateful. Look at a government to government level. We have the best relations. We have the best strategic relations. We have a significant element of trust between India and Russia. When it comes to the common person, they see it they see us from the eyes of whatever is reported in the media. Maybe the Russian media also has been guilty of of portraying India in a certain way in the past. But are they portraying India in an inaccurate manner is what we have to ask ourselves. Is India a super clean country? It's not. It's not. Am I lying to you? Have you been to India? Is India's infrastructure fantastic? If you're a tourist, do you is is your experience fantastic when you come to India? If you're a tourist, you have to go through immigration in India. Let's say you've come on come in from a cruise ship. Do you have any idea how much trouble you're put through just to get your passport examined and stamped? You to stand in the sun. There's only one or two passport officials for for a whole shipload of passengers. The other stalls are empty. Just one or two bored looking passenger, you know, officials. And you have to have your luggage checked 23 times. Then you have to deal with the traffic jam. You only have 6 hours or 8 hours to see the city, but 4 hours are gone just through the process. And then then you are then you get into the bus and you have a traffic jam. And then you will see the cops ask allegedly asking for bribes for your driver or whatever. You will see all kinds of terrible things. You will see the garbage on the roads. You will see the crumbling infrastructure. You will see potholes. If you see a river, you will smell the river. Are these issues that don't really ex that don't exist in India? These are real issues. So why are Indians getting upset that these issues are being reported by some people? Some people prefer to see the good side of India. Some people prefer to see the bad side of India and some people see everything there is. And if you go to Russia, you will see Russia is far better than India mostly. So if Russians travel to India, they will obviously not be happy with what they see. So is is it Russia Russian people being ungrateful? My point is we have to be realistic. India is a third world country with lots of problems and people will report that some people will like India and they will try to report less of that but overall people will report that and there are plenty of these third rate westerners who come to India only to visit slums and all that. My point is why do slums exist? Why do every why does every city allegedly have these slums? Why are these slums legal? When the slums started, were they legal? I mean, let's not even go into these things, right? That's the point. Please understand. Rajendra Chula says EU, US getting two-year visas for being BFGF. If they get married, they get lifelong. How does China protect their country against spies? EU, US getting two-year visas for being boyfriend, girlfriend. If they get married, they get lifelong where in China or somewhere else? I'm not sure exactly what you're asking. Are they getting visas in the EU, in the US, somewhere else? And what is the relationship of of of this of of of of this here with with this? How does China protect the country against spies? They they uh keep an eye keep an eye on everyone who enters the country. They don't trust anyone. Everyone is spied upon. Everyone is trailed. There's electronic surveillance everywhere and so much more. So the Chinese know how to defend their country unlike India. Arismantic horse says are we going to witness a new age of overt nuclear testing. Will we also see the rise of Pakistan like US proxyinations with nukes like Japan, South Korea, Saudis etc.? If the Americans go ahead with nuclear testing then we will see other countries immediately going forward with tests. If the US conducts tests then immediately the Russians will conduct tests and I hope that we don't wait for 3 months before we test because India has been a very reactive nation historically. I'm not saying recently historically we have been a super reactive nation. Our foreign policy historically has been super reactive. Nothing proactive about it. So I hope that the if the Americans test nuclear weapons, we will immediately on the same day test nuclear weapons before anybody can start warning others not to test. So if the Americans test, we will see multiple nations potentially going ahead and testing. Maybe the French will test if they have if they still have self-respect, right? The Russians will definitely test. Maybe even the Chinese will will test. So we should not get left behind. Now will we see the see the rise of Pakistan like US proximations of nukes? Will Japan get nukes? Well, Henry Kissinger said a year before he died, few months before he died that within 5 years, Japan will be a nuclear powered country, nuclear weapon country, nuclear weapon power. So when did he die? Like 2 years ago. So maybe in 3 years, Japan, if he's right, could have nuclear weapons. South Korea, I don't know. Saudis uh it's possible if Kissinger was right, then Japan will soon have nukes. And Japan is kind of a shadow nuclear power anyway. They have some of the best technology in the world, right? Some most of the technology is better than what the US has. But the Japanese aren't allowed to use the technology for their own benefit because they are under US occupation. But if the Americans give them the go-ahhead, they will they can develop nuclear weapons like next week. So Japan is a shadow nuclear power. They can have it soon. Uh South Korea will need American help for that. Maybe, maybe not. It may happen. Saudis only have to pay some real to the Pakistanis and they will have a few nuclear weapons. So it could happen in the next 5 years potentially. AJ Sharma says governments change, rules change. In the end only my freedom and my own asset matters. Is true personal sovereignty is still possible today or no? It's not possible. Nope. Not possible. Why is it not possible? You don't you don't really control currency, do you? You use currency that's issued by your government or somebody else's government. You have to abide by the rules that they lay down. They can punish you if you don't abide by the rules. They can punish you if you break the rules. They can punish you if you fail to, you know, uphold certain obligations. Um, in India, you don't even have the right to personal property. It's not a it's not a fundamental right. Um if you have let's say property in the wrong part of the city or the wrong part of whatever and they want to construct a bypass highway or whatever through it they're going to demolish it. They will give you some other property somewhere else as as compensation but it may not be the same quality location wise etc. So true personal sovereignty is not possible today. It's not the individual. As long as you abide by all the rules and all that, you will have a reasonably independent life but not a sovereign life. Right? So individual sovereignty it's not possible today. It never has been possible unless you were a hunter gatherer or whatever. In that case you were you had personal sovereignty but you did have you did not have any of the benefits of living in a society. That's always a give and take kind of thing. Kunal Krish says SpaceX mission to build a moon base called Audacity. What are my thoughts? I commend the vision of Elon Musk. The man has a vision and he is making it happen. Space B space space X is in a position where they could launch a Starship rocket to to the moon very soon and the Starship rocket can carry I don't know how many at least a 100 tons of material into Earth orbit and a few Starship launches is will definitely be enough to set up a proper moon base and he's going to call it audacity. So I commend what Elon Musk is doing and the US is so incredibly lucky to have someone like him. And what are my other thoughts? We are completely left behind in the space race. India India is no longer even a participant. It looks like when was the how many launches do we have every year? What are we doing? We have some of the best engineers and scientists in this world. But what what are what what use are they being put to? What great challenge have been have they been issued? You have to issue people a great massive challenge that is almost not achievable humanly. That's when you get get the best out of people and obviously you go you've got to pay them well. What great challenge does is has ISRO been given today. I don't know what sort of what our leadership is doing with ISRO. So anyway, good for the US, good for the good for SpaceX. They're going to lead the world in the space race and they're going to lead the world in the century it looks like and India doesn't seem to have the willingness to participate. 6P70 Delta says your opinion on MIG31 and its face off with NATO Italian F-35s in Estonia airspace and US purchase of old Mig 31s from Kazakhstan. I am not aware of this incident that you are referring to. Uh Mig 31 face off with F-35s, NATO F35s, Italian F-35s in Estonian airspace. So if this sort of faceoff happened in Estonian airspace, let's look at the map so that we understand what we are dealing with. Where is Estonia? It's a Baltic nation. All right, let's go and zoom in very quickly instead of taking you slowly through it. This is Estonia. It's a nation that used to be part of the USSR. It's just west of St. Petersburg, you know, and if there was an incident where Russian Mig 31 faced off with F-35s from NATO. Well, that's interesting. It means Russia is pushing the boundaries now and it's issuing warnings to other countries, countries that are aligned with the West that uh yeah, it's it's warning essentially. It's a warning. Now, I'm not sure what was the outcome of uh this face off because I'm not aware of it. And US purchase of old big 31 from Kazakhstan. Well, it's a smart move. If I was the US, I would also purchase Russian weaponry, weaponry that Russia is currently using from wherever it's available. So that you understand the machine very well. So what you do is you purchase a MIG 31 from let's say Kazakhstan, which will make Putin very unhappy with Kazakhstan first of all, but that's a different story. You purchase the machine, then you put your engineers and test pilots to work. you your engineers first of all underscore understand the entire functioning of the of the machine and then you have your test pilots take it for a spin. So once your test pilots get get the hang of how to fly this thing, then you have dog fights and whatnot with your with your F-35s or other aircraft with your test pilot flying the big 31 so that your fighters, your your your pilots know exactly how to deal with this thing. Makes a lot of sense. Literally officer cases. Why is secularism so successful compared to religious governments? A classic case is Malaysia versus secular Singapore or secular Turkey versus Pakistan. Secularism is mainly a slogan unless it is in India where it is very literally hindophobia. So let's take Malaysia versus Singapore. Singapore is a secular nation. Sure. And it is way more successful than Malaysia. Why is it way more successful? Singapore is also historically way more successful than China. China is not secular but it's an atheistic country which is well kind of like secularism right? So Singapore is successful because it's a city state. It's tiny. You want to turn something around the smaller it is the faster it turns right? So Singapore and Malaysia, you can't really compare. Malaysia is much larger, but Malaysia is now today on the verge of becoming a first world nation. That is success. Turkey versus Pakistan. It has nothing to do with secularism. Turkey is an Islamic country even if they are technically secular. Pakistan is a third rate country that is run by a mercenary government which is nothing but the Pakistani military. That's why Pakistan is not successful. It has nothing to do with secularism. So this is the propaganda that is fed to us that so and so thing is is success is is is responsible for success when it's it's a whole different set of factors. Pakistan is a failure because it is a dictatorship. It's a military dictatorship. The military doesn't care about their people their their country. They are willing to sell the country off peace by piece. And that's why Pakistan is a disaster and because they have adopted terrorism as a state policy. That's why Pakistan is a disaster. Turkey hasn't done those things. It has nothing to do with secularism. Malaysia, Singapore, Malaysia, the size difference is the is the reason for the difference. But Malaysia still is now on the verge of becoming a first world country. So that is success. So please understand it's nothing to do with secularism. YAT says Israel launched a new communication satellite today. Really? Really? Israel launched something today? Well, I'm so glad. How is it significant geopolitically? I have no idea. I have not aware of this launch. How can India now give live updates, maps to armed forces during a conflict conflict? No, I don't know what the satellite is about. I have not seen the news. See, I am not a news surfer. I am not a journalist. I am the last person who can be called a journalist. A journalist and a news surfer and a news reader is a person who will keep on watching the news and who will report the news live to you as it happens. I don't do that. I don't look at what happened today or yesterday. I look at things from from a macro perspective. What happened in the last week, what happened in the last month? I analyze that. I don't care about what's happening right now. Latest update. I don't care about the latest updates. If it's important, I'll know about it eventually. So, I don't know what this new satellite is. If it's a communication satellite, what manner of communication satellite is it? We could quickly take a look at uh the news headlines. What's it say? Okay, let's go to Google. ISRO launch. Let's see what's it. Heaviest communication satellite CMS03. Bahubali rocket. Well, let's not give this weird slogans. Baloo Bahubali rocket. It's a medium launch rocket at best. But anyway, so LVM3 M5 launch, ISRO shoots off India's heaviest communic communication satellite on the largest on the most powerful rocket that we have. Uh spectacular display etc. heavyweight rocket. Uh the heaviest satellite is 4,400 kg. Okay. It's in a geostrynchronous transfer orbit. Uh all of that that's fine. Fantastic. What is the but what does the satellite do? Please let us know that too. LBM3 blah blah blah blah blah blah pertinent etc. CMS03 multiband communication satellite. It will provide services over a wide oceanic region including the Indian land mass services to whom? Okay. Gat 7R is it the CMS03 is it Gat Gat 7R? Maybe it's two names of the same thing. advanced most advanced communication satellite. It's developed for the Indian Navy. Indigenously designed and developed uh etc. New generation of state-of-the-art components. Operational needs of Navy. Uh multiband transponders that support high speed voice data video communication links. Secure and uninterrupted connectivity between the Navy submarines, ships, aircraft and maritime communication centers. It will play a p pivotal role in integrating India's expanding network of maritime surveillance and communication assets. All of that all weather conditions mission critical communication subsurface surface aerial platforms force multiply all that stuff. Okay. Realtime awareness. Okay. So it's a naval satellite. It's a satellite that is that is intended for helping the navy communicate. It will allow the Navy to see the battle space in a more integrated fashion. It'll allow the various assets of the navy to to communicate with with each other in real time. So if you have a submarine, if you go if you got a a frig, if you have a destroyer, if you have something else, aircraft carrier, and all of these ships, they all have their own sense of what's happening, and you can all upload all of that to the satellite. It'll give each of these assets an integrated picture of the battle space. It'll allow all of them to communicate with each other in real time, video, data, etc., and that sort of thing. It's good. It's a good good uh step forward, right? So, it is significant geopolitically because it it gives more teeth to the Indian Navy, right? Good. Glad to see this. And I'm glad to see this large rocket taking off successfully and launching a satellite and placing it into orbit. Good. Rick Rywick says, "Please recommend top books for learning the history of Manipur in depth. I have no idea. I I don't know any see if you want to study the history of Manipur there are various books written by the British one is Grimwood Estel Grimwood or whatever okay that's a British view of Manipur um Manipur Grimwood Ethel Grimwood yeah okay her husband was the political officer political agent in IAL and he was killed by Manipuri freedom fighters Okay. Three years in Manipur and escape from whatever escape from the recent mutiny by Ethel St. Clare Grimwood. So that's that's a book about Manipur written from the perspective of a British woman whose husband was a political agent who was killed by the Manipuri freedom fighters. Uh there is that. What else? The another one is the Chaitar Kumbaba. Um one second Chaitar Kumbaba. I'm not sure if it's in print anymore. This is the royal chronicle of the kings of Manipur. And it gives you the history of the kings of Manipur of the past 2,000 years. All right. 2,000 years of Manipuri of the history of Manipuri kings. It may be available on the internet archive. Let's see if the full text is available or only a partial text. Maybe the full text is available. I'm not sure about the quality of the text and so on. Yeah, it's in it's in Manipuri but in the Bengali script it's not a translation into English. Okay. So that's going to be an issue for most of us. Is it available on Amazon? It is currently unavailable. So if you can get your hands on this, it can be really useful. Uh apart from that I am not really sure. There are all kinds of recent histories written by god knows what people including people who are not manipuris but claim to be manipuris. In that case it's it's going to be super distorted history of Manipur. So I can recommend these two books. One is a pretty completely Anglocentric perspective written by that lady Grimwood and the other one is the Chhataral Kumbaba the the Chronicle of the Kings but it doesn't seem to be in print. That's the issue anyhow. And please continue the book recommendations in your study 8 hours live streams as you've done previously. Well, I'm no longer doing those 8 hour live streams, right? So, how do I continue the book recommendations? What I can do is I can make clips of those book recommendation segments and upload them to the channel. I'm sure it'll be perhaps useful to many of you. Uh, apart from that, I'll see maybe in the future I could perhaps do more book recommendation videos separately. I'll see. Okay. Sid says, "How can how India how can India win an AI war when necessary hardware is controlled by the US? India may have software talent, but hardwares like GPUs, it's still owned by the West." Well, you see, we will have to develop all this capability ourselves. There's no other option. We have to develop all of this ourselves. We need to manufacture the hardware ourselves. We need to set up semiconductor manufacturing in India. uh chip manufacturing in India. We need to start making all these chips our on our own. It'll take us 10 20 years otherwise we will be completely dependent on outsiders and they can cut off the supply whenever they feel like. There is no other option. We are late. We have been sleeping. We could have been one of the pioneers of AI of chief development. If the uh if those fac that factory that was that was in operation in the what 1980s 1990s it was not destroyed burned down mysteriously and never revived. So our own people do these things to us right? So anyway we have been sleeping we are we are perennially reactive and that's why we are currently so far behind right now. There's no way that India can in the near future win any AI war. But in the next 20 years, let's see. We could perhaps be a be somewhere in the race. Maybe in the next 10 years if we get things right. Right. Okay. I suppose that's about it for the super charts. We are almost at two and a half hours. Uh IM artistic says we reached 8 nanometers in 6 months from 21 nanometers in chips. So that is significant progress. significant progress and that is very encouraging to see. So let's let's hope we keep on making very rapid progress and uh let's be positive about it. Let's be optimistic and maybe then in a few years maybe two three years we'll be somewhere somewhere you know in in in the race. So I hope it does happen that way. I hope it does right. Let's not be all doom and gloom and negative. Let's be positive. Let's be optimistic. Okay, gentlemen and ladies, thank you very much. Ritik P says, "My two super chats missing." Well, you see my dear friend Ritwick and whoever else who have faced this issue, I have taken every single super chat that is visible to me. So, in case some super chats were swallowed by YouTube, I am sorry about that. But there's nothing I can do about it, right? I apologize. But I have taken every single one. I was supposed to end this live stream bit in two hours but I always take it I always extend it until I answer all the super chats. So sorry about that and uh hopefully next time this doesn't happen. Hopefully next time YouTube is more cooperative. Okay. All right. Let's let's end this here. Thank you so much. Next weekend I am going to be traveling. I'm going to be in Jaipur. So next weekend I will not be able to do the ask Abhabijit live streams. Would you like me to do a live stream on Wednesday which is way before the weekend? If that's something you would like, I'll be happy to do it. Let me know in the comments below and I look forward to seeing you in the next live stream. Maybe I will take questions and maybe I will put out an Ask a Ask a Widget episode that is recorded but it still takes your questions. a spade. Yes, Japur dialogues. So, okay, I will do a live stream on Wednesday then. Okay, one day before I leave. I look forward to seeing you there. Thank you so much everybody. Thank you for everything. Thank you for your viewership, for your questions. Keep learning. Mary Kane, thank you very much. Mahita Bushi, thank you so much. Yes, Jaipur dialogues. Yes, I I'm going to be there. In case any of you are going to be in Jaipur, I will be very pleased to meet you there. All right. Uh so, let me know. Take care everyone. Thank you so much and I look forward to seeing you in the next one. Keep learning, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards. Thank you.