Yeah. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to episode 256 of the Ask Kabijit show. I hope you're all doing very well. I just came in over here from the previous live stream which was geostrategy episode 4. I suppose many of you would would have come in from there as well. So uh before we get going let me just take a look at who all is there on the live stream. Okay let me take this comment before I greet everybody. I can see Sonia Sha saying I just migrated from the excellent geio strategy briefing. Thank you as always Abijit and your team for all the hard work. Thank you very much. But let me just uh put this on the record. There is no team over here. This is a oneman show. So there is no Abijit and team. It's just Abijit who does this. All right. Okay. Let's take a look at who all is there on the live chat. Let me greet some of you. read some of you. I can see kanesh koshik nabanita das dyangi dongrikar uh dongrikar makavin vikas pj suas redi truthful penguin arush sha shivasai aayoshav Ichino spai bijes sk nishant t abhinash acharia shreas mitra chat dsp sujit sha shaagandha goes ki devourer of worlds geopolitical Dubai from Indor by Vanos spot behikar Manisha Kardoso Vidiar Pariji Jadikshit Delta OG vintan Vintan says Vimla Chodri who else koshik Sumit Agarwal Rahul Dunak Abin Acharia again Vishu Kumar Kanesh Sai Sasank Keshav Misra Mishra Uh who else do we have? Uh let me see who else we have. S sh Red Ready Keshav Sharma Bandekar Bhoji Makav again Keshav Suyash Manisha Matei Moji Pio Africanus. Okay. Uh, Orbit and Markets, Spart Patel, Vincent, Vega, Yashika, Jet, Milani, Chat, DSP, Echo and Lone Walker, Manger, Pradhan, Ripon, Xenomorph forces, Super Rex, Karan, Nalawat, Mastermind, Edtopia, U, Ankita, Sonia, Saagan, Chirai, Priyanka, Javalia, Synica and so many other people. So, thank you so much for being on the live chat. I won't be able to greet you all otherwise it'll just go on forever. So let me take some of the questions and let's see what we have. Let's start with this one. Kumar Kaneshka says as India is ending red corridor in central India and cracking down NOS's and their funding to stop minding in the stop meddling in the internal affairs of the country. Is this the re reason why Pakistan and Bangladesh is getting geared up against India by the US? Yes, of course. Look uh how do you keep a nation down? How do you keep a nation from growing? How do you keep a nation from pro progressing? You create all kinds of internal problems in the country. Right? So that's what foreign powers have invested in within India for decades. They have invested in various terrorist uh movements. The Kalistthan movement, the the Kashmir terrorism, the various terrorist infra insurgencies that you've had in the NXelite belt and so on. You had the various you had the LTT thing. Then you had various secessionist uh movements in various parts of the far east of India northeast. Every state had multiple uh secessionist out outlets and so on so forth. Right? Some of these were were indigenous indigenously homegrown because of complete neglect by the government of India. But then foreign powers stepped in and and funded some of them. That's also there. So foreign powers have been doing this for a very long time. And then they have been funding uh industrial scale conversions to foreign religion religions in India. So all of this has been done for a very long time in India and uh now that India has successfully cracked down on many of these these these activities. Uh there is no more any there's no Kalistthani insurgency anymore in Punjab. The Kashmir situation is very much very strongly under control. um the naxelite situation is is on the verge of being uh resolved and so on. So obviously when when we are able to control all of this and we are able to resolve these these problems then the foreign powers which want to restrict our rise they will look at other alternative uh solutions to the to to alternative ways of keeping India down. So that's where East and West Pakistan come in and that's why you know Bangladesh is getting more and more uh US support. Bangladesh is is cooperating with Pakistan and and synergizing with Pakistan. Pakistan seems to be receiving a lot of US support these days. It's very visible. Trump's companies are investing in Pakistan in crypto and whatnot. There are US uh it looks like the Nurh Khan air air base has been taken over by the U by the United States and Pakistan is getting huge IMF and World Bank bailouts and Bangladesh is also getting support from other countries like China and so on. So you can see the US and and China see eye to eye on on on one thing which is the need to keep India down. So you are right Kumar Kanesh this is the reason why Pakistan and Bangladesh are being uh leveraged against against us by the US as well as China. Na2 cara okay China/west using social media to amplify hest uh and amplify hate between Thai and Kir people on the border over a Hindu temple a Shiva temple Tik Tok is spreading anti-Indian sentiment through unsavory content in Latin America and West Africa how to counter this interesting points that you've raised So yeah, this is not a very important matter from a global geopolitical geostrategic perspective which is why I have not discussed the the kair temple issue but uh why don't we discuss this this matter there's this border dispute that's going on between uh China between I'm sorry Cambodia and Thailand and it's a long-standing border dispute that these two nations have and they've almost gone to war a couple of times over this one temple. So let us go to the map and uh let me show what this is all about. Cambodia and Thailand, two of our friendly nations, nations that were for the longest time part of the indosphere. They still are. Okay. So here we have this nation called Thailand. And then we have Cambodia. They as you can see they have a they have a significantly long border. Now let's search for Priya Vihar Temple. and let's zoom in. So now first let's zoom out to know exactly where this is. Okay. So this is where this temple is located. This is a 1,000-year-old Shiva temple which was built by Kir King Surya Surya 1 and Surya Wman 2 if I'm not mistaken. Uh and let's uh look at the satellite image. So there are gopuras over here. And this is a pretty big temple complex. It's 1,000 years old. It is ruined. It is ruined. As you can see, it's the it's it's in the shape of an ancient Hindu temple. A typical Hindu temple layout. And here you have another Gura and all. As you can see, it was a very big complex back in the day. And I suppose you can zoom in over here and you can see what this this uh structure looks like. As you can see, it is it's in very bad. It's in a very bad shape of disrepair. It's very old and it's in ruins. Now, let's go back to 3D imagery. Let's reorient ourselves. And as you can see, this is on top on top of a hill-like structure. It's it's kind of a hilly. It's on top of a hill. Now, this area this is disputed between Thailand and Cambodia. As you can see, some part of it is in Thailand, some part of it is in Cambodia. Uh Cambodia is the nation of the is the nation of the Kare people. So technically Cambodia says this should be ours but Thailand says this this temple should be ours. So it's a deeply revered Shiva temple that both nations claim. Uh there is no strategic use to this temple. It has no strategic importance or significance. The reason both nations want it is it's is because it's a very old, very highly revered Hindu temple. Both nations are supposed to be Buddhist countries today. H but both nations have nearly gone to war over this temple. Um and apparently China and the West are using social media to amplify hate between the two nations over this over this temple, the Priya Vihar temple. Um so yeah that's about the temple but you can see how social media can be weaponized over these things and as you say Tik Tok is spreading anti-India sentiments through uh unsavory um reels etc in Latin American countries and in western Africa you know uh making these these parody videos of extremely unhygienic Indian food preparation perpetally by Indians or or what Bangladesh is pre pretending to be Indians, Indians and so on so forth. And they're putting out these reals and these video clips on Tik Tok and this is creating an impression in these countries that India is extremely unhygienic country with super low standards. Right? This is being done by Tik Tok. Tik Tok is owned by China. So how do we counter this? Well, there's my question is why don't we have our own social media platform? The US has all its social media platforms. The Chinese have Tik Tok. Why hasn't India invested in a social media platform or some kind of platform or a news platform of its own? Why is the government of India completely clueless and unwilling to take any action on this? Why? I I don't get it. I've been saying this for at least four years. India needs its own equivalent of the BBC, the CNN or or or what what the Middle East has in Al Jazzer. The Chinese have Global Times and CCTN and whatnot. Every nation has a global news outlet. India has nothing. India is the fourth largest economy in the world. The Indian government has super deep pockets, but it's simply not interested in doing this. As a consequence, everybody just walks over India in the war of narratives. India doesn't have a social media platform of of its own. And that's why people can spread any kind of nonsense on the Chinese social media platforms, the on the American social media platforms about us. How can we counter this? Well, we will have to fight the war on these foreign platforms. So, Indians should make their own reels showing how wonderful India is. and we are more in number right so if if let's say 10% of Indians or let's say 1% of Indians do this h so out of 1.4 4 billion. If 14 million Indians put out one reel in a week, then you will have 14 million reels. Okay, looks like there was some kind of connection issue, but we are back. I think I was talking about social media and the need for India to have its own social media and looks like someone did not like it very much and which is why it kind of Yeah. Well, that's interesting, isn't it? Okay, so yeah, once again, where was I? I kind of lost that that comment I was talking about. Anyway, I I hope I kind of answered that. Okay, we go on to the next question by Zan HZ Gaming. With will the LA anti-eportation riots become national or out of control? Does the amount of support for illegals and foreign flags at protests show that America is losing control of land taken from Mexico? Well, Los Angeles is land taken from Mexico for sure. uh there's a whole u history behind this in which I have which I have kind of discussed or I am in the process of discussing it in u the understanding America podcast but let's take a look at this let me put the put the map on the screen when you talk about uh land taken from Mexico I don't think most people today will understand what we mean by that so let's let's go to the maps let's go to the map let's go to the US now you have these two nations. In North America, you have three nations. You have Canada, you have the US, and you have Mex Mexico. And in Mexico, you have this place called Baja California. This entire long region is called Baja California. Why is it called Baja California? Because it's part of the larger California region. If you look at California in the US, you will see these these cities which have Spanish names. San Diego, Santa Monica, Santa Barbara, San Jose, San Francisco, Sacramento, Los Angeles, Las Vegas and so on. All these lands were part of Mexico. Then you have Arizona, Phoenix, uh sorry. So even Arizona was part of of uh Mexico. And when it comes to Nevada, Nevada also most likely if I recall was part of Mexico and so was New Mexico, Albuquerqueke and so on and so forth. So and even DeAs, Texas. So a lot of this territory belonged to Mexico. It was taken, it was annexed by the US in the middle of the 19th century in the US Mexico war and they gave a little bit of money to Mexico to make it official, you know, to make it sound legal like we've not stolen your land but we've paid you for it. That sort of thing. And they took all this land from Mexico. So it's stolen land, annexed land, but they won it in a war. So they say it's it's by right of conquest that they have it. And the whole continent was stolen from from the natives by massacring them, genociding them, and putting the rest in concentration camps which are called reservations. So that's what the US is. That's the kind of nation it is. Now uh so that is about uh the stolen lands. That's that matter. Now, will these LA anti-deportation riots spiral out of control? Will they become a national issue? Well, it depends on how much political support they have. If the Democratic Party decides to support the this issue, then this could spring up everywhere in the country. The Republicans don't support this. The Democrats support immigration and all that. We know what the Biden administration's policy was just a few months ago. They had opened the southern border with Mexico those past four years and they allowed as many illegals to as as as they wanted to come into the country and now Trump's Trump's admin administration is trying to deport these illegals. So Biden allows a few million to come in over four years. Now Trump is trying to reverse that and send them all out of back out of the US. Incredible what's going on in the US. I mean what sort of seessawing of policy is this right? Um so whether the riots become a national issue, whether they go out of control depends on the the approach of the Democratic party. If they support it, this could very much become a national issue and this could very much spiral out of control. Um does the amount of support for illegals and foreign flags at protests show that US is losing control of land taken from Mexico? I don't I don't think it's losing control of the lands taken stolen from Mexico, but it looks like there is a significant percentage of the US population close to 50% perhaps that is in favor of opening the borders and allowing illegals to come into the country. Looks like that. So the people who vote for the Democrats, they typically are in favor of immigration and opening the border and so on so forth. So that is close to 50% I would say. So yeah that's that's that's true that is real. Uh Baratia says how long do you think how long do you feel it will take for the Indis waters treaty obeyance to show real effects on Pakistan as hydro projects are long-term measures? How to further fasttrack our gain of control besides defense upgrades? Um so look this is a slow burning thing and the longer this remains in force the obeyance or whatever you want to call it the more and more it's going to start pressurizing Pakistan uh see we have a number of runof the river projects that are already operational by which we can even according to the the indust treaty itself according to the treaty itself we can use some of the water hold it in reservoirs for some time and then release it back. That itself can have a certain effect. It can it can make the flow of water to Pakistan unpredictable. So sometimes we can withhold water for for a significant amount of time and then we can release it all at once. So Pakistan doesn't get to use it properly. That sort of thing. And then we have other dams that are currently being constructed that that will be able to hold even more water. So there's a number of dams. One will become operational next year. Then there's going to be more becoming operational by 2028, 29, 2030, 2031. And now we're going to start multiple new projects I suppose and start building canals that will essentially recreate the route of the ancient river Sarasbati and uh you know take the waters of the uh Synindhu basin and reroute them in canals across Rajasthan all the way to Katch all these regions in western India that that have had shortages of water ever since the Saraspati disappeared. So we could recreate the route of the ancient Saraspati by creating this this canal system and this could take let's say 10 years. So every year that passes the pressure is going to become like 5% 5% more on Pakistan sometimes 10% more and over 10 years it becomes almost 100%. At least 50% more. So every year that passes the Pakistanis will feel the squeeze more and more. It's not going to happen overnight. It's going to be gradual, almost imperceptible, but every year it's going to get worse for Pakistan unless they cooperate, unless they demonstrate that they want to give up terrorism and they prove they show demonstrable, verifiable proof that they are taking specific actions against the terrorists, eliminating the known terrorists. Eliminating means eliminating dismantling all the terror infra infrastructure, handing over all the wanted terrorists to India and so on so forth. Fourth, we can tell them exactly what the what are the steps that we we require and if they do that well, we'll be happy to once again start releasing water as per maybe a new treaty or maybe the old treaty. We we can see about that. Yeah. But at this point in time because Pakistan is not changing its approach and it's serving as a mercenary to anti anti-India forces. So we're going to continue this. So it's going to take time but we already have a significant amount of leverage in Pakistan. We already can uh ruin Pakistani crops. Sad to say this but this is where we are today because of Pakistan's fault, because of Pakistan's long-standing support of terrorism. That's why we have to do these things. Otherwise we would never never do this. So we are in a position to already cause significant uh damage to Pakistan and every year that passes it's going to get worse in 10 years it's going to be unbearable for Pakistan. So that's where we are. So yeah we need to get going on all these measures. We need to start building that that canal infrastructure and all and that can definitely be done properly in the next 10 years. So by 2035 Pakistan will be in dire straits if they haven't mended their ways. Uh Shivanch says what do you think about Mayar dynasty and Baba Raal's empire which ended up resisting Islamic invasion for more than 500 years. Look Baba Raal's empire did not end did not resist Islamic invasion for 500 years. Um Bapar Raal was a great warrior. Uh he's supposed to be a semi semi-leendary warrior or something like that. That's what the historians claim, right? Um so he was a warrior u a Rajput warrior and he reclaimed some of the lands we had lost to the Turks and he founded the city that still bears his name Rahul Pindi which we have given away to Pakistan and it is now the the epicenter of the Pakistani military complex military ISI terrorism complex Rahul Pindi right so that city is named after him. So he reclaimed that part of our our homeland which the Turks had taken over. But now it's again gone back to the Turks. I mean to the to those who claim to be the descendants of the Turks. Uh and Babar's career ended somewhere else. So after he did all this, after he you know he pacified the Turks and expelled them from from our lands, then he retired with his warriors and he went north to the Himalayas and he became a a disciple of Baba Goraknath and he and his men because of their wor their reverence of Baba Goraknath came to be known as the Gorcas and their descendants are today's Gorcas who are mainly found in northern India and Nepal. Uh so that's what I can tell you that's how much I know about Paparal. I don't know a lot about the Maywa dynasty so I won't be able to give you further details about that but uh thank you for the question and that gave me the opportunity to give to speak a little about Baparel. Great man great warrior. Uh Arun says and it's a great question by Arun. Why are we still going ahead with Starlink after the Elon Musk Donald Trump breakup? Does India predict that they will get back again like any other toxic relationship? You know there's a possibility my friends that uh they may be they may be faking this. It may be a fake fight to to draw out the enemies, you know. So it's it's this these things happen. These things have been done in the past. two best friends pretend to fight very viciously very publicly for a certain period of time so that they can see who all tries to take advantage of the situation and then they again join hands and then they defeat the enemies who have shown their true faces. Okay, so there's always the possibility that this may be a fake fight, a staged fight. Now when it comes to Starlink, it's bad for us. No question about it. It's terrible for us. It's terrible for India's sovereignty. I've spoken about this yesterday. I've spoken about this many times. It'll allow terrorists and riers to have unrestricted internet access from the skies even if the government decides to switch off the internet services because Elon Musk won't listen to India. He will say you can shake your fists at the sky. He has tweeted that in the past about some other country. So when once Starling becomes operational, it's going to be that sort of situation. terrorists all over the country whether they are terrorists in Kashmir, terrorists in in cookie in in cookie occupied India or terrorists wherever else in in the Naxal areas or whatever else you know they could act with operate with impunity riers in various parts of India could operate with impunity and this could uh end up compromising India's security and sovereignty so I don't think Starlink is a good idea for India I I think India should become a competitor to Starlink. I think maybe maybe Jio maybe the Adani group maybe they should launch their own constellation of satellites a better more powerful more capable constellation of satellites as a competition as a competitor to Elon Musk Starlink and tie up with ISRO to do this. give us snow five years to develop reusable launch vehicles and so on and the capability to launch large large quantities of satellites at the same time large big satellites not small ones at the same time. So that will be a huge boost for ISO it will be a huge boost for India and within 5 to 10 years India will be a major challenger and a major and probably better alternative to Starling globally. That's what we should do. We should not go with with Starling. It's it's bad for India. That's what I that's my opinion. Um but I don't know. I think it's still early days. Uh India acts very slowly, very deliberately. Maybe there's a good reason for that. Yeah. And maybe we are considering the possibility that this is a fake breakup. Maybe they are pretending. Maybe they're trying to see who the enemies are. But overall, we should not have said yes to Starling in the first place. Uh but let's see how this goes. Yeah. Fjasma says, "Do you think India can prosper if they become if we become a dictatorship like China? Because it feels like democracy has caused a lot of problems." I think I answer this at least once in every liveream. I agree. We have experimented with democracy. Uh let's experiment with something different. I am not I'm not I'm not saying we should have a dictatorship, a secular dictatorship. I think uh what has served us best civilizationally for thousands of years is a monarchy system and that's the system that's been in place all over the world and the world is going back to that sort of imperial system slowly but gradually. What is the US? It's an empire. It's not really a democracy. It's a two-party system with a single agenda which is masquerading as a democracy. It's just one step above above a one party system like China which is another empire and Mr. Xiinping is the is the emperor. Okay. The CCP is a dynasty and then we have Russia which is again going towards the imperial system. So we have the slow reemergence of empires. So maybe India should start the transition by transitioning to a presidential form of government with maybe an 8-year cycle, 10ear cycle that sort of thing. And if it works better then transition to something even more robust. So I think India will certainly do much better that way. I am I'm sure it will because historically we had dictatorships, didn't we? Every single king of ours, every single emperor of ours, the ones who we rever today, who are they? They were dictators, weren't they? They were not elected democratically. Nobody dared to say that they should be brought down. So yeah, Pervvin Singh says, "So many recctor 4 earthquakes in Pakistan in the last few days. Are American nukes being detonated in a controlled way? Can it be the main reason for pausing operation Synindor? Okay, let's take a look at this question. Let me try and do some live analysis. Okay. Uh let's let's earthquake earthquake tracker. Let's take a look at latest earthquakes. Uh which one should I see? map of um let's say the USGS thing. Okay. Do they have list of earthquakes in the past let's say past day? Do you have it over the past let's say one week? Not sure. There's nothing uh in the subcontinent apart from this one. Wow. It's in Burma Tandu. But I would like it for today. Okay. Let's go back. Let's go back to the Google search. Let's see this one. I would like to see earthquakes in our region in the subcontinent over the past 7 days, let's say. And I want to see the depths at which these earthquakes have happened. But this girl, this website seems to take a lot of time to open which okay. So where do we have this? Gear Sat Gujarat etc. What do we have in Pakistan? Okay, this is an Indian site that's why it's slow. Oh, nice. So what do we have? Reviewed reviewed uh what about this one? Dra Kazi Khan magnitude depth 10 kilometers depth. You see this my friends this earthquake in Dra Kazakhan which happened on the 29th of May. This earthquake happened at the depth of 10 kilometers. 10 km below the surface. What is this here? Okay, this is the same one. Okay, let's find some other earthquake which happened in Pakistan. This is an earthquake in Jang. Now let's see this earthquake. It happened on the 27th of May. It happened at a depth of 111 kilometers. Okay, let's see this one. What is this? It is It happened on the 12th of May at a depth of 10 kilometers. 10 kilometers. What is this? This happened on the 10th of May at a depth of 10 kilometers below the surface of the planet. What else do we have? Anything else? We have something over here. This one happened uh in so and so place in Pakistan 30th of May at a depth of 180 kilometers below the surface. So let me say this my friends, no question. Okay, let's see this one near Lahore 111 km. All these earthquakes have magnitudes of between 3 4 whatever 3 4 5. Now understand this. What did we just see? We saw where the earthquakes happened all in Pakistan. We saw the magnitudes between 3, four, five around that that sort of thing. And we saw the depth at which the earthquake originated. the the the shallowest depth was 10 km. Humans don't drill holes 10 km down. Do you understand? I know you on YouTube all kinds of experts are saying that Pakistan is detonating it's uh unstable nuclear bombs. All sorts of army experts etc are saying this. But if you look at the seismic data that we have, the earthquake data, it tells you at what depth the earthquake originated. Now when it says that the earthquake originated at a depth of 10 kilometers below the surface, do you think the Pakistanis have the technology to drill a hole 10 km deep? They don't. I promise you that another earthquake happened at a depth of 111 11 kilometers. Nobody has the technology. Another earthquake 180 km. So most of these earthquakes are happening way below any human can reach through current technology. I think that should answer the questions. Maybe some of the earthquakes could have some other implications but the ones that just randomly saw are all at depths that Pakistanis can't reach through technology. So, so that for me is enough to tell me that these are not artificial earthquakes. Aris Manticor says, "Have you heard of Pavit Singh? I've heard the name. He has a YouTube channel and is a very vehement national security hawk. Could you check him out? A debate discussion between the two of you would be incredible to see." Okay, thank you so much for the recommendation. I will check him out. You know, I don't know how to check him out because I don't watch podcast. I don't have the time for that. I have a lot of work to do, a lot of analyt analytical work to do. So, I don't know how to check him out, but uh thank you for the recommendation anyway. I will find ways to check him out. Okay. Arun says, "Why don't you mention Jewish and Zionist lob in the US?" Whenever talking about unconditional support Israel gets from the US, is there some other reason? Which Jewish and Zionist lobbies in the US? Are there any? Look, there's no question that there are lots of influential Jewish origin politicians in the US. But if you uh so there's no question about that. But does that consider it a lobby? It possibly could, but we don't have evidence of that. And if you claim that claim that it is a lobby without any hard evidence of there being a formal lobby and so on so forth, then you can be called a conspiracy theorist, right? And I have myself said that that if you make claims that are not supported by hard incontrovertible evidence, then you are venturing into the realm of conspiracy theory. And I prefer to stay outside of the territory of conspiracy theories. So I do mention clearly that there is unconditional support from the US towards Israel. If you find that it's not enough for you, maybe you can look at somewhere else where somebody says the things that you want want to hear. That's all I can say. Sir Zishan says the US is going to hold a military parade in DC on Saturday. Are military parades useful for any reason or are they a waste of time and money and ex expenditure? Can US military parades compete with May 9 or Chinese parades? Is Trump a wannabe dictator? Trump does have a very controlling tendencies. Um he I'm sure he would love to be a dictator, but I don't think that he'll be allowed to be a dictator. No chance. I'm sure he would love to be one. First of all, he's too old. I think he's already kind of too old to be president, but yeah, sure. He seems to have the energy thus far. Hopefully, it lasts him another three and a half years by the time he's done with this term. One of the oldest ever US presidents. Uh so, first of all, he's too old for it. And secondly, u he won't be allowed to to become a dictator, but I'm sure he would love to be one. Now, about the military parades, what are military parades useful for them? They there are they are symbolic gestures. It's about communicating things to your population. And it's about communicating things to the world that look at our military hardware. We have so and so kind of military hardware. It's very powerful. It's very, you know, oh inspiring and so on. So it kind of sends a message to your people to the domestic population that you know we are we are in safe hands. We've got tremendous military hardware. You can rest assured we can take on the whole world and it raises the morale and confidence of the people. That sort of thing. It sends a message to the world you know this nation is not to be messed with. They have got such tremendous weapons and so on. That sort of thing. It also makes the armed forces feel great. You know, we go and march and parade and everybody looks at us and everybody applauds and we look great and so on and so that sort of thing. It's it's a fun activity to do, you know, drill, you know, march in unison and all that sort of thing. Um, can a US military parade compete with May 9 or Chinese parades? Well, they're all different. They're all different. The US doesn't hold uh regular military parades. The Russians do it. The Chinese do it. We also have a military parade in India, right? uh the Republic Day parade. Uh so parades are done for all these various reasons and um I think there is some kind of uh what do you call it? My daddy biggest kind of competition in this parades. Yes. Yes. Some kind of strength measuring contest let's say. So I think in in those terms I think Russia and China may may may out out compete the US but the US doesn't do it on a regular basis as as far as I know. Okay. Prudi Raj says, "Sir, I don't want to I don't think we can go back to dictatorship. Maybe a hybrid is as you elect low maybe a hybrid as you elect low but upper or mostly selected. I don't think once somebody gains power they long to lose it. That applies to the general public too, right? The general public should not have power. General public is not capable of handling power. The average person is not capable of handling power. They will not not know what to do with it. they would misuse it. Only a very few people can genuinely handle power and use it in the right way. Um but you know when the right person is is in power, you don't want them to lose it. You don't want them to lose it. See Lie Kuan Yu was in power as long as he wanted eventually he relinquished it. And when he relinquished power, I think the whole of Singapore was upset and sad to see to see that he is giving up power. He was that kind of a guy. He was no doubt a dictator but he was a benevolent dictator. He was great for his country. Similarly, we've had monarchs in India who when they moved on, when they abdicated or when they died, people were were distraught to see this happen. Right? So ideally you want a system that is such that it throws up the best possible people and only the right kind of people are able to rise to the very top. We don't have that system today. So if we have a dictatorship based on the current system it's going to throw up monsters. Yeah. If you really want a dictatorship a monarchy you have to first clean up the system and get rid of all the garbage. Today's system is is designed to throw up the worst people, the most mediocre people. And it's a miracle we have some good leaders today in this country, especially at the very top. It's a miracle. It's not because of the system. It's despite the system that this has happened. So maybe there is there is something good somewhere. But overall in today's system, if you have a dictatorship, it'll be a bad thing rather than a good thing. So um hybrid system look India's dictatorships were always hybrid um India is the mother mother the birthplace of democracy by the way by the way it's not Greece that's the birthplace of democracy what was Greek Greek democracy like do you know that 80% of Greek's population was slaves the rest 20% maybe 50% were women so they were not allowed to vote only the nobles were allowed to vote vote and they called only the male nobles who were very wealthy people and slave owners only they were allowed to vote and they called that democracy and Greeks emerged thousands of years after we had our own systems of voting and ballots in India we always had a dictator up top the emperor or the king but at the lower levels at the ground levels people could vote and they could elect their own officials to take care of their municipalities and districts and all that. We had our own very unique system. It was a hybrid system. So the people could never vote to overthrow the the the the emperor or the king. Okay? You dare not do that. But you could vote for your local officials and you could get rid of them also if they did not perform. That's how it was. It was a hybrid system. That's a good system. Okay. Vive Malvia says, "Was the 22nd amendment lobbyed and brought by the US deep state?" What was the 22nd amendment? Let's let's let's uh find out. 22nd amendment. What is this thing? 22nd amendment. the number of times a person can be elected to the office of president of the US and this was limited to two terms by the deep by the by the 22nd amendment because you had a guy who was elected I don't know three times four times uh Roosevelt Franklin D Roosevelt was he was elected uh as president four times he was elected to four terms as president and uh the 22nd amendment amendment was a direct response to office because it was felt that it was necessary to prevent presidents from holding office for an extended period of time. So the question that Vive is asking is that was this 22nd amendment lobbyed and brought forth by the US deep state? What are my thoughts? Look, if the US deep state exists, then it would have a vested interest in ensuring that no president becomes too powerful because then that president would be able to if if he was able to stay as president for an extended period of time, then he would be able to grab more and more power, right? That's how it power works. And then this this person could become a viable threat to the deep state if the deep state exists. So it makes sense that if the deep state exists, then it would want to have something like the 22nd amendment uh you know, brought into being. So it's possible. Does the deep state exist? I believe something like the deep state does exist. I believe that there is an extra democratic extra constitutional uh center of power somewhere in the US or somewhere somewhere in the world that controls and owns the United States. It does look like that. It does look like that, doesn't it? So then if it exists then it would want to exert as much control as possible over the presidents. The president's uh only role should be to distract the world from where the real power lies through their antics. And that's what Trump is doing beautifully, isn't he? Even Biden was doing it. He was also very entertaining by being so clueless. Um yeah, so it's possible that the deep state was the author of the 22nd amendment. It's possible. Uh, Priti says, "Am I missing something in my thought process? Could you elaborate please?" I mean, which thought process? You must have asked me a question a long time ago. I'm not sure. Which question, sir? What What have you asked? Let me go through the previous questions that I have seen Pruti Raj. Okay. I'm See, you ask me a question, you give me the context. I'm not I'm not able to understand what you're asking me, sir. Are you missing something in which thought process? Which thought process? How can I elaborate if I don't know what you're asking, sir? Why is why are you people sometimes so frustrating? Give me the correct information so that I can understand. Okay, I'm moving on. Sorry. Zishan says, "Is it fair to say the US is the greatest country ever considering its achievements in only 250 years of existence? Does it prove that does this prove the founders's vision ideology being supreme compared to other founders?" Well, it depends on how you define greatness. If you define greatness as the amount of control you have over the world, the amount of power you can project across the world, the amount the extent to which you can subjugate the world, if that is greatness, then the US is the greatest country ever, no question about it. If technological achievements etc all of that is part of that, then yes, sure, no question. The US is the greatest country ever, the greatest empire ever. It's not the greatest country ever. The US is the greatest empire that has ever existed. It has surpassed the achievements of the British Reich. Sorry, the British re the the British Empire. It has surpassed the achievements of the Third Reich. It has surpassed the achievements of Chingish Khan. But he was just one man by the way. Okay? It has surpassed um Julius Caesar, Alexander, Napoleon, etc. It it essentially controls the entire world more or less to a very large extent. It had there was a time when it had this uniolar moment, didn't it? And right now it is at the peak of its power. It's never been more powerful than it is right now. So from from this set of measurements, the US is unquestionably the greatest country ever. Uh does this prove that the founders's vision ideology was supreme? No. The founders vision ideology was something else and the US today is something else. The US is not working you know running as per the ideology of the original founders. It has kind of deviated from that ideology to a significant extent and that is a matter for a different discussion. It's a very lengthy discussion. I can't take it over here right now. For that you have to read the constitution. You have to read uh the declaration of independence. you know read the constitution and then you see uh whether all of that all of those ideals are still are still being uh followed today. So that's a different matter. Okay. Taraka Taraka Rama says what do you think about Germany and India diplomatic ties? Do you think the do you think Germany is at the at the verge of having another dictator? I don't think Germany is anywhere near the verge of having another dictator. Not at all. What do I think about Germany, India, diplomatic ties? They're okay. Okay. Nothing great, nothing bad, nothing special, nothing terrible. Okay. Reasonably good, lukewarm, warmish, etc. Yeah, that's what I think. I mean, I I overall like Germany as a nation. I think Germany is in terrible shape today because of the kind of leaders they have. They had better leaders in the past without I'm not referring to Mr. Painter but overall they had better leaders in the past and it'll be good for them to have better leaders again. Okay. Vidi says um how will Bat deal with Axai? We will deal with Axachin when the time comes for Axai. Now is not the time for Axai. It's too far. It's too far a bridge as of now. MK says, "What did the CCP do differently from the USSR to ensure competent leadership succession despite both having similar communist political structures?" That's a great question. They did a lot of things differently. Uh they ensured there was proper merit meritocracy. uh they uh so for that you have to go back and look at the history of how things went right. So for the longest time you had this u you had the cult of Mao Mautum he was like a god the red sun in the the sky that was maong there's this Chinese song okay very famous Chinese song red in the red sun in the sky so there was this whole this whole cult movement that was created around maong once he died they purged the party of all his supporters they they p they purged the party of of his life and so on. And then a new set of leaders was brought in and the whole the whole system kind of changed and there was this u focus on modernization, this focus on on uh industrialization, this focus on um putting aside the failed policies of Mao and embracing manufacturing and all of that and keeping your head down, hiding your uh hiding your strength and biting your time, all of the ding chopping thing. and they ensured that the right leaders were always brought to the top and there was tremendous tremendous competition within the Chinese Communist Party for rising to the top on the basis of performance and merit. So it was a very strongly meritocratic structure despite being a complete dictatorship and there was this tremendous u focus on performance. So that's how the chi the Chinese Communist Party operated and there was a lot of change in China because of this a lot of progress and that's where the U USSR differed from China. Uh it it was way more corrupt than China. Allegedly China also is also quite corrupt but uh in a different way. So I think that's one key difference. Virtual Venom. Thank you very much sir. And v virtual men venom again we have a nuclear triad. Should we create a fourth leg of military which has multi-pace stations and can launch attacks anywhere from the world, anywhere in the world from there? Well, we don't talk about such things because you're not supposed to weaponize space. But yes, the US has a space force. The Chinese have a rocket force and they also may have a space force. Not sure if the Russians have it. Why shouldn't we have it? I think we have criminally neglected space despite having such tremendous capabilities. We launch the PSLV so so seldom that the last one or two times it has we have tried launching it it failed. See if we have a schedule a weekly schedule that we are launching a PSLV every every 7 days or 10 days then this entire process of manufacturing the rocket will become so welloiled that no defects could possibly come into it. But if you are launching just once or twice or thrice a year then only once in a while you're manufacturing it then you will have flaws that creep in and that's why the PSLV one of our most reli reliable rockets has failed the last time at least maybe couple maybe a couple of times. We are criminally neglecting our space sector. So I think it it would be great to have a space force. It would be great to have uh the the the ability to launch heavy rockets with heavy payloads comparable to what SpaceX does. SpaceX has become the global leader now. ISRO is like nothing compared to SpaceX, right? When SpaceX started it was it was nothing was a big deal. Uh so yeah, that's the deal. So I think we should have much greater space launch capabilities and it what's wrong with have with this having military dimension also. So just like an air force we should have a space force and then we can look into further uh details of what we can do with that. So I think it's a great idea sir. Jre Rebel Star says which will CA profession be affected by AI like IT field? Oh absolutely absolutely AI will wipe wipe out the CA professions. Okay. I promise you sir. I promise you if you're not careful you will lose everything if you are a CA. I I I'm pretty sure if you take chat GPT and and give it the Indian CL I mean the the IT act and everything that that the the legal corpus all texts that are supposed to be applicable to the income tax and all that and GST and all that. I'm sure CH GP already has all of that knowledge. I've never looked into it but I'm sure it can act as a very competent tax advisor and not just for an individual probably for a company. So if somebody purchases that $200 a month subscription, I suppose they can use it like you know like like an like an like a CA itself for not just the person but for an organization. I think the CA profession could be wiped out by AI. So if you're smart, what you can do is a one person CA firm, you are one person, but you will provide services to dozens of of companies and individuals as if you have like 50 CAS working for you. You can do that if you're smart. It's a great uh business opportunity actually. But yeah, for most CA it's going to wipe out their field unfortunately. James says, "Queen Victoria did a lot for India. She built railways and so much more." Indeed, indeed she did. Yes. The railways she built were the infrastructure of occupation and extraction. And Queen Victoria had this incredible distinction. What was that? She was the greatest drug trafficker in history. Pablo Escobar was an amateur compared to her. Let's let's let's look this up, shall we? Let's look this up. I think I have this somewhere. Um advanced. Uh okay, let's let's Google let's Google this together. Okay. Yes. Let let's let's Google Whoopsie. Let's do an advanced Twitter search. Okay. Um, Victoria and let's look at tweets from my account. Victoria. Let us see. See, look here. British opium warehouse in Patna uh opium financed British rule in India. The British forced Indian farmers to cultivate opium instead of food crops leading to horrific famines and the deaths of millions. Queen Victoria was the biggest drug trafficker in history. After creating artificial famines, the British forced starving Indians to carry out backbreaking hard labor in in return for relief. So-called relief. This so-called relief consisted consisted of less food than the Nazis provided to the inmates of the Buchanan death camp in World War II. Check out these details. Okay, sir. So that's about it for your beloved Queen Victoria, Sir James Geopolitical Dubet. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you. Barava says, "Is the arms race the biggest reason for the financial power of the US or the work that they have done on on their country? Does the US have very high arms sales income?" Uh we'll have to look into it, but it's one of the major industries that they have. um their financial power grew because of the sales of arms and whatever else that they did to all the nations during the second world war and all the debt they have collect collected from the UK or other countries ever since the UK was still paying debt until the beginning of the 21st century apparently right and um so that turned the US into a major manufacturing superpower and then there was the Um that 1944 what was the hotel? Oh, why does that name elude me? the Breton Hall the Breton Woods agreement in which the US dollar was accepted by the rest of the world as the global reserve currency and that was another huge Phillip to the uh cementing of the US as its its status as the world's uh only world's major power right uh and all of these all of these things said together uh put together contributed to the financial power of the US. But what really contributed to that is uh it's it's taking over the the supply chains and all the power projection structures that the British Empire had created and the US took it over and it expanded it globally. So all of this took put together contributed to the power of the US. Financial power, military power, hard power, all of this put together. I'm not sure what the uh arms sales the US uh has per year. You would have to do a detailed piece of research for that. Look at all the major US arms um arms manufacturing companies and then what are their annual sales the past year and put it together and that sort of thing. That will take time but I suppose somebody could do it. Uh Inferno GES says above a level do flash points become fire points? I have no idea what you mean by that. Above a level, do flash points become fire points? I'm not sure what you're asking me, sir. I'm sorry. Not able to understand. Deep learner says, "Why does the deep establishment want Islamic political control to grow in Europe via migrants? Isn't it better for them to keep Christian influence?" Why does the deep political establishment maybe because Islam is is better from their perspective for establishing control over populations compared to Christianity. Maybe because they see that Christianity has lost relevance in Europe Europe which may be pretty true and that's why the church is trying to move its way eastwards especially towards India. They want to Christianize India and by that they want to continue to hold sway over a large percentage of the world's population because Europe has kind of given up on Christianity apparently which seems to be pretty true. So now the old establishment deep establishment they want to find a new way to keep the population under control. Maybe they feel that Islam is much better for for keeping people in line and under control. So probably that is the reason. Okay. Okay, Grock says, "Sarch council of 300 experts say that they are deep." Who are these experts? Who are these experts? Anyway, I I I will check it out. Maybe I know about it. Have you considered that? Maybe I know about things, but I prefer probably not to talk about certain things. Have you considered that possibility? Spade says Victoria my foot sar s tan punt says what's your opinion onto bismbach as a statesman did kaiser Wilhham and Hitler destroy his legacy great man otoan bbismar he created an artificial nation in 1871 which was called deutscheland Germany great man he took this absolutely jumbled this bits and pieces of counties and duchies and little pieces of of of of little kingdoms and states. He took them all together and cobbled them into this great German nation. Great man, incredible man. the iron chancellor and yes Kaiser villain and then Hitler destroyed his legacy. You're essentially spot on. Purit sir, welcome sir. Ma'am, welcome to membership and thank you so much for becoming a member. I appreciate appreciate that. I show speed donated $1 trillion. Well, that's outstanding. Um, okay. My name is Aisha Speed. I love you too, sir. I have you have incredible knowledge about politics, geography, history, all the things. Love you too. I shout out Okay. Okay. Thank you so much. I really appreciate your message and your contribution. Thank you so much sir. I I show speed. MK are we focusing only on chip fabs but not enough on displays, PCBs, cameras, sensors, RAMs, other phone components, fully electronic sovereignty. We start somewhere then we move on. We start somewhere. The somewhere that you start with is the core component. You don't start with display. You start with the with the heart, the brain. So I think we are starting at the right place and eventually we'll move out to everything else. The other stuff is probably easier. Of course, I'm not saying it's easy. Displays are hard. LCDs and whatever LEDs, whatever it is, uh I'm not sure what PCBs is, but yeah, sensors, RAM, all of that is is is tough technology. I agree that we need to have full electronic sovereignty. I think right now we have focused we we have decided to first focus on on chips. Get that down. And then the other other technologies are kind of related to that kind of. So I think that's the that's the uh way we're going to proceed with the matter. Tak Tarak Rama becomes a new member. Thank you so much. I really appreciate uh you're becoming a member. Thank you. VS says I wish to meet you again. Okay. Last time we met during the TJD Pune summit, you were in a hurry. I was in I'm in hurry. Sorry about that. Uh uh my question uh could you describe the mistakes committed by Hitler that made him lose the the second world war? First of all uh um not sure who I met a million people there but uh well I hope we meet again. Um so um the mistakes committed by Hitler. First of all what are the m okay what are the mistakes? First of all he chose to attack Russia before dealing with the UK. maybe he should have finished off the UK when it was possible to do that. um he had this big battle of London and the battle of of England, the aerial battles, but he kind of lost interest and moved eastward suddenly and that allowed the UK breeding the breeding space in the time to survive in the time to carry out the operation against the French fleet which convinced the Americans that the US UK can be trusted and supported that sort of thing and then so that's one big mistake then Hitler went uh started operation Barbarosa targeting the the USSR but instead of going straight for Moscow he went towards the caucases to go go for the oil fields. If he had gone straight for Moscow and kept the Caucasus oil fields full later they could have taken Moscow but he chose to yeah even there there was a mistake and when because of this delay even a slight delay what happens is that Russia punishes you. It's it's who who punishes you? old man winter that punishes you and the punishment is that your your troops will freeze to death in the tens of thousands and that's what happened uh and so on and the third mistake is that the Hitler decided that he will fight everybody at the same time I mean have some some kind of sense of limits he had the same kind of hubris that Napoleon had go and conquer the whole world nothing is enough for me it's never it's never enough so these are some of the mistakes that he made I would say he had such tremendous engineers ers such tremendous technology they developed but in still he's cornered that so bad uh Jay says how will Navi change India's global leverage um it it's not about leverage it's about uh atma self-sufficiency in in 1999 during the car cargle war the Americans switched off GPS for India so we were left like you know we could not suddenly we had to find a different way to uh to to to to acquire targets. So this time during operation synindur we may probably not have relied on GPS. We had Navic and we had other other redundancies as well built into our uh our uh guidance systems. So Navic is our own constellation of satellites that that gives us GPS level u you know navigation capabilities uh and it's not a global thing. It's still a it's still a regional thing. So it's it's centered over the Indian subcontinent and gives you coverage over a over a broader geography slightly beyond the Indian subcontinent. So it's it's it's good enough for our purposes but ideally we would like it to be a global thing. So I think we should launch more satellites and make it a global constellation. So if you make it a global consolidation, it'll it'll allow us to be able to let's say send [Music] packages send packages ballistically anywhere in the world with super super crazy accuracy. For example, during operation synindor, we hit a target in uh Nurh Khan air base from a distance of 400 500 km and that target was 45 cm wide and our brahos which travels at 2 and a half Mac hit that smack bang in the center. So that's the kind of accuracy we have with our missiles because of our guidance systems. So if you have Navic globally then we can deliver that sort of pre precision globally. So Arun says did you see the recent Malia podcast? Any opinion on him? I haven't seen the podcast. I don't watch podcasts. I don't have the time to watch podcast and this is supposedly a 4-hour podcast and secondly it's not a topic that interests me. So I haven't seen it. I am not one going to watch it. uh I don't look at all these little topics. I'm sure it's a very big topic for a lot of people. Don't miss I mean I'm I'm not trying to disparrage that at all. I'm sure it's very important for many people and I totally respect that. It's not important for me. I look at global geopolitics. I look at things rel related to that. So this is not on my radar because of these reasons. So I haven't seen it. Spade says, "Sar, if China clashes with the US in the future and gets weakened, could we take back Akai Chin and what's the probability of this happening? We'll see about that." Look, it's like the P question. Every day I get the question about P. Um, we would love to have the P back, but it depends on a variety of factors. If China clashes with the US in the future, becomes weakened. Well, it depends on the parameters and dimensions of the weakening and the specific circumstances and if certain circumstances are are met, we could take back more than axim. So the probability of that happening I think this is significant probability in the next one flash point could be in 2027 the Taiwan thing maybe Xinping has a deadline of 27. If that doesn't happen then maybe maybe I don't know sometime in the next 10 years that something may happen but I can't say right now because I haven't given sufficient thought quantitatively to that. So I can't give you probability as of now without proper analysis. Bram thank you so much sir ma'am thank you so much. Abhishek once again thank you so much to you as well. Uh Vidi says please explain about the rainbow community and find funding from elsewhere and why in my profession we need to be affirmative. Barat has always been all accommodorative. The LGBTQ plus 235 etc. community the the yeah those people um well it's a group of people that exist. It's not a group of people. I think out of every 100,000 people a small percentage of people may be like that. They may have such uh such such orientations. I'm sure that's pretty much uh a given in any any population in the world. And uh that's okay. There's nothing right or wrong about it. Such people exist and let them exist. But why is this turned into a movement? That is something that is the west specializes in. Find some kind of fringe movement and turn it into something mainstream and use it to achieve certain political agendas and objectives. Right? U so that's what the left has done in the west. They they took over feminism and completely completely utterly um hijacked it. They took over the education system, utterly hijacked it. They took over uh Marxism. No, Marxism was already taken over. What? What? They took over liberalism and hijacked it. They have taken over every possible movement and hijacked it. They've taken over race rights u civil rights movement and they've hijacked that also in the US. Um and obviously they've taken over the the I'm sure in the US in the west uh gay people were horribly oppressed because of the religion and the culture of the west after the destruction of the native polytheism. So after abrahamism and after Christianity became the pro prominent religion and culture in the west gay people were horribly oppressed for centuries and the same was true in the US and that's why there was the gay rights movement but then the leftists hijacked that and then they are funding it to have to have whatever to further whatever political agenda of theirs. So uh we have in in Bharat we have always been a commoditive. There is absolutely the the leftists the Marxists hate us right they hate Hinduism they hate Indian culture and civilization but they have never been able to find one shred of evidence. They would love to find it but they've not able to find it. They would love to find a shred of evidence. So there's no evidence that we have ever uh oppressed the LGBTQ plus etc people. They have always existed and we have never bothered them and we have never come in their way of living their life. As long as you don't bother us, we'll not bother you. Simple. Live and let live which has always been our philosophy. So that's the deal. Ryik Patnak says views on I I don't watch this stuff sir. Thank you. What? You want me to to react to videos now? Are you serious sir? I don't watch this stuff. I look at geopolitics, history, science, etc. What is all this? Adwit says views on mega prison in El Salvador and its leader. It's a prison for terrorists and drug cartel, drug mafia members and all who are terrorizing society. So I think it's when you have a terrorist population that is terrorizing your society, you got to lock them up. So that's what Mr. Naib al-Buk has done and good job I would say. Okay. In terms of sheer criminality and devastation brought on humanity, how would you compare the US and the UK? Okay. Now, you asking me to talk about something very controversial. I think this is something that will have to be quantified and and I cannot give you an off off the cuff remark because it's a very serious topic. uh if you want to accuse the US and the UK of being criminal, which I'm sure is justified, but if you want to do that, you have to back it up with facts, figures, and hard numbers. And at this point in time, off the cuff, I don't have the facts, figures, and hard numbers with me. So, I'll take a pass on this question. But if you I think the UK has started it and the US has US has continued it because the US has inherited them the empire. Backbenture academy says was once again I don't take Indian politics questions so pass uh views on water from industry to India. I think the water is great. We're going to use it. We're going to replenish our dry states. We're going to pass it to Rajasthan. We're going to pass it to Hana Punjab. we can send it all the way to Kutch if required in in in western Gujarat and it's going to be beautiful. It's going to beautify our land. It's going to create more farmland and all that for us and uh and yeah it's going to be great for us. We're going to do all this in the next 10 years and Pakistan will pay the consequences for its decades long support for terrorism. Uh why did Britain kneel before Nazis despite ruling the largest empire? Did the US correct the mistakes? That mistake the British never kneled against the Nazis before the Nazis. We will fight on the beaches. We'll fight here. We'll fight there. We'll not will not give in. That's the great speech, right? That's that Winston Churchill is remembered for. The British did not kneel. They fought they fought with the support of the US. The US kept on replenishing their supplies and food, wood stuffs and whatnot. And the British kept on fighting. No question about it. The British did not kneel before the Nazis and eventually they were able to launch the Normandy invasion from from Britain and the Americans were the were at the forefront of that. But most of the fighting and most of the dying and most of the winning was done by the Russians, the Soviets. Chira Sha, thank you very much. Thank you. Watabalaji says why India not interested in quantum computing? I think we we have already developed one quantum computer and we are in the process of taking this very seriously. So yeah, I think we are on the right track now. Okay, we are almost at the end of today's live stream. So I would request everybody to stop asking questions. Whatever is left, I'll take it quickly. Dr. Ritwick says, "Once we take back P, what will happen to the locals of the region? Will they be deported back to Pakistan or will they be given Indian citizenship?" That's a great question and this is something we will be we will have to address when it when we come to it. Uh it's it's I don't think it's very feasible to deport them to Pakistan out of out of uh land that they've been living it for living in for decades. On the other hand, many of them are actually outsiders who have been brought in by Pakistan. So it's going to be a complicated scenario and it's given it's it's guaranteed that they these P locals are going to be very radicalized against us. So it's going to be very complicated but we're going to have to find a proper solution for that and the government will have certain uh plans in mind for this. Tanmay Pant says why Japanese lost to commodor Perry Tokugawa lost all goodwill after the after and soon after and soon Miji took over. Okay I um it's been too long since I read about this so I don't remember about this. say this particular incident Tokugawa lost all goodwill maybe I'll I'll I'll have to answer this question at a future point in time this time right now my memory of this period of history is hazy my memory of the post maji period the major restoration post that is is sharper right now so I won't be able to answer this question sorry okay Shubam Dubet says the PM's G7 visit is crucial especially amid potential internal propaganda and Kalistthani agendas. It must align strategically with his objectives views on this move internationally. I don't think it's a crucial move. I think we are able to achieve all of our all of our um national objectives through bilateral uh you know bilateral meetings and bilateral uh uh proceedings with various nations. But it's always good for the Indian prime minister to participate in these multilateral uh events because you get to get the sense of what everybody is thinking, what everybody is talking about and you got to meet everybody else and u it's always good to do this. So um it's it's it's not crucial in the sense that it would have been a great game changer or or a dealbreaker if he did not go but it's very good that he's going and uh I'm sure it aligns strategically with his objectives and he's going to it's going to be great for India. Yeah. Dr. Ritik Pnag says tell me probably year I can go I can plan a trip to Hunza Valley Kard and Abatab and Atabad Lake entire Gilgadasan is our territory. Okay. Should I should I venture a year? Today is 2025. Which year can you plan a trip to Hunza Valley? Let's say 2030. Let's say let's say 2030. Warrior says, "Can we get Axaiin back?" We can, but I'm not sure when we can, and we will. I promise you we will. Okay, with that, we are at the end of today's live stream. So, so thank you very much everybody for all your questions. Okay, let me take one question by Makloven and where is it? Mloan says an Australian journalist was shot by cops live on camera in LA and they say India doesn't have press freedom. I know. I saw that clip on X I think today sometime. Um an Australian journalist was doing a news report on live on camera and this American cop just turns towards her and shoots her. Bang. He shoots her with a rubber bullet. But what on earth was that brute of a person thinking? Shooting somebody, a lady who's clearly a journalist. These people are absolute brutes. the US is a police state and that's how they treat journalists and then they claim India doesn't have any press freedom. What a joke it is. Anyway, so I'm glad you you pointed this out. Okay, with that we are at the end of today's live stream. Thank you very much everybody. I hope this was uh hopefully you learned something from this and gained some knowledge from this. So please keep asking questions, please keep learning. Please keep raising your standards and I will see you in the next one. Thank you so much. Good night. Good day everywhere. Everyone wherever you are. I'll see you soon.