Heat. Heat. Hello. Good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Abij show. This is episode 338 and we are discussing the Gulf War, the Iran war, the USIsrael versus Iran war. What's happening as always it's an it's a developing situation. Uh so we're going to discuss that. I'm going to take as many questions as possible about that topic mainly. But before we do that let's see who all is there on the live stream with us. I can see Axit Sharma Shri Rama Chandra Naha. Hello Utkar Shukla Kamill Bira Geopolitical Dubai from Indoor Karn Singh Pund cool short 5763 Swami Nirvana Shashags Salve uh Freakster someone 123 N7W Sky Glider SK Sky Glider S Namaste um Aush Gupta Mory Jham Shri Raachandra once again tanesh Pandi Omar Date Hello Raguir Soleni Ashish Chri Pramanic Namaskar Sumit Garval Soldier Boy Panduranga Rula Saksham Jaserya cool short Aush Singh Aush Singh Praam Danesh Pande uh Kapalin Pyanchi Sud Om just sing uh cool short 5760 once again Um Marshall Si Saksham Jasroia Astas Aasaro good to see you good to see you Mahita Bushetti hello Satyam Chowri Abhishek Shukla live Putin is taking charge says Swami is here from Jaipur Bali today uh Han Badger of Kolinga hello Arindam roy hello tanesh Pand joti panda namaskar ashai hello Marshall si frost mistra mitra is here from Moscow pranam Hello, Abininov Kapil is here from Himachal. Praav Pam SKR is here from Jerusalem. Okay, I see what you did there. Ram Ram uh Chetanya Manuja Stanley Rohit Gomez. Um Jayant S121, Anud Sahu, uh Random Skull, hello, good to see you. Mia, Soldier Boy, who else do we have? Shrii is here. Anya is here. Ravalite is here. Viri WHMA I Sager Dimani just a word away someone vs. Hello. Good to see you. Toxic Kratos hello. Uh Sundaram is here from Canada. Akit Akshit Sharma is also here and yeah everyone else Manhattan Manhattan is also here. Nirvana Shanks and everyone else. Okay. So let us discuss the situation the evolving situation in West Asia. The war is escalating. Escalating. Let's first take a look at some of the things that are happening right now essentially in real time or in the past in the past few hours. Give me a second. Where's the thing? Okay, let's put this on the screen. Let's see what's happening right now. So, this is u it's in Arabic, but let's translate this. Uh this is the AD media office, the official account of the Abu Dhabi media office. Okay. And it says that the competent authorities in the emirate of Abu Dhabi are dealing with a fire that broke out in one of the facilities within the Rice industrial complex resulting from a drone attack with no injuries recorded so far. The competent authorities urged the public to obtain official sources only and so on and so forth. Okay. So the the Ruice Industrial Complex in Abu Dhabi, it is the largest oil refinery in West Asia and it's one of the largest single sight refineries in the entire world. It has been hit by a drone strike. Okay, it's a drone strike. Uh let's search for Rice, shall we? Let's search for Rice. What's going on in Ruice? So, this is an evolving situation. It's developing news. Uh, what does this say? The UA's largest refinery has been stuck. This was struck. This was no random industrial site. This is Adnox Rice refinery. Adno is Abu Dhabi National Oil Corporation. One of the major oil producers in the world. Adno. Uh so the ROI processes up to 837,000 barrels of crude oil every single day. It's located on the Arabian Gulf Coast about 245 km west of Abu Dhabi. It's the heart of UA's oil exports, petrochemicals and strategic reserves uh etc etc etc. And they are saying US, Israel or Iran just hit the UAE where it hurts most. It's oil lifeline. Global oil markets already reacting. This changes everything. Okay. So I Yeah, this looks like um Yeah, I don't know who this is. And they said that US, Israel or Iran just just hit the UAE. Interesting way of putting it. Yeah. So obviously the blame is going to go on Iran and most likely it makes sense that it must have been Iran but you never know. You never know. So this is a major escalation and this happened just uh 2 three hours ago. I mean the news came out 2 three hours ago. What else is happening? This is uh by Ali Larijani. Um and what's it say? This is a post by Donald Trump. Trump says if Iran does anything that stops the flow of oil within the straight of Hormuz, they will be hit by the United States of America 20 times harder in capitals than they have been hit thus far. Additionally, we will take out easily destroyable targets that will make it virtually impossible for Iran to ever be built back as a nation. again death, fire and fury will rain upon them but I hope and pray that it does not happen. This is a gift from the US United States of America to China and all those nations that heavily use the hormones straight. Hopefully it's a gesture that will be greatly appreciated. Thank you etc etc. And what does Ali Lariji Jani say? The Ashura living nation of Iran does not fear your paper threats. Even those greater than you could not eliminate the Iranian nation. Watch out for yourself lest you be eliminated. That's what Ali Lariji Jani says. Um, Ali Lariji Jani. Uh, who is Ali Ali Lari Jani? Let's find out. Ali Lari Jani. He is an Iranian politician, former military officer in the IRGC. He's a senior politician in Iran. Uh, what else do we have? Yeah, we have Trump. Trump said, "Why don't we just Trump said that?" I said, "Why don't we just capture that ship? We could use it. Why did we sink it?" And the commander of the of the American submarine said it's more fun to sink them. They like sinking sinking them better. So from what Trump is saying, this is in reference to the ship, the Iranian ship that was torpedoed uh right outside of India's territorial uh waters in it was torpedoed in international waters but in India's uh zone of interest south of Sri Lanka. So from what Trump is saying, it looks like uh the captain of the submarine had a choice of either capturing or sinking the ship. He had a choice of either capturing or sinking the ship. And he said that it's more fun to sink them. So he torpedoed the ship and he allowed the sailors to drown. This sounds very suspiciously like a war crime. But I suspect if the US does it, it's perfectly fine. Yeah. Uh yeah. So this is kind of what's happening right now. Uh UA's oil major oil refinery has been has been struck. Okay. Is this real image? Is it is it fake? You never know. these days, right? Um, what does it say? Okay. Okay. Okay. Long, long, long story. Long story. Anyhow, this is kind of what's happening in the West Asia region right now. Um, so it's escalating. The situation is escalating. Trump is making major threats. Uh, the the straight of hormones is still closed. uh Chinese ships are being allowed to pass by Iran but no other ships dare to pass right now. So that's causing an oil price rise across the world which is a major problem for everybody including us in India. There are nations that are already um you know beginning to ration whether it's LG whether it's petroleum whether it's fuel. Yeah, that process is beginning. Uh, and this is going to if if it if the straight remains closed, it's going to be a major problem for India, China, uh, Japan and other nations as well east of uh, the straight of Hormos and other nations around the world as well because oil prices will rise globally. In the US, gas prices, gasoline prices have already risen by more than a dollar it looks like. And this is going to be a problem for Trump because it's going to um displease his core voter base, his vote bank. It's going to be problematic for him. Um yeah, so that's the situation. Now my analysis about what's happening, I put it out on Twitter, but let me read it out for you all over here. Let's do that. Okay. Okay. Let's make it larger. So this is my this is a very brief analysis that I put on Twitter. My analysis is actually much deeper but on Twitter you put it you keep it short. So operation epic fury tactically successful strategically selfdefeating. So war is supposed to be the continuation of politics by other means. War is supposed to be the continuation of politics by other means. But the current US campaign versus Iran has inverted this relationship. Military action is being pursued in the absence of a coherent political objective with this political objective somehow expected to emerge expected to somehow emerge from the military action. Okay. So politics is not war by other means. War is supposed to be politics by other means. So there's military action being taken by the Americans and they are expecting that somehow the political objective will emerge out of our warfare. They what it means translated into regular language. It means they don't know what they want to achieve. Their goalposts have been changing from day one to day two to all the way now. Initially it was regime change. Initially Trump was saying that you know what people of Iran go ahead and we we're going to destroy this regime and you you can take over. So Trump expected that if he kills Kabani then the regime is over and the people of Iran can take over. But that's not what happened. It was a miscalculation. Then he's moved this gold post and he's saying that now it's something else denuclearization, demissilization and so on so forth. So not regime change anymore. Then what are you doing? So they are not sure what they want to achieve. Their their goalposts keep changing. So military action is being pursued in the absence of a coherent political objective and they expect that this political objective will will emerge somehow from the military action. So this is the worst kind of category error because it cannot be corrected by better targeting or more aircraft sorties or more missile strikes. It can't be corrected by any of that. Military action can't correct this category error. Okay. Now thus far the US campaign to date has achieved significant tactical success and the credit for this goes to the American military. They have destroyed a lot of Iranian military nuclear infrastructure. Apparently they have obviously killed how many assassinated him and all the top leadership of Iran. They have suppressed a lot of Iran's air defenses. But this has produced strategic stalemate. Iran is absorbing the strikes of the Americans and the Israelis and at the same time it is maintaining its offensive capability, its offensive capacity. It is maintaining the closure of the spread of Hermuz. And it's maintaining the activity of its allies, its proxies. whether it's Isbaha whether it is the Houthis whether it is Iraq militias etc right so this is ongoing this is a stalemate and this why has this stalemate occurred this stalemate has occurred because despite being tactically successful the American campaign is operationally incoherent and strategically selfdee defeating and the the credit for this goes to Donald Trump okay so how is it incoherent how is it strategically self-defeating despite being tactically successful. First of all, the tactical destruction of Iranian military or nuclear facilities does not translate into the operational control of Iran's missile forces. Those are still being 100% controlled by Iran, by the IRGC and the Iranian military. That's number one. Number two, the operational su suppression by America of Iran's air defenses does not produce the strategic collapse of the IRGC, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps. It's not going to produce that. Okay. Number three, the strategic decapitation of Kame does not produce a compliant successor government in the absence of physical occupation. To produce a compliant successor government, you have to physically occupy the territory. and the Americans are unwilling to physically occupy the territory or even attempt that. Right? So, it's not produced a compliant appable successor government. The IRGC's redundant command structure, distributed leadership and ideological cohesion mean that the loss of any one person, any individual including the supreme leader does not collapse the system. It doesn't collapse the system. One person dies doesn't matter. Right? Iran has been successfully able to appoint a new supreme leader without any operational interruption of its war fighting of its war efforts. Nothing was interrupted. Right. Next number four. Carpet bombing. The Americans are carpet bombing the Iranian population. Carpet bombing the Iranian populace and obliterating their infrastructure and their oil reserves does not induce them to overthrow the government. It does not indeting the people and destroying their infrastructure. It does not induce those people who you are bombing to overthrow the government. It produces the opposite effect. It reinforces nationalist cohesion. The people rally around the flag. Even those who are opposing the government of Iran, even they will now rally around the flag. Right? Then the Americans are thinking the are thinking of maybe uh using mercenaries, using proxies like the Kuresh mercenaries, maybe ISIS terrorists, maybe somebody else. Okay. So if the Americans go for forward with this plan proxy invasion of Iran that will take years to make any inroads and it is most likely almost 100% almost 100% guaranteed to fail as Saddam Hussein discovered okay it's not easy to invade Iran and Saddam had a full professional military who are ISIS and who are the Kuresh mercenaries they're nothing compared to Saddam right next Trump has a huge acute political vulnerability. It's a very near-term political vulnerability. He has imposed a 4-week political window for wrapping up this operation. Okay, this military operation by the United States, it's it's costing almost a billion dollars a day. Last I checked, it was $890, $891 million per day. It's burning through cash. Okay, so huge costs every day. The oil prices are rising. They're shooting up and there is congressional opposition to what Trump is doing. Okay. So, all of this is going to converge into one hard culminating point for Trump. He doesn't have time. Sentiment is growing against him in the United States whether it's in the opposition or within whether it's among his own supporters. Okay? And even the nuclear option is unlikely to defeat the Iranian mosaic warfare strategy, the decentralized warfare strategy. And we know that a religiously motivated Shia Iran that embraces martyrdom will be happy to fight on. a nuclear explosion will or nuclear attacks won't make a difference to their uh to their uh resolve to fight out and their desire to die in in in service of the nation. Right? So the because of all these factors the American campaign it's it's approaching its culminating point. Okay. The superiority of the attacker the Americans and Israel is over the defender which is Iranians is close to being consumed. H continued offensive action thereafter will produce diminishing returns rather than increasing returns for the attacker. So the US is in a situation where it it is unwilling to put boots on the ground. No major military campaign has ever been won from altitude. No major military campaign has been won from altitude from up in the sky. You have to put boots on the ground otherwise you don't achieve your political objectives. It's as simple as that. You can win minor campaigns from altitude but you can't win a major campaign like this from altitude. That's what history tells you. Right? So this so the United States cannot win a protracted campaign without wi with the instruments and constraints it has deployed. It has two choices. Either it terminates the campaign on achievable limited terms or the alternative is it escalates to occupation which is boots on the ground but it's unfeasible due to domestic political sentiment or the US must wait for its own culminating point which is essentially a failure of to achieve any any any significant objectives right uh see there is massive domestic political sentiment against a US ground invasion of Iran There are two populations here. There's the Iranians who are fighting for the survival of Iran and there's the American soldiers who are fighting for the capture of another nation's oil resources. Who will be more motivated? Who will be willing to die for the cause? Obviously, those who are fighting for their homeland and its survival. The ones who are who are out for plunder, they will not be willing to die for plunder. So that's the dichotomy here. Okay. So the situation is that Iran only needs to do one thing. It needs not to lose. It needs to not lose. All Iran has to do is to sustain the hormones, the straight of hormones blockade. Each day of disrupted tanker traffic generates more pressure on Trump's sore point on his Achilles heel, domestic political will, than any number of missile strikes. And the question is, can Iran sustain this blockade long enough? And even if let's say Iran for some reason is unable to sustain the blockade still it is not defeated and still the costs keep rising for Trump in the region in the Gulf region it looks like a significant number of American military uh bases have been struck by Iran whether they have been significantly degraded or entirely destroyed doesn't it's not out in the open it's not out in the public domain when a war is going on you don't want to show for your losses. But it's possible that the US infrastructure in the region has taken significant damage. If the American fifth fleet base in Bahrain has been significantly damaged, if not destroyed, then where do American warships refuel? Where do they get their supplies? There's no other place in the region. If all these bases are gone, where do you go? Do you go to Guada in Pakistan? Do you go to Karachi in Pakistan? If that happens, Pakistan gets directly involved and Iran can strike at them. They can strike at Guada or Karachi. So the longer this goes on, the more problematic it is for the United States. Iran has shown it can fight. It's it's willing to fight. It has the reserves. It has the resources. It has the drones. It has the missiles. Its navy may have been destroyed. Its air force may have been destroyed. But Trump can't take out their drone their drones, their their missiles, ballistic missiles. So Iran is fighting on and even if Iran, let's say in the future at some point in time, runs out of drones and missiles, they'll fight handto- hand if required. So the US isn't in a position where it can achieve whatever objectives they're trying to achieve. And Iran is hitting Israel hard apparently. Now there's a news blackout in Israel. So we don't know what's happening in Israel. A little bit of evidence comes out, trickles out from time to time. Video evidence. Looks like the Iranians are really hitting Israel hard. Whether it is Telawe, whether is whether it is Hifa, which is bad for India, right? So that is the situation. Now if this continues now the title of this video is the question is World War II looming see if the straight of hormon blockade continues there's going to be mounting pain very rapidly mounting pain for Trump okay he's going to be desperate to find some resolution for the to this and if the strikes on Israel continue then Israel at some point in time will say enough is enough. We can't take any more. And Israel has other options. It has the other weapons, nuclear weapons. So, does Iran Israel reach a point at some point in time in the future where it says enough is enough and we're going to now obliterate Iran with nuclear weapons? That is a possibility. I think the possibility, the probability of Israel using nukes is higher than the US using nukes. But if Israel or US or whoever uses uses nukes, that's going to be very problematic because both Russia and China are in a position where they do not want Iran to be defeated and even nuclear strikes most likely won't defeat Iran. But that will be a red line for everybody including Russia and China. In that case, Russian and Chinese support to Iran may become pretty overt. And if you look at the geography, Russia isn't far from Iran. Let me show you. If you look at the geography, Russia can resupply Iran if if needed. Where's Iran? It's right here. This is Iran here. And if you go north of Iran, you have the Caspian Sea. And right north of the Caspian Sea, you have Russia. The Caucasus region, Kavkas region of Russia. Russia can easily supply Iran with weapons, munitions, whatever it needs if required. China obviously is supporting Iran through other ways through uh satellite imagery and the Chinese GPS system, BU, etc. And uh let's go to flight radar, shall we? Give me a second. Let me put flight radar on the screen and let's see at what's happening in the airspace in real time. Okay. So let's zoom out. Zoom out. Zoom out. There are big holes in air traffic. There's one always over Tibet which is which is normal because no most aircraft don't don't overflight Tibet but there's a major major gap in air traffic over Iran, Iraq, Syria and northern the northern Arabian Peninsula right all the way to Israel. This entire airspace is mostly empty. There's one aircraft here. I don't know who it is and uh yeah it's unavailable. That aircraft has taken off from Turkier. Well, well, well. What is Turkier doing here? Okay. So, uh anyway, that's that's irrelevant to our discussion. So, this airspace is completely closed off. No one's flying here. And there's obviously another big gap over here. Ukraine over here. Nobody no aircraft is flying. As you can see on the map, these two big gaping holes are not really far away from each other. You know it won't be it's it's not uncon inconceivable that something could happen here. See Azarbaijan has been hit allegedly by the Iranians. Azarbaijan is a major supplier of oil to Israel. If somehow Azarbaijan gets involved, yeah, well, who knows? So uh and and if the and if the European nations are are draoned into the war by the Americans then once again China Russia may need to get involved in the matter. Um there is the Pakistan situation. Apparently American military aircraft are overflying Pakistani territory in their in in some kind of operations against Iraq Iran. Maybe it's surveillance. Maybe it's reconnaissance. Maybe it is military u actions. So Iran is aware of this and it has not yet taken any action visa with Pakistan. But uh you never know. And there's the ongoing Pakistani war with Afghanistan which the Pakistanis started. So there is that issue as well. So the entire region has become a tinder box. Okay. and hormones it's the it's the crucial point right now hormones is closed and that's why it's it's causing a lot of pain to everybody uh from the um oil perspective energy perspective India is seeking to get oil from other places now obviously Russian oil and because hormones has closed it certainly made Russia indispensable to the world Russian oil can fill the gap the Russian oil that nobody was allowed to buy we were buying it. We continued buying it. Our purchases of Russian oil dropped in the past couple of months to three months but they never stopped and now we are once again buying more Russian oil. So we are diversifying away away from the oil that was flowing from uh hormones. Uh so that's the situation. So because Russia has suddenly become indispensable and vital. So this war is therefore beneficial for Russia. And Russia will want this war to go on. And there's another problem. The longer this war goes on, the more this munition stocks and weapons stocks of the Americans and Israelis and the Europeans will get depleted. The European military stocks, stocks of ammunition, munitions, weapons, missiles, whatever are already at a at a big low because of the ongoing war in Ukraine. The Europeans have been supplying UK Ukraine with all these weapons. So Europe is down in its supplies, in its stocks. The American stocks are going down. The missile inter interceptor stocks stocks apparently are very low now whether it's Israel or the or the US. Apparently the first three days of the war, the Americans used up 20% of the global tomahawk missile supplies. Now if this continues, this persists and American stocks keep going lower and lower. Hey, China is pleased, maybe China will think I can make a move on Taiwan. So this is connected to everything. Already a whole bunch of nations are involved in the war. If a few more get involved for whatever reason, if Turkey gets involved, if the Americans start using Kuresh mercenaries to fight Iran, that will not please the Turks and they will take some action. So everyone is waiting for the opportunity to to take care of business. Kind of reminds you of the situation right before the first world war set off. Everybody wanted to take care of business. Everybody was waiting for the opportunity and they thought it'll be short war. It will be over by Christmas and it went on forever. I hope we are not in staring at that kind of situation right now. But there is the very real possibility of a World War II over here. So that is my analysis of what's happened thus far. Now let me see what questions we have and what we can discuss today in today's episode. Okay, let's see. Argmittal thank you very much sir. Argital once again thank you very much. Argmittal is a new member. Well thank you very much for becoming a new member and welcome to the channel's membership sir. Thank you. H says good evening. Good evening to you Hush. Thank you for being on the live stream. All right. Vsvs says uh my Okay, this is nothing to do with the war. My female friend asked me why I didn't wish her for women's day. I thought I told her it's based on western calendar and labor movements. So I refused to do so. Am I in the right sir? We celebrate our own women's day equivalent chaki puja etc. You are absolutely right. And you know what? If somebody celebrates something, it doesn't mean you have to celebrate it. If you celebrate something, does it mean that everybody has to celebrate whatever you are celebrating? No, it doesn't mean that. And it's it's wrong for for you to expect that everybody should wish you because you are celebrating something. Maybe they don't celebrate it. It's their choice. It's a free world. It's a democratic country, right? this women's day, father's day, mother's day, sister's day, brother's day, I don't know what other days, teachers day, these yoga day, why can't every day be women's day? Tell me that isn't don't women exist every day. So why do you have to celebrate one day in a year? Why? This is all nonsense. I don't agree with this. I I don't celebrate women's day. Let people celebrate. Whoever who wants to celebrate it, they are welcome to. I they they have my best wishes. But I don't celebrate it and I personally don't wish anybody p women's day. Okay. So I I am perfectly I I am in complete agreement with you about this. And it doesn't mean I'm trying to disrespect women. Absolutely not. Every day is women's day. Why do we need one day for this? And we have our own like you say rightfully say we were we have our own uh equivalence shi puja naratri so many things right. Sir Ryik says, "How is Balenra Sha a US asset? Explain in depth." Look, I'll have to drag out all the evidence and show you otherwise I can't explain. So essentially what you have to do is go to Twitter and find out Balancha's activities, what he has been tweeting on social media, posting on social media, who he has been meeting, which ambassador of which nation has been has he been meeting and so on. If you do that, you'll be able to connect the dots. And you have to also see the actions of Balencia the past year or so, ever since he was contacted by various foreign embassies, his actions, his his pronouncements, his statements. If you put all of those clues together, then the the picture becomes clear. But if you take any of those clues individually, you'll say, "What are you talking about?" It's only when the entire corpus of clues is taken together that you can see the patterns clearly but that will take hours to show you. So you can do your own research. Akshit Sharma is a new member. Thank you very much Akit Sharma G and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Vishal Roar says if Iran gets nuclear bombed will that force Russia to join in defense of Iran and also give a green signal to Russia to do the same to Ukraine in the future? If Iran gets nuked, nuclear bombed by whoever, by Israel or the US, will that force Russia to join in the defense of Iran? It won't force anybody to do anything. But it is in Russia's interest that Iran is not destroyed. It is in Russia's interest that Iran remains sovereign and independent. It is in Russia's interest to ensure that Iran does not become a US vasal and it's Russia's interest to ensure that Iran's oil resources do not fall into the hands of the Americans. Okay, these are Iran's these are Russia's interests. Now, if Iran is nuked, Iran will keep fighting. But if it degrades Iran's warf fighting capabilities, okay, then Russia may be Russia may be in a position where it has to make a choice. Shall we let Iran slowly fall or shall we step in and help out Iran? So let's say somebody launches completely hypothetical scenario. I don't want this to happen. I'm just saying hypothetical academic scenario. Let's say someone one of these two nations Israel or US uh launches let's say five bombs nuclear bombs at Iran and that causes significant damage and that gives a significant philip a boost booster to let's say Kuresh mercenaries who are trying to um secede from Iran take some part of Iranian territory out of Iran if that happens and let's say it is oil rich territory now that will be bad for Russia it'll be bad for Iran obviously So Russia in that situation may perhaps seek to intervene. So it depends on how hard does it hit Iran. Most likely nuclear strikes also will not stop Iran from keeping on fighting. They'll keep on fighting. But if if nuclear strike happens then obviously Russia, China and all the civilized world will stand up and condemn this and Russia and China may get involved in a more um more active way in this war especially Russia because it is close by. Does this give a green signal to Russia to do the same to Ukraine in the future? Well, I suppose if you if the if if a nuclear bomb is used here in Iran, it gives a green signal to whoever is nuclear bombs, then you can also do the same thing. But it doesn't mean Russia will use nuclear bombs in Ukraine. Russia sees the Ukrainian people as their as its own people. The Ukrainian people are just as Slavic as the Russians, right? So, Russia is not fighting this war in Ukraine to to kill the people of Ukraine. We have discussed the objectives of Russia in great great detail hundreds of times. So I'll not go into that. Russia does not seek to destroy the people of Ukraine even though that's happening slowly. Russia has weaponized time. Russia is dragging this war out as long as possible, as long as is needed so that Europe gets depleted. But I don't think Russia needs to nuke Ukraine in order to win the war. Russia has chosen to go slow. It can go fast if if it needs to. Shantu says does China have any leverage on the US? China has multiple forms of leverage. A lot of the American manufacturing happens in China. Now it is being moved out slowly but that leverage is there until it is completely moved out. The second thing is China accounts for about 95% of the global rare earth minerals production. So there are various parts of the world that have rare earth mines. Okay. rare earth elements, rare earth metals, so on. These mines are there in various parts of the world. But the mining process is extremely dirty. It makes a mess of the environment. Okay? It's a highly highly unclean process. You need to use toxic chemicals and whatnot. So no first world nation wants to do rare earth mining in their territory. So they've outsourced it all to China. The Chinese understood that this is a critical technology. It's a critical sector. India probably has the world's largest rare earth resources, but we don't have a single oper operation mind as far as I know. Hope hopefully I'm wrong, but as far as I know, we don't have any. The Chinese account for that and rare earth metals, minerals, etc. elements are used in the most critical technologies. Without that you can't manufacture phones, you can't manufacture laptops, you can't manufacture all kinds of cutting edge equipment. Then if China is the producer of 95% of that, well imagine the leverage they have with all the Americans and that's why the Chinese are able to negotiate negotiate with the Americans and bring tariffs down and so on. So yes, China does have uh leverage. Yes, Lovish Tind says is the end goal Pax Judai. So there is this professor Jang right who has suddenly become a phenomenon on social media and uh he I think has come out with this theory or maybe it's an existing theory I'm not sure and that's why this pax judika thing has become a big big phenomenon right now everyone's talking about it uh is the end goal Pax Judika so you know ask ask yourself what do you mean by pax juda so there used to be a pax romana pax romana means roman peace peace peace imposed on Roman terms which means with Roman victories. I don't know who said it that the Romans make a wasteland and then call it peace. Who said that the Romans create a wasteland and call it peace? Uh give me a second. Who said that? Uh give give give second. Okay. So the Romans create a wasteland and call it peace. Let me try that again. The Romans create a wasteland and call it peace. Uh who said this? They make a desert and call it peace. It comes from the Roman historian Tacitus in his work agricola. It's attributed to Kalakus, a Caledonian chieftain. the critique of Roman imperialism arguing that Rome destroys lands and cultures then caused the resulting dissolution resulting dissolation peace. So that was Pax Romana peace imposed. It was the pacification of conquered peoples and their cultures and their nations and their kingdoms and empires through destruction and then you call it peace. Pax Roma today you have Pax Americana. Now the Americans maintained the world's peace for the past 70 80 years and now they're launching wars everywhere. So from that perspective, if you see this term Pax Judea, it would probably mean that the Jewish people conquer a big territory and impose peace there on their terms. That would be PAX Juda, which essentially is a metaphor or a euphemism for Jewish expansion, Israeli expansion. Maybe there are claims that Israel wants to create a greater Israel and incorporate the whole of the Middle East, West Asia region in greater Israel. um that I don't know if it's true. I mean I don't know who comes up who has come up with this theories. Uh is that true? Is this the end goal? Well, I don't know. There is no uh official statement of that kind coming out of Israel. Yeah. Nobody, no Israeli prime minister, no Israeli politician that I know of has made this claim that we need to, you know, expand Israel and create a Pax Juda. Uh so nobody has said that but because no one has said it doesn't mean it's true. It could be true hypothetically possibly theoretically but I have no evidence of that. All right Jagjit says someone on X said that you are a Russia asset someone on X. Now what people make all kinds of statements all kinds of statements. How do I care? It makes no difference to me. No difference to me whatsoever. Listen, there are wars going on in the world. There's Russia Ukraine. Do I have a horse in that race? Do I have a horse in the Russia Ukraine race? No, I don't have a horse in the race. There's a war going on in West Asia now. US Israel versus Iran. Do I have a horse in the race? I don't have a horse in the race. My horse I have a horse. That horse is India. That's my horse. I am pro India. I'm an Indian asset. I give my truthful analysis of how I see things. Now you may disagree with it and you may call me an asset of this nation that nation because I I said things the in a way that you didn't like perhaps maybe I was not uh I did not praise Zalinsky enough. That makes me a Russian asset. Maybe I I did not condemn Russia enough. Does that make me a Russian asset? Now today I'm I'm saying that Israel Israel and the US started the the the Iran war. Iran didn't start it. Does that make me an Iranian asset? Now I don't think it makes me an Iranian asset. I am no lover of any of these countries. Okay? I am not biased towards biased towards any of them. I am only biased towards India. So I'm a biased person. Sure. I am openly biased towards India. Whatever I say comes from that position and I'm nobody's asset. I'm only India's asset. I'm the asset of my people and the asset of my civilization. Russia Russia it's our longest standing partner geopolitically right. So if from that perspective if I I if I recommend that India and Russia should have better relations it doesn't make me a Russian asset. It it means that I have my nation's interest in mind. So yeah. All right. So let people say what they want. How does it what difference does it make? It makes no difference to me whatsoever. A lot of people say nasty things on social media. A lot of people say nasty things in the comments over here. Maybe they're hoping that it will hurt my feelings and lower my morale. those people. Let me tell you, it makes no difference to me whatsoever. It's just funny to read your comments. Those of you who are haters, the minority who are haters, okay, most of you, I'm not saying you are haters, my viewers. But some people come once in a while. I I I see a lot of Chinese people typing comments in Chinese trying to say nasty things about our country and so on. Keep on going. Makes no difference to me. I don't even delete those comments or whatever. Let it be. Okay. Putin says Mir Shimemer said that the long-term effect of war would be that countries are going to have less interest with close defense ties with the US and if India if Indians are smart they would have as much distance between them and the US as possible. What's my opinion? Let's examine the effects of the current war. the current Iran USIsrael versus Iran war in which the whole Gulf region has been dragged possibly there are a whole bunch of nations here in West Asia that have very close defense ties with the US what kind of defense ties do they have they are dependent on the US for protection for military protection see these nations in let's go to the maps okay let me show you a few things let me teach you a few facts of life. Okay, let's do that. Let's let's let's learn some facts of life. If you look at the West Asia region, okay, look look at the entire India and West Asia region together, then you have an ancient civilization here, which is India. Eastwards you have China, ancient civilization. Okay. In Afghanistan, Pakistan, the whole subcontinent is Indian civilization. Now west of India we have a sister civilization or daughter civilization which is Persia which is also an ancient civilization. Now if you go westwards and southwards we have the Arab Arabic nations. If you see the map if you see these Arabic nations on the map you will see that the borders have straight lines. Why do the borders have a lot of strains? I'm not saying all the lines are straight but there's a lot of straight lines on the border. Look at this Saudi Arabia Yemen. So how did the borders acquire the straight lines? It's because these nations are artificially created nations created by the west. Why did the west create these nations? Saudi, it is Arabia, right? It's Arabia. How did it become Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia? It's because the UK, the English, the British or like Indians like to say the Britishers, the Britishers, they installed the house of Saud as the ruling family in Arabia and they named it Saudi Arabia. And the objective of doing the purpose of doing this was to ensure that the house of Saud is a client of the UK will serve British interests and keep on uh and ensure that the oil in the region would be sold to the British. So the objective of the British was to ensure that these nations that they setting up over here these kingdoms they will keep them well supplied with oil and to protect these artificial artificially elevated families puppet families over here the British left behind troops and garrisons in the region and that's how all these artificial nations were created at various points in time in the late 19th century and first half of the 20th century. So these were all client states and eventually once the British became irrelevant the Americans took over and this and the entire uh arrangement continued right so so that's the situation I mean look at all the straight lines on the borders right these are all artificial lines real borders aren't like this so with that understood we have to see that all these uh client states in this region They have American military bases on their territory. Whether it is Bahrain, whether it is Qatar, whether it's the UAE, whether it is Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, now Syria. Syria. Yeah. Also, all these nations, not Yemen. So, these American military bases were supposedly for the protection of these nations. But when the war happened, the Americans did not protect anybody or they were incapable of protecting these nations. And these nations are being hit by Iran because they are harboring American military bases. And these nations are now beginning to feel, okay, maybe it's a wrong feeling, maybe it's a real feeling. They're beginning to feel the Americans aren't interested in protecting us. They are only interested in protecting Israel, not us, not the Arabs. And they are getting the feeling that these military bases, American military bases on our territory, they are not meant for our protection. This is not the infrastructure of protection. It is the infrastructure of occupation. Okay. So these nations they actually uh they feel betrayed right now and they will reconsider should we really have these closed ties with the Americans when the Americans aren't willing to protect us when they haven't offered us an they haven't acted in a way that protects us we are taking hits our infrastructure is being burned our oil fields are being destroyed right they will obviously have this grievance the question is What options? What alternatives do they have? These Gulf nations, they don't have any big military-industrial complex. They can't manufacture weapons, munitions, arms, ammunition, aircraft, submarines, warships, artillery, missiles. They don't know how to manufacture any of these things. So, they have no choice but to be dependent on somebody. Now, can they replace the Americans with maybe Russia or China? The Americans won't allow that to happen. And even if they try, it's going to be a long process. So the Gulf nations are in that dilemma right now. The Americans were supposed to protect us. That was the that was the deal, but they didn't did not protect us. So this is the immediate situation. But the long-term effects of this is that other nations are now going to reconsider how they see the US. The US aura has diminished. US prestige has diminished. Okay. And other nations will will think long and hard before getting into a relationship like the relationship the Gulf nations have with the US. Now what about India? India I I hope this war is a wakeup call for India. Not to don't take sides. Stay out of these matters. I'm not saying India has taken sides. I mean India kind of verbally took a side in the beginning of the war. We refused to you know condol the assassination of Shri Kame and we condemned the you know violation of the sovereignty of the Gulf nations implicitly by Iran. So we kind of verbally stood against Iran and with the Gulf nations and Israel and and the US and then India recalibrated after three years. what kind of U-turns are we making or maybe it's all done strategically maybe maybe there there's a deeper meaning behind these these uh the way we are navigating the thing but uh so India has to learn the lessons of this India needs to make sure we don't fall into the American orbit they are no one's friends and they should not be right they don't have to be they are an empire an empire has no friends and empire only has vasals and if you vasalize yourself at the end of the day eventually you'll be discarded after being chewed out. So yeah, India should be very careful about this. Don't find yourself in a position, don't maneuver yourself into a position where you have to become an American vasa. Remain a sovereign nation. Okay. Sai says uh good evening. Keeping in mind the possibility of an oil shock due to this war. Why do you why do you feel India is still continuing to supply oil to Bangladesh? Yeah, I have no idea. No idea whatsoever. I would not supply oil to Bangladesh. I would not do that. But maybe there may be some reasons that we are not aware of. That's the only thing I can think of because there's no logical reason to supply oil to Bangladesh. I mean is that I mean you go and when there's when there's earthquakes in Turkey you go and help them out and the next day what you find is that Turkey backstabs you. So my point is why why do these unilateral things that have no reciprocity? I'm not sure neighborhood first and all these policies that we have. I I don't know. I I can't I cannot think of any logical reason why we are giving oil to Bangladesh especially in a situation where there's a oil shock in the world. I I cannot think of a logical reason. Maybe maybe maybe I'm not intelligent enough. Maybe I'm just too low IQ to understand this. But I can't think of a reason. Honestly, I can think of one. Okay. Vsvs says question by Ocean Gupta. Ocean Gupta G Kennedy tried to stop Israel from getting the nuclear weapon but his efforts were undone by the CIA. Is this true? Shout out to Soldier Boy. He truly loves India's development. Um, was so the question essentially is was Ked assassinated by the CIA because he wanted to stop Israel from getting the nuclear weapon? I don't know. Look, the official version is that Kennedy was assassinated assassinated by a lone assassin. Obviously, that's that's a lie. That much is clear. It's a lie. But who assassinated Kennedy to in in in the real world? I mean, who actually did that? I don't know. I have my suspicions. I suspect it could be the US establishment itself, which involves which includes the CIA, of course, the CIA, whoever else. It is possible. I think it is the likelihood of that is higher than any other theories in my opinion. But why did they do it? There must be multiple reasons for it. One of the reasons was Kennedy not cooperating with them during the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba. So the US military launched an invasion of Cuba without informing the President Kennedy and then once the once the invasive invading force reached Cuba they asked for air cover. They said you know this has happened. So Kennedy said I have never approved it. I will not give you air cover. And that's why the invasion failed and there were casualties and maybe there was a red line that was crossed by Kennedy. That is one theory uh about Israel. I am not aware. When did Israel acquire nuclear weapons? I think it was it the news came out in the late '7s or early ' 80s because of Morai Wanunu. Right. Mortai Wanunu. Uh but the Israelis must have developed nuclear weapons in the 60s or 70s. The VA incident was 79. the double flash over the southern Indian Ocean there was 1979 if I am not mistaken so they were testing nuclear weapons then so maybe they so so that's 70s not it's not 60s Canada was killed in 1963 right uh so I I can't say this is all speculative I don't have any inside information that others don't have so it's possible but I have no idea bhawar says war will be going on. So what time we Indians need to get ready for inflation and what's your predictions how worse it is and how normal citizen tackle inflation okay yeah so there's going to be an oil shock if the straight of hormones closer persists then about 30 40 I don't know what percentage of our oil how much oil do we import from hormos is the question Um let's see let's find out what percentage of India's oil imports come through the straight of Hormuz 40 to 60% of India's oil imports transit the straight of Ahmazda well that's that's let's say 50% well half of our oil supplies impacted and we're going to purchase oil from Russia we're going to purchase oil from other countries you African nations Nigeria etc etc etc but it's going to still cause a shock so prices will go up to what time be ready now be I would say be ready right now be ready for inflation for prices to rise anytime um yeah if this closure persists if if the straight of hormones is reopened in let's say within a week's time there won't be too much of a problem for the world and for us for in India but if the straight of hormones closed ure persists even one week more two weeks more it's going to be a major problem then prices of everything will go up uh so and if this goes on for 6 months it's going to be well then the world will re recal reroute its oil supplies Russia will become very very prominent and very very essentially indispensable so the world can go on without hormones but the the alternative will have to be to purchase oil from Russia and Russia has the oil So it'll take some time for all this rerouting to happen and re reconfiguration to happen maybe 3 months 4 months maximum but yeah if the closure persists for a long time the world will will find a way to way to cope with it. Um yeah so I think we need to be ready for short to medium-term problems. How worse is it? I I hope that there is no there are no oil shortages. India has a 84 day the media some some media outlets say 25 days or strategic oil reserves some say 84 days but we will we'll find a way to import oil from Russia and it'll be fine so so it it probably will be a short-term issue maybe maximum 3 4 months hopefully hopefully yeah normal citizens how should you tackle well no Indian citizens know how to tackle these problems we were able to survive lockdowns so just make sure that you know don't overconume anything and uh for the short term deal with the higher prices as best as we can. Yeah. JRXna says, "What are the chances of the US sending in ground troops now that we have public pictures of Hummers being transported in trucks to to Western Iraq, eastern Iran, to Iraq West, Iran East to uh it's eastern Iraq, Western Iran, right? To assist Kurdish fighters. Do we have that Hummers? Let's see. Kuresh fighters. Hammers. Iraq. Let's see. Do we have something? Hve. Um, not sure if I could find something there. Should I look for something on a social media? Should I look for it on Twitter? Let's see. Let's go to Twitter and let's find out if we have some images of that coming in. Let's first uh check that. Um okay, goods Humvees. Let's see. Uh let's see the latest. What do we have here? Let's see. Choban Kuresh region Iraq. The K borders with Iran. Kurdistan regional government says they are only for border protection. You never know whether it's for border protection or border invasion. His clearly the Kurds. Okay. American armor vehicles rolling towards the Iranian border to through Iraqi Kurdistan. US boats on the ground. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, we we have that situation going on. What does it mean? Does it mean that we're going to have uh American boots on the ground in Iran? I think that's highly unlikely. The Americans will not uh put their soldiers their the American soldiers at risk. The Americans will use proxies to do this work to do this dirty work of invading Iran. They're going to use Kurdish mercenaries. So the Kurds, what do the Kurds want? The Kurds want their own homeland, a Kuristan, a country of their own. When the artificial nations were created in West Asia, the white guys, the the Europeans, the Anglo, they forgot to create Kurustan because they said, why create it? How do we care? So Kurustan Kurustan got divided between Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey. Did I miss something? Jordan. No, no, not not Jordan. So, one nation divided, broken into pieces and the Kurds want to create Kurdistan and they'll be that's what they are fighting for and if the Americans pay their leaders, they'll fight against the Iranians for that. So, I think what we have those images that we have, that's actually Kuresh fighters going towards the Iranian border. So, I don't see the Americans putting American boots on the ground. They will use proxies. They've always used proxies. When they fought Assad, Bashar al-Assad in Syria, they they started the the the Syrian civil war. They used al-Qaeda and then ISIS for that. They do not put American boots on the ground in Syria, right? Um so, uh I don't see Americans sending American troops. They will use all these tactics. That's how I see things going. Empty boxes. Brahasmi cosmic id first step of Indian education why cling to nation ideology geography body is borrowed matter mind is stored data then who I am really all right sir okay okay okay see in Indian philosophy there is the idea of renunciation giving things up why possess things why cling to possessions why cling to pleasure Why cling to bodily pleasures? Why cling to the ego? Erase the ego. Erase all desires. Erase all wants. Be one with the universe. Brahasmi. That is a sentiment of transcending reality. And that sentiment manifests itself in renunciation in the form of renunciation as well. Nirvana, escape the psych cycle of birth, rebirth, all of that. So from these perspectives, it would seem like the Indian philosophies and Indian traditions are all about renouncing the world, right? Give up the world. Don't forget about all these unnecessary complications. Look at higher things. Try to be one with the cosmos. Go to the Himalayas. meditate or try to achieve transcendence through some other means without going to the Himalayas but give up all these worldly things and all that they are superficial right so that's only one aspect of our philosophical and spiritual and religious traditions there are other aspects what what's uh virtue success liberation virtue, success, pleasure, liberation, all these things are important in life. But some of the some people who are highly evolved, they can say body is borrowed matter, mind is stored data, then who I am really and who how do I care? But this is not for most people. It's not for ordinary people. It's for very great people. The these sort of thoughts, they are for very great people. For ordinary people, you don't have to think think in that way. for ordinary people their geography their nation their culture that civilization is very important. So the point is there is a place for everybody in our culture. For those who are ready to renounce the world there there are paths for them. But for those who are not willing to renounce the world who want to participate vigorously in worldly activities we have paths for them too. So you can't have only one path for the entire Indian education system. The majority of people they want to participate actively in the world. You can ask them to say why do I care about my body in pleasure and nation and all geography. No that's only for highly evolved people. That sort of thinking for most people especially youngsters who are just starting off in life at the age of 5 years old. You can't tell them to renounce the world. Right? Am I right? So think from multiple perspectives. An education system has to be able to cater to all kinds of people. Not the micro minority 0.01% of people who are above everything. All right. Anand says Iran did uno reverse send sent Hebrew text to Israelis. Did they really? I was not aware of that but all right. Okay. Dolan pump says what is the reality of Marxism? Marxism. What is Marxism? Marxism is a socopolitical toolkit whose sole purpose is to ensure that a very small number of people acquire power and stay in power at the expense of the cannon foder. It's a social political tool toolkit whose sole objective is to acquire, accumulate and preserve power. It has all kinds of fantastic thing things. It says it's about the uh the the the the revolution of the proletariat, the dictatorship of the proletariat. It's about the the the emancipation of the plur proletariat. It's about the ejection of the lumpin pluritariat and the and the lumpin elements and the destruction of the bourgeoisi and all that BS it tells you behind all that complicated verbage and terminology those who understand what it is know it's about grabbing power and retaining power and maximizing your power and the very few people who understand this they are the ones who typically are part of communist parties polit bureau that is what Marxism is it's not about equality and all that nonsense. Nothing like that. And it's a failure. Every single Marxist experiment is either morphed into something else entirely or failed completely. For example, China. You think it's a Marxist country? Haha. VPS says, "We want the return of James. James, James, my friend, James, where are you? James is a good, good, good man. Good English man. He gives me the opportunity to say a lot of things that I typically would not say. So yes, missing James. Mr. James JRXna says, "What are the chances of attacks on Al Axa Mosque? Will it break Israeli alliances with other Muslim Gulf countries? Thoughts on Iranian missile drop count decreasing by 90% since day of one of the war?" Yes, I saw some graphic somewhere. Let's see. Okay, give me a second. Let me try and see. Let's do this together. Let's search for this. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Iranian missile uh launch thing, right? >> Iran missile count daily. Let's see. There was a graphic I saw somewhere. It's always nice to see visually instead of just numbers. I mean, it's nice for me, too. Um, is Iran losing its momentum? So, Iran's barrage on the UA. Okay, this is UAE. I'm talking about the entire war, not just the UAE. Okay. What about this? When was this published? This was from March 9. This was a projection. It was a projection uh around day five or day six of the war or something. March 5. Yeah. So, this is the deal. Now, let's go back to um here. So now I don't know how accurate these statistics are, but looks like things the Iranians are are slowing down their missile attacks. Day 1350, day 2 175, 120, 50, 40, 32, 28, etc., etc., etc. So now it's like 20ish, a handful of missiles per day. Drone drones 294 on day 1. 541, 28, 85, 45, 38, 30, etc. Then again it's increasing now 134 11295. If these numbers are correct then you will say that the Iranians are slowing down. I mean they are reducing the number of missile launches but now they're increasing the number of drone launches but not going crazy with it. Okay. That's what it looks like from what we are seeing there. So does it mean that Iran is losing the war? No. It means that Iran is being very strategic with what it's doing. It's very very carefully planned out. It's all calibrated. Initially, they wanted to exhaust the the interceptor missiles of the Israelis and the Americans using their old stock of ancient ballistic missiles which they've done. And now they're using maybe more precise and heavier ballistic missiles with cluster warheads. And maybe one missile that's maybe a two-ton missile or whatever can launch a cluster of 50 or 60 warheads. And that's that perhaps does as much damage as 30 missiles or something. I don't know. Maybe that's the thing. and they obviously want to preserve the stock piles for a long duration war if needed. Um so I think it is strategic. It doesn't mean that Iran is being defeated. Of course the Americans will be will be trying to identify the places from which missiles are being launched and to take out their infrastructure. So eventually over time as the Americans and Israelis successfully identify more and more of these launch sites some of these at least will be destroyed. So that will also cause a degradation in Iranian capabilities capabilities to launch missiles. So it's a combination of various factors. But overall Iran is so large and so well things are so well hidden in the mountains, it's almost impossible to take out all of their uh launch capabilities. So most likely this is strategic. The Iranians are deliberately slowing certain things down and ramping some other things up. And it's about so it's all planned out the way I see it. um chances of attacks on Al Axa Mosque which is the mosque in Jerusalem right the dome temple thing whatever it is yeah the the mosque in Jerusalem uh which is built on the site of the temple of Solomon um chances of attacks on that well that would be something no Islamic nation would do right it's the second holiest site in Islam the holiest site is Mecca the second holiest holiest site is Al aam mosque so I don't think any Islamic nation would do that including Iran They won't do that. Um, could there be a false flag on that? Well, I would rather not speculate about that. And if it happens, will it break Israeli alliances with other Muslim countries, Gulf countries? Well, if they decide if they if they feel Israel has done that, it will be it won't be a nice scenario in that case. Sergeant Skylin says, "How do you think this war will impact us?" Well, first of all, it's going to cause an oil shock in the world if the the hormones closer continues, which means higher prices and things like that. We will have we'll be constrained in terms of oil imports. We'll have to purchase oil from other places. We'll have to ramp up our Russian oil imports, which is good. Well, I'm not opposed to that, right? Uh that's one way it will impact us. And eventually the war is going to make us force us to make a choice of where we stand in the world, right? Uh so in case the Americans win the war, they will train their focus on India after that. It'll be the next big project for the Americans. If the Americans fail in destroying Iran and changing the regime, then American prestige goes down. It gives India more wiggle room in its dealings with with uh the United States. Um yeah, overall long-term the whole world is fracturing. The whole world is fracturing. Mobility is going down. Earlier you could go to the airport tomorrow morning and fly to which whichever country you had visas for right you you don't have to think of it as long as you have money or tomorrow tomorrow I want to be in New York City. Tomorrow I want to be in Paris. I want to be in in Dubai. You could do it. Now it's difficult. So lot of impact lots of second third order impacts we're going to see. Rumit Mishra says if Trump loses the midterm election will he still a president of the US and if he loses that will that slow down the changes in the world order which we are seeing after Trump came to power. If Trump loses the midterm election he will still be president president but he will be a very diminished president. he won't have the power to push legislation through and get his things done, get, you know, get things done the way he wants them to be done. So, the midterm election is critical for Trump. And losing the midterm will be a disaster for him. It will be disaster for him politically. It will be disaster for him not only within American politics, but also within the Republican party. It'll diminish him significantly. uh if he loses will that slow down the changes in the world order we are seeing after after he came to power to some extent you will see some slowing down Trump will no longer be able to be this aggressive with tariffs he will no longer be able to start wars whenever the hell he feels like that feels like doing doing starting a war so many of these his powers will will come down and he will have way more constraints domestically political constraints domestically So yeah, it's it's important for Trump to win this midterm election and that hinges on the outcome of the war against Iran. It hinges on the outcome of this war. So this war is make or break for Trump. It's do or die for Trump. Yeah. Yeah. Ashish Karna Ashish says, "Look up China's estimate of India's brahos count. feels India hides strength a lot 5 range is 5k feels weird when we have seen when we have sent probes to Mars okay let's look up what uh Ashish says let's see uh let us uh go to our friend Google and China's estimate of India's brahos count let's see what is the Chinese estimate Based on 2020 reports, some Chinese observers suggested that India might possess up to 14,000 Brahmos missiles. A figure widely considered far-fetched by defense analysts. While officially the Indian military has hundreds of missiles deployed across all three branches, this extremely high estimate has likely reflected Chinese concern regarding India's rapidly miss expanding missile arsenal. So some estimates are in the thousands. Official figures often highlight specific procurement orders. uh 200 air launched variants in 2012. Similar order by the navy in 2023. The high count estimate stems from the strategic importance of bramos as a key deterrent and so on so forth. India's production cap capacity is robust. BRAMOS integration facility capable of producing about 100 missiles per year which is which is not enough. Um then we have the development of the BRAOS NG bramos 2 and so on. The high unofficial figure of 14,000 often cited in Chinese media is likely not representative of the active inventory but rather an outlier estimating the total potential blah blah etc etc etc. Uh okay. The Chinese estimate India is 14,000. Best estimate. How about best estimate? Okay. 15 to 2,000. 1500 to 2,000. That's the best estimate. So the Chinese say 14,000. The best estimate according to this AI system is 1,500 to 2,000 brahos mass. So I suppose it will be closer to look I I can't venture a guess. My guess is as good as anybody's guess. I don't know. If you feel that India is hiding its strength a lot, well, I hope you are right. If India has more than 10,000 Brahmos missiles, I will be very pleased because it gives India options. Options Agni 5 range. Let's let's check out the range of the AGNY 5. Agni 5 official range um official publicly stated range of more than 5,000 km. Well, you know what is more than 5,000 km? More than 5,000 km could be 5,500 km. It could be 6,000 km. It could be 12,000 km. It could be anything. So officially we have said it's 5,000 plus kilometers maybe 5,500 maybe 6,000 mo is the truth we don't know it's classified look we need to have ICBMs ICBM cap capabilities we need to have missiles that can reach anywhere in the world it's very important uh do I believe we have missiles that can reach everywhere we have the technology for that have we operationalized that operation has operationalized this technology. I don't know for sure. Of course, we have sent probes to Mars, but we have sent probes to Mars using the PSLV launcher. The Chundrean, sorry, the Mongolan, right? Mangalan. One second. One second. Let's find out. I think it was it was the PSLV. Which rocket launched the Mongolan spacecraft? PSLV, I think. Yeah, it was the PSLV. Uh that was in 2013. So look, the PSLV is nothing like a ballistic missile. It is in a sense a ballistic missile. Sure, you can use the PSLV, the GSLV as a ballistic missile, but it's it's got liquid fuel. It takes hours and hours to fill it up with fuel. A military ballistic missile has to be solid fueled. I mean some missiles can be liquid fuel but that takes that makes it cumbersome because you have to spend a lot of time re filling the missile with liquid fuel. If it's solid fueled it can be easily transported. It can be launched anytime on demand. So um PSLV can can be used obviously as a ballistic missile but a if we have the PSLV it doesn't mean that we have great ballistic missiles necessarily. Uh but overall my point is that I am pretty sure the AGNY 5 has a much higher range than what is officially stated but we are uh not reporting that so that we don't alarm the world but whoever is supposed to know will know about that. Prattana says government needs to stop worrying about its Arab friends wallet and use LPG alternatives by Indian companies. DME fuel and others are very good alternatives to LPG. What is DME fuel? DME fuel. What is that? Dimethile ether. DME is an ultra clean sulfur-free synthetic gaseous fuel. CH3 O3. Oh, very similar to acetic acid but not quite CH3. Okay. CH3 CO is acetic acid. This is different of course. So this is dimethile because dimethile okay the chemical formula the chemical okay dimethile ether okay this burns without particulate matter making it a promising lowcarbon alternative to diesel and LPG it has a high citane number 55 to 60 allowing for efficient compression ignition though it requires specialized storage due to its low boiling point its boiling point is minus4.8 8 Celsius. So water has a boiling point of 100 Celsius. So water is very stable at room temperature. Um this thing has a boiling point of minus 24.8. So you need to keep it you store it in a in a pressurized form if you want to if you want it to be liquid. So yeah, it needs it requires specialized storage because above -24.8 Celsius it becomes a gas and you ideally want it to be liquid and stored in a in a cylinder. So colorless gas, non-toxic, non-cargenic, carcinogenic, etc. Produced natural gas, coal, biomass used as a diesel substitute in vehicles, mice, trucks and buses. A cleaner alternative to LPG for cooking and heating. High combustion efficiency, low no suit. Great. No nitrogen nit emissions requires specialized similar to propane gas for handling and storage. China as always as a leading producer. They do LPG blending using DM DME and other countries like Indonesia, India and Japan are exploring or implementing it. Okay. DME fuel India. What do we have here? Do we have this in India? Uh it's being developed to reduce oil imports and emissions. Okay. IIO Kpur has done something but what so I kur developed a DME fuel tractor but then did anybody commercialize that or is it just technology demonstrator? How is it produced? Production. How does it how is it produced? uh production production indirect. So methanol is synthesized from sin gas carbon monoxide plus hydrogen followed by dehydration to DME. Oh no, you can you don't need any specialized stuff can do it at home. So I suppose India should certainly look into DME as a as a very promising and very viable alternative to LPG which we have to import from the Gulf nations. I completely agree with you. was not aware of DME dimethile ether looks like it's a very promising and very a very viable alternative to LPG I agree the government needs to focus on this because you don't need uh petroleum reserves to produce DME you can produce it using other means yeah I agree thank you for pointing this out sir minqin minqinkin says Trump said war might be over soon. Oil tanked instantly. Is there a chance he might be manipulating the markets? Is there a chance Trump might be manufact man manipulating the markets? Well, I won't say there is a chance. Of course, there's a chance. Yeah. Oil tanked and now it's going up again. H Yeah, there's a chance. VSBS says question by Dal Dalandra give me top 10 books to understand history look it doesn't work like that if you want to understand history I need to know what history do you want to know you want to know Indian history you want to know French history you want to know Swiss history you want to know German history you want to learn the history of Australia Americas each part of the world will have hundreds thousands of historical events that need detailed analysis But if you want 10 books, I will give you 10 books about world history. Okay. Will Durant series, the story of civilization. This is where I first learned history as a kid. Of course, it's not a book books for kids, but whatever. It's an 11 volume set of books covering both eastern and western civilizations. These many people will say are outdated because they were written in the first half of the 20th century and they also have a western perspective but it's still an extremely extremely useful set of books. I really enjoyed reading reading those books. So yeah will durant the story of civilization. Aksham Malhadra says will India get involved in this war? India should not get involved in this war and I I I think it's unlikely that India gets involved in this war. It's not our war. We should stay out of it and we will most likely hopefully stay out of it. Developer Kapay says alternative model to global economy from zero sum resource fights oil gold starving innovation and trials India startups to nonzero sum open sandbox models of collaborating infinite growth. I don't have any such thing. I don't have any such model. Look, the world is a finite world. The resources available to humanity are finite. Okay. And this is what is geopolitics? It's it's it's the competition for resources. It's a competition for power. It's a competition for for for for access to resources, for control of resources. For control of resources resources, you need to control territory. To control territory, you need power. That's what geopolitics is all about and that's what under underpins the global economy this entire system. So the fights the resource fights sometimes they become zero sum oil gold obviously oil also now and that is simply the way the world is structured and why is it structured like this because of the nature of the human species. We are by nature an expansionist aggressive species. We are a warlike species. Our entire history is a history of conflicts. All major historical change has happened through warfare. There's no peaceful change in the world. This is just who we are as a species. I I can propose some model but it won't work. That's the problem. You see that's the problem. The major the key players see everything from a zero sum perspective. For me to win you must lose that sort of thing. If you are not if you have not lost then you will be you will remain a competitor. This is pure game theory basic 101 game theory 101 zero sum competition. You know obviously you can have cooperation cooperative games and all but uh yeah in in geopolitics if you are one of the big fish you will see everything from a zero sum perspective that if I win and you also win then tomorrow you may seek to take my share of the pie so therefore let me ensure that I win in such a way that you lose that way I remain safe you know so that's the zero sum perspective and that's kind of how things are. That's that boils down to human nature. We know that we are dangerous to each other. We are dangerous for each other. We represent a danger to each other. Uh and that's why we have things the way they are. Unfortunately, I don't know what model I could propose that could change anything. Singh says France sending their nuclear carrier to S. India is nowhere near ready for world war. France is sending their aircraft nuclear carrier to saw state of foremost state of foremost India is nowhere near ready for world war. Also I want to be a vasal of the Cha Empire where to apply where I don't have Chava Empire neither a Chava kingdom that's not been in existence for about over a millennium. So let's see if I can do something not in an imperial or kingdom perspective but you know yeah maybe maybe we can create a group of people who can do something constructively together in certain fields let me let me think and think about it and if I if I have any such uh initiatives I will let everybody know and and everybody can apply but as of now I don't have any such thing. Yeah. Now uh about the question France sending their nuclear carrier to the state of Hormos um maybe it's a symbolic move u the French aircraft carrier is the shall the goal isn't it let's see if we have any piece of news about this France aircraft carrier straight of hormuz okay do we have something France pledges 10 additional warships in the Middle East escorts super carrier could shield Hormos. Nobody's going to shield Hormos. Baba deploying about a dozen naval vessels, including its aircraft carrier strike group to the Mediterranean Red Sea and potentially the Hormos region. Look, the fact of the matter is the most powerful aircraft carriers in the world are the American aircraft carriers. The Americans had an aircraft carrier near Hormuz and then when the footing started they moved it away quietly because it is vulnerable. Aircraft carriers are vulnerable. They are liabilities. France is not going to put its aircraft carrier anywhere near Hormuz. It's too precious to risk. Aircraft carriers are liabilities. Submarines are what really matters. So the French are sending their aircraft carrier in the eastern Mediterranean. Maybe the Red Sea. Where where are these regions? Let's let's find out. Let's let's go to the map. Yes. Where is map? Here is map. >> So see where's France? France is here. uh they have the kudir over here which is the Mediterranean coast and they also have the Atlantic coast which is uh a all that okay so we are talking about the Mediterranean so the French I don't know where the aircraft would be deployed maybe Maki maybe somewhere else but they are going to deploy it in the eastern Mediterranean Sea which is this region this region here this is the eastern Mediterranean maybe perhaps they will transit sway okay port between port and out also the Suez Canal and maybe the aircraft carrier will enter the uh the Red Sea which is this this region here the Red Sea maybe it may come into the Gulf of Aen or whatever so if you are in the Red Sea you can be targeted by the Houthis so that's also an issue and maybe the Houthies let you pass then you come into the Arabian Sea into the western Indian Ocean but then you will not come close to Horos you will stay you will stay a reasonable distance away from Iranian territory because the Iranians have very powerful missiles and France doesn't want to get involved in the war. So most likely the French aren't going to do much about this. This may be a symbolic gesture more than anything else. Mimon does does want France to be more active proactive geopolitically but not in a in a way that is is is damaging to French interests. Uh so that's the deal with France. Uh that's that's my assessment of how France will behave. India is nowhere near ready for world war. I don't know what our state of readiness is. We are at least a we have enough readiness to deal with Pakistan. That's what I know. Uh about other aspects of world war. I am not aware. The Indian military will hopefully be ready enough. And obviously you you are never ready enough. You should be more ready. U you should u yeah India needs to learn the lessons of the Iran war and make the appropriate changes correspondingly. VSVS says Aijit Cha Light asks sir why no political no other political leaders like Putin Xi Modi Kim Jong-un etc talk about the deep state in the US as they have pretty good intelligence so they must know about it my comment Putin GI has hinted at it you don't speak about these things openly okay if you are a world leader you don't speak about these things openly everyone knows what The truth is that there is a deep state but if a world leader speaks about this their image can be they can be targeted and mocked and ridiculed and their image can be brought down and there can be all kinds of vicious attacks against them. First of all that's one category of things that can happen. You know if if let's say Putin speaks about the deep state then the west will immediately categorize him as a conspiracy theorist and that will bring Putin's image down. Not that Putin Putin gives a damn barance but that that thing that's one thing. The second thing is you want to have good relations with the United States. If you are the leader of a country whether you are the leader of Russia, India, North Korea, Surinam, Swaziland, Namibia, whoever you are, you want to have good relations with the US. Now let's say you know that the US actually the US president doesn't mean anything and the the nation is run by the deep state. Even if you know it, why will you say it? It will it will it will create problems in your relationship with the US. The US won't like it. So why will you do something that will hurt your nation's relations with the US? Of course, everyone knows what the truth is, but you don't speak about it, especially if you're a world leader. That's how it goes in diplomacy and international relations. All right. Prrenav says Andaman oil fields bidding process auction started. Let's find out. Okay, let's see. Let's let's Google that. And oil fields bidding process auction. Uh do we have something? The Indian government is aggressively pushing to explore the Anaman basin for oil and gas with several high stakes developments occurring between late 24 early 26. Major largely unrilled frontier with potential reserves estimated to be significant potentially mirroring the large scale oil discourse in Guyana and so on and so forth so forth. So something is happening. Uh oil and gas block auction deadline extended for the fourth time. Potential investors have till May 29 of this year to submit bids. So if any of you want to submit a bid for drilling in the Andermans, you have until May 29 to do that if you have the the resources for that. Good, good, good, good. Akash Dhar, thank you very much, Akash G. Thank you so much. Ammon Matei says u yeah a PDF file wararmongering history of nation keeps peddling uh keeps meddling in the affairs of other nations. conducts almost every every every war enemy between with other nations on earth is saying Iran is gone rogue and lunat lunatic such irony thoughts in Russia Iran saying Iran has gone rogue rogue yeah I know I know yeah that's how that's how it is how it is Look, this is the most powerful nation on the planet and they do every everything all all the bad things everything all the bad things you can imagine they do and then they call other nations a bunch of terrorists. They say that Iran is the global state sponsor of terrorism. Wait, have you seen Pakistan? What has Iran done compared to Pakistan? Iran is nothing. Right. So yeah, what you're saying is true. What you're saying is absolutely true. It's called being hypocritical. You do everything wrong and then you point fingers at at others and accuse them of doing all those things and then you destroy them for doing those things allegedly. That's called hypocrisy. Well, you have to earn the right to be a hypocrite. How do you earn the right to be a hypocrite? By being powerful. By acquiring power. And this nation is the most powerful on earth. That's why they are able to be absolutely as hypocritical as they want. So it's a privilege that they have and that's why they are able to be hypocritical. Okay. Putin says someone on X sarcastically called you Abijit Pravda. He really let me find out. Uh let me go and find out. Uh where is X is where? Yes. X. Let's see. Okay. Let's let's search for that. Uh Bit Ravda. Really? Let's find out. No, no, no. Brava, not not that. Um, okay. Oh, JS. JS. I see what okay. I have no idea what people are saying. It's interesting that someone is uh using this. It's fine. It's okay. It's okay. Let people say what they say. I think it's funny. I think it's very funny. Yes, it's very funny. Okay. Nikil says, "Is China's economic collapse imminent?" No, sir. No. No. No. not imminent. Akash Sudhar says, "What do you think of about Professor Jang?" Look, I haven't watched his videos in any detail whatsoever. I've watched a couple of his shorter clips like 10 10 12 minute clips. What do I think? I think he's very competent. He knows what he is talking about. He is an expert in his domain in domains. He I think he's a course on game theory is something I haven't seen the course. Game theory is very relevant to geopolitics and even corporate competition and so many other things. It's it's relevant to life. Uh so he's a game theorist. He knows his history. He has very clear theories about about how things are. That much I understand. Beyond that I don't know about uh how good and how robust his theories are. He seems to have become a phenomenon of late um on on social media on on YouTube and on the internet. But beyond that, I don't know. I have not seen any of his publications. Uh that is typically what tells you how good uh an academic or or a scholar is the quality of their publications. I haven't seen those. I haven't had the time to see those. Uh let let's see. Let's let's try and see. Professor Jang, right? Let's see what kind of publications does he have. Professor Jang. So Janguin. Right. So Janguin publications let's see what publications he has uh research gate research works Google scholar it's in Chinese science direct okay let's see earn science direct his research interests matrix nope values mill wave really is that same yeah jin okay wireless communication software etc etc this looks like engineering electronics. Yeah, this looks like um medicine. Uh is this the same Jangin? What about this one? It's in Chinese. Um index low complexity spatial modulation. Well, this is definitely not game theory. It's more electronics and uh engineering. DOS is well that's computer science network stuff. Um so maybe it's the same professor Jang. I'm not sure. Of course you can be an expert in one field and go into another field. That is not an issue at all. Uh site profiles. What about this? What's he published case study of? Looks like he is a multid-disciplinary researcher which is good. I like that. I have no issue with that. So I still haven't formed a proper um understanding of professor Jang. I overall I think he's a very competent scholar. That's all I can say. Beyond that I don't know. VSPS says J VSVS etc. uh what if we are giving support so that what if we are giving support to somebody so that that can help us do Pakistan just a thought it's a theory and when you do when you play such games you have to be very careful and you have to think about the long-term consequences let's say hypothetically you give support to the US in exchange for the US giving you Pakistan or P But what if you give the support and then the Americans after everything is over refused to give you PK. Then what do you do and they've also failed in Iran which means Iran also is unhappy with you. Then what do you do? So no outcome is guaranteed. When the war began, it looked like the Americans will do a 48 hour war and it's over. But here we are. The Americans are on the back foot. Their plans have not succeeded. Right? So uh should be very careful when you do such things. Uhu says, "I admire Prime Minister Neu. How to be like him?" Explain in brief. How to be like Prime Minister Neu? Well, well, multifaceted, magnificent person. He was excellent in so many fields and domains. Um I I can't even imagine how someone can be that magnificent. I mean he was a scholar of history. He was a global statesman. He was the proponent a great proponent of scientific temper. He was an institution builder. He was a freedom fighter. He was a charming charming man. So many things. How do you be like him? Well either you are born with those qualities and talents or you can't be like him. I I suppose that's how it goes with Prime Minister Nu. He was a once in a century kind of magnificent man. Shuji I I can't say how to be like him. If if I could be I would be would that I could but I can't. Would that I could. Situ Kumar says sir what do you think about G7 country's message to India to release strategic oil reserves? Really? Have they said that? Let's see. G7 India strategic oil reserves. Did they say something? G7 stops short of releasing oil reserves. Asks IEA to assess something. India rules out releasing strategic oil reserves after IEA cools calls for cool prices. Uh G7 effort to trap strategic petroleum. India says no to let's see this one India says no to IEA's call to release strategic oil reserves this is from yesterday what is IEA international energy agency uh they have an initiative to release strategic oil reserves as part of an effort to cool oil prices and India is the world's third largest oil importing and consuming nation um and we uh we have 5 something million tons of underground strategic reserves they are 80% full right now and uh so we are not a member of IEA we don't have any obligation to follow dictats of this body and so on so okay that's that's what it is that's fine we are we are under no obligation to do what they say so yeah I think it's great paras says you don't celebrate women's day you must be single you wish you wish says can you justify why India does not need more aircraft carriers but instead more submarines and I'm a great admirer of yours. Um thank you first of all for being a great admirer. Can I justify? Well, one justification I can show you is the situation right now. If the if if aircraft carriers are so useful and they are such an overwhelming element of military might then why are the two American aircraft carriers not being used in the region in the war against Iran? Let's find out. Okay. Which American aircraft carriers are deployed near Iran currently? So you have the USS Gerald Ford and the USS Abraham Lincoln. These are two aircraft carrier strike groups, which means it's not just the carrier, but a whole bunch of ships around it. These two aircraft carrier strike groups are operating in the region. And you may have a third potential carrier joining them potentially. The USS Abraham Lincoln is is in the Arabian Gulf, Persian Gulf. Really? And the Gerald Ford is such station in the Red Sea. It's you. I cannot believe it. Where where is the USS Abraham Lincoln currently deployed? It's in the Arabian Sea near Oman. It's not in this in the Persian Gulf. It would be suicidal to be in the Persian Gulf. So the point is I mean if you want to know where exactly this is, if it's near Oman, it means it is staying out of harm's way. Look where is Oman? It's somewhere of the coast of Oman. So it's somewhere in this region. It is not in the Gulf of Oman. It's not here because the here you have Iran, Iranian territory, Iranian coastline. So it's somewhere here maybe maybe south of Guada all the way near Duk. See the port of Duke over here maybe somewhere here. So it's staying out of range of Iranian missiles. It may still not be out of range but it's kind of staying as far as possible as operationally possible while still being relevant. Right? That's just one example. The Americans are keeping one aircraft carrier in the Arabian Sea, one in the Red Sea. If aircraft carriers are so powerful and so dangerous and so scary, why aren't they being actively used against Iran when Iran is doing well in the war, right? Aircraft carriers are incredibly expensive. The American aircraft carriers cost each of them costs more than $10 billion. 10 12 13 billion each. Okay? So that's a huge huge investment just for one trip and you have to then defend it because in today's world you can easily kill a ship using low cost weapons. Let's say you use shahed drones the Iranian drone. Okay the Iranian drone shahed drone costs about 20 to $30,000 per piece. 20,000 $30,000 per piece. So if you have a hundred of those drones, it's two or three million. If you have a thousand of those drones, it's 20 $30 million. If you have a lack of those drones, it's still $200, $300 million. If you launch a swarm of drones at an aircraft carrier, it's simply a mathematical certainty that the aircraft carrier and its and its strike group will not have enough missiles beyond a point to target those drones. So let's say the aircraft carrier and its strike group have let's say 500 missiles or let's say,000 missiles to defend the ship. But what if you launch 1,500 drones which are all cheap? What happens then? You're going to destroy the aircraft carrier. It's a mathematical certainty. And instead of drone, if you launch a supersonic or hypersonic missile, you don't need to launch a 100 or a thousand. Yeah. Launch 30. Launch 50. A few will go through. If it's a hypersonic, even if it doesn't have a warhead, it will slice the ship into two pieces. So these are the reasons why aircraft carriers are essentially setting ducks in today's 21st century context and they are such incredibly enticing targets big fat target slowmoving target. You can take them out through so many different ways. You can use a ballistic missile to take it out. You can use a submarine to take it out. You don't even have to detonate the you don't even have to use a torpedo. You can even detonate a tactical nuke underwater before any of the escorts can take can take action. There's so many ways of destroying aircraft carriers. Submarines invisible, scary as hell. Submarines are far better. Okay. Uh Kos says, "How is India slipping to Wasalud so fast? Why Barat cooking to Israel? The leftover of dead British Empire. our people kicked out looks disgraceful globally. Look, I would not categorize India as a vasal yet. I'm going to re-evaluate the whole situation after this war is over. Right now, Bat is among the six sovereign nations in my sovereignty list. I have not demoted Bat to a Wasal state yet as per my analysis. Of course, there are concerning uh developments for sure. Yeah, we are technologically non-s sovereign. We are adopting American AI. Very very very concerning. Uh we have major sovereignty issues in Manipur. Foreigners have taken over half of the state at least. So we have issues. But I I I will do this detailed analysis once this war is over. Right now I am not demoting India below 1.0 0 on the sovereignty scale right now. Not but there are concerning issues for sure. Yeah. About Israel, uh Mr. Modi did visit Israel the day before the war started, before they launched an attack on Iran. Um yeah, that was I think uh um well, was it a welltimed visit? I'm not sure. Maybe it was, maybe it wasn't. Who am I to judge? uh but there is that and the fact that after the war started India took a pro- US pro-Israel stand that also was maybe was it necessary was it really necessary a proud strong self-respecting sovereign nation would not do that ideally ideally maybe there are constraints that I'm not aware of that only our leadership will know so I think we need to wait and watch for a while let this war get over then I will look into this. VSVS says Paras G must understand that Sar has been married longer than Paras G has been alive. Who's Paris G? All right. Global says thoughts on John Kiryaku XCI agent whistleblower. I have no idea about this individual. Look, if somebody says comes on social media and says I am a XCI agent, real CI real XCI agents don't do that. And if he actually is an XCI agent, maybe he's part of a psychological operation, SCOP. So that's what I'm saying. I don't know the guy. I haven't watched this video, so I have no idea. But I've heard of this this name over and over again. I I don't know the truth about this person. Um, Virj Sony, thank you very much indeed. Virat Sony G, thank you very much. Right angle says, can we replace raw material import from China to North Korea? North Korea. North Korea, what does it export? I'm not sure what it exports. North Korea is a small country. What can they export? No, it doesn't make sense. You see, uh, stick life says chances of new supreme leader is compromised. The new supreme leader of Iran, is he compromised? This is the second time I'm hearing this today. Um, maybe this is a psychological operation. These sort of rumors are being spread to undermine the morale of the people of Iran, to undermine the morale of the Iranian leadership possibly. I personally personally have seen no evidence that the new supreme leader is compromised in any way whatsoever. All right. Mittal says, "Namaste. Following you since 2021." Well, thank you very much indeed. Thank you. Yeah, that's the beginning, wasn't it? Kind of. Yeah. Thank you. So, Iran India allowed Iranian ship. Kab condolence. Lando warned on China's China mistake. Does this show India sovereignty? See India allowing an Iranian ship warship to birth at an Indian port is not words its so is so India is sending a message to the world not verbally but through actual actions like I keep saying actions matter words don't matter so this is an actual action which shows that India is now showing the world. It's not pro- US or pro-Israel. And maybe it's not pro Iran either. It's just being neutral. If uh if if if a neighboring country with whom you have good relations requests for help, you should offer it. And of course, the Americans will be displeased by this because they want to destroy Iranian ships. They want to destroy the entire Iranian navy. And we are preventing that from happening entirely. preventing the the Americans from completely destroying the Iranian navy that will be seen by the Americans as a unfriendly action and still we are doing it which kind of shows that we have some spine left right a state would not do that uh the prime minister did not express condolences on the assassination of Mr. Kamei but the government has done that India's foreign secretary Mr. miss went to the Iranian embassy and signed the book of condolence and other officials have also done that. So we have offered condolences to the people of Iran. Uh Lando I'm not sure about what Lando thing is but overall yeah this shows that India is has not bowed down entirely to the US. It is not bound bowing down it's it's recalibrating its stance in the war and it does show that India is a sovereign nation. Yes, Vira Sony. Thank you very much, Vir G. Once again, thank you. VSVS says, I saw an As Gold clip about latest developments in Iran war and and from how Trump is positioning, looks like Iran war will end very soon. What's my belief? Uh like I said, Trump is reaching that situation where he doesn't have a lot of options left. U his critical vulnerability is domestic political opinion the opinion of the MAGA voters make America great again that movement his core voting base his core voter base his core uh vote bank they want victory and they want low gas prices gas means gasolate which means petrol they don't want to face high prices and all that if Trump loses control of the situation and the prices start escalating They will lose their trust and belief in Trump. If Trump isn't able to secure a victory, military victory over Iran, well, that that diminishes American prestige and that diminishes Trump's standing in the world, stature in the world, including domestically. Eventually, the truth about the casualty numbers will come out. American casualties or how many they are saying there are six or seven people dead thus far, which is obviously a makebelieve number. Nobody nobody believes that. So what is the actual damage the American military has taken? We don't know right now. Everything is being suppressed. What's the damage Israel has taken? So when the truth eventually comes out, um it will be bad for Trump because this has not gone the way he expected. So Trump has two or three options. One option is take the war to the next level and obliterate Iran. But do you have the capability to do that? Iran will keep fighting. So you can't inflict a military defeat on Iran. Then the option is you either change the goalposts and say that I have achieved my objectives and you walk out which makes you look like a fool or you go for a land invasion boots on the ground which is suicidal. Trump doesn't have good options. The best option he has is to somehow declare victory that we killed Kame and we defeated we destroyed their nuclear facilities again and we destroy we well they can't demonstrabably say that they have destroyed Iran's ballistic missile capabilities. So you have to claim some kind of victory and walk out. If that happens the war is over but will Isra agree to that? Will Israel agree to that? That's a big question. Israel will not be satisfied with the war ending at this stage. Israel has taken tremendous damage. They want payback for that. And if Israel is not willing to end the war, well, I think events have shown us that Trump can't do a thing about that. Then he can't leave the war. So, it looks like Trump is trapped. So either Trump takes the bitter pill and ignores Israel and just says that you know what I have won the war we achieved our objectives and walk out but no one will believe him but that's I think that's the best option for Trump because as long as his hormones remains closed things will go from bad to worse um so if Trump is willing to swallow that bitter pill in that case the war could end soon otherwise it can it'll go on for It has the potential to go on for years. Yeah. Mohit bud says rahav equal to Muhammad knows. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Mittal says if US vasal of Israel is Israel powerful than India baba if US is a vasal of Israel, Israel is more powerful than India. It is the most powerful nation in the world. Then if Israel's vasal is the US hypothetically then Israel is the most powerful nation in the entire universe. Forget about India the whole universe if that is the case. Uh Rahuli says in a hypothetical world war scenario is India prepared deep dive deep dive hypothetical world war is India prepared in a hypothetical world war II nobody's properly prepared when World War I happened nobody was prepared for that war to go that deep and world war I started nobody was prepared for what was going to come nobody's prepared when World War II actually starts the the question is who will prepare the fastest and who will adapt the fastest right now nobody knows how the war could go. So I'm I'm not sure if India is prepared. But how adaptable is India is the is the real question. Okay. And for that we have to see whether India can very quickly uh take learn the lessons of the war in Iran and adapt accordingly. Sachdev Satyijit says the US was able to reverse engineer Iran's Shahed drones. Why hasn't India invested in reverse engineering these drones? They can be used to deplete the enemy's air defense interceptor missiles. So the US was able to acquire one or two Iranian drones that had not exploded or whatever or they were able to acquire spare parts or whatever from exploded drones and based on that I think they they one of the drones failed or something and they were able to recover it mostly undamaged or with not major damage and they were able to open it up and pull out the guts and all that and they were able to reverse engineer that the Americans. So the question is why hasn't India done that? Well, first of all, we don't have a sample. We don't have a drone, Shahed drone that we have access to that we can reverse engineer. And secondly, why do you need to reverse engineer that? Why don't you produce your own drone that has the same characteristics and same behavior, right? Is it so hard? Don't we have engineers in this country? So, India has come up with something. An Indian company startup or whatever has come up with the shishnag drone which looks like the shah drone. Shishnag drone. Oh, come on ma'am. Shishnag drone drone. Okay. Shishna 15 is an advanced indigenous longrange swarming kamic as a drone loitering munition developed by Bengaluru based startup new space research and technologies designed for the Indian armed forces. It's engineered to penetrate contested airspace, overwhelm enemy air defenses and strike high value targets. Okay. The range is 1,00 to,200 km. Carries a 25 to 40 kilogram warhead. Five more than 5 hours of flight time. uh uses AI powered technology to operate in coordinated autonomous network clusters allowing them to evade defenses and act together capable of operating in GPS denied environments using visual navigation systems, a delta wing configuration and so on. What's it look like? What's it look like? Looks like this. It looks kind of like the Shahed. Yes. Uh project KHL. I don't know what project Kal is, but this is the Shishnak drone which well looks has the same kind of configuration as the Shahed. Uh now let's find out what it costs. Estimated cost per unit. Um it's project it's designed to be in the same class as the Iranian Shahed 136 which is an estimated cost of 20 to $50,000 per unit. So we don't know what the Indian drone's cost is but it is the same category same class of drone and uh so if it is a good drone induct that in the lacks that's what we India should do so we don't need to reverse engineer anything we can we just use our own drones which are which have the same characteristics and capabilities vs says just stating that India has won the world cup well congratulations to all Indians on this great victory we retained the world cup uh India had won the world up last year in 2025 when Suri Kumar Yadav took that great catch on the boundary. Uh was it David Miller right? Yeah. Uh yeah. So India won last year and this year India retained the World Cup in the final by winning the final in an overwhelming fashion. So congratulations to everybody. Great. It's becoming routine, right? As it should be. Great. Hardik Jooshi says, "American deep state strategy inflict damage on Iran to achieve temporary American objectives, then Trump gets impeached in midterm elections." Well, I don't know about that. You don't get a president cannot get impeached in midterm elections. His party can lose the midterm elections. Impeachment is a separate process. Midterm elections aren't about impeaching anybody. Okay? So, he doesn't get impeached in the midterm elections. He can his party the Republican party can possibly be defeated in the midterm elections. that will happen if there is a disaster in the Iran war which is the way the US well things are going which may I mean disaster in the sense that the Americans won't be able to achieve their objectives none none of their objectives so or limited objectives but not the full objectives they promised um and Trump as the president is a tool of the deep state if the deep state exists so why will the deep state uh destabilize or or or or or sub you know sabotage their own tool. Of course, there are reasons for doing that too, but I can't think of any. Okay, VSBs says, "I have hair like Billy Hargo, but Akit G asks how to make them like yours." Who's Billy Hargo? Let's see. Billy Hargo. Billy Harr. Harr Harr. Billy Harr. Okay. Okay. You've got hair like this. Well, I also see I never leave my hair open, right? My hairstyle I mean the kind of hair I have is also similar to this. I don't have straight straight hair like this. My hair is more wavy and my my hair forms locks. That's the kind of hair I have. So, how do you make hair like someone? Well, you either go to a a salon, a stylist, and have it done that way or you just enjoy the natural hairstyle the gods gave you. All right. All right. Conservative. Thank you very much. Conservative G. Right angle says, "Views on Misoram CM said Misoram was an independent nation. I'm not aware of this." And u Yeah, I've not heard of this. Did the Misoram CM say something? Misoram's chief minister? What happened? Is there something in the news? Lal Lal Duoma. Okay, I'm not aware of this particular piece of news. So I shall refrain from commenting about it. Argumal says if hypothetically China versus US direct war outcome it depends on what kind of war it is direct war but is it limited war is it full scale war you know full scale war I expect the US to win but the way the Americans are demonstrating their performance in in in Iran if the Americans are trying to defend Taiwan will they be able to defend Taiwan I'm not sure now not sure yeah so can't say but if it's a fullscale war the full might of The US versus the full might of China. The US still has overwhelming superiority. So the US should win. VSVS says if we exclude the once in a thousand years man is Modi G the best we can do or Yogi G. Let Mr. Modi G be done with his with his uh leadership tenure. Then we'll see. uh see once in a thousand years man that that happens once in a thousand years maybe this is not the time so who's the best we have now I think Modi G is still the best we have now but if you are looking for alternatives eventually we will need alternatives right eventually the time comes then I don't know there are so many potential candidates for leadership in India depending on which political party you're a fan of if you are a fan of the BJP there are multiple candidates multiple people who may be aspiring uh prime ministerial candidates Uh for me perhaps Yogi G makes sense perhaps. Perhaps most likely. Perhaps says, "Is Russia slowly reaching its past superpower status?" Not quite. Not quite. Not yet. Not anytime soon. Jas says, "Why did Mr. Modi not condemn US attacks? Because India wants good relations with the US. Every nation in the world seeks to have good relations with the US. The US is the world's richest and most powerful country. If you have good relations with them, your economy will do well and your nation will do well. That's why nobody wants to have bad relations with the US. That's why Mr. Modi has not condemned US attacks. Okay. Ankita Kachab. Ankita G, good evening. There are talks of many war crimes happening in the ongoing conflict in West Asia. Please explain. war crimes. Well, there is the reported use of white phosphorus by some nations. Uh, has it been confirmed? Let's see. So, that's a war crime. It's it's not allowed. The second thing is that Trump has now claimed that the American submarine captain had the option of uh of sinking the the of capturing the Iranian ship or sinking it. And he chose to sink it because sinking is more fun. if you had the option to capture the ship and not kill the sailors, but you chose to sink it and then watch the sailors die laughing. So yeah, that's two examples. The bombing of an Iranian school in which like one I don't know 150 16 each children died, school children, that's obviously a war crime. Double tapping that area is is a horrible war crime. What's a double tap operation? What's a double tap strike? A double tap strike is when you first target a place at this explosion and lots of people die. Then what happens? Naturally ambulances will come, doctors will come, lots of people will come to help. So you strike once, then let everybody come. Then after 15, 20 minutes, half an hour, you strike the same place again. So it'll cause more people to die, those who have come to to rescue the the injured. That's called a double tap strike. There have been double tap strikes. Apparently, this Iranian school was doubletapped. So, these are war crimes. There is the alleged use of white phosphorus by some countries. Let's see. White phosphorus. Okay. So, HRW, Human Rights Watch, accuses Israel of illegal white phosphorus use in Lebanon. And white phosphorus is horrible. Okay. It it burns till the bones. So human rights group says Israeli military using white phosphorus munitions etc etc. So look this is the sort of thing that's going on. War is dirty. Yeah. War is dirty. War is terrible. The people who suffer the most in the war are the civilians the unarmed people and they are the ones yeah who are mostly targeted the most. Uh so that that's what I know of. I'm not aware of any other potential war crimes. Am I aware of something else? Um yeah, I'm not aware of any others any other um such instances. So that's what I can tell you and I hope this obviously this war ends at the earliest. Kalia says if India attacks Pakistan and China attacks Taiwan at once, what is the US response? Could United China Russia India block defeat America? A United China Russia block could China Russia India block could stand up to America. If the three nations cooperate and collaborate on all matters, they could create a completely parallel system economic system and and the whole ecosystem which would be totally independent of the westernled system, the US-led system. So if China, India, Russia, China come together, it can certainly happen. Yeah, we may not be able to defeat America, but we'll be able to stand up to them and not have to worry about their pressure, their threats and all that because the three nations com are combining their resources together and their strengths together. So, we may not be able to defeat America, but we'll be able to stand stand up to them and we will not then it will be it will not be possible for the US to bully these three nations. Now, the first question is if India attacks Pakistan, China attacks everyone at once. At the same time, what's the US response? The US will probably not be sure about what to do. Taiwan is a precious resource for the US. They may have to abandon the war in Iran and try and defend Taiwan. India attacking Pakistan is less of a loss for the US. Pakistan is a disposable asset for the US. But if India is able to defeat Pakistan and achieve its political military and political objectives, that'll be a huge setback to the US. Huge setback to the US. So if India and China does this together at the same time, I think the Americans will not quite know how to respond. They'll probably go for go for a potential defense of Taiwan. They will probably have to abandon the Iran war in that situation. They'll probably have to abandon the Iran war. Vicki is a new member. Thank you very much, Vicki. And welcome to the channel's membership. And here we have white first for us. JRXna says, "Israel has started using white phosphorus in Lebanon after double tap attacks on hospitals and schools in in Iran since the escalation has reached biochemical weapons. Are we close to World War II?" No, we are still not close to World War II. World War II kind of situation will happen if more nations get dragged into the war. Uh if the Americans drag certain European nations into the war, maybe France, Germany, etc., maybe Poland, maybe somebody else. If they get involved, if Turkey gets involved, if for some reason Russia and China also get involved. So if you have Russia, China, Turkey, France, Germany, perhaps UK also involved in the conflict which already encompasses the whole Gulf region. Then we are seeing the beginnings of World War II. Okay. And that obviously is contingent on various developments and how things go on various scenarios. uh the escalation has used has reached biochemical weapons. Well, white phosphorus is not a biochemical weapon. It's it's just a war crime. It's a chemical of course. It's an element. Phosphorus is an element. And white phosphorus is an allotrope of phosphorus. It's an allotrope, right? Yeah. It's one of the forms. Uh so that's white phosphorus and it's it's very nasty. Uh it burns to it burns your bones. It burns everything. So that's a war crime. alleged war crime. I'm not sure. And there are reports of Israel doing this. I don't know if they are true or not. Maybe it's all lies. I don't know. And double tap attacks and all the like like we discussed. Yeah. So, we are still not close to World War II. World War II may not have See, if there are horrific war crimes that could still be a localized war. You have situations like that in in Africa all the time. The situation in Somalia, Sudan, etc. It's always horrific war crime levels stuff, but no one cares. World War II means lots of nations get involved in the same war. We are not there yet and I hope we don't go there yet and we don't go there at all. VSVS says Anka Kachab Gi is an underrated rich supporter of Chaaji. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Uh Ankita G. indeed. Amul Desh Pandy says according to you what steps should the government of India take right now to strengthen India's position in this uncertain world or do you think they are already doing everything right what's my thoughts there are many things India should do see in this uncertain world India needs unity and cohesion is India united and cohesive today there are issues in society that are dividing society those whatever Ever factors are causing divisions in Indian society, those factors should be addressed and removed by the government of India, especially if those are legislative and policy matters. That's number one. Number two, India needs to now ramp up its military strength. India spends what? 2% or less of its GDP on on on military expenditure. Let's find out what percentage of India's GDP is allocated to military expenditure. Approximately 2%. Okay. Approximately 2%. I don't think that is sufficient given the extremely uncertain and volatile nature of the world right now. I think the next 10 years India should allocate 5% of its GDP. It may sound extreme and we would have to with the government may have to end the largely ba yojanas and all those freely schemes but hey this is important. So I think that's what needs to be done and India needs to stockpile massive massive numbers of missiles and drones. India needs to massively expand its naval footprint especially via submarines. Um, India needs to well there's so many things need to be undo. Maybe this is where we should begin. Yeah. And we should obviously uh have our own sovereign AI systems and we should become a world leader in AI and we need our own semiconductor manufacturing too for that eventually. So many things Indian needs to do but mainly military we need to first be able to guarantee our nation's defense for that you to militarize more much more than what what we have today. That that's how I see it. Fast snail says what's the relevance of the third temple to Jews? I don't know. I I don't know about Judaism and the relevance of the third temple. I've heard there some there are some prophecies of something or the other but I I don't know. Yeah, I am not an expert in these matters. Sorry. Argamal says, "Where were weas of the USSR when we had defense pacts with the Soviets? My cousins are Russian and they praise Putin. Why Putin is portrayed as a psychopath of the US?" Anyone who comes in the way of American expansion in the world is going to be portrayed as an evil person. Right now, they're saying Iran is a terrorist nation. If you are if you stand up to the US, you're going to be described as a psychopath, as a terrorist, as evil, as a child killer, as as god knows what. That's what Trump does. Anybody whose interests clash with the US, they're going to be called names, very nasty things by the Americans. So, Iran is a terrorist nation. Putin is a psychopath and so on. India has a dead economy according to Trump, right? That sort of thing. So, obviously Putin is not a psychopath. Obviously he's not he's a very rational man. Uh now where were we vas of the USSR when we had defense packed with the Soviets? I'm not sure if we had defense packed with the Soviets but we had a very strong relationship with the Soviets and obviously there was a power asymmetry. The USSR was a global superpower. India was just a tiny I mean economically tiny irrelevant nation third world dirt poor nation with a nairobian rate of growth. So we were nothing at the time and for the USSR obviously India needed to be kept off of the of the American orbit so that the world was not so the Americans could not encircle the USSR everywhere and that's why the USSR had this relationship with India and it is alleged that they used to pay various Indian politicians you know briefcases full of cash and so on uh to stay on their side that sort of thing. It is also alleged that certain very high ranking Indian uh politicians if the 60s7s etc uh were on the CIA payroll that's also possibly potentially most likely true. So that's the game that was being played. Were we vasals? We were not quite vasals. We you could say we had um a quasi alliance not an not a djour alliance but a de facto alliance and the power asymmetry ensured that the relationship was unequal but it was not a vas vasal overlord kind of relationship where there is exploitation of the vasal by the overlord that was not the case India wasn't exploited shivanch says Iran has indicated that the straight of hormones will remain open for Indian oil tankers and cargo ships as well they have indicated Ed this uh but what is India doing about this? Is India willing to have Indian oil tankers and cargo ships pass through the state of see the difficulty is this the danger is this Iran is allowing some nations to transit the state of Hormos the Chinese India and maybe one or two other nations. So if Chinese ships pass through the state of Hormuz, Iran will not shoot at them and China is a very powerful nation. So the Americans will also not touch Chinese ships. But if Indian ships are passing through and the Iranians won't destroy them, there is a possibility the Americans will destroy those Indian ships. So that is also something we have to keep in mind. This is this is war. War is a dirty business. Okay. Um that is one possibility India will obviously have to keep in mind it's not like the US is our great friend right um yeah so Iran has indicated it will be okay with Indian ships transiting which is good for us but let's see how we what we do about that fast snail says is AIPSC one of the reasons for the current situation AIPC is America Israel professional what What is AIBSC? Let's find out. AIPSC American Israel Public Affairs Committee powerful bipartisan US lobbying group founded in 1954 to protect to strengthen, protect and promote the US Israel relationship. It influences policy by funding candidates, lobbying officials and through its super PAC in this United Democracy Project, spending over a hundred million in 2024 to support pro-Israel candidates and defeated critics and so on and so forth. So is the AIPAC one of the reasons for the current situation? Look, um, a lot of people say that the AIPAC is is incredibly powerful and they have a lot of say in US policy, a lot of influence. Um is it behind one of the reasons for the current situation? Possibly. It is possible but uh can't say for sure. It is it is certainly a possibility. Certainly a possibility. I mean Trump was who did he blame? He's been going around blaming people now for the situation. He blamed his son-in-law Jared Kushner and other people. Marco Rubio for the situation, for the war in Iran. Um yeah. Yeah. So, Trump is right now starting the blame game, but is he going to blame the AIPC? I doubt it very much. Um, so I I can't say for sure, but it's possible. It's possible. JRX's ex CIA John Kyaku said he had intel that Israel had told has told Trump privately that they will use nukes in Iran. Trustable. What can lead to this? How will immediate 24 hours look like geopolitically? I have no idea how 24 hours will look like. Uh John Kiryaku, I don't know how credible he is. Was he really an XCI agent? Or if he really is an XCA agent, how why is he why is he sharing CIA secrets with the world? I I find this very suspicious. So he says he has intel. Now, how does he have intel since he's ex CIA? How does he have intel about such profound profoundly delicate matters? I I I am super skeptical about this uh this matter. But logically it's possible that Iran that Israel may be considering using nuclear weapons. Logically it's possible like we discussed earlier in this live stream two two hours ago in certain uh conditions Israel may be tempted to use nuclear weapons and if that's the case they may they may tell Trump privately about it. So this is something that's a logical possibility. You don't need classified intelligence to be able to discuss this. It's a logical possibility. I am able to speak about it. So I could also say that you know what I am a member. I have I have intel from raw that Israel is considering this and they have told Trump privately. I can make that claim but what is the basis of my claim? What credibility does it have? Nothing. So so I don't I am I'm skeptical skeptical about John Kiryaku's claims. If this he actually has made this claim um what can lead to lead to this we discussed it right certain Israeli red lines been crossed being crossed that can lead to a nuclear strike by Israel if if Israel is taking too much damage it is going on indefinitely and there is no progress in the war in Iran is not going down in that case Israel may become desperate because too many people are getting targeted and too many buildings are going down and so on so forth then Israel may decide possibly to use nuclear weapons that could to the use of nuclear weapons by Israel. How will the immediate 24 hours look like? I have no idea. Can say. Okay. Nishan bags. Nishan bags says, "Sorry to interrupt. I work in hospitality mainly for money earning about 20k CTC uh cost to company in Bangalore. My real interests are tech like robotics, AI and energy. Lately I feel drained, exhausted uh doing work. Is there a follow-up question to that? It sounds a little incomplete. What is there a question that you have, Nishan? Let me see if you have other questions after that. I'm just looking into that. I don't see any follow-up question. Uh so, okay. So, you have made a statement about here that you work in hospitality because obviously you get an income from that. You earning 20K CDC in Bangalore. your real interest are something else entirely. Take like robotics, AI and energy lately. You feel drained, exhausted doing work. Well, if you feel drained, exhausted, unhappy, then it means that you are not in the right place. And it indicates that if possible, you should do something to change your circumstances and move into a field that actually gives you satisfaction and fulfillment and a salary. That's what this seems to be telling you clearly. So if the question is how should I achieve it? Well, I don't know because I don't know you personally. I don't know what skills you have, what what your educational and professional background is like, um how old you are, all those things. So if I knew more details about you, I may be I would be able I would have been able to give you uh um some specific advice. uh but I'm what I can say is that look if you're unhappy if you feel drained exhausted doing all this hospital reary work it's not for you then find a way to move into a field that is better for you right that's what I can tell you find a way where there's a will there's a way you have to make everything's possible in the world you see to do that all right the best do well vss says a statement by the great kunglu Mr. Creator Chavda is a secret molana. Ask him about Islam. We will get your answers. Okay. It's very funny. Yes. Okay. Uh Chenu Chiranji says, "If the US exits the Middle East, could Iran dominate hormones, change GCC, charge GCC transit fees, push dolization, and speed up US decline?" If the US exits the Middle East and and and packs up its military presence in the Middle East, then the whole balance of power changes. The US could still keep supplying the Middle Eastern nations with arms and ammunition and weapons and munitions. That could continue, but the US presence won't be there anymore, right? And obviously the the Gulf nations will say that we haven't lost too much because the Americans anyway did not protect us. But does it mean that Iran starts dominating hormones and charging GCC transit fees through hormones and all? I don't think Iran will do that. I don't think Iran will do that. Push dolization. Well, Iran alone can't push push dolization. The the entire Gulf region has to do that. Stop trading for oil in US dollars. That will push dolization. Iran alone cannot do that. Okay? Iran alone isn't strong enough to do that. Prunil says, "I live in Siliguri and my city is being infiltrated by drugs. My own friend is now an addict. This started after COVID. Search siliguri brown sugar." I'm so sorry to hear that. I'm so sorry to hear that. Siliguri brown sugar. Uh siliguri. Okay. It looks like there's a there's an ongoing issue in Siliguri. BSF inspector held for smuggling 3 kg of brown sugar. The BSF is supposed to safeguard our borders, right? And why do they why do we have the BSF there? It's because Siliguri is a border region. What border? Bangladesh. One second. Where's the where's the map? Okay, here's the map. Siliguri is a very sensitive region. This is Siliguri. So, it's the region between Nepal and Bangladesh. We have to be really our the government of India has to be really really vigilant in this area. So, this is extremely unfortunate. I'm so sorry to hear this and I hope that the government of India will get its act together. Why is a BSF guy being arrested smuggling 3 kg or whatever of brown sugar? Brown sugar is some some kind of drug, right? Let me let me find out what brown sugar actually is. Brown sugar narcotic. What is that? What is brown sugar? What is What is that? Yeah, it won't tell me. It's some kind of narcotic, some kind of drug. Terrible. I'm I'm so sorry to hear this, sir. Um, Vidhi Mana says, "Want Russia, China, China, KP2 get in calm Delhi down. India's highest." one Russia China what's KP not sure what KP is to get in calm daddy down India is highest I'm not sure what you're saying Vidi G but it's good to see you and thank you uh Vavat says I've heard news that US is withdrawing Patriot missile system from South Korea for deployment back to West Asia does this give China room for Taiwan if this continues it makes the situation much more conducive for China to consider very seriously a move on Taiwan. I heard the US was withdrawing its THAAD system, TH AA, terminal high altitude area defense system from South Korea to move it to deploy it in West Asia. So if the US starts cannibalizing its posture in one part of the world to help its its act activities in Iran, well that indicates that the US is reaching a stage where it's it doesn't have enough resources which will make Xiinping rub his hands in glee. Yeah. So it's not yet the case that it means China China has a green light for Taiwan but it's very concerning for the US if you're American. Chetun says are Indian communists good if they come to power. I don't discuss Indian politics so I shall not comment about this matter but I think my viewers know where I stand on this matter. Gallor says the the Juan de Fuka plate and North American plate experiencing abnormal episodic tremors and slip events for some time. Looks like a RTOR 9 plus is pretty close. Any way to game this? I don't know how to game tectonic activity. Uh there is no known I don't I don't know of any technology that we have that can help us harness tectonic activity. Tectonic activity is highly unpredictable. We know what the where the fault lines lie where we know which tectonic fault lines are more active compared to the other ones. We know where the ring of f fire lies and so on. But when and where will the with the next earthquake located? We don't really know. We we can't predict that. And uh there's no way to harness that energy which is tremendous energy but there's no way to harness that if if that's what you mean by by gaming it. Um so yeah there's no way to game it that I know of that I know of. Hu fuka plate and North American plate. Let's let's find out where this Juan Fuka plate is. Juan fuka plate plate plate plate. Okay. So if you look at the image images Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Right. Right. Okay. Are are are we seeing the prospect of the next big one in California? Well, I hope not. Obviously, it's it's northern North America, but okay. Yeah, I'm not aware of any way of gaming it, unfortunately. Putin says, "Views increased, but still stuck at 952K YouTube, etc." All right, sir. Yeah, well, it is what it is. I don't bother with it. I don't I'm not worried about it. Noise says, "Charlie Cook banners in Nagaland Christianity." I have no idea. Really? Charlie Cook banners in Nagaland. Why do v will char banners in nagar? How is it relevant here? No idea. Animeish bharati says how what is the experience of citizens impacted by war in their own in their country? How much is their daily life impacted? No water, no electricity. If you're l if you're lucky, if you are in a nation that's at that's at war. And if you're lucky then maybe you live in a region in some part of the country where the war isn't really visible and it's not impacting you in that case daily life may go on mostly okay but if the country is being impacted by war then even if you are far away from the war zone maybe electricity is gone maybe there's water issues yeah so that happens if you're in a city that is being targeted then electricity and water if you don't have it you're lucky as long as you're alive and your building is still standing so it depends on where you are and what the situation is sometimes there's nothing that happens to you. Sometimes you the only issue you face is food is is scarce but you can acquire food somehow but there are levels of escalation levels of difficulty that people face depending on where you are and how far from the war zone and the worst thing you can face is what happened in Dresden Dresden firebombing which is one of the war crimes of the of the second world war. Yeah. Dresden firebombing. The bombing of Dresden. A joint British and American aerial bombing attack on the city of Dresden, the capital of the German. Uh they dropped more than 3,900 tons of high explosive bombs and incident devices. Up to 25,000 people were killed. Really? Only 25,000? You kidding me? Okay, whatever. So, that was a horrific war crime. So, it depends. Depends. VSVS says, "Professor Jang made my buddies feel confident about getting a girlfriend after the start of his game theory series. He's very funny and knowledgeable for sure." Well, I'm glad. So, does he have a series game theory series for how to get a girlfriend? Really good in that case. Sounds like a cool guy. All right. Slayer says, "Meow meow. Hail the meow meow god from meow then. Hail the meow god." Yes, indeed. Messi alien says why haven't we found anything related to Ramayan and Mahabharat? I know you said that we haven't done enough digging but there should be a lot of evidence of our history right so look look if you have something that happened a thousand years ago then if that's not a city that is still lived in if if you have something that happened a thousand years ago and that episode ended let's say it's a battle a battle that happened a thousand years ago okay hypothetically Then over time what happens is that that battlefield gets covered with soil because of the process of erosion the wind brings in soil and soil deposits accumulates and over time layers and layers of soil build up. So if something happened thousand years ago it's going to be under several significant layers of soil maybe several feet deep. If something happened 2,000 years ago it's going to be even deeper. So that's why when we do archaeology we have to dig underground. Okay. So if let's say let's say one of the candidate dates of the Mahabharat is let's say 3,000 something BC. So that's about 5,000 years before today. So imagine how deep those archaeological artifacts are going to be under the ground. For that you have to do digging archaeology. Ramayan predates the Mahabharat. Maybe it's 7,000 years old. I'm just giving a hypothetical date. Okay, I'm not claiming I know what the date is. So then it's going to be even deeper. Now the good thing is we know the locations because the locations still have the same names because India is a place where people have lived forever essentially. So the same places still have the same names. So for the Mahabharat we have names like Indraat Indraat today which is in Delhi in Dilli Indraat Indraat it's the place is still there but nobody has bothered to dig. So it's not like you're going to find things artifacts sitting on the floor. You're going to have to actively dig in the right places. Only then you find stuff. You see that is the issue. That is the issue. And and one example is the accidental discovery of Duara which again was underwater. It was underwater right and we have this story from the Mahabarat that the city of Dara got submerged because of a tectonic event a massive earthquake because western Gujat is prone to earthquakes. So Arjun goes to Dar to visit the city and he sees that he experiences this horrible earthquake and the entire city is swallowed under swallowed by the ocean. it it is submerged. That's the story. And today we have a city of Dara in western India in Gujarat. So then the story then the story must be a myth, right? Until an archaeologist Dr. SR decided to see what is off the coast of the city of Dara. Is there something there? And he finds an entire submerged city. So clearly that so-called myth was the truth. Exactly what is written in the Mahabharat we found there. So that way we know the places where you should find ar archaeological evidence but nobody is bothered to do that and that is the issue. That's why I say that without digging we'll find nothing. We don't find uh evidence just strewed around on the on the ground anywhere. It's going to be all underground. It's going to be all all buried several feet down maybe tens of feet down. That's the issue. Alerut Kumar says when can India make overseas territories or colonies far in the future I mean maybe medium-term future when India becomes more powerful not right now. India is not powerful enough right now. In the future for that India will have to become more powerful than what it is right now. Suri says is Prime Minister Modi a CI asset like XPM Majai? I don't believe that at all. I'm saying about Prime Minister Modi. I do not believe Prime Minister Modi is an asset of any other nation. I don't believe that. I would rather not comment about Mr. Muraji Desai. Nikita Anesthesia says India has done rare earths deals with Kazakhstan and according to some US is giving us leverage cause the need India refinery especially for Venezuela oil. My thoughts okay I'm not aware of this deal with Kazakhstan. Let's find out India rare earths Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan. Okay. India Kazakhstan rare earths partnership. India is pursuing partnerships with the Kazakhstan through initiatives like whatever to enhance resource security etc. Kazakhstan hold significant reserves 15 out of 17 non rare earth elements which are vital for electronics and so on etc etc. Okay. Good. I'm I'm glad we are collaborating with Kazakhstan about this. Good. Good. I like it. I approve of it. Right. Um um US is giving India leverage because they need Indian refinary for Venezuela. Venezuelan oil. Well, there's only three refineries in the world that can refine Venezuelan oil. Venezuelan oil. The oil that comes out of Venezuela is heavy SAR crude oil. It's very thick. It looks like tar. The tar that is used for paving roads. It looks like tar. It's very thick and it's got a very high sulfur content. So, it's called heavy SAR crude oil. That sort of oil needs a tremendous amount of refining, specialized refining. And most refineries can't handle that sort of oil. There's only three refineries in the world that can handle various wood and oil. One of those is in India. Okay. So that's why India is is well India has that advantage and the Americans are okay with India acquiring Venezuela oil because Venezuela is now one of their puppets. Anerud Kumar says who are the best people to idolize for the Indian youth? Shri Ram Shri Krishna don't idolize politicians don't idolize entertainers don't idolize cricketers the people to idolize are Sri Ram Krishna Chetraateshwaji Maharaj Rajendra Chula Rajar Rajulah Samudra Gupta Kaneshka the great subhashchundra boss some of these people I I would say you can certainly idolize Right? Don't idolize politicians, cricketers, entertainers, all these people. Clearly, some cricketers have admirable qualities, but they are still cricketers. Okay? I also am a big fan of many cricketers, but it doesn't mean you should idolize them. All right. Chhatanya says, "How will the future of war evolve in the age of AI and drones? Earlier, aircraft carriers were seen as powerful. Now what?" I'll tell you aircraft carriers have not been powerful for a very long time but only now it is visible and of course in the past we you not you not most nations did not have highquality anti-hship missiles today aircraft carriers are sitting ducks so yeah um so how will the future of war evolve in the age of AI and drones it's going to be more and more autonomous it's going to be more and more decentralized it's going to be more and more drone warfare drone swarm warfare uh missile warfare, robotic warfare, um uh AI systems are going to control and coordinate drone swarms in real time using battles integrated battle space awareness which will come from satellites which will come from loitering drones which which will come from other various kinds of sensors. So everything all sensors each drone also will give feedback uh to the satellite and where the command and control uh nodes and hubs and that will allow the the your command center and centers to to see an integrated picture of the battle space and then your AI system depending on how good it is will be able to coordinate your systems in real time and and uh and u deploy them at the right right places in the in the battlefield. So that's the kind of scenario we're going to have. We're going to have soon, especially with advanced nations, nations that have high quality AI and how high quality uh drones, missiles, and high quality robotics. That's how the future of warfare looks like. And the nations that can't adapt to this will be left behind. And you're going to see similar scenarios at sea. You're going to have autonomous underwater vehicles like submarine drones but small not as big as the submarines smaller ones that will operate autonomously but maybe in coordination with with each other they will have their own AI systems on board they may even take kill decisions autonomously. So that's the kind of future we're going to have eventually pretty soon actually. Galler versus says Verizon routers run a kind of DOS demon demon not on their router though no pun intended the professor you researched has contributed to that horrible state of being nothing to do with the earthwhnp so DOS is denial distributed denial of service so Verizon routers run a kind of distributed denial of service demon that's that's a job that's always on not on their router Oh, okay. The professor of research has contributed to that horrible state of being. Professor Jang Jang Jang. Okay. Oh, yeah. I was not aware of that. Uh, I didn't I briefly skimmed through his work. Um, okay. Well, thank you for letting us know, sir. Thank you. Uh, Suku says, "Modi has no aura, but NU impressed Mrs. Edwina." Well, Mr. Modi has aura in the matters that he is uh that are important um for the carrying out of his duties. Mr. Nu of course was magnificent. I mean nobody can compare to Mr. Nu. Even Madame Edida Mountbatan was was impressed greatly impressed by his magnificence. So yeah, Swastik says what makes Yugi different from Mr. Modi? Please explain. I don't know. I I don't get into politics. I will not go into this matter. GG says Iran is Iran regime change a detriment of Indian interest since they now trade oil for rupees which strengthens rupee. If they change regime they go back to USD. If there's a regime change in Iran they will go back to trading in USD. They will become an extension of US oil and economic and uh geopolitical policy. Uh they will become pro- US. They'll become pro Pakistan. It's it's it's bad news for India on all fronts. Of course, India is no longer trading with Iran. It's no long India is no longer buying oil from Iran. India was buying Iran and oil up to 2016, 2017 or thereabouts. And then Trump said, "You can't buy oil anymore anymore from from Iran." So, we stopped. Um, but yeah, if there's a regime change in Iran, it's it's very bad for Indian interests. Absolutely. Raj says, "How India stopped all drones in operations and impossible to stop them all?" Well, the drones the Pakistanis were using were not the kind of kamikaza drones the Iranians are using. The Iranians are using very high quality shahed drones that cost 20 $30,000 per piece. The drones the Pakistanis were using may cost like $3,000 a piece. They were mainly for infiltration and for drawing out fire from India. So So India did not have to face the kind of drones the Iranians are deploying. Okay. Yeah. So that's why India was able to do to take them all out. Godliness says after some research I concluded Japan, UK and Germany all three have ample resources, technology and intelligence to succeed but the political thought is missing or misguided and so does in India. Why? See Japan, UK and Germany have one thing in common. They are all American vasals. Japan and Germany have been under permanent US military occupation since 1945. Japan has more than 130 American military bases on its territory, permanent bases. Germany has a few, but those that is less known to people. The UK is just a lap dog of the UK, US ever since Tony Blair came to power, became prime minister. So these three nations are American vasals. They have technology, they have intelligence, they have resources also, but they have zero leadership. Their leadership is nominal leadership. It's not real leadership. Right? Because they are not sovereign nations. So that's what's missing in these nations. So does in India. Well, India is still a sovereign nation. India has all kinds of other problems. India does have leadership, right? In Japan, you have a revolving door prime ministership. The same thing exists in the UK. In Germany, you have a chancellor. I don't know what they do the chancellors, but yeah, they exist. In India, we actually have actual leaders. At least right now we have an actual leader and multiple potential leaders in the horizon. So India is different from these nations. Okay. Right angle says North Korea has largest reserves of Mago, silver, gold and rubber. I don't know what magnesium oxide. What is Mago? Silver sliver. Silver gold and rubber. Okay. I'm I'm glad they do. Vishu says if Iran doesn't fall, is there a chance of civil war in uh Iraq? IQ. What's IQ? Iraq. Um, if Iran doesn't fall, will there be a civil war in Iraq? I think there's in Iraq there's less of a chance of that happening. Stick life says Abijit Ayatra said on X that new supreme leader could possibly be compromised as there's deep pockets in European banks. What do I think sir? I I I am not aware of this. I I don't have any information about this matter. So yeah, don't know. Uh IPK says SAR started at red pill now black pill courtesy of Babuham I am not quite black yet not there yet of course we have issues and I'm kind of well obviously I have been voicing look I have been hoping a lot of reforms and things will happen which have not quite happened so that is obviously frustrating but I'm not quite black yet I yeah I would not categorize myself as someone who is blackpilled as of now. Okay. RTX99 army says I read I read on X that US has lost 650 plus soldiers on their end. Uh the US has claimed only six have died. Maybe seven maybe somebody died in because of illness or whatever but in com combat six have died. That's what they're claiming. Well obviously that is nonsense. Nobody believes that. Uh but how many have actually died? We don't know. That's mainly speculation. Um, if you were to make an intelligence intelligent guess, maybe 650 makes sense, but I can't say for sure. So, yeah, that's speculation. But obviously, nobody believes that that figure of six soldiers dead. That's that nobody believes. That's a lie. User DY etc., thank you very much, sir. Indeed. Or ma'am, thank you. Abu Shark says, "How good are laser air defense systems in Israel?" No idea. They have something called the iron beam system. Well, an iron if if it's a highly effective laser system, then it should be able to take out all the incoming missiles, even the cluster warheads that they have. Take out each of the individual uh components of the cluster if it's good enough, if it's operational. But looks like nothing, none of that is happening. So, I don't know. Looks like the laser red defense is not operational perhaps. Don't know. Can't say. Abi says 5-year-olds are scrolling endlessly. My thoughts. What are my thoughts? I think it's very unfortunate. I think that the issue is that parents have to work and parents are always busy. They have to earn an income and all that. So, they don't have the time to take care of their kids. In India now, we have a nuclear family system. The the joint family system is broken up. Even the extended nuclear family system with with grandparents staying with grandkids, all that is gone. That's why there's no one to no one to take care of kids. That's why you give your kid an iPad and then the kid will learn how to screw it and be hooked to it. It's it's sad. It's unfortunate and it's it's terrible. Anoop says, "Thank God there is no reservations in cricket." Well, thank God. Indeed. Thank God. Aush Goyel says, "A few days ago, you explained why USA supports Israel. Can't India be in the same super sovereign league by lobbying and powerful politicians." No. No. Yeah. That that that lobbying will not bring you into super sovereign league. Lobbying is bribery. Do you understand what lobbying is? Lobbying is bribery. Do you think the Israelis bribe anybody? No. That's not how it works. Sam the Gamer says, "How to ask good questions like did what colonize us? Did did something colonize us?" S do history sessions are repetitive now? I think geostrategy shows would be diamond on behalf of everyone. Are you saying history sessions are repetitive now or are you saying these sessions are repetitive now? See, look, right now at least there's a global major conflict going on right now and I'm sure a lot of viewers have questions about that. So, I think I I totally hear you. Uh I'm not sure if you're saying that history question sessions are repetitive now or you want history sessions now more geostrategy is definitely yeah maybe I should make geost strategy resume geost strategy episodes uh so I hear you but right now I'm going to focus on geopolitics at least as long as this war lasts then we shall resume to normal programming and geostrategy is a very good suggestion so thank you okay vs says you should come to luckno my city someday. It's an amazing city and you'll be shocked to see how developed it is. I would love to come there. I have never been to Lacnau. So, yeah. Yeah. If I get the opportunity, I would love to come there. I mean, I could hop onto a plane tomorrow morning and go there. But, uh, yeah. Yeah. I don't have that sort of freedom that I can go wherever I feel like, whenever I feel like. I love traveling and it's not like I have any issues with traveling but yeah I would if there is some event or something in Lacnau or something I would love to come. So thank you for the recommendation. Divant says good evening by what can be his real hidden objective? Did he f up? But who who effed up? What can be his real hidden objective? Who? Donald Trump uh Shinping Putin somebody else I'm not sure who who you are asking this about right I'm so sorry no Rohit Mishra is a new member thank you very much sir and welcome to the channel's membership thank you deep learner says you say words don't matter only action does but then you said earlier India had chosen a side based on Modi's posts wasn't that misjudgment that was not really taking a side that was like I said at that time India had chosen a side verbally not through actions if we had chosen aside through actions we would have been involved in the war on the side of the US or Israel we took the side of the US and Israel verbally so that doesn't really matter precisely what I keep precisely what I keep saying. Mr. Modi did not offer condolences to the people of Iran on the assassination of the Aydah and Mr. Modi condemned the uh territorial violations the violations of sovereignty of the Gulf nations which obviously was implied about Iran. So these were verbal that is that is taking side taking a side verbally choosing a side verbally but India did not take any actions that were beneficial to either Israel or the US or the Gulf nations right so India verbally took a side which is not really taking a side it's like saying full support full support only verbally but not doing anything to support Indians love to say right full support full support support but that's only verbal support. You're not actually taking any action to support whoever you claiming to support. So those were that was that was taking side taking aside verbally not taking aside through action and that doesn't really matter. That's why India has been able to recalibrate very easily. So, so that is it still could be considered to be a misjudgment perhaps taking a side verbally perhaps but maybe it was a calculated move. Net stat grap net stat grep says why did nobody try to take andar from us. I think Indonesia had had some intentions. I think in 65 or 71 or whichever it was at that time Indonesia had taken the side of Pakistan they were supporting Pakistan or was it 47 I don't know which year it was but Indonesia had some designs on the Anderman and I islands and then we sent a warship there and then everything ended and u it's a pretty remote archipelago it's the middle it's in the middle of the uh eastern Indian ocean the so-called Bay of Bengal pretty isolated and I think we pretty capable of defending it that's why nobody has done that or tried that Pande says let us India take over world west US is doing bad job yes sir let India take over the world I completely completely support what you're saying genius in says cousin is a scientist at BC Baba center Mumbai assigned to cut cost and save pennies in shop floor talent wasting That's how we aim to be superpowered. It's very very annoying and frustrating this sort of situation. I know I know exactly how it is. Yeah. Uh yeah. BRC. So we need reforms in these things, right? We need reforms in the education system and the academic sector. We need reforms in in in in R&D environments all over the place. Yeah, I I agree with you. This is very frustrating. AU says, "Why can't US flatten Iran to save face as superpower?" Well, the US has been trying to flatten Yemen for years. Between 24 and 26, Yemen, 2024 and 26, Yemen blockaded the street of Babal Mandev. The Americans launched hundreds of air strikes at Yemen, essentially trying to flatten Yemen. But Yemen is a mountainous territory and so on. It's hard to flatten it. It doesn't work. The Yemen government, the Houthis are still there. The Americans after hundreds of air strikes haven't been able to defeat them. So if you have a flat place and if you have cities like Baghdad and all, you can flatten them. The Americans are trying to flatten Thran right now, but it's not going to work out because the resistance is completely decentralized. Then it doesn't work. Flattening. Okay, AJP says, "Not sure how accurate it is, but when wherever the US big tech companies are going seem to be getting targeted in some way, US big tech companies are being targeted. Is that what you're saying? In some way, wherever big US big tech companies are going." Well, I I'm not sure of this. I have not noticed this pattern. I'm not aware of this. VSVS says Vish can you ask sir for his favorite books on far east history my super chat of 40 failed I'm so sorry the super chat failed the history of India's far east manipur uh that entire region um um uh I there is a book on Assam's history by someone Barua, right? Assam. Assam history. Barua. One second. Assami's history. Buua. Um, Assami's history. There's a book, right? Cultural history of Assam volume 1 and a comprehensive history of this is a good book. SL Barua, comprehensive history of Assam. That's SL Barua. is a cultural history of Assam volume 1 by Buu BK. This is from 1951. I'm sure it will be good. Let's go to a random page. It looks like this is a good book. I am aware of the comprehensive history of Assam by SL Bua. It's a pretty a good reference book. Okay. I don't know about Okay. Assam Yandabur to partition sounds like a good book, but I haven't read this one. Priyam Gowami treat of Yandaburo to partition. Okay, that so that is about Assam. Assam is the major the largest state in the far east of India. When it comes to Manipur, um well the royal chronicle of kings is good but I'm not sure if it's available. I'm not sure if this is available anywhere. Okay, it's available on the internet archive which is interesting. This is the royal chronicle chronicle of the kings of Manipur going back 2,000 years. And obviously this is in the Bengali script which most of us can't read. Is it available on Amazon? I would be very surprised if it was in print. It's not available. So yeah, I can think of a few books but I about the history of Manipur. I my sources are different. lot of research papers and stuff. So yeah, this this is what I can what I can offer you. Godliness says strategic messaging is an art for public consumption and manipulation. This art needs training. I am sorry to say majority of our ex egoistic servicemen who come on media I have no training for this. Um thank you for sharing your observation sir. I shall not comment beyond that. Okay. Okay. Rumit Mishra says, "Don't you think the United Nations should fall just like the League of Nations failed considering current situation and the UN is not able to stop any wars?" The UN has become irrelevant a long time ago. The UN's job was to maintain the peace maintain peace on on earth and they have failed miserably at that. But they will not fall because they are still useful in some way some shape or the or or the other for some nations powerful nations like China the US etc who have infiltrated deep into the bureaucracy of the UN they will continue to extract some value out of it and that's why the UN will not be allowed to change or to be disbanded. Sangur Wal has become a new member. Thank you very much Surr Wall. Welcome to the channel's membership. Palavi Bansil says how to avoid impulsive leaders like Trump make important decision. How avoid impulsive leader like Trump make important decisions. When you have an impulsive leader like Trump uh they will make important decisions impulsively. I don't know if they have a way of avoiding that. So Trump has acted that way when it comes to tariffs, randomly imposing various kinds of high tariffs on on nations depending on his mood on the day. Well, as long as it's tariffs, you can rule it back. So that doesn't do too much harm. But when it's a war, that causes people to die and that's where people like Trump can cause a lot of damage to the world and there's nothing we can do about it. Abai Singh says, I read that our air force is running out of squadron strength. Ideally, we should have 66 squadrons and 42 at the very least. Right now, we only have we only have 30 right now. Continued uh continued. They just mark 1 and two are massively behind AMCA's pipe dream and by the time Rafals are delivered, rest of the world would have moved on to the sixth or seventh generation. Yeah, we we we are quite behind in terms of our air air force, the strength of our air force. We are supposed to have at least 42 squadrons, ideally 66, but we have less than 30. I think we are slightly better than Pakistan in terms of number of fighter planes which is which is a horrible mismanagement of well the air force right it's it's very unfortunate and uh this situation needs to be addressed and there's no short-term solutions to this even if we decide to purchase a 100 let's say F-35s. Let's say a lot of people like the F-35. That will take years to deliver like decades. At least a decade. Let's say if we decide to purchase 200 Sukoy 57s, that will take at least 10 15 years to deliver fully. The meanwhile, what do we do? Big big problem. Big problem indeed. VSVS says 34th THG. Kindly convey to Obijit that America may presently appear diminished in strength. Yet let him wait a little and he shall soon behold the full measure of British resolve and power. Sir, this dude is James. James. James. If it is James, well, good to see you, James. We shall full we shall soon behold the full measure of British resolve and power. Well, I look forward to witnessing the grandeur and splendor of British resolve and power. Indeed, I look forward to witnessing it. AU says, "Isn't it in China's interest that RA works with works we versus US? Why not?" Yeah, China has done many things that are not quite in line with its own interests. I agree. I mean the Chinese u the chi the Chinese seem to have an issue the kind of issue where they they regard India as as an inferior nation and they feel that they would dominate India rather than work together with India. India obviously is an inferior nation geopolitically compared to China in terms of hard power. India is like 1/4 of China. So China is obviously right and we are not equals today. Historically that's a different story. Yeah, we are an older civilization blah blah blah. But today we are not equals and China probably feels that China should dominate India and also Russia. So China wants to have a master servant relationship not a relationship of cooperation as equals and that's what has worked against China because they of their stupid obstinate attitude. Yeah. Okay. Riley Roy says, "Do you think we have enough compute and energy to be an AI superpower?" No. Our academia is barely funded. Yes, correct. I am an IIT student and we don't get enough funds. I know we don't have enough compute. We don't have enough energy to be an AI superpower. A AI comput is enormously energy intensive. It guzzles energy. Right? If you want to be an air superpower, we need to really invest in nuclear, we need to have 100 200 nuclear reactors in the country. Why not? Right? So, we currently don't have enough compute or energy to be an AI superpower. Our academia is barely funded and the quality of academia is garbage. It's rotten. If you're in the IIT, you are well aware of this. If you are in the IIT, you are well aware of this. And I'm sorry, but this is the situation and this needs to change. This needs to change. Hazy says, "Why keep US in your sovereignty index when it's a vasal of Israel?" Okay, I shall reconsider that too. I shall once this war ends, let me take a fresh take a new look at this entire matter with a fresh set of eyes. Let this war end. I look into this. Field strongman says please buy LPG cylinder under many restaurants are closing now in India. Okay. All right. Okay sir. Thank you for letting everyone know. An Divu says as energy access becomes uncertain is it time to popularize Hobie Baba's three-stage thorian power plan again? Yeah and we are way behind in the timeline. We are barely at the cusp of stage one and stage two. Everything is mismanaged in India. No ambition, no ambition. We should have been well into stage three today. India has the world's largest thorium reserves and we are they're just sitting idle. So yeah, I agree. It is time to take this up on a war footing in a time of war. Sugand Sugand Sugand says, "Previously I was pro-Israel when this war started without understanding the real Indian interest but after the last three episodes of Askab perception changed. You are an Indian treasure. Sharing your videos with my circle for better understanding. Thank you so much sir. Have I done something that made you from pro-Israel to something else?" Okay, listen. I I don't think I've spoken that much about Israel. My perspective is the Indian perspective. I see everything through the lens of the Indian national interest and uh the way I see things Indians should be pro- India and not pro something else. You may like some countries but support only your country. When two other countries are fighting and you like one of them, you don't have to support them because you like some some things about them. See, there's a lot to admire in Israel about there's a lot to admire about Israel. Okay? But this is not our war. And we also have our own national interests that are more aligned with Iran actually. Okay? The survival of the current government in Iran is is actually important for India. If it's if this government in Iran survives, India will have more options and more geopolitical leverage. So yeah, if you understand this that you will understand that you'll you'll understand things better I suppose. So I I am glad I was able to u maybe maybe shape a little bit of your worldview and you are very welcome sir. You're very welcome. Dis says what are the backdoor deals you think are happening which could harm India or provide profit in near future to India? I can't even imagine what these backdoor deals are. Now, if you could give some context about backdoor deals in the US, back door deals somewhere else. No, I have no idea back door deals where between the US and Pakistan. Well, that could be a backdoor deal. I I can't I can't imagine. I can speculate. VSVS has gifted one membership of the channel. Thank you so much, VSVSG. Susant Das says hello. What will be Iran's reaction if Trump killed Mustafa Kame in another strike? Does Iran surrender or do something very very nasty? Iran does not surrender. Iran will continue the war even if this current supreme leader is assassinated. That is the resilience of Iran. This is this that's the way the Iranians have prepared for the war. The IRGC see so it's like this there are nations in which the leader is a critical vulnerability for the nation. If the leader is killed then the whole nation crumbles and collapses. An example the battle of Hastings 1066. Harold Goodwinson, the king of England, got an arrow in his eye. He died and the entire government collapsed and crumbled immediately. One guy died, the king died and the whole government collapsed, crumbled. End of story. In Iran, the position of the supreme leader is not a critical vulnerability. The IRGC, which is the real power in in Iran, is totally dispersed and decentralized. Killing the supreme leader will have no effect on Iran. They will appoint one more. If you kill them, kill him, they'll appoint one more. They'll keep appointing a new supreme leader. Or if they kill too many, the Iranians will go for a few years without the supreme leader. But this will not weaken the IRGC. Iran doesn't surrender. Trump expected that killing Mr. Kame would immediately cause the surrender of Iran. No, didn't work. But if the next supreme leader leader is killed, then Iran could do something very nasty and they won't surrender. Animeish Parati says, "Hydration reminder. Thank you very much for that reminder. It's been more than 3 hours, almost three and a half hours. So, hydration reminder, thank you." Ah, yeah, I needed that. Ankush Sharma photographer says if Russia is self-sufficient why isn't it an economic superpower because it's sanctioned because the global economy is controlled by the US and the US is trying to keep Russia out of it right so Russia has the resources but other nations are not allowed to trade with Russia Europe was purchasing tremendous quantities of Russian gas that's how the European economy was running the European industrial industry was The Americans blew up Nordstream too and they pre they stopped Europe from buying Russian oil, Russian gas. So Russia has the resources but the western world is not allowed to buy those resources. Right? And obviously Russia is is coming out of a disaster which was the collapse of the USSR and the destruction of Russia's economy. So Russia is still rising. It's still growing. Because of these reasons it's still not an economic superpower. Excuse me. Gotham says other options to launch aircraft if not carriers ground. Ground or carriers, right? There's no other options. Pratam Sony says, "Admire you lot of admire you lot. Any specific habits to to raise our standards?" Excuse me. specific habits, habits to raise your standards. One great habit to raise your standards which will just make you feel better every day and that raises your standards is pranayam. Pranayam Indian breath work that will raise your standards that gives you tremendous energy and clarity of mind. It's great for your lungs that raises your standards. It's a very easy way to raise your standards. You become a higher energy person right away with more mental clarity and there are specific ways of doing pranayam and some of these are secret ways. Maybe I shall teach you those too in the future. All right. So yeah says you say are an Indian they killed early one in India something white did to other but you know called them American despite white made Americans. What are you saying sir? You say are an Indian they killed early one in India something white did to other but you know call them American despite white made American super superpower I'm not quite sure what he was saying or asking or stating so all right thank you for sharing your thoughts says US giving India only 30-day waiver for Russian oil does that show American pressure how should India respond also Are Pakistan's nukes owned by the US? Pakistan's are Pakistan's nukes are most likely American nukes on loan to Pakistan. They are controlled by the US, not by Pakistan. Okay, that is my belief. I don't have proof for this, but I am pretty sure these are American nukes and not Pakistani nukes and they are controlled by America, not Pakistan. Now, US giving India 30-day waiver for Russian oil. Does it show American pressure? It shows American pressure but it doesn't mean India will stop buying after 30 days. India was anyway buying Russian oil. India had not stopped buying Russian oil. But the Americans are pretending like the Americans decide India's foreign policy the contours of of India's energy policy where India can buy from how long India can buy from them and so on. America decides that that's what they're trying to convey to the world claim to the world that we now own India which is a lie. Okay. So how should India respond? By ignoring their statements. Don't don't respond to those statements and do what you anyway doing. That's how India should respond. Ammon Kumar Dhanker says what are what are all possible ways Russia can intervene? Well, one thing Russia can do is supply is is is provide India provide Iran with their satellite positioning system um access to the satellite positioning system so that the the Iranians can target their missiles accurately. The Iranians are most likely using the Chinese system, Beu system right now. Russia can provide its system too if required as a redundancy factor. Uh Russia can provide satellite imaging if they have that. China obviously has very good spy satellites. Russia can if required supply Iran with arms, ammunition, munitions, whatever. Yeah. Through the Caspian seas. So many ways Russia can uh intervene and help Iran. Stoic animal says, "Hypothetically, let's assume World War II ends up with nuclear war. What is the time-lapse of changes we see in for the people of India? What skills should we focus on so our nation will be left not left behind again?" If we assume World War II ends up with nuclear war, then there's no skill you will need because you'll be back in the stone age if you survive. If there's a nuclear war, okay, there are levels of nuclear war. If somebody decides to target only Iran, well, that's horrible and that's sad, but it won't destroy the world. But if this ends up in a nuclear exchange between Russia and the US, it's the end of the world. at least 95% of the humans on the planet will die when forget about skills you are back in back to the stone age. Uh what is the time-lapse of changes we see for the people of India? Time-lapse of changes what happens is that more nations are gradually dragged into the war. Let's say the war doesn't get over and uh the US perhaps drags the UK, France, Germany into the war which then and maybe Turkey is also directed into the war because the US is trying to use Kuresh mercenaries. Then Russia and China get involved. Pakistan gets targeted by Iran. Pakistan fights back against Iran. The America use Pakistan. So more and more nations get involved and eventually there's a nuclear exchange. Well, that's that's that's a world war, right? Uh what skills should we focus on so our nation does not get left behind and we have the skills. We need to focus on reforms. We have to focus on reforms. We to clean up the system and we to reform every institution and every sector. That's what need to h that's what needs to happen. Sir Electric Zion says, "Does diplomacy mean anything anymore with how the US and its allies have been repeatedly rening on promises of peace with nations like Iran?" See, diplomacy does matter. Diplomacy is still relevant. Diplomacy is all about arm twisting behind closed doors. It's about issuing naked open threats behind closed doors and seeing how much you can push somebody and how much you can how much leverage you can use. That's what diplomacy is. Diplomacy is not all sophisticated behavior and wearing nice clothes and behaving very politely. That's only for the cameras behind closed doors. It is the opposite of that. Diplomacy is brutal and nasty behind closed doors. But you don't see that. Diplomacy is still very relevant. But what is no longer relevant is the the word of the Americans. Okay. Trump lies every day. You can no longer take his word to be the truth. Nobody believes Trump anymore. Nobody believes the American regime anymore. So that's what's happened. America's word doesn't mean anything anymore. Diplomacy does does mean a lot. Himanch Ratud says, "Want to pursue MA, PhD history and research while continuing government job. Could you guide me on institutions allowing this so my papers can go mainstream?" I I don't know about this. I I am not in no longer been a long time. I am not active in the Indian education system and I am no expert on which where to get admissions for what degree and all. I I don't know sir. I don't know. I am an I am a an advocate of great reform in the education system. I don't know which institution will allow you to do various things while continuing government job. I am not aware of this. I don't have this information. I'm sorry about that. I'm not the person to ask these questions. Godliness says is tech turning people to be more and more like Mr. Chava or do you think they are becoming more Biden? Thank god at least I am more like Mr. Aanga Nathan. Is technology turning people to be more and more like Mr. Chava or do you think they're becoming more Biden? But see technology I I am I use technology I use all all possible technology but I don't I have not become a slave of technology right I don't use AI to do my thinking for me I'm extremely careful I don't use I don't allow AI to I don't use AI to do my thinking for me I do my thinking AI can be used for for finding resources and finding links and doing you know that sort of thing donkey work your thinking you have to do yourself don't start outsourcing your thinking to to AI I think most people are doing that most people are just outsourcing all their mental work to AI you think for me you give me answers and I'll do exactly what you said that's what's happening now so most people are becoming more and more Biden that's what AI is doing to people um I must be an outlier in that matter I use AI but I use AI for doing the donkey work that you know that sort of thing. Uh I don't know. Yeah. So yeah, that's that's what's most likely happening. Surat Singh says, "What's your thoughts on micro black holes?" Oh, I am a huge fan of micro black holes. Yes, I'm a huge fan of micro black holes. Micro black holes were most likely produced in great abundance during the very early epoch of our universe right after the big bang. Uh there was most likely based on various various models because of quantum fluctuations. There was most likely over production of black holes before cosmic inflation and also in the postinflationary epoch. So in various scenarios you have essentially an over production of micro black holes in the early universe during reheating recombination even pre-inflation etc. Now what happened to them is the big question. Did they just evaporate and die out or do they still linger around in certain shapes and forms? And what if they formed a stable quantized bound states which no longer evaporate or what if they leave behind plank scale remnants that are stable? Many many questions out there. So black holes micro black holes are very I think very relevant and they may provide answers to many of the big questions that are still open in cosmology and physics. So I'm a big fan of micro black holes. Huge fan. Walika says, "Iran has a new supreme leader. Does a younger angrier Kame make a post war Iran India reset harder or impossible?" Look, the new Kame is a younger one. He's probably going to be angry because his father was assassinated and he's going to be way more hardline than his dad and he's going to be focused on the US right now, of course. But whenever the war ends and Mr. Kame is still Mr. Maj is still the supreme leader. Let's say how will he deal with India? How will he deal how will he approach the India Iran relationship is the question. I think he he'll be pragmatic and practical about this. Right? I think that he will approach the question constructively that maybe India said some things that Iran that Iran doesn't like but India did not take any actions that were detrimental to Iran's interests. So let's take it forward positively. India also had constraints and hopefully the relationship improves over time. It's already a decent relationship. It's not like we have any problems with Iran but hopefully the relationship can be can be strengthened >> because Iran is a natural ally of India, right? So I don't think a postwar India India Ind India Iran reset is harder or impossible. I think the supreme leader is elected for certain qualities. Qualities like wisdom and pragmatism and if you if a if the supreme leader has those qualities there should not be not been any problem in taking India Iran relations forward after the war. JRXNS independent Kurdistan effects on India, Russia, China, China, India, Russia. Well, no direct effects, no direct effects, but the complications will have a second order effects, third order effects that will be relevant to India, China, Russia. Kurdistan is in the north and northwest and no north. It's in the west and northeast of Iran. Not really oilbearing regions. So independent Kurdistan I don't think there'll be much of an effect on India India at least or China China also Russia is more relevant in the region so maybe something there grxna says what book are you reading right now and why well one of the books I'm reading is 1066 it's called 1066 a history of the the year of three battles that's one why because it's fascinating another is I still have that Sherlock Holmes book sitting over there. I haven't touched it for a while. Yeah. And yeah, I'm always reading like a couple of books at the same time. Maybe more than two. Tesus says, "Is Modi a true leader or a product of India's weak political ecosystem and lower leadership standards?" He's the best leader we've had since 47. That's what I'll say. Okay. He's the best prime minister we've had since 47. He has achieved a lot for the nation. He has got a lot he's done a lot of work for the nation visible measurable work more than any other prime minister. So from that perspective he's the best leader we have had since 1947. That's my view. JXNA is a new member. Thank you very much and welcome to the channel's membership. He just asks the same question again but I just answered that. All right. Really now Miss Patel says tell us about the Knight's Templar still active. The Knights Templar were a powerful group of powerful religious group warrior religious warriors monk warriors um from the time of the crusades and they were eventually destroyed. They were all massacred. I don't remember which king it was who massacred them. Um and they've they they fought the crusades and eventually there was essentially a coup against them and they were all captured and killed. Um and there are certain religious places that are associate that have were associated in the past with the Knights Templar. They were after the holy grail cup that held the blood of Shri Christ of Mr. Christ. That's the kind of story one hears. And there's this chapel, this this church in Scotland, Ireland, where is it? Rosslin Chapel that is associated with that with the Knights Templar. Are they still active? Not to my not to my knowledge. Not to my knowledge. Shri Shray Singh Raat says, "Loved your work with me streams. Pleased, please do more." Oh, the work with me streams. Well, there were like 30 people watching it every stream. Huh? I'm not sure if it was something that most people wanted, but I'm glad you loved them. Thank you. Al Kashikari says, "Hypothetically, what happens if the US quits and leaves Israel alone in this war?" Well, the U the Israel gets very displeased. But if the US just walks out and says, "Okay, I'm done with done with the war. Done." What happens? Can Israel fight alone? Israel can keep fighting if they keep getting supplies from the US. Israel's war fighting capability depends on them getting supplied by the US. What supplies? Arms, ammunitions, munition, all that ammunition, not ammunitions, all that. America supplies the weapons Israel uses for fighting its wars. Of course, Israel also has its own weapons manufacturing capabilities, but all of but it can't take care of all of its requirements and needs. So if the US quits but keeps supplying Israel with whatever it needs, Israel can keep fighting but Israel will come under tremendous pressure now because Iran no longer has to fight America. It can focus on Israel alone. So it will be very very very very dangerous for Israel if this happens. Anupam Sudhakran is a new member. Thank you very much Anupam Sudhakaran. And I love the display picture you've got. Chingis Khan. Welcome to the channel's membership. Clever Sid says, "What's the impact on the environment because of this war?" Disaster. The Americans have have blown up oil um oil deposing and the whole sky above Thran is dark now. Huge thick black clouds of smoke. And when it rains, it rains oil. It's a disaster for the environment. What happened to carbon footprint and all that stuff? No one cares now, right? No one's going to talk about that now. Past snail says, can India get the exception like China to get a pass at the straight of Hormuz or has it dented relations with Iran after taking the side of Israel? See, India only verbally kind of took the side of Israel and the US. India has not taken any actions that take the side of Israel or the US. through actions. India has actually taken the side of Iran kind of by uh giving shelter to an Iranian warship in a port in an Indian port which where the Iran ship currently currently sits and the sailors are being accommodated in Indian naval headquarters I mean quarters quarters. So India has not taken any actions against Iran. Through actions, India has been kind of pro- Iran slightly and Iran has already said that India has an exception. Indian ships can transit the oil the straight of foremost Iran will not target them. So India already has that exception. Yeah. Kishv Kishan says if Iran manages to finish BB BB Netanyahu what happens then? Well, then I think if that happens, then Israel will take very drastic action against Iran and the war will escalate to very dangerous levels. Deep learner says, "Sorry, I meant to ask, wasn't that a misjudgment on your part when you said India chose a side considering everything was words? No offense." No, no offense. I said India took chose a side verbally and I I stand by what I said. Of course, India chose a side verbally. That's not a misjudgment. I I don't think it's a mis judgment. What I said at the time was correct. See, today we have the benefit of hindsight. It's been like 8 9 10 days of war. What I said on day two or day three. Now we have more information and maybe things have changed completely. There are people who expect that what I said 5 years ago, I should still stick to that. But hasn't the world changed? My analysis will be shaped by the changing world order. What I said four years ago, 5 years ago may not be relevant at all today. So my analysis was relevant 4 years ago but what I said today is relevant for today. And what I say today may be totally different from what I said four years ago because the world was different then. But people don't understand that. They say you keep changing your analysis. The world is changing. Right? So what I said initially that India has taken the side of has chosen a side verbally for practical reasons not the ideological reasons. Well that's what India did at the time. Now India has recalibrated. Maybe India thought it is misjudged. Is that my misjudgment? No. So no it's not a misjudgment. Anupam Sudhakaran says namaste. Namaste G. Doesn't the deep state have any say in the present conflict? The deep state is driving the conflict. Are all decisions being made by President Trump? Um, sure. Is he being molded into a convenient pitch pinch bag to pin all the blames? Well, if things go south, he's going to be blamed for everything. Of course, the buck stops at the top and the official top is the the White House. uh the deep state is driving the conflict. Trump is just what we see and of course if things go wrong they'll blame him. Are all decisions being made by President Trump? Well you see Marco Rubio gave gave this quote during an interaction with the press like three three days into the war three or four days into the war when asked why this war happened. And he said that we had knowledge that Israel was planning to strike at Iran and we knew that if Israel strike at Iran, Iran would strike back at us too. So that's why we preempted that by striking at Iran before the Iranians could strike back at us because we knew Israel was going to strike them. But what if you allow Israel to strike but you stay out of it? Then what happens? So essentially Marco Rubio admitted that Israel dragged the US into the war. So Marco Rubio admitted that the US is powerless to stop Israel from doing this. And when Israel gets involved into a war, the US has to rescue them. So are these decisions being made by President Trump? I'm not sure. It shows that a lot of decisions are being made by Israel actually. Yeah. Right. Modern Saburai Gaming says Bangladesh Cle Hindus denied to play cricket in India giving Bangladesh five turns of diesel. I don't understand what India is doing. I don't understand. Yeah. Tennis India. Well, thank you very much. Tennis India house of discussion says will it be Asia versus Europe World War II in Middle East reason oil? It's not Asia versus Europe. That's that's a very that's not the division we have here. We have the US and Israel versus Iran. But along with US and Israel, there's a number of nations, West Asian nations, U Saudi Arabia, uh Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Iraq and UAE, etc., who are all involved in the war. So, it's Asia versus Asia kind of being driven by by outsiders. If you consider Europe Israel to be a European nation which it's actually not but whatever. So it's not a split between Asia and Europe in this form. The watch man says any comments on the upcoming alien disclosure by the president of the US about also about Steven Spielberg is also coming up with the Hollywood movie. What a time to be alive. I am super skeptical about this alien disclosure. Super skeptical. All this UFO activity and all that that people see in some countries, I believe it is merely super advanced technology that the Americans have. I don't think it's any actual aliens who are visiting the planet. I'll be very pleased if there's actual evidence of aliens, but simply putting out an email that claims there are aliens is not proof or or publishing a document that says we met aliens, it's not proof. Show the actual aliens. I would like to see a podcast with an alien. My friend Reanir would like to do that. I would like to say an actual alien hard evidence, incontrovertible evidence, not this claim. So I am very skeptical about this. Nishan bag says, "I am 22, XJ. Father got cancer, no savings, working." Okay, you're giving more more context here. I'm 22 years old. You are exe student. Father got cancer, no savings, working 13 14 hours. Have no strong skills yet. I'm eager to learn. I feel stuck. Any advice? So you are in like you said you were interested in in in in in in technology and things like that right I for I don't have the yeah so you are interested in in technology and so on and you don't have any skills right now so look the good news is you just 22 you're a kid you're just starting off right okay right now it's you're not happy you're working 13 14 hours a day you don't have strong skills you're eager to learn you feel stuck. Well, what I would say is spend your free time acquiring skills. It's hard to have free time when you are working 134 hours. So try to somehow engineer slightly better working hours, maybe 10 hours instead of 13, 14. That way you can sleep eight hours and do find some time to get to acquire skills and study study as as as diligently as possible and study not not academic study but acquiring skills study. Today you can acquire skills for free. You don't need to you know go to college university or whatever to acquire the skills that you want. All the information and knowledge best information best knowledge is available on YouTube if you want to learn programming if you want to learn machine learning or machine or whatever it is. So find find the time somehow anyhow in the next 2 years 3 years maximum acquire the skills you need and then find a way to pivot. Find a way to pivot. That's what you should do. You just 22 you're just starting off you don't need to be disheartened. Okay. Uh even if you succeed by 30 it's a great great outcome. And the struggle will teach you a lot that people who have not struggled will never learn. So what I would say is stay healthy, stay energetic and uh yeah just just go for it. All right sir. All the best. I'm sorry that you're in the situation but you can overcome it all. All the best. Nishan Gouibar says, "How can the West pressure Russia if the US eases restrictions for markets while the EU tightens them? Is this a rift in relations or a European move towards strategic independence?" Um, Europe does speak seek seek more strategic autonomy for sure. Yeah, Europe feels constrained by the you know by the overbearing overbearing uh behavior of the US. The US has reconfigured its relationship with Europe. Yeah. NATO especi especially. Um, how could the West pressure if the US eases restrictions for markets while the EU tightens them? Well, I'm not sure specifically what's happening that you're talking about. US eases restrictions for which markets and the EU tightens restrictions for which markets? European markets. But when it comes to India and Europe, we have a trade deal now and the restrictions are being lifted significantly for India. So sometimes the US and the EU may be at cross purposes and that obviously will be good for Russia. But that's the way things go especially in a in a in coalitions involving lots of countries like the EU also also NATO. Okay. Prashan Sharma says NBC interview with Iran foreign minister is funny. Okay. I have not watched it and I will not watch it here but thank you for letting me know. I don't mind some watching something funny. I' I'd love to watch it. Yeah. Tani Kaz says, "Who do you think the terrorists are, Iran or the USA?" Well, Iran has done nothing against India. Iran has never launched a single terrorist attack in into on India. Iran has not sent a single terrorist into India. Pakistan does that all the time. And who funds and finances Pakistan? The United States. That's all I can say. Fast snail says, "How does Navy escorting containers at hormones help?" It does not help. It does not help. The Navy becomes a sitting ducks just like the containers. The Navy then has to defend the container plus defend itself. It It's not going to work out that way. Defending sending navy naval warships to escort containers is not going to open the state of Armos. Doesn't work. Birup Shark says if India were removed from the from the swift from the swift system how would the rupee hold up and what investments besides gold would make sense in India I think if India were removed from the from the swift system India's economy would would be devastated India would not be able to do any any uh economic transactions with any other countries and India would be devastated by that yeah unless India participates in a separate parallel system with the BRICS nations. I think something that big is being done right now. So the sooner that comes up, the better it is for India. In that case, the rupee will do will still be impacted for sure, but will not do so poorly. What investments besides gold make sense in India? I don't know. I'm not an an investing expert. Somebody can give advice about that. So I can't say Mishra, thank you very much. Ujul gi uh DSCV Sri Lakshmi says I live in the US. I came as a student and I'm working here now. I agree with the analysis you make about this country and how can I make the best of here? Okay. So you have you live in the US. You came as a student and you're working there now. What how can you make the best of being in the US? Well the US there are so many good things about the US. The US is a land where you are genuinely free and where there's genuinely no limit to what you can achieve. So what can you do to make the best of being there? Take off. Whatever your dreams are, pursue them. Work as hard as possible and and go for it. In the US, you can reach the fullest extent of your potential. That's the thing about the US. there are no artificial constraints and restrictions and barriers like you have in India. Uh so without knowing you personally I can't offer you any advice beyond that. But I would say make the best of being there. Right? Whatever dreams, hopes, aspirations, ambitions you have, work on them with as much energy as possible and do your best and and achieve whatever you want to achieve. All right. All the best. All the best, ma'am. Ramaranga says, "Treat this as a light-hearted question away from geopolitics. Do for a second. Do you wear dress watch, dive watch, or beater watch on a daily basis? Or do you wear Apple watch like the rest of the Ewoks?" I don't have an Apple Watch. So, I don't wear an Apple Watch. I have a watch. My favorite watch is a watch that I purchased 23 years ago from Park City, Utah in the US. It's a watch with a titanium strap. Fossil watch. I'm not sure if it's a dress watch, dive watch. I don't know those ter terms. Beater watch. I I I like that watch. That's my favorite watch. Still works. And I have a couple of other watches which yeah, dress watch and so on. On a daily basis, I would wear the that watch. My favorite watch. I'm sure it can work as a dress watch. It's it's pretty classy, elegant. Yeah. And I don't wear Apple watch. I don't have an Apple watch. I've never bothered to buy one. So Mishra says, "Appreciating you and how to gain knowledge like you. Always be curious or whatever whatever curiosity you have, let it drive you and let it make you learn new things and do read. I got whatever knowledge I have from reading reading." Uh yeah. An du says uh does geost strategy, game theory, etc. suggest that superpowers would always be the most aggressive and hypocritical or can a superpower be a world peacemaker? Game theory has nothing to say about hypocrisy. Okay, that's human nature. That game theory says nothing about about hypocrisy. A strategy, geostrategy, well geostrategy, it's based on various kinds of models including game theory. So that says nothing about Superpowers being hypocritic. Hypocritical. Aggressive. Well, aggression. Yeah. Game theory can tell you about aggression. Aggression is a strategy. It's it's a valid strategy in depending on what kind of game you're playing and what the circumstances are. Uh can a superpower be a world peacemaker? Well, it can if it chooses to, but it is it's it doesn't have the incentive to be a world peacemaker. It's the incentive is to Yeah. The incentive is to establish world peace through strength by suppressing everybody else. That's the most logical way of manner for for a superpower to proceed in. Right? So game theory tells you what is the optimal behavior for a player such as a powerful nation given a c certain set of circumstances and the other players who are playing in playing the game and what are their characteristics. Yeah, you can set up all kinds of scenarios in game theory based on this. So it doesn't say anything about hypocrisy, but it does say that superpower can be a world peacemaker only by defeating everybody else or subduing everybody else. Na says in NCRT 11 chapter 8 advent of Arian first page seems fake. I am so sorry to hear this. I I've heard about this problem that NCERT is still peddling the Arian invasion or Arian migration theory. Very unfortunate. Very unfortunate. After all these years, we're still doing this. Anyway, thank you for letting us know, ma'am. Mlevin, good to see you. Hand over the secret panam and no one gets hurt. The secret pranayam is walking pranayam. You can do pranayam while walking. That's the secret pranayam. You don't have to sit with your eyes closed and do whatever you're doing. You can do pranayam with your eyes open while walking. So you get the benefit of exercise walking plus the breath work the pranayam which also is the first step towards meditation the practice of meditation you can do all of that while walking and it's pretty difficult pretty difficult at first you do it for 20 minutes you feel like you've done surgery on yourself that's how it feels the first time you do it but yeah that is in my opinion one of the most powerful forms of pranaya secret uh trail trail says why is India bending in front of front of the US to buy fuel buy fuel from them also with respect to Iran Israel war do you think Russia strategically not interfering because any other country because other countries would rely on them for fuel well it is in Russia's interest for this war to go on for a long period of time because that will help them sell a lot of oil which is great for their economy and it will finance the war against Ukraine So that from that perspective this war the longer it lasts the better it is for Russia as long as Iran is able to hold its own. Okay. Now about India why is India bending in front of the US to buy fuel from them. India is trying its best to maintain a decent relationship with the US because we don't want to face more pressure from the US. An example is you know the US can impose all kinds of economic, financial and strategic pain on India. So uh we are trying to the our best to you know have a good relationship with them. Obviously there will be lines we will not cross. If it feels like we are bending in front of them, maybe we want that message to go to the US that you know what we are kind of being extra uh differential to you especially because Trump is that sort of guy who wants that. But as long as India does not compromise its vital interests, I think it's okay as as a ploy in game theory as as a as a as a temporary strategy. It's okay as long as it doesn't cross certain strategic red lines for India. Gjapati Dave says listening to Abijit Sar on ask versus reading writing 30 minutes daily suggested by Sar World War II like confusing citizen situation for me. Uh if you had the option of listening to me for 30 minutes or writing for 30 minutes I would say go and write for 30 minutes. It will be better for you. But if you have more time do listen to me as well. I am not opposed to that at all. But if you had a choice of only doing this or that, listening to me for 30 minutes or writing for 30 minutes, I'll say go right for 30 minutes. It'll be better for you. World War II like confus situation. Yeah, it's very confusing because the things are happening changing really fast. This situation is called the fog of war by cloudsawitz. Okay. The fog of war where everything is confusing. Fog of war concept. It's taking longer than usual. Why is it in Hindi? Danagri fog of war concept. So what's this concept? the uncertainty, the confusion and limited situational awareness experienced by commanders and soldiers during military operations often caused by incomplete, inaccurate or overwhelming information. So we as non-combatants, we are facing, we are also facing the same situation, incomplete, inaccurate and overwhelming quantity of information. So that's the fog of war that we are also experiencing despite being non-combatants. Hvei says reasons for this these events not affecting the US dollar because the global economy is still underpinned by the US dollar or oil transactions are still happening in the US dollar. If you want if you want to see dualization effects th those effects will take a long time to happen. Okay, that that happens over a long period of time. A war you know within 7 days 10 days will not start affecting the US dollar. It will the US dollar will will it its status will change depending on whether nations stop purchasing oil in US dollars or not and a whole set of other um other data points as well. So these things happen slowly. You know there's there's a typically a lag between cause and effect in some sports sports the there is an you will see the effect immediately but in some sports you will see a lag between cause and effect. For example, yeah most sports you will see it immediately that you change your strategy and you will see the changes immediately. But for example, if you want to become a bodybuilder and you start eating protein like a high protein diet and start going to gym regularly 5 days a week or whatever following a proper diet plan, it'll take you 3 to 6 months to see the effects. So similarly some things there's a lag between something happening and the effect becoming visible. Bishall says did regional kingdoms weaken pan Indian unity? No. Civilizational unity not weakened. Political unity of course weakened when you have kingdoms instead of a single empire. Political unity is obviously impacted by that. Yeah. Mudit says are new Epstein images showing Hawking in Bill's lap. True. I I haven't seen that. Bill Hawking in Bill's lap. I don't even want to see that. Thank you. I don't know. I don't know. Hershel says, "Is the entropy of the universe reducing or increasing? What does it mean for our planet and how does it affect the nature of time? Is time and entropy correlated in some way? Entropy is a measure of disorder. Let me give you a very simple example. Look at my my background. H is is books here. You can see books. It's real books. It's not a it's not a wallpaper. It's real books. So, you can see it's all very orderly. I've got some dinosaurs up here and some all the stuff. But it's all kept orderly. So, when you have this kind of order, it's called that. It means that this this um room that I am in the system that I'm in is a low entropy system, highly ordered system. But consider a scenario where I have pens and cables on the floor and books thrown around and clothes lying on the floor. It's complete mess. It's a complete disorder, right? That's a high entropy system. So the question is is the entropy of the universe reducing or increasing? Which means is the amount of order or disorder of the universe increasing or decreasing? And uh thermodynamics tells us that entropy either stays the same or increases. The universe is a system. So the entropy of the universe is increasing over time. What does it mean for a planet and how does it affect the nature of time? It means that for our planet eventually the planet will go to dust. Eventually it'll be transformed into dust. When the sun becomes a red super giant red giant the outer layers of the sun will engulf the the earth. they'll go beyond Earth's orbit. So, Earth will be burnt to a crisp. Eventually, the sun will die. It will spend its last billions of years as as a white dwarf and earth eventually will crumble into nothingness. Uh so, that's what it means for for a planet. Because entropy increases, how does it affect the nature of time? Is time and entropy correlated in some way? Possibly the the error of time, the unidirectional error of time perhaps has something to do with entropy. Perhaps perhaps also perhaps quantum entanglement and so on. That is a long discussion but possibly that's that's a theory but it's not proven. It's a good it's an interesting theory though. Sur says want to see Milky Way with the naked eyes naked eye. Suggestions well today if you live in any city in India you can't see the Milky Way with him with your naked eye. My suggestion is well go to a place where there is no light pollution. Hard to find places. One place I have found is the tours of Lake Pangong in Lada. If you go to Ladak, you will see the Milky Way in its full glory. So go to a place like that. You don't have to go to Ladak. It's a very difficult place for most people. Most people are can't take the altitude. But go to a place like that where there's no light pollution. Then you will see the Milky Way. I still remember the first time I saw the Milky Way and realized what it was. I must have been two or three years old and I saw I had very sharp eyesight as a kid at the time and I see this incredible quantity of stars and so many stars it looks like a cloud but I can discern there are individual stars there but from afar it looks like a cloud that for the first time drove home the realization for me how vast our own galaxy is the number of stars and each star is like our sun that staggered me I was a kid like little kid toddler. So yeah, go to a place like that then you can watch it then then you can see it in its full glory. User says anything on Pakistan Israel nexus in the secret cooperation. Um I don't have any new uh understanding of it. See the what I have to say is very simple and straightforward. It's logical. Israel is America's number one asset uh number one ally. America gives unconditional support to Israel, right? And Pakistan is one of America's principal vasal states. So if America and Israel are on the same side, they are both allies. And Pakistan is America's vasal state, then what's the relationship between Pakistan and Isra and Israel? That's the big question. And Pakistan seems to be on the side of the of the US and Israel in this war. So clearly there is more to this relationship than meets the eye. But what's the secret cooperation? I have no idea. I don't have secret information. Goullibar says, "I know you from TRS. Any plans to on going to TRS again?" I go there from time to time. Uh so I'm glad that you know me from TRS and I'll keep going to TRS. Yeah, that that's going to keep going on. I'm sure sooner or later. Once again, Sugpa says, "My girlfriend is pursuing as data analyst emerging AI threat and future opportunities in IT sector particularly the this role. Your thoughts on this? Thank you so much." Okay. Okay. She is she wants to be a data analyst. emerging AI threat and future opportunities in IT sector particularly this role data analyst role or you can do a tremendous amount of data analysis using AI let's say you have a data set let's say it's a CSV file let's say it's tab whatever format the file is let's say you've got a tremendous amount of data for a particular company that business let's say legacy data 20 years of data you can take all of this data and dump it into an industrial scale AI Okay, industrial enterprise scale AI and the AI is going to go through everything. It's going to give you tremendous insights about the data. Let's say you are a single uh oneperson business. Let's say you're an entrepreneur and you've got Excel sheets full of data, okay? sales and sales whatever invoices um all of that you know expenditure and so on so forth AI can take that AI can go through your through your email it can synthesize all the information and give you insights you would not believe were possible data analysis is going to be eaten alive by AI that is how I see things going unfortunately. Just telling you. All right. All the best to you and your girlfriend. All the best. Keep this in mind. Okay. V Ruth. Okay. Prrenav, if the US has advanced weapons from Area 51, then why not using? Well, that's a good question. I don't know if they have advanced weapons from Area 51, but if they have it, why are they not using that stuff? That's a good question, and I I don't have an answer to that. I have not claimed that they have advanced weapons from Area 51. But the UFO things that we see, they seem to be advanced technology that they are developing. But why haven't they used in this war? Maybe this is not a big enough war for that. Maybe those weapons are to be kept for the final most important war. Maybe don't don't show that right now. Vipul Pavar says if spaceime is emergent, what's the fundamental structure from which geometry arises? We nobody has the answer. We don't know if spacetime is emergent or not. emergence spacetime. We're talking about LQG loop quantum gravity. In that you have a fundamental unit of space time and a fundamental volume of spaceime right 10 to - 99 or so meters cubic meters roughly um what's the fundamental structure from which geometry arises arises quantum form I suppose quantum form so we only have speculative theories right now and theories like loop quantum gravity etc And they don't make see for a theory to be taken seriously it has to make testable predictions and these theories don't make testable predictions as of now. So these are very speculative theories nice mathematical theories and I would say pretty grounded theories but still don't make any testable predictions that I am aware of. So we don't have answers to these questions. We we talking about scales you can't imagine. Imagine a volume of 10 raised to - 99 cubic m. I mean can you even imagine that it's way way way way smaller than the plank plank scale. So this is it's it's mostly speculation right now. We don't have any concrete answers. Pranit Kumar says since Indian Hindu diaspora is increasing in the US there are many Hindu billionaires in the US chance of Hindu lobby in the future like a Jewish lobby in the US? No. Hindus never unite. Have you ever seen anybody hering cats together? No. Right. Uh yeah, there's no chance of a Hindu lobby in the US. I don't see that happening. HF says, "How will this war affect China and Pakistan?" It depends on how it goes. Uh if the war goes longer, the Americans use Chinese territory for attacking Iran, then China then, sorry, Pakistani territory for attacking Iran, then Pakistan does get dragged into the war. And that's a big problem for Pakistan. China, well, if the American supplies of arms, ammunition, etc. get depleted and the Americans have to cannibalize their positions in East Asia then that benefits China. Okay. Okay. It's been more than 4 hours. I got to end this soon. Sanju says, "According to you, whom do you think to be the best king India ever had in terms of security, growth, and prosperity?" Also, I bow down before your knowledge. Please don't do that. But anyway, thank you very much. The best king India ever had in terms of security, growth, and prosperity. If you're asking about the last 2,000 years, um I can give several candidates. One is Kanishka the great. Uh another is um another is uh Samudra Gupta. One more I would say Rajendra Chola and of course Chhatraat Shivaji Maharaj the great uh even though he did not see the full extent of his the empire he founded but yeah who was the greatest if you were to ask me if you if I had to take one name I would say Kaneshka the great I would say Ganeshuka no offense to anybody else but I would say Kaneshka in the past 20 maybe in the first millennium AD Gulibar says US Greenland issue. Is it closed or dormant? It's dormant. Dormant. Global says, "Do you prefer Linux or Windows?" I have never used Linux. Never used it. I once studied Linux for a while. Command line and vi editor and stuff. Very very long ago, but I use Windows and iOS. So I don't have much experience, very almost negligible experience with Linux. Jam says, "Why do banks like rosils fund global wars?" Well, I don't know if they do, and if they do, I don't know why. Maybe it's about world domination. GG's says, "We've been talking about Indian economy in education system, but how can we actually bring rapid changes, rapid, real rapid changes, not tiny increments? We can't. Only the government can. The common person can't do a thing about this. People like me can only talk about it and recommend what needs to be done. But the only people who have the power to make changes are the government. The people in the government. They can bring about changes by passing laws by by drafting, formulating policies and implementing them. Easy stuff. They can do it. They can do make changes through the stroke of a pen and have these changes become real world changes. They can do it, but they choose not to do it. Sanu says have you gone through the works of Dr. Nilant Oak on Raman Mahabarat proofs. Do you agree with him? He talks about Norway to win it. I have not gone through it. I I have not studied his work so I can't say I don't have an opinion about it. Govin says can Iran attack US mainland in any way like launch a missile just to scare them? Look when you launch a missile it's no longer scaring them. is actually taking actually taking action right which can actually damage something in the US maybe do some damage possibly serious damage can the can Iran do that I don't know if Iran has the capability the capacity to attack the American mainland through missiles for example I don't think Iranian missiles have that sort of range ICBM intercontinental range I don't think so I not that I know of so as far as I know it's not the case they don't have the capac capability other more innovative ways well I'll not go there adita says why no country came forward to support India in operation sindur especially after giving free covid vaccines against Pakistan who are our real partners who are our real partners no friend not friends we have no real partners India stands alone okay India stands alone why did no country come forward to support India in operation hindor after we gave free covid vaccines to everybody Because that's not how the world works. You give something for free, people will take it for granted. If you give something in a way that there is reciprocity, a reciprocity agreement which is signed legally and you have the power to enforce it, then they will agree to then they will act as per the agreement. So giving things for free is like throwing things out of a moving car. There's no point doing it in my opinion. Krishant Bordo says bit off topic but please react to Durand 2 trailer but be careful about copyright strike. I am not playing a trailer here. I've not watched it. I'm not aware of it. Has it come out the trailer and I if I play it here I could get a copyright strike. So I will watch it offline and um I'll see at least I thank you for letting me know it's this trailer is out. I do look forward to watching the movie the second part. Yeah. Gibbar says you said the earth will eventually be dust. What's the point of geopolitics cha blah blah at the end it doesn't matter. Me the earth will be dust in 5 billion 6 billion years. It doesn't matter what happens at that time to us. What matters is what we do in our lifetime. Do we make our life a meaningful life? every life is going to end. Then why do we even live? That's not the right approach to life. As long as we are here, can we make this a meaningful life? That's the only thing that matters. The earth will eventually dust be dust. That doesn't matter. What we do with the time we have on this in this universe is what matters. So I think it all matters. It all matters. Maybe it's just a game then. Let's play the game and enjoy it. That's how I see it. Okay. DSCV Shri Lakmi says, "Thanks for the advice. I really enjoy live stream. I'm 24 years old and working in environmental consulting. You are very welcome, ma'am. You're very young. You have a long way forward ahead of you and I think you can achieve anything you want to achieve as long as you put in the right effort, the right energy and you work smart, not just hard." All right. So thank you so much for your very kind words. Thank you for being a viewer and all the best. I wish you success. Putin says, "Can Yugi GI do a precision like rebellion against Modi? I don't ever imagine that happening." Miguel Maniac is why experts all around the world are criticizing Modi. It's maybe a concerted campaign to create a certain kind of narrative about India. Yeah. Okay. That brings me to to the end of this live stream. Finally, after 4 hours 19 minutes, let's wrap it up. Thank you so much everybody for your questions. Thank you for your viewership. I really appreciate it. Uh, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards, and I shall see you on Saturday. There's a bit of a break because I'm traveling, but I shall see you next on Saturday. I look forward to seeing you there. Until then, take care. See you soon.