Heat. Hey. Hey. Hey. [music] Heat. [music] Heat. >> [music] [music] >> Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to this extraordinary episode of Ask Vijit episode 336 extraordinary because it is an unscheduled one. We usually do it on weekends but we have the Iran war situation going on and we need to keep an eye on that and that's why I am doing this one. So uh yeah we're going to mainly discuss the Iran war but I'll also take questions about any other topics that you have but I hope it's mainly about the situation because it is turning into a global crisis. It's turning into a genuine global crisis. A lot of pressure is on India right now and we'll discuss that also why there is a lot of pressure on India right now and increasing pressure on India. So before we get into all these things let's see what is there on the live stream. I can see toxic sirishti siriguri kapalin 13 um aditaumar ram iit it's neil akshi bhardage panduranga07 kennel 4605 nabitadas hello koko tyrion from the UK hello J7 namaste meet mystery Apurva aurva anupa amrit singh abishek shukla live and holy kishukam night everybody Wish you all a very happy, holy uh Shri Raachandra. Alka Shikari, Alka Shikari. Namaste. Trupti. Hello. Manhattan. I6W. Somi is here from Jaipur. Real painter. Shalom. Omar. Hello. Uchiha. Kanishkarhana. Shashank Koshik. Good evening. Ryan J6. Heisenberg. Hello. Aka Bardage S. Morgan. Trace K's mindset Mr. Rohit Raj tapa kamill prashar from merit up anuman bahhuguna mit raj mit raj singh chadasama proper jellyfish random skull js j krishna uh shas jadav shashank koshik uh udas udas cisodia atma atma deepa crazy brain good evening it's Neil Heisenberg hyphen and so many other people so many other people who else we have anul Dur Dashan Dur Dashan. Uh Romesh Jodi Namaste. Kaneshk also Aman George ready always ready an Anan Gore unbelievable to be able Priyanku Poli Sumit Agarwal Manhattan Soldier Boy Advatini Arya Rudra Avatar uh Adita once again ETL Masters History Go Teen Talk 1727 it's Neil Sunx Brianu Swastik Koh and everyone else all right thank you so much for being on the live stream as always thank you very Uh so yeah, Iran the Iran war is going on. The entire matter is escalating. It's going beyond just the Gulf region. Now the straight of hormones is still closed and it's creating a global crisis, a global shock, not just oil, but even other things as well. And there's escalation in our own backyard now. There's escalation in India's own backyard. And the way things are going, many other nations could get involved over time. And if other nations get involved, if European nations get involved, if Russia gets involved, if China gets involved, if India is dragged into this matter, this is no longer a regional conflict. It's a world war. Yeah. So Trump, Donald Trump has dragged us into the situation. It's becoming a global crisis. So what has happened thus far? It's been 4 days of the war. The war has been going on for 4 days. The war began on a weekend. Trump thought that it will be over in a weekend's time, but clearly not the case, right? Clearly, that's not what happened. It's still going on. And Iran is demonstrating surprising resilience. And Iran is demonstrating that it can hit back at everybody. It's targeted how many countries so far? Obviously, Israel has been targeted. uh the US assets have all been targeted in all the Gulf Gulf nations. So it's like seven, eight, nine nations that have been targeted targeted by Iran thus far, mainly Israel and also some of the other Gulf all the other other Gulf countries where the US has assets, military bases and so on. And it looks like the damage that Iran is causing is significant. Now if you look at Twitter X they are no longer allowing uploads of uh you know more recent events videos especially Israel apparently has put a imposed a blackout on videos so videos can't come out of Israel of what's happening because it looks like Iran is turning Tel Aiv into Gaza. Iran is is you know doing very heavy missile strikes on on all these Israeli assets, Israeli cities. Iran looks like it has uh done significant damage to the US fifth fleet headquarters in Bahrain and so much more. So let's quickly go through I've got these notes here and let's quickly go through as as to what's happened. So as as of today morning is Israel has launched 10 waves of air strikes on theran. So the Israelis are going after the Iran. They are hitting Thran mainly. You know, you know what's interesting? Before this war began, there was clearly a certain amount of dissatisfaction against the Iranian regime among the people of Iran. There were some parts of Iran where a lot of people did not did not support the regime. they wanted the region to go and this sentiment was mainly concentrated in the large cities of Iran because that's where you have the educated people the English speaking people and so on and many of those people wanted this government to be overthrown the regime of the ayatlas and mulas so many of these people in the big cities wanted the regime to be overthrown many of these people wanted America to do a regime change and what is the US and Israel what are they doing they are bombarding those cities is they are bombarding the cities where you have pro- US sentiment and they are doing heavy bombardment. 10 waves of air strikes thus far by Israel itself by Israel alone. Yeah. And then Iran Israel goes and uh and and does an air strike on on a school in Iranian school. It causes the deaths of I don't know more than 150 children, girls. Do you think that sentiment that pro- US- sentiment and anti- Iran government sentiment will continue if US and Israel continues to do that? So wherever you have the sentiment that that wherever you had this sentiment that was pro- US anti-Iran those places have been bombed and the regions in Iran where you have a pro regime sentiment that's the small towns and rural areas nothing has happened there and obviously the the US and Israel went ahead and assassinated the Ayatah the supreme leader of not just Iran but the entire Shia community in the And this happened during the the Islamic sacred month of Ramadan. So it's like going back to the early days of the Shia Shia faith, right? When Imam Hussein was martyed at Karbala. That's the kind of thing that that the Americans have done. So it was a fantastic tactical victory for the Americans. They took out they decapitated the leadership. They took out the Ayatah. But it's a strategic disaster because it has unified the country. The Shia faith is all it's it's all based on on martyrdom on sacrifice and they have evoked precisely those sentiments that that's unified not just the nation of Iran but all the Shia people in the world and even the Sunni people are coming in support. It's a strategic disaster. Okay. Because now Iran can say that the Americans are the zalim, the oppressors. Zaleim and we Iran, we are the masloom. We are the oppressed. Oppressor oppressed. I mean, what are they doing? And then Israel has the Iran has this massive stockpile of maybe 100,000 plus drones, Shahed drones, and maybe I don't know how many thousands of ballistic missiles. There are all kinds of numbers floating around, maybe 3,000, maybe 10,000, somewhere in that range. So Iran can afford to keep going on and on. And the Americans have the Patriot missile defense system, Patriot interceptor missiles. Those are running out. Israel has iron dome. Those interceptor missiles are running out. How will they replace those? And the Americans, they they used up about 20% of their global stockpile of Tomahawk missiles in the first day of strikes. And now Iran is is is hitting at American facilities, American radars, extremely expensive radars, billion dollar radars of which there are only a handful in the world. The Americans are now contemplating bringing in the terminal high altitude area defense system THAD from South Korea. If you pull it out of South Korea and bring it here to the Gulf, then who's going to defend South Korea? Isn't it fantastic for China if this happens? The Americans are making big blunders. Looks like there were Looks like Trump was expecting it'll be over in a weekend. This is not getting over in any weekend. It's not getting over in a couple of weeks. It's not going to get over in a couple of months. The Trump has walked into a trap of his own making. Maybe not his own making. Maybe it's Netanyahu who dragged him into the trap because Marco Rubio, the US foreign secretary a couple of days ago said in his interaction with the US media that the US knew that if somebody attacked Iran then Iran will attack the US and we knew that somebody was going to attack Iran. What was that? It was obviously Israel. So because Israel was going to attack Iran and then Iran would have attacked us. That's why we also attacked Iran first because we knew that Israel can't be stopped. So essentially he admitted that Israel can force the US into a war with Iran. Right? So that's where the situation is. The US is running out of options. Israel has a big Iran has a huge stockpile of drones and and ballistic missiles. It can afford to go on for months. And Iran has activated a mosaic defense strategy. So even if the Americans take out all their leaders, kill all the leaders, complete decapitation, even then Iran will keep fighting. How will they keep fighting? Iran has created this has activated mosaic defense which means that there are see in Iran there are 31 states, 31 provinces. Each province will is going to have its own army and each army will act independently. They will have their own drones, their own missiles, their own stockpiles of oil and all that arms, ammunition, everything and their own command and control structure. And even the command and control structure will have its designated survivors. So if the top guy is taken out, the next guy comes in. If he's taken out, the next guy comes in. So the entire structure is going to remain intact no matter what happens. So even if they run out of drones, even if they run out of missiles, they will fight with small arms. If they artillery, what that what not? If they run out of artillery shells and all, they will fight with small arms. If they run out of small arms, they'll find fight hand to hand. They will not give up. And each army is independent. This is going to be this is going to last months if it if it goes on the way it's going on right now. It's going to it's going to last months. The Americans have walked into a trap with their eyes open. Right? That's the situation right now. So, let's see. Let me just go through what's happened. The Israelis have launched 10 waves of air strikes on Thran as of Wednesday morning. Americans are claiming 2,000 targets have been struck, 2,000 munitions used in the first 100 hours and so on. So, Israel is targeting Thran and Western Iran and the US is targeting drone bases and southern Iran infrastructure. Israel is targeting government institutions of Iran, police headquarters, intelligence facilities, IRGC bases, all that. Uh, Israel claims its F-16s are flying operating over Thran. They have achieved air superiority. That's what they're claiming. Um, that sort of thing. Iran seems to have fired at least 500 ballistic missiles uh and more than 2,000 drones since the first day of the war. And Iran has deliberately used old stock old missiles, cheap missiles and cheap drones as dr as decoys to drain the stock piles, the interceptor stock piles of the US and Israel. So the old stock, the 20 year old missiles, that's that's the missiles they're using right now. sacrificial missiles to to you know to to drain the interceptor stocks of the US and Israel and now Iran may be shifting it's maybe moving to more sophisticated and more modern ballistic missiles and we have seen the use of some of those and that is pretty frightening those missiles are very capable they they're able to fragment into multiple decoys and whatnot and they're hypersonic like Mark 11 mark 12 that sort of thing um and the rate at which Iran is launching missiles is declining about 350 on day one, 50 on day 50 on day four. So they are, you know, slowing down the the the they're reducing the number of missiles they're launching per day and maybe it's a strategic move that they are doing that. U 17 Iranian warships have have apparently been destroyed. That's what the Americans are claiming. And today a very very uh you could say escalatory incident happened in the Indian Ocean. So there was this Iranian warship okay that was operating that had participated in a naval exercise in India and it was it had left India. It was somewhere in the vicinity of Sri Lanka and that Iranian warship was torpedoed torpedoed. Okay. Uh by it was torpedoed by uh by an American submarine. Let me try and find that the Americans have officially agreed, you know, claimed this the skill. Okay, let's let's take a look at this. So the American Secretary of War Pete Hegth says in the Indian Ocean an American submarine sunk an Iranian warship that thought that it was safe in international waters. It was sunk by a torpedo quiet death and this happened in essentially India's zone of interest in the Indian Ocean in the Sri Lanka region which is India's region of interest and that that ship was coming from India. So is this an attempt to drag India into the war? Yeah. And the Iranians have have destroyed a lot of American infrastructure, naval infrastructure in the Gulf region, which means that American warships may not be able to dock in those ports. Then the question is where do the American warships dock in the region? Do they go all the way to Diego Garcia, south of the Maldives? That's too far. It'll take 4 days to go and 4 days to return like more than 7 days. makes no sense. So where will the American warships dock? You know what's interesting? India and the US have signed an agreement called Lemoa which kind of gives us the US Navy access to Indian ports. So is the Indian government going to be forced by the Americans to give American warships access to Indian ports for supply for resupplying for for whatever. If that happens, India becomes a direct party in the war against Iran. You know these agreements Kasa, Lemoa, all that stuff we have signed with the Americans for interoperability and so on. So the pressure is now going to be on India very heavily from the Americans because their bases in the region have been severely damaged and the Iranians can hit those bases those those naval facilities and so on at will with their ballistic missiles and drones right so this limo kasa etc it may not be mandatory but hey we have signed it even if it's not mandatory if somebody comes and twists your arm all the way it may become mandatory. Do you understand that? On paper, it may not be mandatory. In the real world, there are other rules that that apply. Um, so what else has happened? 17 Iranian warships have been destroyed. Apparently, that's what the Americans claim. The Americans claim they have lost six soldiers thus far. I think the actual number may be 100 times more. Okay. Uh, Iran has downed about 10% of America's MQ9 Reaper fleet. It shot down at least three F-15s. Okay. Uh, what else do we have? What else do we have? The Iranians have destroyed an um an early warning an early warning radar at Aluda air base in Qatar. That radar alone costs $1.1 billion. Only six radars have been built in the world and one is gone. It is irreplaceable. And that war that radar gives the Americans early warnings of what's coming towards them. Now they don't have that. They're blind. they will have late warnings now not early warnings. It was the backbone of all the American missile defense in the entire Gulf region and it was giving data to all the Patriot systems, all the THR systems, all the EGUS systems that that that protect aircraft carriers. So that radar is blind now. It's gone. And the Americans have two aircraft carrier strike groups deployed in this region. One is in the eastern Mediterranean off the coast of Israel. The other one was near Hormuz. And what where is that aircraft carrier now? It's gone further south into the Arabian Sea into the Indian Ocean. Far from Hormos. Why? Because the Iranians can take it out. So I on this channel have been saying for years that India should not invest in aircraft carriers. Aircraft carriers are sitting ducks. And people have been making fun of me for years now. Look at what the Americans are doing. They're trying to hide their aircraft carrier. Aircraft carriers are sitting ducks in a in a modern war. This should hopefully open your eyes about the utility or not or not aircraft carriers not being useful. Even the Americans can't guarantee the safety of their aircraft carriers, right? Uh so what else has happened? Qatar has claimed that a lot of missiles and drones have been fired at Aludai air base. Okay. And one of those has hit the radar, the American radar, $1.1 billion radar. So that sort of thing. Um, US radar and sat satellite communication infrastructure have been has been targeted across five countries, Bahin, Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Uh, US interceptor systems in the Gulf are partially blind now. They don't have advanced warning of what's happened of what's happening in real time. Uh, the US weapon stockpile is being depleted in real time. Um, 5 years of US Tomahawk cruise missile supply was was used up in just 3 days. more than 400 Tomahawk missiles. Okay. Uh so the first two days alone consumed 20% of the US global stockpile of tomahawk missiles and now Trump is panicking. The Pentagon is preparing an $50 billion emergency uh request to to manufacture more system more munitions and arapon systems and whatnot. Right. Um Trump is meeting with Loheed Martin and asking them to accelerate production of whatever they're making. Um right so the Iranians ship that was destroyed by the Americans by their submarine at least 100 sailors are missing. Sri Lanka has been able to rescue about 30 of them and uh Iran has retaliated by striking a US destroyer near Indian waters on the west coast of India. Now what are these US destroyers doing near Indian waters? Are we already giving them access to our ports? That is not known to me. But there is a possibility. The big question is, is India already allowing US warships and naval assets to use Indian waters in Indian ports? If we are doing that, we are directly involved in the war against Iran. If we are doing that, you see India is now this is no longer a foreign war. Now this is already in our backyard anyway. The Gulf region is like 2 hours from the west coast of India by flight. But now a US warship has been hit by the Iranians possibly in Indian waters or near Indian waters of the west co west west coast of India and that raises the question of is India already giving access to to the ports of I don't know Mumbai Goa whatever it is west coast to the American warships if that is the case are we really a sovereign nation or maybe we are because we have signed limo kasa or whatever uh straight of hormuz is what is causing this global crisis it is closed Now it is effectively closed. 20% of the global oil supply is dep is disrupted completely. 40 50% of India's oil supply is disrupted. Now what do we do about it? Russia says they they will give us the oil. So India will have to turn to Russia again. We had almost stopped I suppose allegedly buying oil from Russia and now we will say okay Russia please send us oil again. But will it be enough for for our oil requirements? India allegedly has I mean according to reports which are by official sources ANI and whatnot. According to multiple reports, India only has 25 days of oil left. India's strategic oil reserves are 25 days. China has like one year or something. India has 25 days. Was the government of India sleeping? Did they not anticipate that this war could happen? Right. So, we'll have to buy oil from Russia. Maybe we'll have to purchase oil from the US. Yeah. Um, that's not the only thing about hormones. Okay. So, um, Roy mustang speak responsibly. Your opinion can trickle down and become the voice of Indian Twitter. India supporting US war effort narrative is bad for us. I am simply stating what's happening. I am speaking very responsibly. Thank you very much. I am speaking about what is happening right now. Go and look at the reports. I'm not inventing stories here. Right? Support India supporting US war effort there. It is bad for us. But if it is a fact and should I lie to you? If it is actually happening, then what should I say? It's not happening. Should I lie? I don't know what you're trying to say. Anyway, what was I saying? Yeah, hormones, right? Straight of hormones. So, it's closed about 40 50% of India's oil imports are affected by that and it's going to remain affected because the Americans can't open the state of Hormos. Why [snorts] do I say that the Americans can't open the state of Hormos? Let's say the Americans sends warship. The Americans send warships to the state of Hormos. What happens? Can they open it? The Iranians can take down those goddamn warships with their missiles. It is a numerical certainty, mathematical certainty that if you have enough ballistic missiles coming down, it at least a few of them will hit. The Iranians can make ruins out of the American naval force in the region. Let me give you an example. Okay, let's open the map. Let me tell you, let me give you a a very pertinent example here. Why I say that they can't open the straight of Hormos even by force. Look here. This is the straight of Hormos here. This one here, this is the straight that is closed. Okay? Now, there is another straight here called Babal Mandib. The straight of Babal Mandib. For the past two two and a half years, the Houthis of Yemen have blockaded the straight of Bab al- Mandib. The Houthis are a small ragtag government. They are a very backward nation. Okay, they are a nation that is almost destroyed and in ruins and Iran supplies them with some drones and and some missiles. Using those poultry supplies of drones and missiles, the Houthis have located the street of Babal Mandep for the past 2 years. more than two years and the Americans have launched hundreds of air strikes on the Houthis and they have failed to defeat the Houthis and they have failed to force the Houthi to open the street of Babal Mandeb. Eventually the Houthis agreed that they will allow American ships to transit but they said Israeli ships can't transit and because the Houthis are insisting Israeli ships can't transit. That's why Israelis can't use the spread. So even after two and a half years of bombarding Yemen, the Americans have failed to open the straight of Babal band despite their naval might and air force superiority. So if they can't force the Houthis to open that straight, do you think the Americans can force the Iranians to open the straight of Hormuz? Impossible. It's not going to happen. So the strait is going to be closed for the foreseeable future. That's going to give you an oil price shock in the world. Oil prices are going to shoot up and India will have to look for alternatives. Definitely Russia and then Trump imposes 25% sanctions on us again, tariffs on us again. Fine, so be it. And we may also have to buy oil from Russia, from the US. In that case, they will insist stop buying Russian oil. So India is now in a difficult position. When it comes to the Gulf countries, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar, Oman, etc., etc., etc., all these Gulf nations, Kuwait, Bahrain, these nations are artificial nations built on sand. They don't produce any agriculture, next to nothing. So, how do the how do they have such big populations? They have big populations because they import the majority of their food stuffs. Go to a market. Go to a mall in Dubai or wherever. You will see all kinds of food stuffs there. Fresh. They come from India. They come from South America. They come from wherever in the world. Where do these food stuffs come from? They come from the through the straight of Hormuz. The other direction. Now that the straight of hormos is closed, these nations are very rapidly going to face a food crisis. H. And about 35% of the global fertilizer supply also comes from hormones. If that is stopped the whole world will face a food crisis. Do you understand? This is a global crisis we are facing just because of this closure of this one straight of the state of Hormos right. Um and oil so the UAE is a major oil producer and they have a port called Fujira. Where is Fujira? Let's go. So if you look at the state of Hermuz the straight the port of Fujira. Okay, where is Fujira? One second. Uh, zoom out. Zoom out. Fujira. Here it is. The port of Fujira belongs to the UAE and it's on the eastern side of the straight of Hormos which means it is it cannot be blockaded. So what's happened now is that the Iran the Iranians have taken out this port. They've they've hit uh this port of Fujira and that's why even this port can't be used for exporting oil by the UAE. So the UAE now can't export oil even if they even if they want to bypass the trade of foremost because they can't. Okay. Uh that is the situation. Saudi Arabia's largest refinery has been bombed. Iraq's second largest oil field has been shut down. Pjara Fuja is attacked. Okay. Even the dalin desalination plant and power plant of Fuja has been uh struck and set on fire. These nations, Gulf nations, these the desert nations, they depend on de des desalination plants for water. If you take these desalination plants offline, they will have no fresh water to drink. Then what do they do? You see how many pressure points are there? Yeah. Um and the US Navy says it can't provide escorts to any ships to transit the straight of because they'll also be targeted. Um all that is happening a lot is happening. Israel has invaded Lebanon. Lebanon in a Lebanon Hisbollah has fired miss rockets at Israel. Yeah. Uh Baghdad the international airport has been shut. Oman has been hit. Uh the US embassy in Beirut has been has been shut down. Uh all that is happening. Yeah. Apparently the Natan's nuclear site has been hit by the Americans again. You see last year there was a 12-day war between Israel and Iran and at the end of the war Trump ordered the bombing of Natans and Furo nuclear power nuclear plants with stealth bombers and those plants were bombed and then Trump announced to the whole world that Iran's nuclear capabilities have been destroyed completely. That's what he announced last year. Trump that Iran's nuclear capabilities have been permanently destroyed and now he is claiming that we are fighting this war to to make sure Iran doesn't become a nuclear power. So was he lying last year or is he lying today? Because somewhere he has lied right. So now they have hit Natans again and the Busher nuclear power plant also apparently there have been explosions nearby. Um, Iran is using very interesting tactics. Iran is using anamorphic paintings on the ground fake to to show fake military hardware like like aircrafts and helicopters. And the Israelis have been bombing those paintings and releasing those videos on Twitter. So you when you see the video, there is this what looks like a helicopter on the ground and it's hit by a by a bomb. there's an explosion, but the even the the blades of the helicopter, they remain intact. So, these are paintings that look like actual objects, anamorphic paintings. They're are being struck by the idea by the Israeli fighter planes and they're actually releasing those videos and now people are realizing this these were actually paintings and the Russians have also been using the same tech the same techniques in the Ukraine war. So it looks like a significant portion of these supposedly destroyed targets were paintings and decoys. Okay. Uh the global market is melting down. Uh about $3.2 trillion of value has been wiped out from the global market in 4 days. In South Korea, there was a decline in their market of 12.1%. Uh that was a disaster. the circuit circuit the market shut down so fast they had to break the circuit circuit breaker was was triggered uh in Japan there's been a disaster of the stock market in Germany also in the UK also the Dubai exchange crashed by 4.9% uh crude oil is going up 83% $83 it's gone up $83 and so much more India is a major loser outside of the Middle East uh India takes about $150 billion in gulf oil imports and the Indian population the expatriates Indian expatriates who live in the Gulf every year they send back about a hundred billion dollars in rem remittances to India so India's economy gets about a hundred billion dollar from the Indians who live in the Gulf every year that much money now if this situation continues that will stop that's going to hit the Indian economy and again the Gulf oil that we are purchasing $150 billion every year that that is now at at ser serious risk. Now is there a diplomatic solution possible? Trump says that I said to they want to talk but I said too late we can't talk now. So and Iran has also said that we will not have any negotiation negotiations with the US after they killed our supreme leader. So there is no diplomatic solution possible now. Yeah there is no diplomatic solution possible now. Now some American senators were given you know classified briefings about what's really happening in the war. And this senator called Elizabeth Warren, she said after the classified briefing about what she could speak to the media, she said that the situation is far worse than what anybody thinks. The US administration, the Trump administration has no plan. The war is illegal and based on fact based on falsehoods. That's what Elizabeth Warren said to the media today. Okay. The Canadian prime minister said that the the American war may be inconsistent with international law. and Marco Rubio says that the attacks on Iran will increase in hours and days. Um, so that's the situation right now. Okay, it's been a very long update by me, but that overall is the situation. Uh, is there anything else? So clearly the US doctrine, military doctrine is built for invasion, but it it's it's failing against Iran. Iran has a very clear pre-planned battle strategy, war strategy. They've been preparing for this war for 46 years. Okay? They have done their homework. They have planned for this thoroughly. And the Americans and Israelis are completely caught off guard by the scale of Iran's response and the resilience of the Iranian response and military. Right. Um right now there are no American warships in the Gulf region. They've all moved out otherwise they'll be wiped out. Okay? And if they want resupply, if they want to be resupplied to go go back to the Gulf regular Garcia, 4 days one way, four days back, 8 days. Okay. And according to a Turkish admiral, Iran has about 40,000 missiles, which is way more than my estimate of 10,000 missiles, but maybe missiles of all kinds. So that is a situation. Iran is not losing this war. Iran is going to fight fight fight until the very bitter end if required. The Americans can't defeat Iran. The Israelis can't defeat Iran. Israel is taking massive massive damage. From the little bit I saw the videos from Tel Aviv, it looks like that the Iranians are turning Tel Aiv into Gaza. So that is the situation and India is in a tough tough spot. India has chosen the side of the US and Israel. Prime Minister Modi's statements on Twitter and other places in the past three four days make it very clear that India has chosen the side of the US and Israel and now the US will want to force India to give access of Indian ports to their warships which will make India a direct party in the conflict against Iran. Does India have the fortitude, the resilience to say no to the US or has India already said yes? I don't know right now but this is the situation. Okay. Variety topics says where do you get the information from? I get the information from open sources from the public domain right not one source hundreds of sources. Okay. Now let's take some questions. Ritik P says did the US and Israel underestimate Iran? They underestimated Iran very badly. Very badly. Very catastrophically. Mr. Rohit says the US sank a Iranian ship Dina days after it left Vishaka Padnam from the Milan 2026 exercises in the Indian Ocean. Could India have stopped it for regional security? Was India aware of the strike? India was aware of nothing. India was in the dark. The Americans will not tell India what they're going to do. Why will they tell India about anything? India was not told about this. But this happened in our backyard in a in a in a region that that essentially India claims it is our strategic backyard. India has this fantastic slogan right the Indian Ocean region is our strategic backyard. So this happened in our backyard off the coast of Sri Lanka which is right next door to us. It actually comes under our our jurisdiction essentially of the Indian Navy. Not djour but de facto right. And the ship, the Iranian ship was returning to Iran from India. Could India have stopped this? India would not dare to stop it even if it knew. We for Valer says, "Thank you for your courage and love of Dharma." Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Struggler says, "Seems like someone wants to drag us into a war." Seems like someone does want to drag drag us into a war. Yes. Alkash Shikari says is US aircraft carrier near Indian Ocean and taking supplies from Mumbai port. I can't answer that question because I don't have the knowledge. It is definitely in the western Indian Ocean the so-called Arabian Sea region. Let me show you. So the US aircraft carrier is somewhere in this region somewhere. Okay. Maybe between the coasts of Gujarat and Oman. Maybe closer to Gujarat than Oman. will be closer to Mumbai than to Oman possibly. I can't possibly say because I am not aware. I don't have the real-time location of the aircraft carrier. But it has moved out of the vicinity of of the straight of Hormuz and it is perhaps somewhere in the closer to India possibly in the so-called Arabian Sea region. That is where it is. Is it taking supplies from Mumbai port? I can't possibly say because I don't know. I am not aware. The government of India will be aware of what's happening. I am not aware. Mitra Singh Chadasama says what's your predictions of war and world after war predictions look this war is going to escalate the Americans may force European nations to get involved in this the UK uh Germany France France is it already involved are Rafals flying over the UAE over Dubai I don't know it's possible If the French get involved, if the European nations get involved and there are direct hits on their assets by Iran, then that's direct warfare. So then more nations are involved. If the Americans forcibly drag India into the war, then India is involved. This is in our backyard. The Gulf is next door to India by the way. So if more nations get involved then there is even more pressure on Iran for example then Russia and China will have to get involved because Russia and China cannot afford to lose Iran. So how can China is we know it's it's far away geographically from Iran right see if you look here there's a significant distance between China and Iran and there's no way China can access Iran and supply Iran unless it is by flights you know cargo planes but what about Russia Russia Russian territory I'll tell you what it's how far from the 750 km from the maybe 700 km from the Iranian coast coastline uh in in the Caspian Sea The shortest distance is about 450 km roughly. So Russia can certainly resupply Iran through the Caspian Sea through airspace and so on. Right? So if more nations get involved, if the European nations get involved, if India is dragged into this matter and then if Russia decides it it is also getting involved, then you have a situation where you you half the world is fighting. What do you call the situation? You call it World War II. after war. I have no idea. But this can drag us into World War II right now. This situation team talks says US goals are shifting from regime change to obliteration of their missile capabilities. Does superpower also have shortcomings? The superpower has shortcomings. They are very visible right now. Clearly visible shortcomings. First of all, they didn't plan properly. Second, they were overconfident. Third, the doctrine is geared for um is it's geared for uh deterrence against the superpower which no longer exists. Their war fighting doctrine is still the 20th century cold war doctrine. What does the US do when it fights a war? It invades if it first obliterates and flattens a nation through air power, then sends in troops. But in this case, they can't do it. they are unable to do it. They don't have the wherewithal to send troops into Iran. So, so they are in a situation where they can't really do what they are used to doing and they don't know what to, you know, they don't have a plan B. Their plan B could be to drag to keep the go war going on for for months, maybe years, and then hope from their perspective hopefully balcanize Iran. they will want to bulcanize Iran if they can't do regime change. So maybe there is the next plan and Trump has already said that we will support the Kuresh militias and all who who will fight the government of Iran on on our behalf. So they they want to weaponize the various ethnic groups non-Persian ethnic groups in Iran and the long-term strategy is to balconize Iran. Well, that will take years to to actually make to to actually uh engineer months or years and there's no guarantee of success there. So yeah, there are major shortcomings in what they're doing capabilities. Ritik says, "Are Houthi terrorists similar to Hamas and Hisbah?" No, Houthis are not similar to Hamas and Hisbullah. Hamas is a terrorist outfit. Hamas carried out the October what October 2023 strike terrorist attack against against Israeli civilians. Barbaric inhuman attack on Israeli civilians. Hamas is is is a bunch of monsters. Hamas is like Pakistanis. That's what Hamas is. Hisbollah also have similar tendencies. I I believe his are based out of Lebanon. Hamas are actually Sunnis. Hisbah are Shia. Uh Hisbah also you can possibly consider them to be terrorists. Houthis don't [snorts] classify as terrorists. The Houthis are essentially the government of a certain portion of Yemen and all they want is to be left alone just like the Taliban. Leave us alone. Allow us to rule our country the way we want and you stay out of it. That's all they want. The Houthis. And there's been a war on Yemen by the US and their vasals for decades. For decades. If you want to understand the situation in Yemen because very few people understand it and it's not your fault because no one speaks about this. I'll tell you what how to find out about Yemen what the situation really is. Okay, give me a second. Give me a second. So if you go to if you go to my channel okay on my channel I have done two podcasts. So here is the playlist of podcasts on my channel. Okay. And one of you have to go back all the way to the beginning. Okay. And there is this podcast with Dr. Issa Blumi. A Bijit Cha podcast episode 13. It's it's more than 2 hours long. But if you want to understand the history, the recent history of Yemen and how Yemen has been destroyed, brutalized by the US and the US Vas. and watch that podcast. You will get get a good amount of understanding from from watching that podcast. So, Houthies are not terrorists. Uh sorry, Agam Senpai says, "Professor Jang May 2024 predicted one, Trump wins the election. Second, the US starts Iran war. Third, the US loses. Fourth, no regime change without grant invasion or bribe. How true are three or four?" Three and four. Okay. First is Trump wins election that happened. The US starts a war in Iran. They have started it. Israel started it, but the US got involved. Sure. Third, the US loses this war. It looks likely the US will not achieve its objectives. On day one, Trump said he wants regime change. And he said to the people of Iran, be prepared. In a short while, you will be able to take out the government. That's what he said on on day one of of this war. Now, he is saying, "No, no, no, no, no regime change. We just want to demilitarize Iran and so on so forth, whatever else, some other." So he has shifted the goalposts now but even that even that to achieve even that will take months if not years and if it doesn't happen in the next 2 three weeks Trump looks like a like a complete fool in in front of the American public so what does Trump do now it's a loss if you don't achieve your objectives it's a loss it's a loss most likely the Americans are losing this war by not achieving their objectives. Yeah. Uh number four is no regime change without ground invasion of bribe. Oh, absolutely true. You can't achieve a regime change through bombardments, aerial bombardments and aerial uh campaigns. You have to put boots on the ground to affect an actual regime change or you have to bribe somebody. Uh they were able to do that in Venezuela. They did not put boots on the ground, but they were able to bribe Venezuela. Essentially that's what happened right they took out Maduro kidnapped him without actually having to do much military action. So it's you will it will either take a ground invasion or you they will have to bribe uh the the key people in the Iranian government and even that looks unlikely. So I think three is correct. Three will turn out to be correct. Most likely the US will lose this war. It will not achieve its objectives and regime change I don't see it happening. So yeah uh Pratar Dhana says I am very disappointed. I condemn those Indians celebrating the death of 160 Iranian Iranian children. Uh rest in peace for little girls. Are Indians are some Indians celebrating the murder of those 160 little girls? I I I have not seen that. If someone is doing that they are >> I don't even have words to say to them. Obviously, it's condemnable if if anyone is celebrating the death of those girls. Really, I was not aware of this. That's terrible. If if that's happening, terrible. Black Panther says, "I if this Iran war will go long for more than 6 months, the US will get significantly weaker. Next, China and Russia go with the stray same strategy to attack US assets." Okay, that's your prediction, is it? that if this goes on for six months this is what this is what will happen um this will go on the Americans are not going to achieve their objectives anytime soon even the goalposts after they have changed and Trump says that no we don't want regime change we want something else even that is not possible anytime soon anytime soon I don't see the Americans achieving any of their objectives in 6 months or even one year even one year so if that happens will Russia and China go with the same strategy to attack US assets for China it's Taiwan China has no interest in attacking anybody else China wants Taiwan Taiwan Taiwan can China take Taiwan that is I I doubt it says if Iran threat ends then who will buy America's weapons and Gulf look Iran is not a threat to anyone the Americans have positioned Iran as a threat and they have encircled Iran with military bases that's why the whole region is militarized and and volatile and tense. And of course, there's the Israel factor, which is a different story. So, if this so-called Iran threat ends, then who will buy America's weapons in the Gulf? They'll find somebody to buy it. See, after the USSR threat ended, people kept buying American weapons, right? So, the Americans will find ways of ways for of selling their weapons. Don't worry about that. [laughter] Uh, okay. Prardana says, "It's a RIP for West Asia. Bahin may fall too. Bahin is this little thing, right? Where's the map? Where is map? So, let's go to the map. Um, so see Bahin is this little little little little island here. Little it's even tinier than Qatar. Tiny. And the Americans have the headquarters of their fifth fleet over here near Manama. near Manama and that's that infrastructure has been significantly damaged by the Iranians. Uh but I don't think the Iranians will take Bahrain and and you know invade Bahrain and occupy Bahin. I don't think Iran has any such intentions. Uh so Bahrain obviously will get damaged etc. But I don't see Bahin falling as in Iran occupying Bahin that I don't see that happening. But apart from that what you're saying is correct. RIP for West Asia. See the entire West Asia paradigm. You see you have these beautiful nations like the UAE etc. very peaceful nations, tremendous law and order, extremely high standards, extremely fabulously wealthy cities like Dubai, Abu Dhabi etc. These cities are see Dubai etc are are positioned as the Switzerland of West Asia. that if you are a wealthy person then come and invest in Dubai, buy property, come and live in Dubai. You will get the best luxury in the world. You'll get the best lifestyle in the world. You will have to pay zero taxes and you'll meet lots of rich and like-minded people and so on. So so many people from across the world, they live in in cities like Dubai, in a city like Dubai because they get so many wonderful benefits. Lots of Indians live there. I suppose most Indians will know somebody or the other, their family or outside or whatever. But most Indians will know somebody or the other who lives in the UAE in Dubai or in West Asia. That model is now destroyed. See the that model relied on an American promise. The American promise was you guys don't worry about your your national defense. We will take care of your national defense. You build up your cities and do all the fantastic things you want. And we Americans, we have all these military bases here. We will guarantee your security. That is the promise the Americans have given them. And that's why these nations have not invested in self-defense, national defense. They have simply invested all their money into building up these cities and the infrastructure and all that. Now they have realized this American promise was a lie. America had no intention of defending these countries. These American military bases were not the infrastructure of defense. It was the infrastructure of occupation and America is only concerned with the defense of Israel. That's what that's the realization that's coming in now. And you have Dubai being bombed. You have hotels in Dubai where American soldiers and personnel were stay staying. Those hotels were taken out were hit by drones and missiles. you had at least one tragic death in Abu Dhabi. When you have a situation like this and this continues, if it happens once and stops after a week, nobody people will say, "Okay, it was a one-off thing." But if this continues and escalates, escalates, escalates over, escalates over months and years, the entire economic model of West Asia will collapse and everybody who had invested in Abu Dhabi, who was living in Abu Dhabi or Dubai or wherever, they will all leave permanently. Christian already left. So that is the end of the hopes and dreams of these nations. Who's to blame? The US. Shishni Siliguri says if one country uses a nuclear weapon against another, how would it actually impact the entire world? Well, one nuclear weapon being used somewhere won't impact the entire world. Obviously, it will horrify the world because using a nuclear weapon against anyone is a war crime. It's a crime against humanity. It is barbaric to use a nuclear weapon. But if a nuclear weapon is used somewhere, it won't affect the entire world. It won't impact the entire world. If multiple nuclear weapons are used then there will be radioactive fallout that goes into the atmosphere substantial amount of radioactive fallout and it could cause you know radiation uh the spread of radiation across a large part of the globe that's a possibility. So here's the scenario. If things don't go well for the US, the US is not able to make any headway and Israel is getting pounded repeatedly and Hormuz remains closed and American infrastructure is taken out and let's say an American aircraft carrier is taken out then Trump will be very tempted to use nuclear weapons on on Iran. So let's say Trump uses nuclear weapons. What happens then? Well, Iran will keep fighting. Even if Trump detonates 10 nuclear warheads on Iran, Iran will still keep fighting as if nothing has happened. That's the deal about Iran. But if Trump does this, then what can other nations do? I suppose Russia could get involved in this. But then you don't want a USRussia direct confrontation because that is like doomsday for the world. So the point is if one or two weapons are used even 10 weapons are used it will not really impact the entire world too much. There will be some radiation exposure to the world but nothing that will cause significant danger. Maybe in some some regions there will be a higher chance of cancer but beyond that nothing much. But consider a totally different scenario. Okay totally different. Let's say the US and Russia directly get involved for some reason and there's a nuclear exchange for some reason. If Russia or the US launch even one nuclear weapon at the other one, there will be immediate retaliation from the other side. Now if if the US launches first and Russia retaliates and the Americans see this bioc missile coming in then they will launch more and the Russians will see more are coming towards us we'll launch more and within minutes you'll have hundreds of nuclear weapons being launched and these nuclear missiles these ballistic missiles they are not standard ballistic missiles they are MIRV missiles they have multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicles So one missile can carry can carry 10 warheads and they all go after re-entering the atmosphere in totally different directions. So it's very hard to bring them down. So in a matter of 30 40 minutes you will have hundreds possibly thousands of nuclear explosions. Okay. Now when a nuclear explosion happens you will have a fireball. Let's say it's a standard fishision device uranium 235 or plutonium whatever a fish device. So you'll have a fireball very high temperature maybe millions of degrees C and there'll be a certain blast radius within which everything becomes vaporized. This fireball expands then it rises because it's it's very hot. It's hotter than the air. So it rises. When it starts rising it pulls in all the vaporized rock, all the vaporized dust, all the debris from the from kilometers around it. It sucks it all in and pulls it up into the atmosphere. That's how you have a mushroom cloud. Now, if you have hundreds, maybe thousands of mushroom clouds, you'll have millions of tons of vaporized rock and and and dust and all kinds of other particles and debris rising high into the atmosphere and that will remain in the atmosphere for maybe several years, maybe a decade. Because of that, the surface of our planet will not receive direct sunlight for that much time, maybe a decade. So temperatures go down drastically maybe 10 20° C in a matter of hours. So if you are staying in Chennai by tomorrow morning it will start snowing in Chennai. That's the situation you will have. It's called a nuclear winter. There will be no sunlight for a decade. All the plants will die without sunlight and photosynthesis. If the plants die, humans die and and carniv and herbivorous animals die. If her herbivorous animals die, carnivorous animals die. And there's going to be a global mass extinction event. Maybe 95% of humanity will die out. That's the kind of impact you have if there is a massive nuclear exchange plus the nuclear plus the radiation which will cause all kinds of other other problems. So a nuclear winter is what happens when you have massive nuclear exchange. It's a disaster beyond your imagination. And that's the direction in which Trump is dragging us today. Aniket says, "Is the US reviving Islam in Iran? Because Islam was in decline in Iran, but attacking Iran would only make people stand with the regime again and the US can sell its weapons." The US is not doing this for reviving Iran. Islam in Iran. It may be an unintended consequence perhaps. See, Islam, I suppose it wasn't declining in Iran because it's not an Iranian religion anyway. It's not the religion of the Persians. It was imposed upon them. uh but they have attacked Iran and this will make people stand with the regime. It doesn't make people become Islamic again right the people will have no option but to stand with the regime because the regime is defending the country and the country is under assault by the Americans. So even those who were in favor of the Americans will start have to stand with the regime because they are being bombarded and their children are being bombarded by the by the Americans and the Israelis. So this will make people rally around the regime and and fight for the country whether they believe in Islam or not but it won't necessarily revive Islam unless this drags them for 10 years or something then something may happen. Alkash alkashari says what can India learn from Iran? Good question. What can India learn from this? See the war. Why is Iran able to stand and fight? Iran is able to stand and fight today because it has more than a 100,000 drones. First of all, Shahed two drones. What does the Shahed 2 drone look like? Let me show you. It's a cheap thing. 10, 20,000, $30,000. Shahed drone, right? Shahed drones. What do they look like? This is what these things look like. Shahed drones. This is an actual image of a Shahed drone. It's got a propeller behind it behind its uh backside. That's a Shahed drone. Cheap thing and you can produce hundreds of thousands of these. So, one component of their self national defense is the Shahed drones. The second thing that is going for Iran, going well for Iran is that it has perhaps more than 10,000 ballistic missiles. It has the it it has this massive stockpiles of drones and missiles. That's why it's able to fight. Now, how many ballistic missiles does India have? India has designated its ballistic missiles, AGNI and all that as the carriers of its nuclear deterrent but not as conventional weapons. So if India let's say hypothetically has 500 warheads nuclear warheads hypothetically then India may have at most 500 ballistic missiles. Okay. So what India needs to do it needs to transform its ballistic missiles into a conventional weapon as well. And India needs to have a stockpile of maybe 30 40,000 missiles of various kinds including ballistic missiles including cruise missiles hypersonics and all that. A nation of India's size, it has to defend this much larger terri territory than Iran. India needs tens of thousands of missiles of various kinds and it needs lacks of drones. That is what Iran India can learn from Iran. If hypothetically there's a war tomorrow with somebody, let's say China, how will you target the Chinese infrastructure? The Chinese infrastructure is thousands of kilometers from India. Next to India, you have open empty territory. Tibet and whatnot, Shinjang and etc. There are no big cities there. There's no manufacturing happening there. The Chinese manufacturing uh heartland is far in the east of China. How does India target that if there's a war? The Chinese will be targeting India's infrastructure from Tibet. But how do we target the Chinese infrastructure? We will need tens of thousands of ballistic missiles and hundreds of thousands of drones. Does India have a drone like the Shahed too? No. The Americans have also copied the shahad to the shahad drone. They've learned we I think we are now making a shishnag drone or something. We have suddenly woken up. Okay. Shishnag drone India's quiet entry 10 hours ago. So 10 hours ago India woke up or maybe a week ago India woke up. Yeah. The sheshnag drone. It is something that resembles the shahed, right? So finally India is waking up. But how many do we have? That's the question. India needs a few slaps in it face in its face before it wakes up for anything. This is the problem with India. Who do you blame for this? Okay. Abisheku says is nuke going to be used? Well, first of all, I hope nukes are never used. But I think that in this war there is a higher likelihood that someone like Trump may be tempted to use nukes if things don't go his way. So I I hope I hope it doesn't happen but the Americans may use nukes possibly. Ammon George says good to see you sir. Thank you so much. How does their missile city work? The Iranians need to bring their launchers to the surface to fire. Right. The US could bomb entrance. So these missile cities, so the Iranians, their missiles, their stockpiles, all of that, none of that is on the surface of the planet. It's all deep underground. Why is it all deep underground? So that they can save safe safeguard the missiles and all the infrastructure from the American bombings. The Americans want to destroy everything Iran has. So that's why Iran has taken everything deep underground. Now, how deep underground? Definitely deeper than 50 m. See, the Americans have this bunker buster bombs that can destroy targets as deep as 50 m underground. Let's find out how deep can how Oh, no. How deep can American bunker buster bombs penetrate? Oh, don't work. How deep can American bunker busters go? All right. um 60 plus mters. Okay, 60 m or something. So the Iranian infrastructure will be perhaps 100 m below the surface, something like that. So they've built up entire cities and networks of tunnels all across Iran where they are storing these missiles and drones and all that. And obviously when they want to launch a missile, they have to bring it out above the surface and quickly launch it. So the Americans and Israelis are monitoring Iran 24 by7. The Americans are using low earth orbit satellites to constantly monitor Iran. They're using various other methods of surveillance. And they are trying to find out where these missiles are being launched from. You can also study the the the exhaust the exhaust streak right the streak that comes from the exhaust of a missile. So by doing that you can find out where the missiles are being launched for from and they can immediately bomb those places so that you can possibly hopefully destroy maybe the launcher or maybe destroy the place the the entrance of the tunnels and and that sort of thing. So the Iranians obviously have anticipated that that's why they have these TEL vehicles or vehicles transporter erector launcher vehicles which are essentially trucks on which you have missiles and then the missile will stand up like that and it will be launched and then the truck disappears as fast as possible. It moves as fast as possible. So there is no loca set location from where the missile is launched. That that that's what you can do. You can take the missile out, put it on a truck in the night, then take it a few kilometers away or whatever, a couple of hours away, launch it, and then have the truck go away faster. So, it's a game of cat and mouse. But if the Americans bomb the entrance of the of the tunnels, then the Iranians will have to spend a lot of time clearing up the debris and rubble and once again opening up the entrances. So, once again, it's a game of cat and mouse. That is what's going on right now. Team talks says Japan was not surrendering. The US nuked them. Is Iran becoming a second Japan today? Iran launched a missile on Turkey. Why is it becoming scarier? It's becoming scarier. Let me see. Has Iran launched a missile on Turkey? Okay, one second. Has Iran launched a missile on Turkey? Uh Turkey says missile destroyed. Turkey and NATO intercept a missile. Okay, looks like there is there something has happened but I am not 100% sure. I have to perhaps look somewhere else. Maybe I should look at uh Twitter. Let's see. Give me a second. I have Twitter open. Okay, one second. Let me see on Twitter. All right. Here we have Twitter. What do we have? Let's see. Turkey missile. Do we have something? A ballistic missile heading towards Turkish airspace passing through Iraqi and Syrian airspace was successfully engaged and neutralized by NATO air and missile defense elements in the eastern Mediterranean. This is old. Okay. Yeah. So, looks like that's happened. Yeah. Um Yeah. So, looks like uh a missile was being launched towards Turkey, but it's been intercepted by NATO. Um, so Japan was not surrendering and the US nuked them. Is Iran becoming a second Japan? Well, I think it's still early days. I think it's still too early to say to say whether Japan is becoming whether Iran is becoming the next Japan. But Trump may be tempted to use nuclear weapons at some point in time in this war. Rid Naran Singh says after Iran Anglo Aim is nuclear free India Pakistan already in shambles US monitors their nukes for India northeast Punjab Kashmir Dravidian Hindu Muslim cast OBC general cast SCST language fault lines too many well you see if the Americans are able to win the war against Iran their focus will then immediately move towards India. India is next. The Americans want to balconize Iran and they want to balkcanize India. Right now they will use India. They'll arm twist India into giving access to India's ports to the Americans. They'll use India right now. But afterwards they will focus on India. They they will want to bulkerize India. And there are too many fault lines in India which have been created by the British and which have been maintained by the governments of India since 1947 and and and made worse. Those fault lines have been exacerbated by successive governments after 1947. Right? So there is the far east of India, the northeast of India, the Manipur issue, Manipur, half at least half of Manipur is under foreign occupation right now. There is the whatever is happening in Punjab the Kalistthan thing is there then there's the industrial scale Christian conversions in Punjab there is the Kashmir thing there is the Dravidian versus Arian thing the Arian invasion thing is the cause because of that Hindu Muslim cast divide Hindus among cast also by by making one set of people permanent oppressors and one set of people permanent permanently oppressed language for lines the These problems exist because the governments after 1947 did not fix these problems. Uh yeah. So after Iran, if the Americans win in Iran, they're coming for India next. That is a guarantee. One says attack on the Iranian warship Dina, is it not betrayal on our end? It's not. It was not in Indian territorial waters anymore. It was off the coast of Sri Lanka. Gal, right? Where was where did this happen? Let me quickly take a look roughly. Um, is it Gaul? Is it Gal? Was it? What is it? That city? Never been there. Uh, see the southernmost part of Sri Lanka. Southern tip of Sri Lanka. this city gal or gal the warship Iranian warship was brought was was struck by a torpedo somewhere in this region I don't know if it's in Sri Lankan waters or international waters but somewhere here this that's what happened that obviously is no longer in Indian territorial waters right so if the American if if if an American submarine torpedoed an Iranian warship outside of Indian territorial waters it's not a betrayal by India but it's definitely an attempt by America would drag India into the matter because the ship was coming from India. Okay, so it's not a betrayal by India. No. As Modi kissed the boat, this is unacceptable. Nobody will take us seriously. How can we allow American submarines so close and attack our guests? See, once the Iranian warship left Indian waters, it was no longer our guest. It was there in international waters. So technically, nobody can blame India and this happened near Sri Lanka, more not near India. But because India has this wonderful slogan which we love to repeat all the time. The Indian Ocean is our strategic backyard. That's why I said this happened in our strategic backyard. But obviously the Indian Navy doesn't really patrol that region. The Indian Navy is mostly patrolling our coasts if at all. Right? So how can we allow American submarines? Tomorrow morning if American submarines enter India's ter territorial waters, India can't do a thing about that. Even if they break international law in enter Indian territorial waters, India can't do a thing about that. Why is that? Is it because Modi is weak? No, it's because India is weak. India had 75 years, 80 years to build up its strength, but we have never bothered to do that. Yeah. So that's that's what it is. And obviously when you are weak, people don't take you seriously. You can put laser eyes on your leaders and all but people don't take you seriously. Words don't matter. Actions matter. And look at the actions. Feels strong man says Mr. Abijit Cha please understand that I had to super slam super slam your bro because he would have hit me back if and when my cousin would have whacked your What are you talking about? What's a super slam? I had to super slam your bro because he would have hit me back if and when my cousin would have whacked yours. What are you talking about, sir? I have no idea. I have absolutely no. What's a super slam? Does super slam mean something? Is it slang for something? What is the deal? What is a super slam? Let me see. Uh super slam. It's a game. Super Slam, SummerSlam. Okay, I have no idea what you're talking about. Which bro are you talking about? Which cousin? I I am clueless. Sorry. Prattana says government is now running back to Russia like fools. Yeah. Oil. Yeah. Swastik Shankar says if Iran falls, people say only three countries are left. Russia, China, and India. with modern technology narratives, economic compromise, fault lines. Either we become like Iran like regime or go full vasal nuke surrender hosting bases. If Iran falls, it's Russia and China that's left. Okay? India has already picked a side and if India is hosting American warships already I don't know if we are doing that but if we start doing that well then well then it's two two nations left Russia and China only yeah I don't think we will surrender nukes even if we become vasals but those nukes will be decorative art items only for decoration in that case in that hypothetical case. Okay. So hypotheticals Asha says you have always been critical of NU and Indian National Congress. You should thank Nero that we followed non-aligned movement and thus never compromise our sovereignty while Prime Minister Modi the weakest prime minister could not even criticize Trump. Thank you for your Thank you very much for your opinion and your perspective sir. I respect your opinion. Thank you sir. Libyk says if Iran supports Hamas then Iran terrorist no if America supports Pakistan is America terrorist nation if America installs al-Qaeda or ISIS terrorist as the prime as the president of Syria is America terrorist nation does anybody call America a terrorist nation or a state sponsor of terrorism nobody does nobody does America plays Chanekiti at the highest level at the highest level they have funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India for decades since the 1980s but you won't call America that right so why do you want to call Iran whatever Iran is playing the same game that America plays exact same game but you want to call Iran terrorist but not the other one why please black Panther says is this the right time for China to take over Taiwan. It's the worst possible time. Worst possible time. There is no oil flowing from hormones. About 30 to 40% of China's oil minimum comes from hormones. More. More. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's find out. Okay. What percentage of China's oil comes from the Persian Gulf region? Uh, are they not Iran? Persian Gulf. Let's see. Visual capitalist. What does it say? Um by country. Okay, we are not getting the answer here. Uh okay, so maybe 40 because see it's Kuwait, it's UAE, it's Saudi Arabia, it's Oman, Oman is on the other side, UAE, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Iran. Probably 40 50% of China's oil comes from this region. So when that is stopped, you think China will make a move on Taiwan? I think it's a it's a very bad time for China to try this. Very bad time. Not a good time. Praradhana says, "I think Iran may have a better education system than us." You mean India? Oh, 100%. Iran's education system is far superior to India's education system. Yep. Sora modil says how alarmed should India be with her internal security looking at the protests in Kashmir Lacna etc. You mean the protests against the American action on on Iran? I don't think that's a big national security concern. Those are protests against the US, not against India, right? But overall internal security, we have to take it very seriously. And we obviously have big issues, big issues in various parts of India. No question about that. Open to unlearn. That's a great name. So the question or the question is is it fair to say that if our education system was capable of speaking speaking the truth and make the population patriotic this will stop corruption. It will definitely have a significant positive impact in uh rooting out corruption. Right? It certainly would if the education system was much better and you could actually speak the truth. It would definitely make a big difference for sure. Yes. Because see there are so many things about our history that we can't even speak openly about in the education. The education system tiptoes around those topics. It skirts those topics. We can't even speak openly about our history and what's happened in the past. We can't speak openly about it. We can't discuss the actions of foreigners openly. So that that puts in this culture of self-censorship in in everybody and uh it it teaches you lies about history which makes you less patriotic. It puts this huge burden of the inferiority complex on all Indians. Right? All Indians have this inferiority complex. You weren't born with an inferiority complex but today you have it. The education system does that to you. So yeah, the education system definitely needs to be reformed. Fields strong man says, "I see many China bots commenting negative in every video of yours." Well, it's the second largest population in the world. They'll come, right? It's okay. Let them do it. Let them do it. It's fine. Aniket says CZ remains the largest supplier of crude to India. CZ in February. India's Russia Russian oil impose climbed 6% in February despite US pressure plus buying more S400 anti vasal behavior. What's say CZ Czechoslovakia CZ uh okay somebody is the largest supplier of food to India. So India is buying more S400s that is that is not behavior. So that is that is the behavior of a sovereign nation because the Americans don't like India buying such things but we are still buying it. Good. I'm glad. I'm glad. But there are other behaviors that raise big question marks. So I'm I'm very glad we are buying more S400s. I'm very glad. Magnesium supplements is US arming Kuresh for ground operations. Is this a right move? Well, it's right for the US. It's bad. It's wrong for Iran, but it's not happened yet. It's only words thus far. Trump says that he will consider doing it or he's thinking of doing it of supporting Kurdish aspirations, Kish Kuresh aspirations for independence from Iran. So he is saying I want to ferment a civil war in Iran. That's what he is saying. He has not started arming them yet and it will be difficult because the this will set off big alarm bells in Turkey. So the Turks will oppose this. So it's it's just conceptual right now. It's not happened. Black Panther says, "How can how the US can defeat Iran in this war?" Nuclear option. See, even if they use nuclear weapons, Iran will not be defeated. Let's say one nuke kills 10,000 people. Okay? And [clears throat] let's say the Americans use 10 nukes. Okay? I I don't want any nuclear use, but I'm just saying hypothetically. So, if there are 10 nukes that are used, maybe it'll it'll kill a 100,000 people, maybe a million people. The Iranians will still keep fighting. The US can't defeat Iran unless they create a a horrible water shortage in Iran or something. Then Iran could be balconized possibly, but that will take several years. The Americans can't defeat Iran, aren't the Iranians are willing to fight handto hand at the end if required. They'll fight with sticks and stones and knives and swords if required. The Americans can't defeat Iran. Saddam Hussein tried for 10 years with all his might and you know what who was funding and arming the Saddam Hussein? The US and Saddam failed and he is right next door. The Americans are far away. How will they bring so much manpower and all? Not possible. Rohani says the world is clearly overdependent on the straight of hormones. Will we see new trade routes open up? Which nations could potentially benefit from them? See, when it comes to oil, there's only one place. There's only one place which has the majority of the oil in the world. That's the Persian Gulf region. Now, if you find other oil reserves elsewhere, then those new trade routes could open up. But as long as the majority of the world's oil is physically present in the Persian Gulf region, you can't get do anything about the dependency on the straight of Hormuz. You can't do anything about it. This is not a trade route. It's an energy supply route. And the trade you can do anywhere. But energy if it is only located there or majority of it is located there, you can't bypass the state of Hormos, right? Um so yeah, new energy routes, I don't see them opening up. Uh we have some other nations like uh we have African nations, Nigeria, etc. which produce oil. Indonesia as an oil producer. Um what else? Venezuela. Uh next to Venezuela, what's that country where the Guyana right? Guyana has discovered major oil oil reserves. Guyana could be a potential candidate and so on. But yeah, you you can't do anything about the state of Horus because the oil is physically located in that region. Rida Narayan Singh says if they are done with Iran they will make minority in danger narrative by American newspapers NOS's Pakistan Sunni Iran Saudi Turkey will come if come for India and US will make pressure in world for India to demilitarize and rock news what is the question if they are done with Iran they will make minority endangered narrative take okay US newspapers NGOs and so on fine Pakistan Sunni Iran Saudi Turkey If come for India and US will make pressure in the world for India to deamilize and drop nukes nukes like Japan. I don't see nukes getting involved in this matter. Okay. So let's say the Americans are able to get what they want achieve what they want in Iran. Okay. Then they will come after India but not with nuclear weapons. Not with nuclear weapons. They will work. There are already these massive divisions in India which have been actually made worse by successive Indian governments right the Americans will work on that they will do subnational diplomacy they will they will create all kinds of narratives of minorities and the under and in danger and all that stuff uh they will make the situation in Manipur worse they'll make the situation in other parts of India worse and they'll have India break up eventually that's the that's the dream goal so it will need nukes for that to happen. Aries Manticor says, "I have seen Iran's recent statements. They don't seem to openly mind India's current stance. They seem strangely silent, too. We aren't angry at each other. We seem strangely aligned in mutual silence. [laughter] See, understand one thing. India has done absolutely nothing in the past four days against Iran. Understand the difference between words and actions. Prime Minister Modi's tweets are words. His absence of a tweet condo condoling the death of Mr. Kamei that's also words or the absence of words. Words nobody cares. See Indians care about words but in the real world nobody cares about words. Okay. Iran will understand that India is making statements. They're doing because of various compulsions and constraints they face. But India is not actually doing anything against us. India is not taking any action that can hurt us. Right? So that's why Iran doesn't mind. India is verbally supporting Israel, the US and the Gulf nations verbally verbally. We are not sending arms, ammunition, weapons to those countries. We are not sending Akash missiles and brahos missiles to various nations. We are staying out of it. So you understand that? Do you understand that? So words don't matter in India. Words matter. In India only words matter. Indians only look at words. They don't all Indians are all about words. Words don't matter. So thus far India has taken no actions that can hurt Iran that's why Iran doesn't mind. But if India if India starts allowing American warships to to dock in Indian ports that's a whole different story and the Americans will will demand that. Prahep says can India start buying Russian oil again? I think India has no choice but to buy Russian oil. No choice whatsoever. India always has the option to do it but India has stopped doing it allegedly of late because Uncle Trump is unhappy. So India can of course restart migration oil. No question about it. Black Panther says will the US have any cards to play in the war? The US has all kinds of cards to play but the cards won't work. That's the problem. They are not going to be able to defeat Iran. It'll take a long long long time to defeat Iran. So they'll use various cards. They may even use the nuclear option possibly, especially if Iran takes out an aircraft carrier or something or if Israel comes under tremendous pressure. The Americans may consider that. But they have all kinds of cards. They have cards that I will not even discuss here because Okay. Handuranga says if you were what if you were Iran's next supreme leader. See Iran's supreme leader has to be first of all a Muslim and secondly a Shia and then he has to be a very great scholar in Islamic law and Shia things and what what not. I am eminently unqualified from all perspectives. So I can't be Iran's next supreme leader. [laughter] Sergeant Skylan says can we massproduce drones and missiles like Iran? weaken mass-produced drones and missiles way more than Iran. Iran is doing this under so many constraints. It has been hit with every sanction you can imagine. It has been cut off economically from the rest of the world. Iran doesn't have the kind of resources India has. India can massproduce drones and missiles way more than Iran. And you know what? It will boost India's economy. If we set up drone and missile manufacturing plants, it will give employment to tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people, of course, we can do it, but we choose not to do any of these things. Prataradana says, "Alegedly, next targets are Turkey and Saudis. Will Arabs change course and distance themselves from the US, make peace with Iran? Also, I saw one missile versus 11 Israeli interceptors." Yeah, I've also seen that sort of thing. All these Iron Dome interceptors going up and the missile just dodging them and coming down. And these Iranian missiles are releasing u releasing a burst releasing a cluster of decoys. Each decoy glows like a like the exhaust of the missile. So each decoy mimics a missile and that totally confuses the interceptor missiles. And they're like, "What do I hit now?" And then the u the kill vehicle which contains the warhead that then acquires hypersonic velocity just slams down. Yeah. So that's what uh allegedly next targets are Turkey and Saudis. Um will will Arabs change course and distance themselves from the US? They would love to. Now now they've realized the US are not the US had no intention of saving them. And uh but can they can they ask the US to leave? Pack up your bags and leave leave our territory, dismantle your military locations. Will they be able to do that? I don't think so. I mean, recently Spain said to to Trump that we will not allow the US to use Spanish uh ports for your operations. Trump said, first of all, I'm going to cut off all economic ties with Spain, and secondly, I'm going to use your ports whether you like it or not. because I'm strong enough to do that and there's nothing you can do about it. That's pure blackmail and arm twisting right Trump. So they can he can do that to the Arabs too. So we'll see about whether the next Turkey targets are Turkey and Saudis but yeah we'll see. Sh says what's the situation in Tel Aiv as of now I think Twitter has now censored whatever is coming out of Tel Aiv in Israel. We are not getting any any fresh information anymore. Twitter was supposed to be the place where you get the latest information right in real time. Not happening now. Um I suspect the situation in Tel Aiv is pretty pretty dire. The videos that came out in the past 3 days or something, they showed all kinds of missiles slamming into Tel Aviv all over the place. I mean entire neighborhoods turned into rubble. So Tel Aiv seems to be in in bad shape right now. Yeah. Vidi Manar says what's our way out of all this? Can we change stand? uh we can change stands anytime we want but it will it will bring a set each stand has a set of circumstances so I think prime minister Modi has taken the best and most practical possible stand right now based on ground realities and and being practical rather than rather than based on ideology um can we change the stand we can I suppose see what what's our way out of all this see right We are not dragged into the conflict. The Americans will want us to be dragged into the conflict. We we should ideally say no. I don't know if Mr. Modi will be able to say no to the to Trump if he asks for Indian ports, but ideally we should say no and we should stay out of the matter. That way we will be out of it. We should ensure that we don't get dragged into it and we should watch what's happening observe very in great detail what's happening and whatever military lessons and strategic tactical lessons we can learn we should learn them and very rapidly implement them. So like I said we need a stockpile of hundreds of thousands of drones and tens of thousands of missiles of various kinds. Do we have it? We don't have it. So start doing it. That's what we should do. Ashish Kumar says India picked a side but stayed neutral in Russia Ukraine. Why the different stance? What does this mean for bricks? If India fights Pakistan, will West Asia support it? And who actually backs Iran in this conflict? Is it alone? Okay, you you ask me every possible question here which is fine which is fine. Who backs Iran in this conflict? Is it alone? It's fighting alone. Who's who's fighting with it? It's fighting it's fighting alone. Um it has backing from Russia and China. Russia and China are providing uh Iran uh an alternative to the GPS system. Obviously, America's GPS is not available in in to Iran and to the Iranian military. So, Iran is using the Russian uh GLONAS in the Chinese BU and China is also apparently supplying Iran with satellite imagery of the battle space so that they know exactly what's happening. So, that's the kind of support Iran has indirect support, not direct support. If India fights Pakistan, will West Asia support India? Well, Iran would have supported India. The Arab nations would won't support India. Uh India picked aside here because we had no choice. Trump would have forced us behind the scenes. Arm twisting. Uh we stayed Russia neutral in Russia and Ukraine. Yeah, our stand was different. Now it has changed. The past 6 months something has changed. Operation Synindur was our last great resistance. After that we have kind of buckled. Why the different stance? The different stance is because of the leverage Americans have applied on India. What does it mean for bricks? We'll see about that. Bricks doesn't seem to be a very actively viable organization right now too much. Fields strong man says you mentioned that America is less likely to send a warship to hormones because of getting shot by missiles. So what with what confidence? Trump tweets that he will send send ships to escort oil tankers. Bluff card. Trump is known to lie on on an ongoing daily basis. Last year during after the 12-day war with Iran, he bombed Natans and Ferdo, right? The US aircraft bombed bombed the Iranian facilities of Natans and Fdo nuclear facilities. And then Trump declared that Iran Iran's nuclear program has been destroyed forever. Trump declared that last year that America has permanently destroyed Iran's nuclear program. Today he is saying that we are fighting this war against Iran so that Iran does not become a nuclear power. Which means that he was either lying at that time or he is lying right now. Trump lies on an ongoing daily basis. He's a liar. I hope I have established that he has been lying. Right? So if Trump has tweeted that they will send ships, he's lying. Trump also said that we have unlimited supplies of arms and ammunition missiles. He's lying. He lies on a daily ongoing basis. Okay. Air is mantic horses. I think India probably foresaw the situation as possibility. We have pretty good raw experts in Iran and Israel. India is reacting very calibratedly to the situation. I doesn't seem too surprised. Okay. So if India foresaw the situation and that this war would happen, why does India only have a stockpile of about 25 days of oil if we foraw this? That's a that's a question that's relevant and valid. I think swastik chunker says we have significant and historic Shia population in India. Shia fought with us against Patans in 16th century. Also Shia and Hindus ruled together also husb seems government has chosen sides. The government of India has chosen sides based on practical considerations not ideology or religion and I'm not aware of this the history of the Shia people I'm not really IPK1 says we might see East India Company 2.0 zero before GTA 6. GTA 6 Grand Theft Auto. Okay. I am not a gamer, so I don't know about that. But okay. Okay. One hopes not. One hopes not. Blue Saka says, "In the last few podcasts, you said that Iran is not going to last in the war. Then why are you changing his stance now?" Did I say that that Iran won't last in the war? I am not sure if I would have said that but so I don't remember but Iran won't last long. Okay. But see even if I may have said that you can always reassess the situation based on what's happening and what you are seeing and then you can give a better more informed interpretation of what's happening. Right? You can do that. It is it is perfectly um okay to change your stance based on what's happening in the world with when more information becomes available. If I make a statement 6 months ago, does it mean that it is set in stone and I can never change my stance or never change my views or never change my perspective? Kakashi says if we sell out and vasalize, can we develop like the like the UAE? Look at the situation in the UAE today. Let's say hypothetically they're sold out and vasalized. Look at the situation. They are going backwards now. Their entire economic model is gone. and see to to develop like the see okay I I I know what you mean if you in case some of you have gone to the UAE the UAE is like a much better version of India you it's full of Indians but it's like India if all the corruption was gone and everything was done right that's the kind of nation the UAE is all the roads are like first world country roads nobody breaks traffic rules everybody follows the laws and law and order there is no crime time the living standards are very high. So it's like if we if you do India right that's what you get. You get the UAE. So if we sell out in saladalas will be we will become like the UAE. No because in India the the standards are very low. The system the UA system is different. India system is different. The system won't change here. So India will remain a mediocre nation even if it vasalizes. Pavan Kumar KM says looks like Chinese HQ9 has failed again. Pakistan, Venezuela, now Iran. World may move towards India for Akash or Russia which is best proven defense. Even the Iron Dome has failed. Iran is pummeling Tel Aviv in other cities. So the Iron Dome has failed. The American Patriot system has failed. Their terminal high altitude area defense system THAD has failed. Their $1.1 billion dollar radar has been destroyed by the Iranians. Everything has failed. So why only single out the Chinese, right? Everything has failed. Every air defense system has limitations and the limitations are essentially mathematical. Will the world move towards India for Akash? Um, don't know. Or Russia, the Americans won't allow the world to buy Russian weapons. India will have to, India has no option to do it because it's good, but most nations won't be allowed by the Americans to buy Russian systems. Rakin Khan says, "What made Iraq lose in 2003 and Iran sustain resist the US in 2026? if you could just lay out the difference between their defense system strategy if relevant. Good, good, good, great question. Great, great, great. Why did Iraq lose in 2003? And why is Iran able to resist in 2026, 23 years later? Iran is been being able to resist the Americans today and give a mur job like you say because Iran has a stockpile of maybe more than one lakh drones and maybe more than 10,000 ballistic missiles. That is a gigantic stockpile. Because of this stockpile they can keep fighting for months and they can outlast their enemies. the American and Israeli stockpiles of of interceptor missiles will run out very soon and cruise missiles and whatnot. Everything Iran has been preparing for 46 years for this war. Iraq in 2003 was under American sanctions just like Iraq Iran but Iraq did not build up this kind of stockpile of drones, missiles, whatever. They did not have the defenses. So that's why they were wiped out very soon and the Americans essentially flattened Iraq. They flattened Baghdad. They flattened TikT. They flattened everything and then they walked in. They can't do it in Iran because Iran is just too powerful. Why is it too powerful? Because it has worked very hard to build up these stock piles. Iraq did not do that and that's why they lost. That's the main core issue. Kajor Bithorn says fighting a losing war against Afghanistan helping the US against Iran ignoring the murder of its own civilians. Pakistan's biggest worry India's buildup at no times on the border. Weird. Are we going to strike while Uncle Sam is busy or would that be stupid? See idea. See right the situation is that Pakistan is fighting a war against Afghanistan. The situation right now is war. I I'll show you. Wait, if we go to a Google um Afghanistan Pakistan war 2026, even Wikipedia recognizes what's going on right now as a war. So Pakistan is right now embroiled in a war with Afghanistan. The Pakistanis, they launched air strikes on Afghan civilians and killed a bunch of Afghan civilians around 21 or something February. And less than a week later, the Afghans retaliated by by launching attacks across the border, the the disputed border Duran line and they captured a bunch of Pakistani military outposts and the war has been going on since then. So Pakistan has this big issue with Afghanistan. There's an active war with Afghanistan. Apparently Pakistani territory is being used by Americans, American aircraft to to to transit Pakistani territory and launch possibly operations against Iran. Maybe the Americans may also be quietly operating an air base or two in Pakistani territory. So the Pakistanis are complicit and involved in the American operations against Iran. Let's be clear about that. So on the one hand on Pakistan's western border there's the Iran war. In the northern border there's the Afghan war. Okay. And then there are no times that is India is issuing now. Uh so is it a good time for India to strike in Pakistan while Uncle Sam is busy? Well, actually if you consider the whole situation, this is the ideal time for India to destroy Pakistan. The terrorist nation. America has said that it's fighting Iran because Iran is a terrorist nation, right? But Pakistan is an actual proven terrorist nation. We can use the American logic and apply it to Pakistan right now. and Pakistan already is embroiled in Afghanistan and Iran also in some way. This is the right time to go after Pakistan and balkconize Pakistan and our Afghan brothers and sisters will welcome that and they will they will also participate in this. This is the right time actually. But do you think Uncle Sam is blind? Do you think Uncle Sam has only two eyes and he was only looking at Iran? Uncle Sam has 20,000 eyes. They have a bunch of people who are only looking at the subcontinent and they've got a bunch of people who know that this is a good time for India to strike at Pakistan. So will the Americans allow India to do this? I mean they can't stop India from doing it. But the last time a war happened 3-day war the Americans came and stopped India right? So if India goes starts operation Sindur again now we have to make sure that the Americans can't stop us. So it has to be very rapid. Whatever military objectives we have, we should we should achieve those in in 48 to 72 hours. It can't be 3 days we'll do air drone warfare, then air force, then something else. No, finish it off in 3 days. But America will not like it obviously because Pakistan is a very valuable asset for them. So India will have to face consequences. But if India does want to do it, this is the right time. There's no other better time than this. Vihung Quran says with India choosing US and Israel's side in the war how will it affect our relationship with Russia and China? Can it make China more hostile towards us in the near future? Thank you for such a detailed analysis. Okay, thank you. Um see India has chosen the side of the US and Israel in this war verbally verbally we haven't actually taken any action against Iran. We have given verbal support to Israel and the US and the various Gulf nations and we have chosen not to uh convey our condolences to the people of Iran over the assassination of their supreme leader. We have kept quiet about that. So yeah it it will you can say that it it means India has chosen one side but India has chosen the side verbally not materially not through actions. Um so that won't affect our relationship with Russia and China? Not really. It it it the optics aren't great but it doesn't really affect the relationship with Russia and China. What can affect our relationship with Russia is if India stops buying Russian oil which allegedly India has kind of definitely cut down on Russian oil in the past few months. So that can affect India's relationship with Russia because its actions. We were buying a lot of oil from Russia and we were obviously paying Russia for it. So it was helping Russia and it was helping us. Now if we cut down significantly drastically the purchase of Russian oil that obviously is going to strain the India Russian relationship and now that Hormos is closed we are going back to Russia or maybe it was all pre-planned. I don't know I don't know. So that sort of thing can strain a relationship. Uh China India and China look the the relationship isn't normal anyway. The relationship isn't friendly and China has always been hostile to India. So we don't care if China gets more more hostile or not because we have taken some decision somewhere. China can go and mind its own business. If China was a friendly nation, we would have considered China's feelings about this matter. But China is is a hostile nation. China is a nation that has for decades refused to demarcate the India Tibet border, which is a hostile act. So I don't care what China thinks or whether China's precious little feelings are hurt and anyway we have the means to defend ourselves from China if if need be. So it doesn't matter. Russia is important. China I don't care. Black Panther says which one best India non-alignment or multi alignment. Multi-alignment is always best not non-alignment. Non-alignment is stupid. Multi-alignment makes a lot of sense. Okay. Mukt says to trust anything and any report of US at the moment is foolish. Give at least 5 days to confirm and never believe the reports and stories on their arsenal and realtime war assets propaganda warfare promax. I completely agree. The only nation that can be trusted is India. So when there's a clash with China and 20 Indian soldiers die, India reports immediately 20 soldiers died. China lost probably 80 90 soldiers but even today they're claiming it's only four who died. But India says we have to speak the truth. The only nation that gives genuine accurate analysis wartime reporting of its losses is India which I think is It's mental retardation. The Americans probably have lost hundreds of soldiers but they are saying they've lost only six. That is what a self-respecting and and intelligent nation does. Aries Mantor says, "Luckily, we did not sign a mutual defense agreement with the UAE, otherwise we would have been dragged into this war immediately. It's a sign that we haven't vosalized yet to the US. Lemoa will be abused her here." Or the Americans will try and leverage Limoa. Apparently, Limoa is not it's not mandatory that we give access to our ports to the Americans, but they will try and arm twist the hell out of us for sure. Um yeah, we don't have a mutual defense agreement with the UAE and because of that we don't have to be involved in the war which well turns out it's a good thing. Yeah. Uh says but sir I believe that Mossad is the best and is best one and win. Okay sir. Okay. Putin says could taco become the brv or gorbacha of the US? Well, taco will be the taco of the US. He will have his own special characteristics which are different from those of Brv in Gurbach. Gorbachev was a sellout. Gorbachev essentially essentially was a traitor. He presided over the final destruction of the USSR. He essentially was a US agent. Taco is nobody's agent. Maybe he's he was an agent of Epstein or something. [laughter] BRJV. So Taco is taco. You can't compare him with Brnav or Gurbachev. Hajor Horn says if we have only 30 days of oil and the rich Gulf countries are going to run out of food will Pakistan, Afghanistan and others river to the stone age in a few weeks. We have about 25 days of oil apparently. But we will hopefully get resume buying large quantities of oil from Russia. Maybe we can ask the Americans for oil. They will sell it at three times the market rate or whatever. But we will somehow get the oil. But it's going to cause hardship in India. And then the politicians will lecture you. Stop using air conditioners, stop doing this, stop doing that, stop watching TV, stop stop using fans, be frugal while they live in the 100 cr bungalows and all. That's what they will do. Um so India will manage. Gulf countries are going to run out of food possibly if this drags on for a few weeks. The Gulf countries are going to be in deep deep trouble. Not just food, water also. So will Pakistan, Afghanistan and others revert to the stone age in a few weeks? uh not the stone age but it's going to be terrible hardship if this goes on for weeks or months there's going to be significant hardships Pakistan Afghanistan are not affected the Gulf countries are affected Pakistan obviously needs oil it doesn't have its own oil so it will also be affected from the because of the oil shortage Afghanistan also so everybody's going to be affected in in a variety of different ways unique ways Goautam says can't the US dock their ships in Karach then they have a lot of ships and one port can't accommodate them all and I'm not sure Karachi can handle a lot a lot of ships so that's that's the problem that is the problem man says don't be surprised by Indians having eccentric views during this war we have 1.4 4 billion people garbage and gems are easy to find at scale. India is ordered chaos incarnate nation first. Nation first of course and yeah yeah yeah it's okay Indians have all all kinds of views many extent views as well that's okay that's okay I'm not surprised Buddha goes nuclear says Finnish president in India is that significant something about Ukraine or Russian oil or anything else I have not even looked at this matter at all I am aware the Finnish president was in India today I am aware of that because I saw Mr. Modi tweet about something. Beyond that, I have not looked into it. I have no idea what the agenda is. Finland member of NATO of course. So I have not looked into this right now. My entire focus is on what's happening west of the west coast of India, the Gulf region. That's what I'm looking at. Uh I'll I'll look into this but right now I don't have an answer for you unfortunately. Sorry. Anaman Singh says US can't exit the Iran war because of its imperial hubris. Question mark. No. See Trump has ordered this gigantic military buildup in West Asia around Iran. This military buildup has happened over the last 2 three months, couple of months. The Americans flew hundreds of cargo plane sorties from America into these military bases in West Asia. They have sent a whole bunch of ships there. They've sent a whole lot of material, a whole lot of people there, soldiers. This entire set of activities would have cost them billions of dollars and months of time. So they have fully invested their time, effort, energy, money, everything into building up this military buildup. Then Trump has ordered the attack on Iran. So the attack is happening. So after investing so much money and starting a war, if you then say, "Oh, it's not working out. We'll move out." It is a humiliation for the United States and personally for Trump and that will destroy Trump's political standing. The American midterm elections are due in November or something this year. The Republican party will be wiped out of existence in the in the midterms. That is the existential crisis Trump is facing and that's why he can't exit Iran. He has to somehow find a way to win. How do you win now? He'll have to invent a victory out of something. Maybe he'll have to use some special weapons. I don't know. That's the deal. Spider-Man says, "Following your channel for past 5 years, five plus years. Best ever, sir." Thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Thank you, sir. Or Spider-Man, sir. [laughter] Thank you. Priyankeshmuk says, "What might happen in the next few years if India does show resilience against US demands?" while India will grow a spine and for a few years things may be tough for India the Americans will apply pressure and they will make it hard for India's India to grow economically but if you if India can somehow show resilience for the next 5 years and keep going growing its economy at 6 7% per year in about 5 years India will be at a at a stage where it will be hard for the Americans to keep pressurizing us Right? So if India does not cave in, if India shows resilience until let's say 2030 31 by that time it will become impossible for anybody to to arm twist India. So the next five years are critical. They're crucial. The next 5 years are a make or break time for India. Shas Jada says 4.3 magnitude earthquake on the recctor scale doesn't indicate nukes. So there was a ma there was an earthquake in some part of Iran which was 4.3 on the RTER scale and I went okay let's let's find out together shall we let's see how this analysis has done was there an earthquake in Iran recently 4.3 magnitude RT scale okay this happened on Tuesday so today is Wednesday so this happened yesterday uh Girash far province Gash Paris Province Province Earthquake. Right. Do we have any seismological data? Seismological data. Do we have any of that volcano discovery? Logical whatever news on air IR let's see March 3, 2026. So we have this earthquake that happened. How deep was the earthquake? What was the depth? The depth was 10 kilometers. Do you see my dear viewers? The depth was 10 kilometers. The earthquake originated 10 kilometers below the earth's surface. Now let's do another search. Deepest hole ever dug. Cola super deep bore hole 12 km. So the deepest hole ever dug which took years to dig was 12 km deep. Do you think Iran will dig a hole 10 km deep to test a nuclear weapon? No. Nobody has the time to do that. It'll take years. So this earthquake happened at at a depth of about 10 kilometers, which means it's a natural earthquake. It's not a nuclear test. And a nuclear test doesn't generate a 4.3 magnitude magnitude earthquake. Probably less than that. So it's not a nuclear test. All right. Black Panther says, explain Iranian versus Persian difference. Who owns the land? See, Iran is this new name of the land. The old see who are the Persian people? Their original name was the Parhua people. They were the people who who used the paru in warfare. The Paru means the battle axe in Sanskrit. Paru. And maybe they were warriors who preferred to use the paru in warfare. That's why they were called the Parua people. And they settled in this land west of India outside after leaving India. And because they settled in the land, the land eventually got a name based on their name. So they were the Parha people. And this land eventually came to be known as the as Porsche. And their capital was Parapur which the Greeks called Persipalolis. It's today called Para in in Iran. So historically the land was Persia, named after the people, the Paro people, the Persians. Later in the 20th century, it was renamed to Iran. Uh the land of the Aryans by that guy Bahavi. No difference who owns the land. The Persian people on on the land. The Persian people are the true natives of the land. Aris Manticor says this situation is engineered by the USA. Trump said he forced Israel. Is he doing this to cause a sharp spike in oil prices to sell Venezuelan oil for immense profit and integrates it fast into the oil economy? I don't know this entire business is about gaining control of the world's oil resources. It's not about manipulating the market and causing sharp spikes and all that. It's about taking control of all the oil reserves in the world, major oil reserves. By doing that, you are targeting China. The objective is to is to control the sources of China's energy so that you can then arm twist China on demand. That's the whole that's the whole point of whatever the Americans are doing. It may look very random. One day Venezuela, another day um Iran, third day Ecuador. Ecuador is different but Venezuela Iran is all about oil. Okay. Chinmai says, "Will India hit Iran and yes, how which weapons if dragged into war. Given Iran was a kind of an ally kind of helping us before the war, Afghanistan, Armenia, India will not hit Iran. It will be incredibly absurdly stupid if India hits Iran. If yes, which weapons, I am not even discussing which weapons because India should never do that. India should not get involved in this war against Iran. India should not do anything that is detrimental to Iran and the Americans will ask for access to Indian ports. India should deny that also. Uh India should not get dragged into this war no matter what happens. I hope so. But we I don't know what constraints the government of India is facing so I can't say but India should not hit Iran whatsoever in any way whatsoever. Hyphen says, "I'm still optimistic India will get out get out of the situation and keep rising. Also, I hope people realize how bad any war is. These days, people talk about war like it's something to be proud of." I agree with you. Wars are horrible things. It's true that nations sometimes need to go to war. Sometimes there are just causes for war and a lot of you can achieve a lot of your geopolitical objectives only through war. So war is is well it's it's a fact of life geopolitically. If you look at human history all major geopolitical change has happened through warfare only. But the fact is that wars are the wars are the wars cause immense suffering to civilians to non-combatants. They cause immense humanitarian suffering. It's all nice on the TV screen when you watch movies and all but if you actually have to face the consequences of warfare they are horrible. They're horrific. Right? So wars are bad and I you know we should avoid war as far as possible. So I agree with you about that completely and I'm also optimistic that India will keep rising and India will find a way to to to find its way. So I am optimistic. We should all remain optimistic. All right. PP5K1 says did US took hard hit back? US commander motivating soldiers saying Jesus will return the war. Senator saying the situation is worse than expected. The US underestimated Iran's missile power. You are right to be worried. The US has taken very hard hits and they are not revealing that right now. Okay. their uh their their fifth fleet which is based in Bahrain that entire infrastructure seems to have been destroyed or damaged significantly. Uh one of their billion dollar radars was destroyed. The Iranians have hit at least one American ship. The Iranians have uh hit various hotels in which lots of American personnel were stay staying and they have hit specific floors and specific rooms and the Iranians are hitting Israel very hard. They're hitting American allies very hard. So the Americans are taking big big hits. They're not confessing that to the world. They're not admitting that because in war you don't say these things. You keep it quiet. But the situation for the US is much worse than what they had ever expected. It's been a shock for the US. And yeah, there was some things, some mention of Jesus or whatever. I didn't look into that. But yeah, some mention of Jesus coming back or something. Aristot says, "I fully believe and trust your frustrations about fellow Indians supporting us, Israel or Iran in this war. The education system must face severe recelling for producing such billion such brilliance." Yeah. Well, it's just a fact of life in India, right? It's just a fact in India that the education system produces people who can't can't understand the world properly. So, it's not their fault and one must also not get too frustrated about this. So, it is what it is. Anyway, thank you sir. Thank you very much. Ang Singh says Deutschand or France dominant power if US exits Europe? None of them. If the US exits Europe, what do you think will happen? One nation will emerge as a dominant power. No. The moment the Americans exit Europe, the Europeans go back to the tribal warfare and they go to war and they they will be back at each other's throats. No dominant power right now. Long-term it could be either Deutsland or France or England perhaps. Maybe England's time is gone now. We'll see. Maybe Poland. Sager Gare says, "What about Indians who bought property in Gulf countries? Was it? Why is is infrastructure enough? Without strong defense and security, without strong defense and security, nothing is enough and your investments are they could go down the drain. So those Indians who have bought property in the Gulf, I think you know it it may turn out it will probably turn out to not be a very wise decision. I don't we all know there are lots of Indians who have bought property in the Gulf countries. Lots of Indians, wealthy Indians live in Dubai because it's just a couple of hours away from India. You can come back to India anytime you feel like. You can take a flight today morning, tomorrow morning and come to India if you want. So that's why the Gulf region is so u it's it's so convenient for wealthy people. But if the situation continues and these Gulf cities become unviable as long-term residences, all those properties their prices will plummet. and uh those investments will be wasted to a certain extent at least. Was this wise? Well, was it wise of the Gulf nations to trust the American promise that we will support, we will take care of your security and defense? It wasn't wise. So, this all happens because you trusted the American military umbrella and security umbrella. Was it wise? In hindsight, probably it wasn't wise. Gotham says, "Just for fun, it looks like US is going to lose its sovereignty first in your list. [laughter] Based on what Marco Rubio has said, looks like they have lost their sovereignty already." Yeah. I mean, Israel dragged dragged Trump into the war. Dol Johan says, "What are the scenarios of India getting into this war?" How could India get into the war? India will not get involved directly but India may be forced to give access to Indian to American warships give American warships access to Indian bases so that in that way India is kind of indirectly involved in the war beyond that I don't think anything else will happen Spider-Man says good evening sir in your live stream you said power and might prevails over morality in geopolitics does this mean that nations must seek power by any means does it also apply to person's lives Okay, first question. Does it mean that nations must seek power power by any means? Absolutely yes. You can't play the game by a different set of rules compared to the others. If everybody is seeking power by any means, you have no choice but to seek power by any means or be left behind and become a victim. So yes, nations must seek power by any means. Learn from the US. Does this also apply in people's lives? No. people's see all the rules of geopolitics also apply in your personal life but in your personal life it's not like you acquire power and get weapons and stuff right so the rules apply differently in the depending on the context in people's lives but yes if you are able to acquire power well it's beneficial for you it doesn't mean that you should acquire power anyhow by being unethical or whatever that's a personal choice at the end of the day it depends on your personal ethics but I would say don't acquire it by any means but If you are a nation, you have to acquire it by any means whatsoever like the Americans do. Anan Singh says, "Will India replace China in selling Iranian oil?" And I don't see that happening. India doesn't sell Iran. China also doesn't sell Iranian oil. You mean buying or selling? Um I don't know. Resish says can Oman be used against instead of the straight of Hormuz? You can't have ships coming through through Oman, right? Oman is is on land. See where is map? Let us bring map on screen. Yes. Right. Okay. So, we're talking about Oman. So Oman is this large nation, reasonably large nation in in in the western in in the eastern part of the Arabian Peninsula. So if you want to bypass the state of Hormus, can those those tankers and ships come through Oman? But Oman is land ships can only pass through sea. So it's not possible. If you want to bring oil through Oman, you will have to build construct pipelines which takes years. So not practical. You see, it's not practical. Ashish says why can't US use Pakistani ports instead of dragging India because they want to put India under pressure. Pakistan only has one or two ports Chaba not Chabar sorry so Guadada and Karachi and Guadada is very close to Iran. If the Americans use Guadada, Iranians can take it out immediately. The Iranians can wipe Guadar out of the face of the earth. And if the Americans aren Karachi, the Iranians can attack Karachi, too. Let's look at the map. Karachi isn't that far from Iran, right? I mean, even India is not that far. But see, Karachi is here. How far is Karachi from, let's say, some part of Iran? 600 km. Very easy to target Karachi. Very easy. So, the Americans will want to operate at a reasonable distance from Iran, which makes Indian ports ideal. You see that's why Aris Mantor says I think India should produce millions of DRNS and thousands DRNS and thousand tens of thousands of Brahos as a national mission no matter the situation. Jind YouTube censoring my words used a lot of euphemisms here. DRNS. Okay. DRNS. Drones. Wait a minute. Drones are millions. I would say drones hundreds of thousands. Maybe a million also is good. Yeah, we should do that. We should do that. We should have at least 10,000 ballistic missiles, maybe another 10,000 cruise missiles depending on our threat perception and so on. And obviously, I would say way more drones. India should do that. India should wake the wake the hell up. Until now, India looks like it's been dozing, sleeping. India needs to wake the hell up. And I agree we should do this as a national mission. Absolutely. Okay. Answer says vau Iranians are celebrating seems wrong for some reason. Well, in any nation you will have some people who are woke, some people who are antiational, some people who are this, some people that it's going to happen in every nation and they will do what they do. You can't control them, right? Yeah. If it seems to wrong to you, well, maybe it seems right to them. People are different, right? So it's okay. Romit Mishra says, "I was in delusion regarding India's situation on on a geopolitical level. Watching your streams really gave the real picture about the world. You're doing great work." Thank you very much, sir. I'm glad that my streams have helped you in some way. Thank you very much for your very kind words. Thank you. Ritik Yadu Ritik Yadu says, "Will Pakistan also join in to attack Iran?" >> [clears throat] >> I think Pakistan has been given a different task. Pakistan's job from the American perspective is to assist them in the operations of Nidan. Maybe by allowing American aircraft to fly over Pakistani territory and maybe use Pakistani one or two Pakistani airports that much they will use Pakistan for. I don't think the Americans want to use Pakistan to attack Iran because in the eastern part of Iran it's mostly desert, right? There's not not not a lot of cities or whatever to attack. See if you look at Iran, let's go to the map. If you look at Iran, the major cities and all are all in the west of Iran near Pakistan. It's all desert, desert, desert. Thousand kilometers of desert obviously you have, see, look at this uh bandas, it's it's far from Pakistan. You you have Zahedan, but there's not not much to attack over there. That's why the Americans will not use Pakistan for that that purpose. They will use Pakistan uh for the purpose of maybe doing warfs and all that and monitoring Iran situation from the east. Pakistan's real utility for the US is as a counterweight to India and as a nuisance towards India. That's the real purpose of Pakistan. So Pakistan will not probably probably not join in the attack to Iran against Iran. Global says Trump said this. Spain said we can't use their bases. We could use their bases if you want. We could just fly in and use it. No one's going to tell us not to use it. Yeah. Trump said that. Trump said, see, Spain said that told the US, you can't use our our bases for your war against Iran. So, Spain has denied America the permission to use their bases. So, Trump said, "I don't care. I don't care. We're going to use it and there's nothing Spain can do about it." That's what Trump said. Might is right in geopolitics. Okay. The US is just way too powerful. There's nothing Spain can do. If the Americans decide to use the bases, if the Spaniards try to try to forcibly evict the Americans, the Americans will invade Spain tomorrow morning. They can't do that. And Spain can't defend itself the way Iran defends itself. Spain is helpless. So Fashion Rice says closing up to the US, terrible idea. Well, history tells you it's a terrible idea. History will tell you it's a terrible idea. Sedarth Gal says, "What lessons can India learn from this current situation?" I think I answered that. India needs to stockpile very large quantities of drones, ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, augment our military infrastructure and so much more. So yeah, these are the lessons straight away we can learn from the current situation. Datani says this is my told you so moment that Donald Trump has taken Iran lightly. Do you think that Senate may Trump uh [clears throat] do you think the Senate may throw him under the bus exit the war? Um yeah, Donald Trump has taken Iran lightly. I agree. I agree with you. Uh can the Senate end the war? I don't think the Senate can end the war. the the president the the supreme commander u I think they can't in what way will they throw him under the bus I'm not sure uh I am not sure what the legal uh methods are of let's say throwing a president under the bus I'm not sure how it works and I'm not sure if the Senate has the ability to stop a war if it's going on I'm not sure if it's a possibility but yes he has definitely taken Iran lightly Yeah, feels strong man says super slam equal to punch. I was making a joke about how Hexath said they were there to strike first because [snorts] Iran will strike in the future after Israel strikes them. Lol. Okay. Okay. Got it. Got it. Super slam means punch. Yay. Okay. Arian Sharma says, "What is the epic Brihhat Kata and what remains of it in the modern date and how was it destroyed? I have absolutely no idea. I don't know what this is. Brihhat kata. Let me quickly do a Google search. But I am not aware of this. But let me see. Do I find something? Brihhat kata. Brihhat kata. What is that? The great darcient Indian epic. Oh, in pesachi. Oh. So when was this composed? It existed in the 6th century AD. But we don't know when it was exactly written. And it is written in Pishachi. Well, well, well, well, well. The Pishachas used to speak this language. The demons. Okay. So, yeah, I am not aware of this. I have not studied the history of this text. I'm not sure about it, but it's fascinating that it's written in the extinct language called Pesachi. I'm not sure what remains of it. We'll have to read it up. So, yeah. Gibb says, "Your prediction for the winner of the Iran versus America war. If Iran is not destroyed, it wins. Iran is fighting for what? Survival. Trump is fighting for the destruction of Iran and regime change and what whatever else. So, whoever achieves their objectives is the winner. For Iran, the objective is to survive. If Iran survives, it's the winner and Trump loses. My prediction is that Iran wins. Aris Manticor says fault lines are so many are too many, but solutions are being done slowly at ground level. too much CIA and traitors will face constant sabotage and sabotage for any oath actions. It will show in decades unfortunately. Well, there are certain endeavors that take decades and these endeavors are still very worthwhile. If we can let's say solve these problems in the next 50 years, it is it's it's a worthwhile time frame to solve issues. So yeah, let us be patient and let's work towards it. Nirish Pula thank you very much sir thank you Datani says USL what would that prevent bulcanization no it will accelerate bulcanization the US doesn't reward its vasals with nice things the US rewards its vasals with destruction in different ways Japan is an American vasal they have rewarded Japan in the past 30 years with the destruction of their economy and the destruction of the total fertility rate In a 100 years, we don't even know if Japanese people will still exist. And for a nation like India, they will want to balconize it. Becoming a US facile will not prevent balconization. It will accelerate bulcanization. Nirish Polla, thank you very much, sir once again. Thank you, sir. Hardik Jooshi says, "How is this war even making sense for America or Israel? I failed to see the conviction behind the claimed reasons. If you were to assess the nuances, how can this really turn out both good and bad?" See, no nation will say that we are going to destroy a civilization of 90 million people because we want their oil. Okay? No nation will say that. So they will say, "No, we are doing this because Iran is a terrorist nation and uh we want to demilitarize Iran and we want to make sure they don't have any more missiles and we want to make sure they don't have a nuclear program." All these long excuses they'll give, but the real reason is they want to destroy Iran so that they can take the oil. Okay, that's why they're doing it. Why would why do they want to take the oil to pressure China more? So for the long-term geopolitical game of pressuring China, they want to destroy this nation. That's the truth. But you can't say that openly, right? That's why you come up with all these excuses. That's the American perspective. Israel's perspective is Iran says that Israel has no right to exist. That's why Iran sees Iran as as an existential threat and that's why Israel wants to destroy Iran. Well, from their perspective, they are right, I suppose. So that these are the real reasons. You have to understand that certain things are not stated. You have to understand what is not stated. The unstated things are actually more important than what people say. How can this really turn out both good or bad? We'll see. We'll see. It looks like Iran will survive this and the Americans will not succeed in destroying them and Israelis also. 102 etc. says, "Will the Middle East construction construction market pick up again as this will impact lots of jobs involved? What are your thoughts?" Nah, this war is going to go on for months. While missiles and drones are flying, no construction will happen. Nothing. And this and in case the US is not able to destroy Iran or defeat Iran then this tense situation will go on for years beyond any ceasefire. Um so I think construction is not going to pick up anytime soon in the next few months or next couple of years and yeah it will impact a lot of jobs involved. Yes it will. Now who's to blame for this? Blame Iran. No, Iran didn't start this right. That is the unfortunate reality. Unfortunately, Manticor says, "Apologies for differing opinion, but I believe India is pragmatic. We have aligned here, not chosen a side completely. There is a more subtle strategy to protect remaining sovereignty. It looks like submission, but it's not. See, like I said, India has chosen a side for practical reasons, not for ideological reasons. Practical reasons means we are being pragmatic. We are trying our best to protect whatever sovereignty we have left, right? We have aligned so that we don't come under immediate attack or whatever. So I think Mr. Modi is doing the best he can given the options he has and the constraint he faces. I think he's doing a great job. I am by no means criticizing Mr. Modi. I think he's taking India in the best possible direction considering the constraints and circumstances. Sometimes you have to temporarily pretend like you're bending the knee. That also is a thing in geopolitics, right? So I think India is being pragmatic and I don't think you have a differing opinion there. I'm not saying India has vasalized itself as of now at least. We have chosen a side but like I said earlier we have chosen a side verbally. We have not taken actions in that direction like we have not joined the attack on Iran. We are not supporting any action against Iran. We have just verbally supported Israel and the US and so on. Banak says sir France Deutsland Vij enter in Iran and by this Russia China enter World War II. We'll see about that. It looks like the Americans are pressurizing various European countries to get involved in the war. Okay. Maybe France, maybe Germany, maybe England, maybe somebody else. So, if that happens, if more European nations join in and pile in on on Iran, then Russia will definitely be tempted to get involved on Iran's behalf because Russia and China can't afford to see Iran being destroyed. Iran is too important. And if this sort of thing happens, it's the beginning of World War II actually. Omnag says in a global situation like this how to get reliable information as there are as some are biased propaganda and does US obsession with Israel cause of Jews role in building the US in a global situation how to get reliable information very difficult we have to look at lots of different sources so until yesterday there was good information on Twitter but now it's gone now something has changed Elon Musk has changed some algorithm to hide what's happening apparently so then what do you Well, there is Telegram, but then in Telegram, you have to find the right channels. Then there are all the propaganda outlets like BBC, CNN, etc., which will only give you lies, which will only give you one side of the story. So, ideally, if there's a situation like this, you want to see both sides. You want to see what Iran is saying and claiming. You want to see what the US and Israel are saying and claiming. So, it's difficult, but you have to try your best. Uh, is the US obsession with Israel because of Jews role in building the US? No, it's because of Jews being very influential today in in US politics and very powerful. MK says, "Can nuclear armed drones and UUVs exist like nuclear artillery? Can Iran destroy ICE completely if Iran has no option left?" ICE Israel. Ah, okay. Um, can nuclear armed drones and what's a UUV? Let me quickly take a look at what is a UUV. Um, UUV, unmanned underwater vehicles. Um, can nuclear armed drones exist? Yes. Can UUVs, nuclear UVs exist? Yes. Uh, what is that super cavitating torpedo? Let me see. Okay. Russian super cavitating torpedo. What's it called? I forgot. Ah, squal. So, this is a this is a supersonic. No, it's not supersonic, but it's a super cavitating dropppy though. And it can carry nuclear warheads. So, it's essentially an underwater UV, right? Isn't it? And other kinds of UUVs can also carry nuclear weapons. Yes. So, it can. Yeah, it's definitely these can definitely exist. Can Iran destroy Israel completely if Iran has no option left? It depends on how much how many ballistic missiles and drones Iran still has left. If Iran still has a few thousand left, it can certainly unload them all on on Israel. So it depends on the circumstances. How far how deep are we in the war? How many months has it been and so on? Depends. But then Iran but then Israel also has options like nuclear weapons. Hope Abishek Shivasav says Kalug at is at peak only Mahadev can save us. Well well I call upon Mahadev to save us. Yes Mahadev. Okay. Rain has become a new member. Thank you very much. Rain welcome to the membership of the channel. Thank you very much. Madavara has become a member. Thank you very much sir. Welcome to the channel's membership. PK political says no matter how many aijits bash India in the mask of RW Barat will become Vishuru and Vixit. Okay, this is a criticism towards me. All right sir. Yes that's that's I'll be the happiest if Bat becomes Vishwaguru in Vikas. I hope so. Yes. Me Patel says could this be a ploy by the US to increase the demand of Venezuelan oil? No it is not that. may stretch it out until crude prices skyrocket and say all objectives achieved. No, this is not about increasing demand of Venezuelan oil. Venezuela doesn't have the capacity to turn out a lot of oil. Venezuela has infrastructure constraints. It has probably 20% of the cralable oil reserves. But the Venezuelan oil is heavy sour crude oil. It's thick and heavy and full of sulfur. Very high sulfur content. There's only two or three refineries in the entire world that can refine that oil. One is in India. So even if you increase the the production of Venezuelan oil, how it there's a bottleneck which is the number of refineries. So this is nothing to do with Venezuela. Okay? It has nothing to do with Venezuela. It's all about constraining. It's all about the American objective of of of controlling Iran's oil oil fields. Vehav says, "What in your opinion does India need to do to protect itself from being bulcanized? What about the interior front of the two and a half front war?" Look, the first thing India needs to do is to evict all foreigners who are illegally squatting on Indian territory. I don't know how many millions of Bangladeshes we have in India today. Illegal infiltrators. What is preventing the government of India from deporting them all? Aren't they a massive national security threat? Then the the godamn how many lacks of cookies and whatnot in Manipur who have come from Burma in the last few years all foreigners. Why can't they be deported? Why can't all the Rohingyas be deported who are squatting on Indian territory when operation tandur happened they they discovered tens of thousands of Pakistanis who have been living in India. What is India a joke or what? That's just one thing India needs to do. There are so many other things right there are these there are billions of dollars flowing into India every year for the purpose of carrying out industrial scale religious conversions. Why is India allowing this to happen? Has India no self-respect? There's so many things India needs to do. Okay. Rahun Rajar says why not use cargo planes for oil. Arun [laughter] there are issues with carrying large volumes of liquid liquid tends to slosh around. Slosh slosh sllosh if you're in an aircraft and the liquid starts slloshing for some reason it will affect the stability of the aircraft. That's one issue. The second thing is that if you want to have oil on a cargo plane, the oil is very heavy, very heavy. Cargo planes probably can't take that only a certain amount of oil which doesn't make it cost effective. So there are issues, many issues like that. Ritik says, "How would you rate Kami as compared to Palavi?" Palavi was a foreign puppet who sold his nation for a few dollars. Kame did not do that. That's the difference. Kakashi says you said we've picked a side but after Iran, India is next. Why would US come for us if you have already chosen the side? [laughter] Because their long-term objective for India is balconization. If India has chosen a side and we said that okay we are on your side. Does it mean that they will not they will give up their long-term objectives? Their long-term objective is to bulcanize India. Their long-term objective is to ensure India does not become in the next 2025 years a new China. So for that they have to ensure India remains mediocre. India remains a four 5 trillion economy and the best way to achieve that is to break India apart. So even if you pick their side they're going to go after you when the time comes. Okay. V4 says not in my name not my PM. I'm not sure what you're talking about, but all right, sir. Aris Manteor says India has already started placing mass orders for Russian oil numbers that will make Trump and Bessant scream tariff, tariff, tariff. Outstanding. Let it bring it on. It's fine. Good. Ah Shar says, "What are the chances that India rise from all that's happening and avoid a avoid a split?" um India rises from what's happening and avoids a split. I think avoiding a split is is not that hard but it will be tough for India not to become a American vasal in the next 5 years. So I've been I've said this many times that it is there there are there's a significant possibility that India will become a US vasal in the next 5 years. Um it's also possible we don't go down that road if we show strong leadership and we show the ability to withstand some temporary pain. So I think the chances are there that India will be able to rise from all of this and avoid being split and all that. I think the chances are decent. So let's all be optimistic and work towards that. Spandon Spandon Nahar says your views on HPV vaccine drive. Should we take it because Bill and Meinda Gates foundation is involved? Do you think government could be complicit for money? Uh I don't know if the government see I haven't studied this vaccine. I've heard all kinds of nasty things about Bill and Binda Gates their foundation and I've heard all kinds of nasty things about their vaccine experiments in India and my question is why do girls need to take the HPV vaccine? What does it prevent human papilloma virus? Okay, let's let's quickly Google this. Okay? What is a HPV vaccine? Uh highly it's I don't I'm not asking you if it's highly effective or safe. Okay. Human papillo papillo virus. It prevents cancers in general that stuff. Uh boys and girls. Okay. To prevent cancer causing infections. Okay. What is this human papilloma virus? Uh intimate skin-to-skin contact. Okay. Highly contagious common virus. Who gets this? You get it only through intimate skin-to-skin contact. Now that obviously means sexual intercourse or something like that. Now this will only come through sexual promos promiscuity and that sort of behavior. Now why do we want to assume that all girls will behave like that? So I think there is something fishy behind this. I'm not sure what it is. I have not researched in detail but my point is we should avoid unnecessary vaccinations. Too many vaccinations isn't good. But I so that's my overall stance on vaccinations as a whole. Some vaccinations obviously are very beneficial but some may be unnecessary. I'm not sure why this we suddenly need this new vaccine when there is no epidemic of human papilloma virus in India. Why do we need this now? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm kind of skeptical about this. Nage says as of today ideal short-term investment one year oil, gold, silver or whole cash. I have no idea. I am not an investment expert. Sorry. EA more than 10k says please do holy stream with subscribers from next year. Lots of love from PM Modi Nuji. [laughter] Okay. From next year. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you for the recommendation. Saga Singh Parer says, "Now that we are being dragged into a war, should we also take actions to achieve our tasks, our goals? Take back PK and X and liberate Baljasthan." Look, we have not yet been dragged into the war. Okay. the Americans I promise you are going to try and force India to give their warships access to our ports. If we let's I I will my recommendation is India should say no no matter what happens but let's say because of various reasons we can't say no in that case we should put conditions okay you want access to my ports you allow me to take P and break Pakistan into three pieces in if you allow me to do that then I'll give you give you access to my ports so we have to negotiate and negotiate really hard so yeah it could be an opportunity to do that perhaps Sumish Pandya says Europe versus Turkey after Iran versus US and Israel. Uh, who knows? Who knows? Turkey is the black sheep in NATO. So, it's possible perhaps. QTX says, "Can't deep state injured Trump just to avoid nuclear stage with Iran? Nuclear war is worse for everyone." Well, the deep state will do what deep state wants. If the deep state thinks that the that a nuclear war is bad, then it'll just tell Trump to shut the shut the hell to to sit the hell down. That's it. That's all they have to do. So they don't they don't have to scare him or injure him or whatever. They just have to tell him sit down and that's done. Joy, thank you very much, sir. Rajiv Rana is a new member. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Black Panther says if US operating through empire or deep state how is the Mr. taco playing with without proper strategy changing the decision is the deep state weak I think the see Trump hasn't made a un unilateral decision he would have asked the US military for an assessment for various plans plan A plan B plan C how to best best take down Iran and so on and based on their recommendations and their plans and their projections he would have given the go-ahehead for a strike in the in the beginning of the war against Iran So it means Trump isn't incompetent. His mil military has messed up. His military, the US military doctrine is outdated. Okay, that's the problem. They can bring in massive air power and flatten cities, but their objective is a regime change and maybe then and then their actual objective is to take control of the oil of Iran. So their warfighting doctrine is is a totally different kind of doctrine. It it is not modern in the sense that it doesn't it can't factor in what Iran is doing. Tens of tens of maybe 10,000 missiles and 100,000 drones the sort of thing. It can't deal with that. So it's not entirely Trump's fault to a large extent it's the US military's fault. Anikit says yes Indian education system has so many issues but calling Iranian system better which TC's death to non-believers is not right okay sir thank you hit thank you very much sir thank you Kuruketra says waiting for raising standard series all right sir all right okay Vikana says Iris dinina incident has taken to Hindu Twitter people are very angry it's become It has become an emotional thing. Guest issue people calling Indian Ocean claim bluff. Okay, let us see what's happening on uh Twitter. Twitter let us see uh give me a second. Let's put Twitter on the screen. Okay. Um Masoud Peskan. What's he talking about? Let's quickly see. Masoud Pes Peskan. Dear esteemed leaders of our friendly and neighboring countries, we have strived with your assistance into diplomacy to avoid war. However, the American Zionist military attack has left us with no choice but to defend ourselves. We respect your sovereignty and still believe that the region's peace must be insured. Okay, nice. Fine. That's fine. Um, Qatar Qatar is shutting down the world's largest LG export plant. Would you believe it? Uh, but we talking about uh Dina, right? D E Nina Mercumi. Okay, thank you. That's fine. The sailors. Okay. Right, right, right, right, right, right. Okay. Okay. So, there's going to be a lot of soulsearching and yeah emotions over here because of what the Americans have done to this Iranian ship in what we call our backyard. Okay. Air is manticor says apologies again. Operation Sundur was a wakeup call for India to the current US strategy. We will act close but retaliate fiercely and pragmatically when our red lines are crossed. We are firmer now but more open to flexible strategies. Well, I hope that you are entirely 100% right. Okay. All right. All right. Yeah. Uh Swap. Swap Nant. Thank you very much. Swapnant G. Thank you. Prahua. Thank you very much. Prauma G. Thank you sir. Black Panther says East India Company filed bankruptcy. Karma. Okay. I don't know but okay. If it's the case karma. [laughter] Adik says why people here are fredding spreading fake news that India stopped buying Russian oil but truth is in February they purchased 6% more oil from then than earlier months they are still largest suppliers of crude oil in February to India okay let's let's let's debunk all the nonsense let's see here right u okay how much crude oil did India purchase from Russia in the last 3 months So it's we still purchasing I suppose what does the Hindu have to say 44 month low in January. So yeah there are ups and downs but we haven't stopped the purchases of Russian oil. Um yeah so we haven't stopped buying Russian oil. It's gone up and down and so on and uh Trump obviously had see the reason is this reason is this understand this when India agreed to this uh interim framework for a trade agreement with the US Trump added some extra conditions that the US would be monitoring India and he said that I'm bringing the tariffs down on the condition that India stops purchasing Russian oil in India he said and he claimed that India had committed that it will stop purchasing Russian oil and then the imports of Russian oil did go down significantly. So that's the situation. I don't think we have stopped completely. Now we're going to buy more again because we have no choice. Mr. Henlow says apparently Qatar is going to shut fully shut LG production temporarily. Trump is also saying the US will export tankers through hormones if we have only 25 days of oil. We are in a fix. So Qatar is going to temporarily completely fully shut its LG production because of the circumstances. Trump is saying the US will escort tankers through hormones. He's lying. It's not possible. It will not work. And we apparently have only 25 days of oil, strategic reserves, which is a joke, but I don't know why it's like that, but whatever. So we are in a fix. Yes, we are in a fix. So we will have to purchase way more oil from Russia now. and maybe look for other uh sources also which probably means that Trump will impose another 25% tariffs on us but it is what it is. Yeah. Aris Mandicor says regarding India foreseeing the situation we have 56 days of strategic reserves we very quickly reach a deal with Russia suspiciously suspiciously. Maybe there is some strategic foresight at work over here perhaps or some see the report I saw yesterday in various media outlets was 25 days of reserves. Now some people are saying that's not true. It's 56 days. Some people are saying it's 74 days. Whatever. Why don't we have 365 days of strategic reserves? That's my point. That's my point. Reddi always ready says does India even have current offensive capabilities of Iran? No, it does not. Iran has perhaps 10,000 ballistic missiles. Iran has more than a 100,000 drones. India doesn't have anything like that number of drones. India doesn't have anything like that number of missiles, ballistic missiles. We may have invested in maybe large numbers of cruise missiles, maybe a few thousand cruise missiles, Brahos etc. But not ballistic missiles. So India has been sleeping all this time. Not entirely sleeping. We can definitely give what they say m job jab to Pakistan but we should be militarily so prepared that everyone around us trembles when they think about us that's how it should be right so yeah that that's an issue black panther says US pull Pakistan troops into Iran war to fight behalf US I don't know about that u if if things go badly they may ask Pakistan to do that that as Anerud Kumar says, "What's US's greatest weakness this era or year?" I think one issue is leadership. They have poor leadership. Secondly, their military doctrine is outdated and they have this sense of hubris that nobody that that we can we can defeat everybody and no one is a match for us. These seem to be some of their weaknesses. Um yeah, market whisperer says, "What if IR after a few weeks, Iran after a few weeks declare that they now have nuclear warheads and will take the Samson option if pushed? How do you think the US is and Israel will react? The US and Israel and the whole world will remain skeptical about Iranian claims. If Iran says that we have nuclear warheads but if Iran tests one nuclear weapon then the world will not be skeptical. The world will take it very seriously. So Iran if we if it wants to go down this road it has to test at least one nuclear weapon. It has to test it. Maybe atmospheric test, maybe underground test, whatever. It has to test it in such a way that the whole world notices and then you declare that now if you cross certain lines we will use a samson option then the world will take it seriously. Rohan bid says American ships are on our west coast in February American officials visited our western command was the visit a hint that we agreed to take part in the war I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not even sure who approved this goddamn visit of these American officials to our western command. That was that was wrong in my opinion. Very wrong. So does it indicate or does it serve as a hint that we have agreed to take part in this war? I'm not sure. I don't think uh in if something happened in February, it means that we have agreed to take part in a war that happens in March. I'm not 100% sure about that. I think it's unlikely. Perhaps at the time India would have known that the war is coming but we would not have known exactly when the war will happen and even if we knew it's coming we aren't taking part in the war right now. So I think that's that's kind of unlikely. Konu says we live in Dubai. Should we stay or leave? Do you what do you suggest looking at the current situation? Please advise will the situation escalate in the Middle East? Look, if the war continues longer, the situation could escalate. I don't think the Iranians will target civilians anywhere. They have targeted some hotels in the UAE. They have targeted hotels where they had intelligence that American soldiers or officials were staying. So that's that's why they took out some floors and some rooms in certain hotels. Apart from that they have targeted strategic infrastructure like oil production facilities, um desalinization facilities, uh American military bases and so on. They have not gone after civilians. So if you're living in Dubai and you are not close to any strategic installation, you will be safe. But the problem is that eventually Dubai will run out of food and water. Then what do you do? That is a very strong possibility. Hormones is closed. 80% of Dubai's food comes through hormones. Wait 2 weeks, there will be a food shortage. And if the situation persists and if Iran takes out some desalination plants in the UE, then you will start facing water shortages. So that is what could happen. I'm not saying it's guaranteed to happen, but it's a possibility. Okay, it's a possibility. And this war is not ending anytime soon. I hope it does, but it seems unlikely. It seems like it will go on for weeks, months, maybe years. And if if this situation slowly becomes bad for Iran, they will hit harder at at various American assets and strategic assets. So that is the situation overall. So based on whatever I I can see that's what I can tell you and based on what I say and your own assessment of the risks and all that because you live there you know things better you need to make your own decision. Yeah that's what I can tell you. Uh your decision has to be your own. I have told you the risk assessment that I see the scenarios that I see. So you need to make your own decision based on that. Not just what I say but what others are also saying. You have to look beyond me. Maybe I'm wrong. It's possible that I'm not entirely right. Maybe some other analysts or whoever is there, they may give you a better perspective. I don't know. So, you know, don't look at only one person. Look at lots of different take a 360°ree perspective and use your own experience and and uh uh your own perspective in in in consider consider that too because you are a resident. You know better. Based on all of that, you need to make a decision. Yeah. So, all the best, sir. All the best. Konchu. But Jimna says, "What will happen to the Middle East power balance? The US has not been able to protect its vasals and since [snorts] Iran is going all out." Good question. See, in 2003, the whole power balance in in Middle East was changed by the Americans when they destroyed Iraq, when they vasalized Iraq. Today Iraq is not a power. Iraq's power score is zero. Hard power score is zero. Today the Americans took it out completely. So in 2003 they completely altered the power balance. Now in 2026 we have a certain kind of power balance in West Asia. We have Iran as a major power and then you have all the American puppets who are all cumulatively kind of balancing Iran out and the Americans have un been able to protect their ass. Of course, we also have Israel, which is which is a more powerful nation than Iran. So, we have the situation. What will happen? It depends on the events of the war. If the Americans somehow succeed in defeating Iran, then the entire balance of power changes and Iran and Israel becomes the most dominant power in the region. But if Iran cannot be defeated, then the power balance kind of remains the way it is. But if Iran is weakened, then other powers get slightly better, you know, relative strength and so on. Um yeah, here is Manticor says the US of US army officer using Christian prophecies to justify war to soldiers is both absurd and ironic yet suspicious to SCOP likely do you think? I don't know. Um a scop against whom? Against their own people, against their own army, against somebody else I don't know. Strange in my opinion strange. I I fail to understand what's the purpose of this Christian professor to to justify the war to its soldiers. A lot of soldiers may not be Christian, right? Many people in the US are atheists now. So I don't know what the what the purpose of this thing is. If it's a scop, it's a scop against whom? That's what I'm wondering. Don't know this love. Thank you very much, sir. He is manticor says the spine can bend but not break. This is an advanced strategy that we are playing that even China chose to ignore because of hubris 5 years first and 50 next. One hope so five years first but stand the next 5 years be resilient the next 5 years and then grow the next 50 years. One hope so yes sir let's be optimistic. Anul Jen says Turkey got hit by Iran. Will article 5 get activated? Has it got hit by Iran? Turkey Iran. Let's see. Iran's first strike on NATO member. Um Iran fires missile at Turkey destroyed by NATO air defense. Okay. So Turkey has not been hit but they are claiming that there was an missile fired at Turkey which was intercepted and destroyed. So that will not yet trigger article 5. But uh let's wait and watch. Let's keep an eye on this. This seems to be an evolving situation. Iran targeting Turkey. I'll have to double check that. Okay. Shashir, thank you very much, sir. Ammon Kumar Dankar says, "Classified AI war game scenarios of US not optical optimal." Classified AI war game scenarios of US not optimal. Well, AI is also built on assumptions. Yeah, looks like they've messed up somewhere. even their their AI wargaming has not worked out for them clearly because in any AI wargaming scenario or situation you have to give some inputs those inputs typically are based on assumptions you make so even the AI starts if it starts with wrong assumptions it'll give you wrong outputs yeah anik says if Iran hits carrier it will be fun and open eyes of Indian leadership by the way we 50 days oil in reserve and We can't dig oil reserve tunnel overnight. See, you can't dig oil reserve tunnels overnight. But if you have 12 years to do the work, you can do it. My question is why in the past 10 15 years have we not build build up oil reserves that will last us 365 days or even 2 years? Were we sleeping? That's my point. Today, let's say we have 25 days of reserves, maybe 50 days of reserves. Why don't we have 3 years of reserves? We can't we do it over over 10 15 years. Why don't we have this? That's my point. That is my point. That's why fr That's what annoys and frustrates me so much that there is no strategic foresight. Iran knew this war is coming. They have been preparing for 45 46 years. So could India not do something? at least build up some more strategic reserves and store oil. I just don't get it. Uh career and all. We'll see about that. This love says what happened in the Indian Ocean. What happened in the Indian Ocean is that near the coast of Sri Lanka, there was this Iran Iranian warship that was passing by. The Iranian warship was earlier a few days ago in India participating in a naval exercise with with our navy. And once the exercise got over, it was going back to Iran. It was south of Sri Lanka, very close to Sri Lanka. And over there, it was torpedoed by an American submarine. It was destroyed and more than 100 sailors are missing. So that's what's happened in the Indian Ocean. AU says how CIA failed to analyze Iran's contingency plans. The CIA's job is not to analyze the nation's contingency plans. The CIA's job is to forment problems in nations. It's the US intelligence services and who military intelligence etc whose job is to do all these things and looks like they made very bad assumptions and they have been caught completely by surprise and they've been shocked by what's happened. Clearly they did not anticipate what Iran will be capable of doing. Clearly they have failed miserably in anticipating what will happen. I don't know how but yeah V says what's your opinion on the declassification of alien files by Trump do you think that we have alien technology used in modern military warfare I doubt it very very much I am pretty sure aliens exist okay the universe is vast universe the observable universe is about 10 raised to 23 stars that is one with 23 zeros behind it that's how many stars you have Even if one each star has only one planet you have 10 to 23 planets. If one out of a million planets planets can have life. Then you have 10 to 17 planets that have some form of life. Maybe microbial life or whatever. If one out of a million of that have intelligent life, you have 10 to 11 planets with intelligent life. Intelligent life means us. So that is a tremendous number of planets, right? So I am pretty sure aliens exist out there but the universe is mostly empty. It's too vast and I think I think it's very unlikely that they have visited us and given us a their technology. Right? So I'm very very very skeptical about this thing. I will be the happiest person if we find out that aliens are here and they visited us but I think it's very unlikely and this declassification of alien fights by Trump and all. I think it's just a waste of time. Maybe they're trying to divert people's attention away into something useless to hide something else. Abhinav says Abhinav says how can the US mess up so badly? How come they did not plan a plan B? Is the US empire in decline? By the way, Indian air defenses sales go clearly their plan A was a disaster. I don't know how they have messed up so badly, but they have messed up. I think they will have a plan B and a plan C. I think the plan B will be to take the war long and try to bulcanize Iran by arbing various ethnic groups and all that. So that will be their plan B. So they they are very good at these things but that takes time and the Iranians will not allow just sit sit sit and watch. So the Americans their initial assumption seems to have been like we will win the war in two days. By the by the time the weekend is over, Iran will have been defeated or they may have come begging come to us begging us to negotiate. That didn't work. So clearly they made wrong assumptions and they messed up very badly. How did they mess up very badly? I'm not sure. That's classified I suppose. Dark Side of the Moon says, "Why did you why did the [clears throat] US start the war with Iran knowing it harms Gulf economies? Does it mean Jewish interests outweigh Arab petro dollar capital sustaining US markets? It looks like the US did not start the war at all. Looks like the Israelis started the war and the US seem to have some kind of obligation that if Israel is in any kind of danger, they have to step in because Marco Rubio, the Secretary of State said very clearly that we we started the war because we knew that somebody's going to attack Iran and if Iran is attacked by someone, they will attack us too. So that's why we attack first after somebody else attack. Who is it? Somebody else obviously is Israel. We know that Israel attacked first. So the US did not start the war. The Israelis started the war. The Israelis don't care about the Gulf economies. Even the US doesn't care about the Gulf economies. Uh so that's the thing. That's that's what's actually happened. So Schneer says, can we buy SEO without declaring it in the media or to the world or or to the US whichever company works on this has to keep everything confidential. Technically I suppose we can do it. Um but it'll be very hard to hide these things because production lines are massive and there are too many people involved in this and the the word typically comes out. So we can try I suppose we can do it quietly but typically these things are almost impossible to hide. Prattab VGM says why some Indians are behaving like Israel is dad. I think there's a there there's a tendency of a lot of Indians to hero worship certain nations right full support s why do they do it because see it's not their fault because the education system doesn't given them has robbed them of the ability to think critically that's why the hero worship some countries and they idolize some countries yeah shir G says why didn't the CIA or Bossad know about the missiles I don't know I don't know I think They they based their assumptions based on what happened in the 12-day war last year in which Isra did launch basiles and do some damage but it was not extensive it was not massive right so maybe they and maybe they believed that they had already that that they would be able to achieve complete air supremacy over Iran and we've already destroyed natans and furough so you know Iran is just it needs it just needs one more blow before it is destroyed maybe that's what they assume assumed clearly Their assumptions were terribly terribly off target off the mark. Anchul Gupta says the US sank Iranian ship near Sri Lanka India's backyard. What will India do? Where's foreign policy headed next 5 years? Five things India is doing right. What will India do about this? India will do absolutely nothing about this. Absolutely nothing. This happened outside of India. This happened outside of India's territorial waters. So, India will do absolutely nothing about this. Where is the foreign policy headed over the next five years? We'll have to see, sir. We'll have to see. Five things India is doing right. I don't know. Five things India is doing right. Uh I don't know. Yeah, we are buying Russian oil again. That's one thing we are doing, right? We buying S400. That's another thing we doing, right? I'm sure there are more things. I'm sure there are more things. Akash Badra, thank you very much sir. Thank you very much. Pratipar Roy says New Zealand defeated South Africa scored 12 173 in 12.5 overs. Finn Allen of 33. Good god they are into the finals. Hopefully against India on Sunday. South Africa is out of the tournament. Well, thank you for the update. Oh, the match was going on. Was it right now? Yeah. All right, maybe I'll see the highlights maybe tomorrow or whatever. Anyway, thank you sir for the updates and uh update and I hope that India wins the semi-final right whenever it happens. Tomorrow is it maybe tomorrow. Okay. Dark first says in what circumstances should we fear Pakistan in the current circumstance? We should fear them because they're a terrorist nation, right? As long as they are a terrorist nation, they they are to be feared because they have this propensity to target civilians. So we should fear them. Our Rajun Rajar says is Pakistan's job to assist in securing Bram. Uh perhaps perhaps the US does seek Bram. Bagram is a very very strategically important air base, vital air base. The US definitely does seek to repossess it and maybe they could perhaps use Pakistan as a tool in making this happen. So yeah, it's possible. Alex George asks a very interesting and relevant question. Why does the United Nations seem inactive in conflicts such as the Iran war and the situation in Venezuela? Because the United Nations is obsolete, outdated, and youthless and worthless. The UN does nothing today. It simply serves as a tool of the powerful nations that make up the UN, but it doesn't really have any actual beneficial impact on the world. When was the last time the UN did anything of any any worth anything worthwhile? It's been decades. I suppose the UN is inactive. The UN is uninvolved in peace. Let me show you the meme. Okay. United Nations uninvolved in peace. Check this out. This is what the UN actually is. It's uninvolved in peace. The UN is obsolete, useless, worthless. It should be disbanded. Rohan says, "Will the Russians join or leave Iran alone in this war?" It'll all depend on how the war goes. Right now, Iran is able to fight on its own. But if Iran finds itself in a situation where it has to be rescued then Russia may step in and rescue Iran. Pratep Kumar voices CIA is preparing Kuresh invasion of Iran. Yes, Trump has made some statements about this and the CIA may be working on this matter and they will make this will make the Turks extremely unhappy and displeased because Turkey will oppose this tooth and nail. But yeah, Tommy Versati says, "Why are Russia and China not backing Iran?" See, Iran is very accurately targeting various targets through its ballistic missiles and through its drones. How is Iran getting the locations, specific exact locations? Because the Americans who own GPS would have switched off GPS for Iran. So, the Iranian military can't use GPS. Now what the Iranian military is doing it's using Glonas which is Russian and BU which is Chinese. So the Russian and Chinese alternatives to GPS Iran is using that. Secondly the Chinese are giving Iran apparently high quality high resolution satellite imagery in re almost real time so that Iran knows exactly what's happening. So Russia and China are indirectly helping Iran right now. Iran is able to fight on its own. In the future if there is a situation when Iran needs help most likely Russia at least will step in. Okay. Jri Jri Vishatan says he know Shanti Mahabharat. All right. So you are saying this is sit obviously um so you saying that dharma and shaky go together right essentially that's what that's what this shloka means okay so essentially the the distilled meaning is that without without shi there is no dharma You need to maintain structure if you want to if you want to preserve dharma more or less. Right. Right. Agree. Struggler says Poland is seeking nukes apparently. I think Poland has made a statement that they will now look towards becoming a nuclear nuclear weapon state. Yeah, the world is getting more interesting now, isn't it? Pratipar Royce's 50,000 troops participate in US operation against Iran. Israel invades southern Lebanon. Yeah. Well, you see this is called escalation. This escalation. 50,000 troops are participating in the American operation. Well, how about putting troops on the ground? Boots on the ground, Uncle Sam. We'll see about that. W says, "Russia and Ukraine fighting in Europe and USI, Israel, and Iran involved in a war. Do you think China might see an opportunity to take Taiwan?" Absolutely not. China will not try to take Taiwan at this point in time. No, it'll be disaster for China. Uh first of all, the straight of foremost is closed and the oil that China gets from that place that region about 30 to 40% of China's oil it's now stopped. China obviously has strategic oil reserves but China will not you know use this do try invasion at this time at this point in time and secondly the US is way too powerful in China's own backyard and right now the US has hundreds of military bases in the region and China doesn't have the appetite for risk China doesn't want to risk any damage or destruction of its industrial infrastructure so I I think this is not the right time for China to even consider making a move on Taiwan. Spider-Man says you said Dharma will disappear in next 50 years max. Why? I didn't say Max. I didn't say Max. I said it's possible that Dharma may not last 50 or 100 years. Why? Because of the situation. I explained in great detail when I said see you remember I said this will happen, right? So why don't you remember why I said it will happen? I explained why this could happen. I didn't guarantee it will disappear in 50 years. I said every new generation is getting progressively deassinated. There's industrial scale demographic engineer re-engineering happening in India. Industrial scale conversions to other religions. So many issues I've listed out. Why don't you remember that sir Spider-Man I said that you remember what I said but you don't don't remember the reasons I gave. So I have not said it will disappear in 50 years max. is not what I said. I said it could disappear in 100 years, maybe even in 50 years. I didn't say it'll disappear in 50 50 years max. That is not right. Rohan says, "What are your views on China arming Iran? The mysterious 25 cargo planes landing in Iran with transponders off. Clearly, China has uh supplied something to Iran and something in reasonably large quantities, right? 25 cargo planes. Uh that's what one even I've heard. So I don't know what China supplied to Iran. Was it arms? Was it ammunition? Was it something else? I don't know. But clearly the Chinese did supply something. So you can say that China and Russia are both indirectly assisting Iran in some way or the other. But the fighting and all of that is being done by Iran. So I don't I have no other views beyond that because I don't know what was supplied to Iran. But clearly something of use probably something of military use. House of Discussion says, "Is Iran's death Israel's trap? Iran dies. Who's next?" Um, does No, I don't see it that way. No. No. Adita says USA controls Israel or Israel controls USA. From what we have seen the past 3, four, five days, Israel dragged America into this war. And once Israel started the war, America had no option but to join. So from that you can maybe surmize that Israel controls the USA. Okay. Chira Chiag Raj says order of things change education system remove reserve reservation. I think changing the education system will take 20 30 years. Why do I say this? Because we have seen how China has transformed their education system. It took about 30 plus years for China to do that. That's a very long process but it has to be done. But res removing reservations is just a signature on a piece of paper. Right? So that can be done first. That can be done first. So first remove the reservations or change the way reservations are done. Instead of making reservations cast, make them based on a family's financial status, financial condition. So those who genuinely need reservations, they'll they'll get it and do it only for maybe 10 20 years and then remove it completely. So that's what needs to be done. Modern samurai gaming says, "How are you so genius? How can one become like you?" I have no idea. I don't think I'm a genius. I'm just interested in certain things and I speak about those things. I don't think I'm a genius. How can you become like me? Don't try to become like me. Be you. Be the best version of yourself. You have I guarantee that you have many great qualities within you. Discover those qualities and strive to become the best version of yourself. Don't try to be like me or or whoever else. Be yourself, but the best version of yourself. All right, sir. All the best. Man says, "What is stopping Iran from making the dirty bomb? because it is look nuclear weapons are inhuman the use of nuclear weapons is a crime against humanity okay so Iran won't do it at least won't use it until unless it has no option left it has no choice left it has nothing else you know it has no other options left dirty bomb is is a very nasty thing a dirty bomb is a standard chemical explo explosive with nuclear facile mater nuclear material added to it. So what a dirty bomb does is that when it explodes it spreads nuclear material radioactive material over a wide area and that causes cancer and defects and so on so forth and all that. So that is a it's terrorism. It's not warfare. So Iran will probably not use a dirty bomb unless it has it has been pushed into a quarter and it has a do right situation. In that case it may do it otherwise it won't do it. Messi aim says how should India balance energy security trade and diaspora safety amid the war Iran wars impact on oil prices and shipping routes. What's the question? Energy security trade and diaspora safety. How do you balance this? You do whatever you can. That's what you do. You for figure out balance. Keep everything in balance. Do whatever you can in all these departments. So work on energy security which means you purchase oil from Russia, purchase from wherever else. Right? These are different matters. These are not interconnected. So you do your best in each department. Diaspora safety. Well, many of the diaspora may not even be Indian citizens. Right. Right. And those who are Indian citizens, they've chosen to voluntarily go somewhere. Still, India will do its best in case there's a situation to send warships to bring them back. So these are all different compartments, different different uh [sighs] uh different departments. MEA fact check has debunked the Indian port demand. Really? Let's take a look. Uh what is MEA fact check? MEA fact check. MEA fact check. Let us see. Ministry of External Affairs official fact check account. This doesn't have a great tick mark, right? Give me a second. Give me a second. Let me go to the actual Twitter. This is a different version. Okay. So, let us go to Twitter. All right. Now if we search for MEA MEA India MEA So we have MEA India. This is an official government account. How do I know it? It's got a gray tick mark. Gray. It's verified. It's a government or multilateral organization account. Now, if I go to MEA fact check, okay, this account, it's got a blue check mark. It's just verified. It's not an official government account. So, if this government says it's true or fake, it's not official government facteing. It is some private individual who's pretending to be a government person. Okay? So don't consider what MEA fact check says to be official government statements. Okay? We have to be a little mature in these matters. If there's a gray check mark, it's a government account. If it's a blue check mark, it's a private person. All right? Please be careful. Don't be misled and fooled in this manner. Okay. Okay. Uh, hitesh says, "Is India not deporting illegal Bangladesh, cookies, infiltrators, etc. due to US EU pressure since many Indians go there illegally?" I have no idea. I have no idea. Many Indians go there illegally. I don't think many Indians go there illegally. Some Indians go illegally. Some Indians will be going illegally. But it's not like millions of Indians are going there, right, illegally. And if Indians are going there illegally, well in take action against them, right? So I don't know why India is not deporting the millions, tens of millions of illegal Bangladeshes and the I don't know how many lakhs of cookies and the god knows how many Rohingyas and god knows who else. I don't know why India is not doing that. I don't have an answer. Moit but but thank you very much. So thank you very much indeed. R. Rajun Rar Rajger Rahun Rajar says looking back should we have avoided Synindor and kept our strength hidden just did some secret missions looks like it was a wakeup call for the US. It was a wakeup call for the US. They suddenly realized that India is no longer a pushover. But whatever pressure the Americans have applied on us they would have done it anyway. They would have done all of this anyway. So even if we had not done Sindur by today we would have been in the same situation where the Americans make exactly the same demands they're making of us now. So I don't think if we had avoided Sindur things would have been different for us. Yeah. Okay. Vali Valika Valika says to examine one's own homeland with clear eyes unburdened by identity or sentiment. This is the quiet discipline of a spiritual mind. You're admirable. [laughter] Thank you so much ma'am. Thank you so much indeed. Thank you. S Morgan says looks like over reliance on oil is the case for most of is the cause for most of these conflicts. Maybe after this they can accelerate the re research of viable nuclear fusion reactors. There is research that's going on on nuclear fusion. The Chinese are doing research. They they have this instrument uh called a tokamak. Okay. It's a donut-shaped spheroidal thing and you have plasma inside and they are doing pretty good job with that and so on. But nuclear fusion it's still about 10 20 years away. Okay. And the nuclear fusion reactor is massive. You can't use it to power an airplane or a missile or a car or a ship. And nuclear fishision which is standard nuclear reactors they are huge. And whether it is fusion or fishision, you need water because eventually the heat is generated is driving a steam engine. >> So nuclear fusion or fishision, it can't replace oil. That's that's the truth. Kilki Susan says, "Peace was never an option." Um, okay sir. Okay. Mahuya Chak says, "When will the war end decisively and why is gold not getting the fuel?" Sir, ma'am, I am not Nostradamus. I am not one of those analysts who makes predictions. This is what is going to happen in the next three months or whatever and every prediction comes true always and you then put it on Twitter. I predicted this. I am not one of those guys. I I don't know when the war will end decisively. I think this war will go on for months, maybe years. When will it end? I don't know. Why is gold not getting the fuel? Gold not getting the fuel? I'm not sure what you're asking there, sir. Ma'am, I don't know. Why is gold not getting the fuel? I don't know. Spade says, "How can we keep society's morality intact? By teaching the right values, right principles, and right behaviors. How do you do it? By reforming the education system. The education system is the foundation of your life. It's everything that goes into your head during your formative years. It's what stays with you for the rest of your life. You have to reform the education system to do this. Pril pieces will you debate with pure economics? I don't do debates. You mean economists or economics? I I generally don't do debates. It's a waste of time. Snag says, "I see a Shia ISIS forming in Iran after this war." All right, sir. Okay. I hope it doesn't happen, but who knows? Yeah. Okay. Ashish says, "Met MEA fact check." Like I said, like I said, my friends, MEA fact check is not an official government account. Now, you will say, "How do I know?" I know. I'll tell you how I know. See MEA India this Twitter account has a gray check mark. It's a government organization account. Do you understand? It's gray. Now if you go to MEA fact check if you go to MEA fact check this account it's got a blue check mark. It's got a blue check mark. It is a private account. It's not a government account. It is a person, a private person trying to pretend to be a government account. Okay? Do you understand that? Please, please don't be misled in this manner. Please don't be fooled. Okay? Demon Slayer says, "Noam, if Iran loses, who leads the Shia world?" I suppose nobody does. The majority of the world's Shia population is in Iran, by the way. I suppose no one does or I don't know who does. I'm not an expert in the Islamic world or Shia world. So I can't say really now. Miss Patel says military muscle Trump's economic muscle now established. Yes. Yeah. Uh what is that the the thing? Um power always trumps money. So military muscle always trumps economic muscle now established. I've been saying that for quite some time now for years actually but now we have seen it in action. Yeah I'm glad you saw the pattern M Patel. All right P Lok thank you very much sir. Thank you. So Jani says there appears to be rising tension pointing towards a possible conflict. Is there any indication that India could enter a warlike situation between April June? Could it result in territorial gains? Look, this is a question you should ask an astrologer. I don't know what's going to happen between April and Juel. I've said that there is high possibility that in this year there could be an IndiaPakistan conflict. I've said that. But when could it happen? I don't know. Actually, the right time for India is now. Now. This is the time actually. If you want to break Pakistan, this is the time. Yeah. March 2026. Um yeah so I think that's this is the right time. I don't know if it'll happen between April or April or June. I can't say can't say. Joy Tiwari says is it the perfect time for India to take over P. Okay. This is the right time to hit Pakistan if we have the the the the fortitude to do that. Yeah we have the military muscle. We have everything but we have to consider the effects the second order third order effects of that what the [clears throat] US will do how they will react and so on. But if if you want to do it now is the right time really now Miss Patel says are submarines and missile boats better or greater than warships? How many do we need? See, a warship is a large target and it's visible and it's slow moving and it's got a lot of people. So, a warship costs a lot of money, hundreds of millions of dollars, one warship, a destroyer. And it's reasonably easy to destroy. But a submarine is hidden. It is way harder to destroy a submarine than to destroy a warship. A Houthi can destroy a warship. Submarine takes specialized knowledge to destroy a submarine to hunt it down to to discover to find out where it is and so on. So submarines and submarines are hidden and they are deadly. They are deadlier than warships and missile boats have the advantage that they are cheap and small and pretty fast. So let's say you have $20 million missile boat which carries three brahos missiles and it can navigate reasonably fast and if you have let's say let's say 10 of those 100 of those that's just $2 billion that's like two or three warships but you've got a 100 missile boats for that for that money but that gives you the advantage of quantity because quantity is a quality of its own. Have you seen the Iran war? Have you seen that quantity has a quality of its own? The Iranian missiles. So yeah, missile boats in that way are better than warships, but they have disadvantages. They don't have long endurance. They don't have long ranges and so on. They are good for coastal defense, but they are a frightening tool if you use them properly. How many subs do we need? At least 50. How many missile boats do we need? Ideally 300. Pratip Kumar Roy says in a video of professor Jang he said AI is fake it's just supervised machine learning gave examples of edge cases like self-driving cars he said if someone tries to hit the car AI can't defend itself what are my views I haven't thought about it AI is fake it's it's a software right it's not we don't know if it's conscious we don't know if it is actually AGI it is of course machine learning it can be supervised can be unsupervised it can be reinforcement learning it be whatever. Um, if someone tries to hit the car, AI can't defend itself. Yeah, it can't because we haven't programmed that into the AI, right? So, I don't know. I haven't seen the video, so I don't know exactly what he said, but uh to some extent he's right. And I'll have to see exactly what he said to understand the nuances of what he said. Sideways says as at what point does intervention become imperialism? At what point does intervention become imperialism? I don't know. If you have a pattern of intervening everywhere, that's imperialism. I suppose if you intervene everywhere and you push people around and you impose your will everywhere all the time, if you have a pattern of doing that consistently, that's imperialism. Vidyhimar says, shouldn't Russia, India, China to Iran's rescue in the national interest? U see India is not capable of doing that. India is not powerful enough. India is a relatively weak nation and India has a lot to lose if it gets involved in the war. So India won't do it. Russia and China may Russia will definitely do it if required if required. Not at this point in time. And China also is kind of involved in in other ways. Luminance says are we leaning too much on Israel's side? I don't know. It it remains to be seen. We need to see we need to examine more. Sonali Sonali says Sonali has become a new member. Thank you very much ma'am. Thank you very much and welcome to the channel's membership. Pratip Kumar Roy says I used to watch Peter Zahhan. Too much American bias. Now this professor Jang from China sounds smart but I'm confused. Are they brainwashing us? I don't know. I don't know. Peter Zahan clearly has a very clear distinct American bias. He's got this short videos. I've seen a few of those. That's a purely American opinion. Very biased which which is fine. I don't have nothing against bias. I am biased. I am biased towards India. So it's fine. Be biased. So Peter Zahan is is properly totally biased against towards the US. Professor Jang I haven't watched. I watched like one clip of his or something. U he's from China. Sounds smart. I'm confused. Well, are the brainwashing us? I don't know. Jang no. Zahan definitely is a brainwashing uh tool of the US. Professor Jang, I'm not sure. Maybe he is smarter than Zahhan and maybe maybe more subtle. I don't know. We'll have to see. I I haven't seen that. I haven't seen his videos in detail. So I can't say about Jang. Zahhan definitely is easy. He can easily brainwash people. You know those who are gullible. H says good evening. How do you see current geopolitical events infold unfolding in a few weeks to months over and over this year end? I think I can at this point in time let me speak about the Iran war. I think it will last for for weeks definitely weeks most likely several months and possibly even several years that's how I see the Iran war otherwise I don't know the the other events I can't say nit says no nothing okay thank you thank you very much sir ma'am uh pratitar says global left versus Israel who should we trust more we should stay out of these international competitions focus on ourselves and do Poor thing. That's all we should do. Fields strong band says my workout routine today. Three sets of carefully monitoring the situation. Three sets of keen observation. Two sets of deep concern and five sets of stupid press release. [laughter] I love that humor. Love that humor. We need a bit of humor in life. Always remember that. Java bro says, "Benefits or loss of Iran destroying US bases for us? um benefits or loss. If Iran destroys all the US bases in the Gulf region, we lose nothing. We lose nothing. Benefit for us. Well, we the US may be may have less leverage over us. Yeah. So, that's a benefit. Okay. You pratiba tube. You Pratiba tube says happy holy and good health sir. Thank you very much. Thank you very much indeed. Appreciate your time and efforts. I think that as a nation with most volatile ecosystem our sovereignty is the only leverage way for surviving any kind of progress and prosperity. If we lose then what's left? Am I making sense? Oh you are making a lot of sense. Of course sovereignty is the most precious thing we have. The our sovereignty is the most precious thing we have and uh it is under under threat for sure. The Americans want want to take away sovereignty for us from us. They want to turn turn us into convert India into a vasal state and we have problems within India internal problems. If we resolve those internal problems, it will be harder for the other nations to uh you know to threaten our sovereignty. So sovereignty is the most precious thing that we have. It's the only thing that allows us to survive long run in the long run. It's the only thing that allows us to preserve our civilization. So we have to maintain our sovereignty, preserve our sovereignty at any cost. I completely agree with you. Uh so yeah, I agree and thank you very much and hopey happy holy to you and to all the viewers and good health to you as well and to all the viewers. Thank you very much. Bukish says [laughter] Bukap Pisach hungry ghost. Bukapis says your views on weapons like white phosphorus and napal. I think these are uh war crimes and crimes against humanity. [snorts] I like the smell of napal in the morning. Smells like victory. Robert Dwal. Okay. Mystic Maz says, "Can I aim to start a defense company in India?" Well, you can aim to have it. To start one, you you'll need the right tools and you'll need the need the right amount of money and so on. But you can do it. There are defense companies in India and India needs defense companies. But you've got to be smart in business and make sure you don't go bankrupt. Kunal Vashish says, "How will GCC secure water if Iran can keeps attacking water? Is impact of GCC pulling out of US stocks and mass impact of massive AI bubble globally? Those are different topics and they okay impact of GCC. Uh impact how will GCC secure water if Iran keeps attacking water? Iran thus far hasn't attacked water. See these Gulf nations they depend on desalination plants for water. What does a desalination plant do? It takes sea water, distills it and gives and and and and produces a clean water [clears throat] portable drinkable water. That's a desalination plant. Now if those desalination plants are destroyed, the Gulf nations are in a tremendous crisis. Iran hasn't done that thus far apart from Fujira. But if that's that's the weak Achilles heel of the Gulf countries. If Iran destroys those desalination plants, game over. I don't know how what they do about water then. I don't know. There will be huge crisis. Uh so yeah, impact of GCC pulling out of US stocks that will be pretty big because the GCC nations have invested a lot of their money petro dollars into the US stock market. If they pull out, it's going to crash the stock markets and massive AI bubble globally. That's a that that we'll see we'll see remains to be seen. Dir Kamat says that great tick account desal has a fact check in his bio which is an official endorsement. Okay, let's see that. Oh, you may be entirely tremendously right. Oh, so fact check account is me fact check. So why doesn't this account have a great tick? What is the government of India doing? If you don't have a great take, people will assume it's not a official account. But uh Rand Juel has put it in his bio. So it must be an official account. Okay. So I stand corrected. Thank you for letting me know sir. I wasn't uh aware. Thank you so much. Okay. Fantastic. Really now Patel says I'd rather take pain than letting us drag us in war. I completely agree with you. completely. Completely. Mudit says, "It's 12:00 now. When will you sleep? What's your normal time?" My normal time is maybe latest by 11:00. But when I do these live streams, if they drag on for longer, I keep it going cuz I still have about what 18 super chats left. And uh if people have paid for this, I better take those questions, right? All right. H says pure economics is influencer Kesh of Biddi. Okay. I'm not aware of this person anyway. Okay. Uh Ashish Karnak Ashish says me Emac check is legit. Sar check this bio. I just did. I just did. So thank you gentlemen and ladies for pointing it out. I stand corrected. It is legit but it looked fake because it is a blue tick. If the MEA is operating it, why have they not put a great tick on it? What are they doing? Seriously, Christian Sewart says, "Will Razaphi become king of Iran again? Monarchy? I hope not. The guy is imminently unsuitable for being a monarch." I hope not. Rajul Lalwani says, "Assume we are a vasal. How do we put head down and grow?" If you are a vasal, a lot of your destiny and fate is controlled by the foreigner, by the by the overlord. But you can still put your head down and grow. What you can do is you can grow your economy. Grow your economy, grow your military as far as is possible and then find a way to once again become sovereign. So find out how exactly your sovereignty is compromised or diluted and then when the time comes you rectify that that situation. That's theoretically how we do it. But specifically it will depend on exactly how the sovereignty is diluted. There are lots of ways in which sovereignty is lost. There is territorial sovereignty. There's for there's there's economic sovereignty, there's military sovereignty, there's technological sovereignty, there are so many different forms of sovereignty and you may lose some part of it and then that is what compromises you. So yeah, tsunami is Iran attacking Israel embassies in Middle East. Do you think India could be next? I don't think we can write off the probability now that they hit Turkey. They haven't hit Turkey as far as I saw. It looks like they have one missile. It looks like uh it was aimed at Turkey, but it was intercepted apparently. So they haven't hit Turkey. Maybe they tried to hit Turkey. In Iran is attacking embassies in the Middle East. Really? Uh where do I find this? Twitter is the only place I suppose. Embassies. Embassies. Really? Do we have something? Embassies. Latest. Latest. Come on. Gulf embassies shut. Embassies. Embassies. Embassies. Uh, embassies. Okay. I I don't know. Oh, Iran has threatened to bomb Israel embassies. It has not done that yet. Okay. So, it's not done it yet, but it's kind of threatened to bomb embassies. So, yeah. Okay. We'll see. I do. You think India can be next? Why will India be next? I don't see India being next in bombing whatever. I don't see so godliness says India signed three defense pacts with USA Limo Kasa Bea. These packs allowed the US to dock their ships on our ports. Hence they will park their warships here and create a safe stock holding. Um I hope not. I know about the L leaka Kumasa thing also. Okay. Yeah, we have signed these things and see now, right? And there's more breaking news. Uh, what is that? Give me a second. Sorry. Breaking news. Apparently, senior Iranian military official, if the US and Israel pursue regime change, our final strike missiles will target the Demona nuclear reactor and all regional energy infrastructure. Well, that's a logical approach. Makes sense. Uh yeah. Okay. So, I hope the Americans don't park their warships here. I hope the government of India says no, not not allowed. I hope so. We for biases US has tasted setback. RIC should take hard and move on. We should yeah but I isn't a thing right is embedded in bricks and ra [snorts] don't get along together. Especially I and C have an issue. C has an issue with I. If China behaves ra can happen but anyway you mean the three nations should take heart and move one. I agree with you. I agree. Shivang brahut. Thank you very much. Shivang G indeed. Thank you sir. Sparkestic has become a new member of of the channel. Thank you very much sir or ma'am. Thank you very much indeed. Dave Chandan Malik says what's your opinion on drone carrier? You mean an aircraft carrier purpose built for drones? I think it's an interesting concept. I've not thought about it. Yeah, maybe it's a reasonably decent idea perhaps. I have not thought about it. Uh Kosmi re audio says Iran is almost destroyed. Why are people delusional? So you are saying I'm delusional. All right sir. Madhav says I'm getting payment gateway not authorized. Message for your course. Please share the correct website. Thank you. Uh I'll look into that sir. I'll look into that. Thank you. Ratip Kumar Roy says in video titled psycho history he said it's impossible to feed any algorithm in self-driving cars that can protect itself from getting hit. This is edge case is why it's fake and can't replace humans. Okay, that's what professor Jang Jang said in a video titled psycho history. It's impossible to feed algorithm and self driving cars that can protect itself from getting hit. That's an edge case and it's fake and can't replace human. Maybe it's an edge case today. As AI grows and it gets better, maybe it'll change. I don't know. Yeah. Vishnu Surendran. Thank you very much. Vishnu Gav Yodha says, "How can you say Iran doesn't target civil when it's proxyed 7 October 7? I mean current Iranians are not even Persians. Current Iranians are not even Persians. Really? 50% of them are. How do you say Iran doesn't target civilians when it's proxy October 7? I not Hamas is not an Iranian proxy. Hamas is you could say an ally of Iran because Iran's enemy is Israel. But Iran did not do October 7. Iran did not target civilians. Hamas did that. And Iran is okay with it, I suppose. But Iran has not done it. The same way America is okay with Pakistan targeting India with terrorism, but America doesn't do it. It's different. S Morgan says, "I have watched almost all of Professor Jang's videos. The best way I can describe him is he is somewhere between me and Alex Jones." Alex Jones. Alex Jones is like that's a very different person. Okay. So, Professor Jang is bit somewhere between me and Alex Jones. Well, okay. That's very interesting. All right. Thank you for letting me know between me and Alex Jones. Alex Jones is I suppose the polar opposite of me. I suppose I don't. Okay. Spider-Man says, "My spidey sense must have missed the live stream where you explained the dharma issue in detail." Which dharma issue? I have done 335 36 live streams. I've discussed everything in detail. I don't know which one it was. I can't say. Uh by the way, how you rate row capabilities? Is India doing enough? I don't know how to rate rows capabilities because I'm not aware of ROW's operations. Whatever RAW does is it happens in in the darkness. I have no idea what operations RAW has done or is doing. And that's why I have no context that I can use for rating RO's capabilities. There are all kinds of experts who say how the hell do they know? They are bluffing. They're fooling you all. I have zero understanding of RAW. I have no idea of RO's capabilities. I hope they are good. Taran says, "Is Iran a sovereign state?" Yes, it is. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Dir Khan says, "Your opinion on the port fact check posts?" Uh, you mean MEA fact check? Give me a second. Uh, I'll go to Twitter. Uh, MEA fact check, right? Let's see. Have they said something about the porta fact check? Let's see. Okay. Claims made by made on O US-based channel that Indian ports are being used by the US Navy are fake and false. We caution you against such phase such baseless and fabricated comments. Okay. So the Indian government is stating that this port thing is this port claim is fake. Well, I'm so glad. I'm absolutely tremendously glad. That's my opinion. I'm pleased. Very pleased. Shivang Brahmabat says, "What do you think about the US calling their missiles and artilleries back from Korea? That's the reason why China is silent." Um, so the US is considering moving some THAAD uh uh assets from South Korea to the Gulf region. THAAD is terminal high alitude area defense. It's a it's a anti-missile defense system and there's only about 20 30 of those in the world and the Americans are considering moving though at least one or two of those from Korea, South Korea to the Gulf region which will leave South Korea a little more exposed to China. I think that is a kind of a desperate move. I think it is it is showing you there are holes in the American armor right and China is silent for different reasons. China is not silent because THAAD is being considered by the Americans. China is silent because their whole game of we are superpower. It's been exposed. They are no superpower. That's why they are silent. Okay. Voyager Voyager Thiagi says, "Have you read the books by George Freriedman?" Freedman, the storm before the calm and the next 100 years and how do you do you agree with the theory that this is America century? Well, I haven't read the books by George Freriedman any of those. So, I don't know. I can't say let's see what are these books okay let's see let us try and google this okay George Freriedman the storm before the calm let's see um the storm before the calm let's see what Amazon has to say about this okay it's got 4.4 four out of five stars, almost 1,800 reviews. It's a book from February 2020. Uh George Friedman, focus in the US 2020s will bring dramatic upheaval and reshaping of the American government, foreign policy, economics, and culture. Okay, I am not aware of it. I have not read this book. So, I can't say what's the other one. The next 100 years. Let's see the next 100 years. Okay, so here's this obviously is a book in which it makes predictions. It looks like a forecast for for the oh okay a forecast for the 21st century. So again it's a for book about forecast about some kind of forecast that is making I haven't read these books. Do I agree with the theory that this is America century? Um it can be America century if America doesn't make blunders. Right now they're blundering clearly. So it can be America's century but it could also end up being Chinese century or or Russian or Indian century depending on various factors. So I can't say as of now whether this will remain America century. America is obviously the predominant power in the world today. No question about that. But look at the Gulf region. They are unable to defeat Iran, right? And they have made a major miscalculation and blunder here. So if they continue that sort of behavior, it will not be remain America century for too long. So I can't say can't say it depends if they play their cards right it will be America's century because they have the massive advantage of being the sole superpower. Yeah s forces are we becoming a US facile slowly lately Indian geopolitical decisions have been a bit odd. Uh we are under tremendous pressure from the US. It may not be visible in public but we are under pressure. uh I would not say as of today that we are already a vasal but we are under pressure and they are pushing us trying to push us in that direction and that's why I've said that there is a high chance in the next five years we become a vasal but we are not a vasal yet so let's be optimistic and positive Saikumar thank you very much sir and Saiikumar once again thank you very much sir indeed um Kosmir audio says most of the Alex Jones conspiracies have come to be >> [laughter] >> Well, well, looks like uh you may be correct about this. Well, isn't that interesting? The guy may be whatever. You may not like his behavior. He may find you may find him odd or whatever, but looks like he may he may be right about a lot of things. So, Sujay Patak says, "Is Trump doing all of this purposefully to to bring a recession?" Trump is doing all of this to acquire all the oil reserves in the world to get control of all the oil reserves. That's why he's doing it. Okay. KVL KVL Narima Rao says, "Hi, me and my son Vishnu are your fans." Thank you very much, sir. Uh to you as well as your son Vishnu. Thank you very much both of you. Thank you very much. Okay. Mustad versus CIA versus Ro which is the best agency. How can our robe become no one agency? Look, Mossad has the best reputation. Mossad has the reputation of being the best agency in the world. Okay, CIA has been around for a long time and they have done so many successful operations around the world. The CIA obviously you can't take it lightly. Row I have no idea. RO is a very secretive organization and I don't know I don't know how I don't know how to compare the three when it comes to Mossad there's lots of books that have been written by insiders when it comes to CI again lot has been written over the over the years raw I don't know I hope that RAW is the best agency but from what I know Mossad is definitely the best one that is from all the information in the public in the public domain how can Rorow become no one agency what do you mean dual agency. How can Ro become the best? By by doing what the best do, I suppose, and then doing it better. Kosmir Rodio says, "Are you planning to write any books?" Yes, I am. I'm in the process of writing books and they'll come out and I'll let you all know. Saiar says, "Is America following Raf Peter's blood border theory and is Iran war linked to this theory? What is the significance of PK in this theory?" I don't know this theory. It's the first time I'm hearing this blood border theory. Let me see what is that blood border theory. Blood border theory. Ralph Peter's proposal in the armed forces journal to redraw Middle Eastern ah borders along ethnic ethnic um yeah this thing [sighs and gasps] okay this one it's a proposal to redraw the borders of the Middle East along the ethnic lines ethnic and ethnic and religious lines uh is America following this theory possibly possibly especially in the term when it comes to Iran looks like they may be trying to follow this theory if they can't do region change they'll do balconization along those lines what's the significance of P in theory I'm not aware I've not studied the theory so I can't say but America seems to be using this theory is plan B for Iran possibly enlightened says why did reconstruction work in West Germany but not in Iraq Iraq is a third world country. Nobody is serious about reconstruction. Germany is a European nation, white people. So they will do reconstruction properly. Iraqi people are not white. They are brown people. Who cares about brown people? Why reconstruct Iraq? Use the reconstruction money for moneyaundering and whatnot. Right? That's the problem. Goullibar says, "What happens if the US is defeated in the in this war? Why are they attacking Ecuador?" You mean the Iran war, right? So for Iran a victory means survival and that means defeat for the US. What happens if if the US is defeated in this war? Well, there is going to be political repercussions. Donald Trump will his political career will be destroyed. The US uh will lose a tremendous amount of geopolitical stature. People will stop respecting the US. The US may lose some of its ability to arm twist other nations. Some of its coercive leverage. a lot of bad things will happen. Why are they attacking Ecuador? They are currently bombing Ecuador, America. They are bombing Iran. They also bombing Ecuador. Where is Ecuador? Let's find out. Ecuador is the small country in northwest and South America. Okay, let's let's go to the map. Ecuador. So, Ecuador is here. This nation, this is Ecuador. And the capital city is Ikito or Kito which is on the equator and it's south of Colombia and north of Peru that is Ecuador. And why is America bombing it? Because they said that there are some some cartels that are operating in Ecuador that need to be brought to heal. Actually what America wants is that they want an air base in Ecuador and the Ecuadorian people have voted against giving it to the US. So the Americans want de facto position instead of djour position and that's why they're attacking Ecuador. H says interview Alec Jones. Alex Jones it'll be vibe. [laughter] Okay let me see maybe I'll do that. Uh Vatiagi says the Russia Ukraine war operation Venezuela operation Iran Israel war have all explo exposed Chinese defense air systems. Are there any particular systems that are where they are truly having an advantage over America or Russia? I don't know. I am not a military expert. I'm not somebody who analyzes military systems, offensive or defensive systems. I don't know. I don't know. When it comes to the Iran, USI Israel war, all systems are exposed. Not just the Chinese air defense systems. The American Patriot system is exposed. The Israeli iron dope system is also exposed as you as we can see right so I don't know about the Chinese systems those are export versions maybe the Chinese non-export versions may be better I don't know is there any particular system where the Chinese have genuine advantage over America or Russia I don't know I don't sorry Bargav says most untampered rigid gita or something else I don't know I don't know sir hopefully the rigid but I can't Today Ankita Kachab Ankita G evening I missed the earlier part of the stream. My question India is taking side India taking side of the US is very disappointing. Keeping in view that US has a history of betraying and harming its own allies. How is this going to impact India? Thank you sir. Already answered. Did I already answer this? Uh let me anyway answer it. See yeah US India taking the US side is disappointing but India has taken the American side verbally not through actions. India is not supporting America's war on Iran. India is not doing anything that actually harms Iran. India has verbally kind of been on the American and Israeli side. Right? And we know that the US has a history of betraying and harming its own allies. That like what we are seeing right now in the Gulf, the US was supposed to defend its Gulf allies but they are being exposed to the missiles and the Americans are not defending them. So uh that's the thing and the government of India has decided to do this out of practical reasons not ideological reasons so that we will face the least amount of harm from the US. How will it impact India? Hopefully not too badly. Hopefully it doesn't have any real impact on India. Hopefully. So the impact is that we don't get dragged into the war. The impact is that Iran can also see that we are only verbally on the side of the US and Israel. We not doing anything actually that harms Iran. So hopefully that is what the world sees. Cosmir Rod says Trump will split split Iran, Kurdistan, Persia, etc. Okay sir, that's your prediction. Thank you. Goullibar says 200 US service members have filed formal complaints alleging that military commanders are framing the current war with Iran and as a biblical ar biblical Armageddon. Seems boots on ground morale is down. Yeah, I'm not surprised that there have been complaints. 200 US service members have complained. Okay. Biblical Armageddon. Biblical Armageddon. I'm not sure if the morale is down or not. I heard stories of Boral not being great in aircraft carriers and so on, but can't say. But yeah. Okay. Uh Ritik Yedwani says might sound like immoral or ethical question right now but most people make their money during the war times. What can one do to make some money? I don't know how to make money during war times. So I am the wrong person to ask this question and yes people make money during times of crisis for sure but I am not an expert in that so I can't say. Pushina is a new member. Thank you very much sir. Thank you very much. Welcome to the membership of the channel. H says it's a pleasure to see you smile and laugh sir. Thank you. Yes, I I should do a little more of that, shouldn't I? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Gotham says, "Mayoc clinic versus AIMS. How do I compare?" I haven't been in either and I hope I am never in either, so I don't know, but I suppose Mayo Clinic would be better. I suppose I says, "Israel using Indian military-industrial complex for their weapons development. Seems what US MIC was doing in world war I like it as no morality in war earn money US way is Israel using the Indian military industrial complex for weapons development. I think there are joint ventures between India and Israel. We have jointly developed multiple uh weapon systems like the barak system which is frighteningly good and so on. So I think it's as long as it's mut mutually beneficial for both countries well and good. I'm happy with it. Okay. Hey, the posture code says did Iran do a nuclear test earthquake observed when? Just now or some time ago? Sometime ago the earthquake that happened it happened at a depth of 10 km which means it's natural. It's not man-made. If there's a new one, well, we'll see. We'll have to see about that. Golibbar says the US has lost three to four fighter jets in a war with a non-uclear state. No one is crying that the US has lost these fighter jets. India operation synindur people were like India has lost the war. Why? Because Indians don't know how to think. Indians think that a war is like a football match where there's a score of 7032 or whatever. During their the American invasion of Iraq in 2003, the Americans lost more than 50 planes. Did anybody cry that America has lost the war? No. Indians don't know how to think. Indians are immature and that's why we have the situation. The Americans have already lost at least three fighter planes and we can see those planes being shot down. But no one is crying that the US has lost the war. So yeah, Indians need to grow a bit of maturity. All right, that brings me to the end of today's live stream. All the questions are dealt with. Thank you very much everybody for the questions. It was very interesting. There are a lot of questions and there's a lot a lot happening. So I'll end this live stream over here this point in time. I will do the next one very soon probably in a day or in a couple of days maybe maybe Friday or Saturday. Until then take care. I think Sunday there's a World Cup final so I suppose I can do it there but yeah I'll do it very soon. Until then take care. Uh Pratip Kumar good night sir. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Injured soccer player. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. And let's end the live stream with that. Thank you very much everybody. Good night. Good day. And I look forward to seeing you very soon. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. I'll see you very soon. Good night. Good day. Bye-bye.