[Music] Hey, hey, hey. [Music] Heat. [Music] Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the latest episode of Ask Abijit. This is episode 292 and we are going to discuss geopolitics today. It's going to be entirely based on super chat and live chat. So let us see who all we have on the live stream with us this fine day. I can see Makin, Vladimir Putin, Deepipika, Vish Pala, Aayush Yadav, Kuml, Geopolitical the way from Indor, Suas, Reddi, uh, Deepipika, Somi, Jane, Anahita, Kennel, Aayush Singh, Bruce Wayne, Random Skull, Anime is enjoying my book series. Well, thank you so much. I'm glad you're enjoying it. More people should enjoy it. Uh Vinach Rajat Duhan Vikash PJ Chat DSP That Relationship Guy Harm Itachi Space I Painter Om Beered Hello uh Freedom from Outcome from Toronto Ultimate Power Vish Pala once again J Akash B Akash BA uh Tushar Kalborgi The Knowledge Priest Chhat DSP Sergeant Skylan Dave Duv Durya Mystic SK K AK J Digshit Abidai Singh Mav Mav Chin Pratam Sharma Aus in439 from Agra Namaste sir Pratam Sharma soldier boy animals from laugh animals for laugh from Mumbai Akash ba ashwani may Ujiha YT IP_1s Nikesh dahal pranam panam wladimir Putin well hello tanesh pandit naray hijukesh uttar Jagdish Mali Tushar Kalborgi Itachi Space HB um Adita Singh Takur Shama Prasad Kuml aky uh Shrih Harsh Shrih Harsh Moil satellite Vikas PJ once again Miss Tupi Namaste Shrih once again Bal Bal key today good evening PD dark night says good morning well good morning to you Junadas good evening from Assam well good to have Junadas Rush Rash God Anurag Gore Sneha Kishor Mulch Chandani Hello uh Jascaran Singh Ajay Kumar Akula Bi Musarat Ashtavakra and everyone else all right okay enough of uh greeting everyone I welcome you all to the live li live stream and let's take some questions do we have any interesting questions okay let's see let's go with Mlevin do you think the tariff regime change situation in our around our neighborhood would be different if Prime Minister Modi had full majority. No, it would not matter. Um the tariffs is something that's being applied globally by Trump, right? And the regime changes will happen even more vigorously would have happened even more vigorously if Mr. Prime Minister Modi had full majority. Uh anyway, uh it doesn't really matter whether Prime Minister Modi is full majority or not. The US is going to do what it will do. So it would not have made any significant difference right okayash Sharma says so my tweet on Aratai Zoho's logo looks like a Microsoft ripoff even the colors had prime minister used coup it would have survived well okay I'm not going to comment on Zoho's logo and all that I'm not sure I'm not I can't recall what it looks like uh look it's it's natural for anyone to be kind of uh if it's if it's the case It's natural for anyone to be inspired knowingly or unknowingly by the most successful companies in the world. So I see nothing wrong with that. In case that is that is indeed true that's okay. And if prime minister had used coup it would have survived possibly. Possibly. But the problem also is that coup wasn't a good user experience. I had a coup account. I tried using it. It was painful to use coup. It was painful. It was not a good user experience. This is one thing that Indians need to learn. If you create something, it has to be world class. Then don't blame Indians. If Indians stop adopting it, if your product isn't good, your products that you make have to be world class. Coup was a terrible user experience. Compared to Twitter, it was it was it was painful to use. So yeah if I would say that you know coup would have survived if they had given a better user experience if they had made made the app more user friendly we cannot expect Indians to adopt substandard products when they already used to American uh products that are the you know the best that have the best standards in the world. So if India wants to compete it has to compete at global standards and not push substandard stuff for Indians. Indians won't adopt that. So that's something that Indian uh developers need to need to be cognizant of. They need to realize this. Adi Aayou says why do you always refrain to talk about nose? What is nose? What's a nose? I'm sorry. What is that nose? I don't discuss noses here. I either discuss science, geopolitics or history. So I'm not sure what you're saying, sir. If you want to say something, say it clearly. Otherwise well what a Rahul says love all right thank you so much a Rahul G thank you so much I really appreciate that thank you so much thank you so much a Rahul says I I feel we are very far from reaching the 2047 goal there are no competent leaders in India no one to the level that is required and the system is designed to make the country fail it is so sad it is true we face immense problems that are internal problems more than the external problems the United States now deciding to contain India more than the problem of Pakistan which is a permanent perennial terror threat the problem of China which which doesn't want India to rise to grow and whatever other problems we face more than that the bigger problems are the problems within the structural problems India's system is designed to make India fail India's entire system is designed to ensure that India doesn't rise India doesn't rise to its fullest potential not even half the potential India should stay mediocre. India should remain at 10 15% of its potential. That is what the system is designed. It's designed in that way and all the internal problems that we have. All the artificial divisions that have been created in the country, Indians keep fighting each other all the time. Indians the education system has endowed Indians with this these set of characteristics and qualities. Indians have this urge to keep arguing with each other. They feel that arguing and raising your voice in argument makes you look very intelligent. No, success makes you int look intelligent. Not your verbal victories and arguments. No one cares about that. But Indians have been made to believe that all these fake victories are real victories. I defeated him in a verbal argument. Yeah. Good job, sir. Good job. Who cares? Yeah. So, there are all these problems and there are no there are very few there are very few competent leaders in India. I wouldn't say there are none at all. There are extremely few competent leaders in India. Um we would certainly require far better leaders than what we have right now. Um Prime Minister Modi, I would say that we are very lucky that we have him who is currently leading the country. I hope that he'll well he leads for as long as as possible but we need to have better leaders coming up in the pipeline. I can see a few, but it would be great if every state could throw up four, five top class leaders, but that's not happening because the system is designed to to seek and destroy talent and push forth mediocrity. So yes, we have all these issues and yet we have to find a way to to win somehow. So it's sad. I know it's sad, but but there's no point us sitting and crying because it's sad. We have to find solutions. We have to find solutions. We have to find a way to succeed despite all the odds. ICMBB says, "How could Ladak have been proactively dealt with?" Nothing. What is being done is right. See, Ladak has a population of 300,000, 200,000. I don't know what the population is. It's less than a million. Yeah, it's a big territory. It's a very sensitive place, strategically very sensitive. It's on the border between India and Chinese occupied Tibet. China has already taken a couple of bites out of Liddak, right? As we know oxai chain is Ladak but China has China currently occupies it because of the generosity and magnanimity of Shinu and so many other issues and now we have aspiring Zalinskis who are trying to create more trouble in Ladak. So Ladak used to be part of Jammu and Kashmir. It was completely suppressed by the governments that would that would sit in the Kashmir valley in shrineagar right and Ladak was essentially a hostage of of the valley. Now in 2019 the government of India they decided to transform Ladak into a separate union territory and the people of Ladak are happy. I am not inventing these stories. I have been to Ladak multiple times. Okay. It's one of my most favorite parts of India. I have been to Ladak multiple times. I've spoken to people there. I've spent significant time in Ladak. I know that people are really happy with the changes that has happened. But now this Wangchuk fellow h a foreign agent, aspiring Zalinski, he wants to create trouble over here, right? He's saying we need statehood. A statehood. You want statehood with 300,000 people. Yeah. What next? Dharavi should be a state. Dharavi has a population of more than a million. Make Dhavi a state now. Yeah. Everybody will now decide that we should we should have a stateood. Who the hell is he to claim that to to decide that Ladak needs statethood? And by making Ladak a state, you will have then and he wants the sixth schedule in Ladak, which means that no matter even if you want to construct a new road, a new new arterial highway, um a bridge, whatever, we will need to then the government will then need to take permission from people like him, right? And there are lots of these influencers these Dhuvarati kind of people who are supporting this Wangchuk fellow right now. Uh so what has been done has been I mean the only more proactive thing I can think of is that Wangchuk should have been thrown into prison like a year ago when he started all this nonsense. Whatever I think what has been done is is correct and India needs to be very careful about these foreign agents. There are plenty there are plenty of aspiring Zelinskis in this country and we need to deal with these people effectively. Uchiasa says why doesn't the US have military bases in Thailand, Laos, Cambodia given the fact that they are significantly very less on hard power score. Um see you don't the US decides where to have military bases depending on what they want to achieve not on not the basis of hard power score. If they have bases in let's say Japan and South Korea it is to deny something to China. It is to encircle China. If they have Taiwan as a unsinkable aircraft carrier, it is to once again contain China. It's to create these island chains that hem in the Chinese navy. When it comes to Thailand, there's no point strategically to have military bases there. I mean, whatever they want to achieve is already achieved. They don't need more military bases beyond what they have in South Korea, Japan, and um Taiwan. Taiwan is different a different different case but similar case once again so it doesn't make sense from a geopolitical perspective from a strategic perspective to put extra military bases there military bases cost a lot of money I I know the US has a tremendous amount of money but even then money is valuable you just don't go go around throwing it around so when it comes to different nations you have different approaches towards these nations even if there are your vasals it's not necessary that you have to put military bases in every vasal's territory right That's how it goes. Okay. ADB says, "I got to know about BB Lal and his work only because of you." Oh, wow. Okay. I'm glad. I'm glad. And I bought one of the books of his that you recommended. I like your point of digging deep in verification of sources. Learned a lot. Learned a lot. Learned a lot. Sincere gratitude and thank you. Well, I'm I'm so glad that you did go into the the work of Dr. BB Lal. Fantastic books. As you will know, you've bought bought one of his books. Fantastic. I agree that you need to dig deep. You need to verify sources for yourself. Don't just depend on people's opinions. No matter how much you like those people, right? Do your own due diligence. Do your own research. That's how you grow as a person. That's how you learn as a person. So, I'm so glad that you've done that you are doing this and you are very welcome, sir. Thank you so much. Sergeant Skylin says, "Cavari 2.0 by God with single crystal blade. My thoughts will it match GE414 engines? I think it's fantastic. Absolutely fantastic. So, uh this is first of all understand this is not the final product. This is a work in progress. This is a work in progress. The Godidge uh engine is something that they are in the process of developing. Whatever they have achieved thus far is what they have displayed in whatever place they displayed it. So, it's a it's a derivative of the cavary engine. That's what one hears. It is being taken forward by Godidge. Single crystal blades. Fantastic. Uh will it match the GE414 engines? I think eventually it will even surpass the GE414 engines. But we have to give it some time. We have to give it 5 10 years I suppose. Um what's the what's the current output of this engine in terms ter terms of kilontons of force? I'm not really sure. Let's shall we check it out? Let's let's uh check it out together. Uh cavary derivative Godidge right. Godidge Godridge cavary derivative engine what's the deal with this so um Godidge cavary derivative engine D1 is a dry dry it's a dry it doesn't have u you know okay it's a dry engine it doesn't have after burners okay turbo jet engine recently entered seated production with good aerospace delivering the first unit in 2025 the GTRE it's going to be lighter and more fuel efficient than the engines with after burners. Okay, it's going to be it's intended for unmanned UCAVs, unmanned combat aerial vehicles, other endurance based platforms such as the Gatak and Okay, so this is a this is good progress. So, it's going to be used for uh UCAVs and u the stealth UCAVs such as Gatak. Okay, so this is simply one step in the way forward. Um what's the what's the output? What's the output? 48 kon newtons. Some video says 48 kontons. Uh what does this say? What does the Wikipedia article say? After burning blah blah blah. Okay, this is the cavi the original one. Okay, fine. Uh the goodidge delivers caviar derivative D1 big win. What are the specs? Show us the specs. Okay, I don't need your history. I need the specs. 150 blah blah etc. Okay. So, caviar derivative is 46 to 52 konton. All right. When you have it with after burner, it's going to have 90 kon. I think that's the one that you need for fighter fighter jets. So, it's under development with Safh. Okay. So, it's it's a it's a encouraging step forward by Godidge. I think they should not stop the development. Even if GTR is working with Safh to devel to to develop the afterburner version, what God should do is first of all serialize the production. ensure that each engine that is delivered is high quality and then take this forward develop a version that has after burner capabilities and so on. So yeah um so it's a it's a work in progress. It's not the final product by any by any means. Abhishek Singh says if India and Pakistan engage in a full-scale conflict in Kashmir is there a possibility of this becoming Ukraine like situation? What's the outcome for India? Well it depends on several factors. uh look in a conventional conflict Pakistan is going to get squashed and it can't become Ukraine unless we decide that we want to we want a slow war scenario which we don't from our perspective the conflict should end in 48 to 72 hours less than a week's time definitely right it should be a rapid achievement of the objectives once a conflict start you need starts you need to have clear objectives of what is the end state that you desire And once you know what the end state is, you need to achieve it as rapidly as possible. So I don't think India will want to engage in a slow war situation, long war scenario. So depending based on the current capabilities of the two countries, it should be very simple for India to to end the conflict within like less than less than a week for sure and achieve whatever outcomes we want to achieve. Is it P? Is it the destruction of something or the other or whatever? Yeah. Uh the next time there's a conflict, there has to be a change of territory. Otherwise, the Pakistanis will keep on crying that we won, right? Uh but in what scenarios can it become Ukraine like situation? If the US decides to send aid to Pakistan, in that case Pakistan may end up being reinforced constantly by the Americans and in that case it can become a a Ukraine like situation or if somebody else for example China for whatever reason if it decides that that Pakistan needs to be reinforced. So if they keep sending supplies, if the Pakistanis after a week they they've run out of arms, ammunition supplies, whatever, but the Americans start sending supplies or the Chinese send supplies or both do it in that case it can turn out to be that kind of a scenario which is not good for India. Which is why we need to achieve the objectives very rapidly. Don't wait for someone to come to Pakistan's rescue. If you if if the conflict lasts more than a week, two weeks, then it will it will give enough time for other nations to potentially come to Pakistan's rescue. Which is why we need to be very clear as of right now before any conflict starts that if a conflict happens again whenever it does happen what are the objectives that we need to achieve as rapidly as possible what what what constitutes victory that's what we need to be very clear about and of course then there is the nuclear scenario the nuclear blackmail scenario that also we have to uh factor into our calculations obviously uh this time when the operation Synindur conflict happened clearly we called the Pakistani nuclear bluff and uh they they did not come anywhere close to operationalizing their nuclear blackmail. So I think the nuclear factory is going to be something that you know despite what whatever Pakistan says that we are a nuclear power or whatever I don't think they are that stupid that they will try to use nuclear weapons which will guarantee full complete destruction of Pakistan. So I think we can keep the nuclear threat aside and we need to have a very clear understanding of what constitutes victory in the next conflict. And if we have that clear understanding of what constitutes victory, we need to achieve that at in the shortest amount of time. It has to be a blitzkrieg operation next time. Godliness says Trump never wears anything except the US flag on his coat, but for the first time he was wearing a golden fighter jet b while wearing the Pakistani leadership. Was this some subtle message? Maybe the Americans have decided they will supply more F-16s to Pakistan. Is that a possibility? Everything is a possibility. All possibilities are on the table right now. Uh the Pakistanis are essentially signaling that they are selling their country off piece by piece to the US. uh the Pakistani general or what Munir the Munir guy the the dictator of Pakistan he went to Trump with a box full of minerals right here's what here's a sample of what you will uh acquire from Pakistan that sort of thing so Pakistan is very happy to sell off their countries piece by piece and in return for that I'm sure there's a deal there's some kind of a deal that has been uh reached between Trump and the Pakistanis maybe there's going to be more jets for Pakistan more F-16s or Who knows even F-35s I'm not sure. Uh so it looks like there is some some signaling that Trump did by putting that that golden uh fighter jet b on his lapel. So maybe it's a subtle message. We'll have to see. So I will not be surprised if the US in the coming days or weeks announces that they are selling I don't know a certain number of fighter planes to Pakistan brand new F-16s or maybe some maybe F-35s. I'm not sure. I will not be surprised if that happens in the next few days or weeks. Uh Teen Talks Dharma says, "Is the Russian avanguard system as good as the say breakthrough?" I'm not sure. I've not looked into the specific specifications. Uh let's do it if you want. Right. Russian avanguard system. Yeah. What's the deal? It's a hypersonic glide missile vehicle HGV with the travels at speeds exceeding mark 20 carrying a nuclear conventional payload launched by an ICBM. It detaches from the missile. It's it's a maneuvering MV kind of thing, right? It's a glide vehicle. Okay. It detach detaches from the missile and glides through the atmosphere performing sharp maneuvers to evade missile defense systems. Russia unveiled it in 2018. has been putting it into service since late 2018 early 2019 carrying it on heavy ICBMs like the RS28 Sarmat. So it can travel at frightening speeds mark 20 to mark 27 and it performs evasive maneuvers at these hypersonic speeds. These are essentially re-entry speeds not hypersonics um boost glide system and so on. It can uh yeah and it will obviously carry uh nuclear warheads. So that's what it says. Now the Russians will know better than us how good the system is. If it's been deployed, it means that it must be really good. I expect so it looks like it's a very good system from whatever we see. Prashant says, "Is the UN less relevant? Will these speeches by diplomats help?" The UN, what's the relevance? What what does it achieve in the world? It's a talk shop. Once a year everyone gets together at the UN and leaders from across the world come and deliver a speech from their podium. In some cases like when Prime Minister Netanyahu delivered a speech most of the people left the hall because they didn't want to listen to him. Right? But when that al-Qaeda terrorist the Syrian leader the current Syrian dictator when he delivered the his speech everyone sat there and listened to him. Well what sort of a hypocrisy is this right? And then you have the the what's his name? Sharif the Sharif guy Pakistan he went and gave a gave an address to the UNGA and then there was back and forth between India and Pakist what's the point of all this I don't understand I don't know the relevance of the UN what does it achieve for the world does it actually achieve peace has it been a able to broker some kind of a peace deal in Ukraine has it been able to broker some kind of peace deal somewhere else maybe between Israel and uh Iran has it been able to ensure that there is peace in the in in West Asia, it does nothing. It's got soldiers stationed in various parts of Africa. Okay, fantastic. So, the UN is irrelevant actually. And I have an episode of uh of geo strategy in which I've spoken about the UN. What's the relevance of the UN? No relevance. So, these speeches by diplomats, they what what what what's the role? What what's the what's the meaning? What's the importance of these speeches by diplomats? It's essentially messaging to the world what our stand is at the at the UN General Assembly because when someone speaks at the UN General Assembly, typically people listen. People are more uh prone to listening to you if you speak over there compared to somewhere else. So essentially it's a place where you can voice your opinions and tell the world what your stand is. That's all. AI productivity magnet says how and where will this multipolar conflict and which multipolar conflict which one is there a conflict a multipolar conflict going on right now are you talking about the new cold war that's going to go on for a long time as long as I'm not sure what you're asking sir which multipolar conflict right now we have the Ukraine conflict that's going on we also have a recently frozen uh conflict between Israel and Iran that kind of is uh frozen right now. Excuse me. And what else do we have? We don't have any other conflicts going on right now. We have a cold warlike situation like a cold war 2.0, but I'm not sure if that's what you're talking about. So, please be a little more specific. I cannot read your mind, sir. Okay. All right. Uh Adi Au says, "How do you retain so much knowledge? What's the trick?" I only retain the information about what I find interesting. I read all kinds of stuff. I forget most of it. I forget most of it. I only retain the knowledge what you what do you call of whatever I find interesting. Those connections that that automatically get made in the mind uh that's what remains. The rest of the stuff that I don't find interesting I I forget it. So I may forget I may not have any recollection of what I read even even half an hour after I read it if it's not interesting. So it's so I give myself the permission to forget and that's why I'm able to retain whatever I find interesting and that's I suppose is how I retain whatever knowledge I do retain sir. Uh swastik MKkesh says is independent Balojasthan possible after um the fact that the US Pakistan relations have currently improved and the US is arming Pakistan. There's no question of independent Balojasthan at this at this point in time. If the US gets involved in Balojasthan in the Baluchasthan region as they're going to be because they're interested in raw earth in rare earth minerals and also in uh the oil and gas sector in that case the US will ensure that the BA the Bajjasthan liberation army is crushed right the US doesn't care about human rights freedom democracy it cares about its interests and wherever where wherever it's relevant it will preach human rights and democracy and blah blah blah as a as a stick to beat nations with but that's just a stick. So independent Baljasthan even without US support it's not possible because the Pakistani military is too powerful and with this new scenario that the US is getting involved in Pakistan in in a very big way there's no chance of an independent Balojasthan anytime soon. Team talks Dharma says when Netanyahu spoke 95% of the leaders left. What does this indicate? Is this a play or acting or European leaders truly believe in Palestine? Um what is what does this indicate? It indicates that a lot of these European leaders see if you look at the European countries today, they have significant Islamic populations now, right? And their populations, even the non-Islamic populations, non-immigrant population, the the native populations, they have been brainwashed and indoctrinated by this left-leaning education system. So they all believe that Pakistan sorry yeah Pak Palestine is a just cause that Israel is a super oppressive country that is oppressing the the poor hapless uh peaceloving Palestinians. So the people believe it and and the immigrants the Islamic immigrants obviously will support Palestine that they will give an unconditional support to the Palestinian cause. So if you want to stay relevant as a politician in that climate, you've got to support Palestine. And of course, see, we also know that EU, the EU nations, uh they essentially are vasals of the US. So if you want to sometimes poke the master, you can do it by poking the master's best friend, which is Israel. So because of these the the combination of all these factors that's why all these leaders especially EU leaders and whoever else they walked out when Netanyahu spoke and left him with an empty empty hall essentially cause significantly emptier than what it should have been not entirely empty of course but that's what they did so yeah that I I in my opinion that was completely wrong if you if you're going to sit and listen to a terrorist al-Qaeda head head cutter stand and give view of lecture. Well, I think Isra is Israel is a far better nation than than anything that al-Qaeda represents, right? Israel is way better than that. Um, so anyway, so so that's why this happened and I completely disagree with that. Rahul says, "Are Chinese games like Ginshin a part of their soft power? I've seen kids develop a soft spot for China just like Japan after producing animes, etc." Well, of course. Of course. If you enjoy a Chinese game, you're going to like China, aren't you? The Chinese produced this game that I'm so attached to that I that gives me so much emotional support and gives me so much pleasure and joy in life and happiness. So, the Chinese produce this obviously I'm going to like China. If I enjoy watching anime, Japanese anime, it has given me so many countless hours of happiness, right, that other people can't provide, then obviously I'm going to have a soft corner towards Japan. So now the Chinese are also doing that. They also producing high quality games or whatever. I don't know genshin I have no idea about this but clearly they are also doing that. So this obviously is a component of soft power and it makes people unknowingly develop positive sentiments towards you right and India has the world's biggest pool of video game developers and anime people and CGI developers and whatnot but we produce nothing we simply work for other countries that's the problem with India that's the Pawan ga says master's ph from IIT should I try try for page now is this a geopolitical question sir I see once I start taking questions like this it's going to devolve into ask me anything like no topic and then the people the audience who has come to come to understand geopolitics they will be betrayed by me uh what is master's ph first of all ph what is PH I'm I'm not sure sir I see I cannot answer this question un unless I know you personally and I know your background and I know your hopes and dreams and aspirations without that I can't really answer this question so I'm going to pass on it I apologize Kiran Mur well when did sir come here sir you are one of our great wicket keepers Kiran Mur I'm sure it's a different one but anyway uh just a joke uh in one of your videos you said that if India reaches $10 trillion economy We could change our education system but why are we but why not at 7 or 8 trillion economy? I think we can change our education system right now. I don't think I would have said that at 10 trillion we will change our education system. No no no we can change it right now. We can start the process right now. Why do we have to wait for 10 trillion? We are what 4 something trillion right now. We can do it. We can start the steps. It's a 20 25 year 30-year process. We should start the steps right now. It doesn't cost a lot of money. It obviously is a logistical thing. It's it'll take time. But that's why we have to start as early as possible. We don't have to wait for us becoming a $10 trillion economy. That'll be too late. That'll be too late to start the process. We have to start it right now. This is a ticking time bomb. We can't wait. The education system has to be reformed. And the reforms have to start not. They should have started 10 years ago but anyway start now right we don't need to wait for $10 trillion economy I'm not sure I I would have ever said that I would have said something else about $10 trillion economy that something else could happen I have said that India will be a different kind of beast once it is at a 10 trillion economy mark it'll behave differently that's what I I've said I've not said that we need to start something at $10 trillion economy once we reach that stage no no the education system reforms need needed need to have started they should started 10 years ago but even now we're not starting it. That's the tragedy of India. That's your great leadership for you. They can't see the problems and what what these issues are how these issues are going to compound in the coming years. Whatever problems we have right now in 10 years, it's going to be compounded because of the rotten education system. That's the problem. Abu Sig says, why are we treated more harshly than China by the US? China is a $18 trillion economy. We are a $4 trillion economy. See the size difference? So obviously listen, let's say you go to the zoo, you see a gigantic tiger. Are you going to are you going to taunt the tiger? But if you see a little cat, you will be more likely to taunt the cat. Right? That's how it goes, sir. Size matters. Size matters. Understand that. Wun Baj says, "Why is Pakist Bangladesh's military weaker than Pakistan despite higher GDP? What factors explain this gap?" Well, that's an interesting question. Let's let's quickly take a look at what's the difference between the two GDPs. Uh Bangladesh versus Pakistan GDP higher nominal GDP than Pakistan comparison. Okay. GDP comparison Bangladesh is 450 and Pakistan is 373. Bangladesh per capita comp comparison Bangladesh is way ahead of Pakistan right interesting so Bangladesh is way ahead of Pakistan but uh it's but Pakistan obviously has a well comparatively more powerful military than Bangladesh I think Bangladesh I have no idea I've never thought about I don't spend time thinking about Pakistan and Bangladesh that much but definitely not about Bangladesh Uh no no no disrespect to Bangladesh they yeah but I don't really think about Bangladesh that much. Uh what what factors could explain this gap? It's a really interesting question. I mean you've got a bigger GDP than Pakistan but Pakistan is more powerful than you militarily. What what I what is wrong with Bangladesh? Do you people have no ambition? In case any Bangladesh are watching, please go to your your what what's his name? Yunus Muhammad Inus and tell him that at least bring us above Pakistan in terms of military capabilities, right? I don't know maybe it's a lack of ambition or maybe it's a lack of threat perception. Okay, let's let's reformulate reformulate the thing. See Pakistan it says that its biggest threat existential threat is India and we have to maintain a powerful military because India otherwise will come and eat us alive. That's what the Pakistani military that's the story they have been selling their public in order to ensure that they remain legitimate in the eyes of the public because the moment the legitimacy goes the Pakistani public which is like starving zombies will come and eat the Pakistani military alive no matter what the Pakistani military does with their weapons. So the Pakistani military has to sell this fake idea that India is an existential threat which also allows them to spend way more than they should have spent on military because if if there's no threat in your neighborhood you don't have to spend that much on a milit on the military. So that's why Pakistan has been spending way more than they should have spent on the military and which is why they have a more powerful military. Bangladesh is I think it's not about lack of ambition. It's about the fact that Bangladesh is a more realistic country. They know that India is not going to turn up tomorrow morning on their doorstep and you know invade. India has no no intention of invading Bangladesh. We want our Bangladeshi infiltrators the the ones who are squatting on our territory to go back to Bangladesh. That's all we want. If we invariant capture Bangladesh, we will have to deal with millions more. Hundreds of millions more. Imagine, imagine the nightmare several million more Bangladeshes to deal with several hundred million more. India doesn't want that. We want Bangladesh to stay where it is. Please stay a separate sovereign nation. Please. So Bangladesh knows that that they don't don't face any threat from India neither from Burma. And that's why they don't really need to develop gigantically powerful armed um you know military. I think that's the real reason they are more more realistic than Pakistan. That's the reason I suppose. Rahul says India seems to have found some gas in the undermines. If the US doesn't force India into selling oil and gas only in exchange of US dollars, could it be the end of the USD? It's it's too early to talk about the end of the USD. We have found some some natural gas in the undermands. Okay, good. Fantastic. How much? What's the quantity? What's how big is the reservoir? And gas isn't enough. We need liquid petroleum. That's what we need. We need we need it in in large quantities. I'm sure it is there, but we have to go and drill drill drill and find it, right? And then we have to operationalize the production. So, a little bit of gas we found. It's it's very encouraging. I'm I'm I'm glad this was announced. I think yesterday day before whenever it was announced and the US has no business trying to force us into anything. H the US can give us a suggestion that you know maybe it will be nice if you sell it in USD and then we can decide. But that is putting I mean that's that's going too far down the down the road. We we are a sovereign nation. We are one of the five only genuinely sovereign nations and the US will not be able to arm twist us into anything. Um so it's it's a very preliminary announcement. Let's wait. I think it'll take time before we make any major discoveries of oil. Gas isn't that gas is also important but not as important as oil. So let's wait and watch. Only once we make a major discovery of oil can we even start having the conversation of what currency to sell it in and then we can perhaps talk about perhaps the end of the USD at some point in time in the future. It is too early for that. Adita says we know that history tends to repeat itself. I'm glad we know that sir knowing this what potential reasons could cause the most powerful empire in today's age hypothetically fall apart. See historically empires when they fall usually the causes lie within. Usually it's because they become too overconfident and they start taking their imperial responsibilities too lightly. They don't spend they don't they don't invest enough in the maintenance of the instruments of power and uh the political leadership becomes weaker. You have you know new leaders are less capable than previous leaders that sort of thing and that's why cumulatively all these things add up and eventually empire starts slowly crumbling. Sometimes they crumble crumble in one day sometimes they crumble over the over a period of 50 to 100 years depends. So uh lots of different causes. Now if you want to apply that to the US obviously you're talking about the US here. So yeah. So uh what could be the causes that could eventually lead to the decline of the US empire? Well, right now I don't see any of that. See, they are not taking their imperial responsibilities lightly. They are maintaining their global power projection capabilities. There are 700 plus extr territorial military bases spread across the world. They are maintaining those. They are not withdrawing from any of those. They're not shutting down any bases. They're ensuring that they're all well supplied. They actually want more bases. They want Bagram now. So you see they're expanding their territorial their their power projection footprint. So I don't see that happening, right? That they're taking their duties lightly, imperial responsibilities lightly. Secondly, we don't know who really leads the US. Do you think Trump leads the US? Do you think Joe Biden was leading the US? The US president is simply a figurehead. It's someone whose job is to draw all the attention away from where the real power lies. Okay. So, we don't really know the quality of the leadership who's really leading the US. So, I can't say that's one of the things the Anglo-Saxons have done very well. They've hidden their instruments of power. They've hidden where the real leadership lies. But if that leadership deteriorates, right, if they no longer take good decisions, if they are no longer unified, whatever, then that will cause problems. So these are some of the problems that could eventually cause the the the the decline and eventual disintegration of the world's most powerful empire today. Rohill says, "With the US military spread worldwide, could it eventually become unmanageable and lead to the decline of the US hgemony?" No, I don't think so. No. Um, they are managing it very well, right? There's no issue right now. No issue whatsoever. Do you see any chaos anywhere? Do you see any issues with logistics, any issues with whatever leadership? Nothing. It's being managed really well. So from 1945 all the way until today, which is almost like 80 years, they've done a tremendous job at slowly expanding this network of military bases. And what I think it will be unman unmanageable the moment it reaches Mars I think they'll be able to manage moon also if they have military bases on the moon in the next 30 40 years once it reaches Mars it will become unmanageable the earth they can deal with that's how powerful the US military spread is and and their capabilities are geopolitical says how do you see the future of India US defense ties there's no future it's for there's no India India US defense ties what what do they expect now we're going to buy some F-35s we will buy nothing from the US you can't trust the US India cannot trust the US that whatever little trust existed is gone after operation Sindur and the US support for Pakistan and after this operation sindur ended or paused the US support for Pakistan has only intensified how can India ever trust the US can there is no future for India US defense ties I think even the quad will die a slow quiet death I'm telling you right now the quad is also done the quadrilateral dialogue whatever it is the US India Japan and Australia even that is finished okay it it I don't see any more quad related developments happening now MK says why can't China and India just increase their nuclear arsenal to increase their comprehensive national power. Is the deep state a boon or a bane for the US and its people? Two questions. I'm sure China and India can increase their nuclear arsenal to increase their CNP. I'm sure we I'm sure they can do it. Who knows? They may be doing it. See, I I'll show you. See um list of nuclear states with um list of of nuclear weapons by country. Okay, let's do this. Okay, so let's see what Wikipedia has to say. Okay, so here we have it. Why is the US on top? Why? Oh, because apparently they know exactly how many have been deployed. How does Wikipedia know exactly how many nuclear weapons a country has and how many are deployed? How do they know this? Oh, because CRI has said it. Yeah, because the the Russians are going to go and tell CRI exactly how many we have and how many we have deployed. Yeah, right. Very nice. So according to these open-source uh rankings and listings, India has 180, Pakistan has 170 and uh China has 600, France has 290, but China has only deployed 24. India has deployed zero. Okay, how do they know all these things? How do they know that India only has these many? How do they know how many India is deployed? How many China is deployed? These this is all these are all fairy tales they're selling you. You think China is going to go and tell these people how many nuclear weapons we actually have, how many warheads we have, how many are deployed, how many are disassembled and so on. You think China will tell anybody? You think Russia will tell the West all these things? You think India is going to go and tell these people? This is all nonsense. We don't know how many nuclear weapons each country has. This story that India has 180, I don't believe it one moment. India has enough file material for several thousand nuclear warheads by the way. So, so it's entirely possible for us to do it, but we don't announce it to the world, right? That's how it goes. A Rahul says, "What in what ways can a tuba like eruption impact geopolitics?" Oh, well, a touba like volcanic eruption will have seismic effects on geopolitics. What's a Toba like volcanic eruption? The Toba super volcano eruption happened about 74,000 years ago and it caused what's called a volcanic winter which is the same thing as a nuclear winter. The world went dark for about 5 to 10 years. A decade roughly. There was no sunlight for a decade roughly. Roughly a decade. Because of that plants died because of the death of plants. The planteat animals died. Because of that flesheating animals died and because of all these things humans had to scramble to survive and humans survived in the Indian subcontinent. We know that because we have evidence in Jalapuram. We have evidence in Madhya Pradesh or wherever two three sites. We have evidence in India that Indians survived the super volcano eruption but they would have survived just barely by scattering and dispersing over wide amounts of territory. Otherwise you die because there's no resources available. There's no food available. So if a Toba like super vilo eruption happens today, it's going to cause a catastrophic decline in the world's population, human population and and animal and plant population, right? It could cause the the disappearance of entire species of animals. The human population may fall by more than 90%, it's going to be a disaster. So what geopolitics will be we'll be scrambling just to stay alive if this happens. There's going to be no geopolitics left and then after 10 years whatever survives then we will restart the world. Abishek Singh says after operation Sindur it looks like Pakistani expiry date is extended because the US is now propping up Pakistan. So as long as the US does that there's nothing India can do about it. Right? So that's correct. Pakistan's expiry date is currently extended because of US support. feels strong. Man says, "Have you played Age of Empire of Civilization 6 games?" No, I haven't. I haven't. Never had the time to do that. Al says, "I don't see India proactively planning for natural disasters when it's a fact that disasters and diseases have destroyed more civilizations than wars." You see, India is not a disasterprone area. Northern India, far north, Himalayas, yeah, we have earthquakes. Keeps happening. It's not going to destroy India civilization. The west of India, the Kach region, yeah, sure we have earthquakes once in every few decades. It's not going to destroy India civilization. There are other parts of India which are kind of seism seismically active like the far east of India, the foothills of the Himalayas, the Manipur region etc. But over there once again the earthquakes aren't that those that powerful. And once again even if Manipur is destroyed is it going to destroy India civilization? No, it's not. Uh what else do we do? We have any major volcanoes? We have a couple of volcanoes in the Arnamans, Narakandam and Baron Island. I can think of two right now. Are they going to destroy India civilization? No. We have flash floods and all in Uttarakhand whatever. Is it going to destroy India civilization? No. We have nothing that can actually destroy India civilization. We have typhoons. What cyclones that happen every year or something? Are they going to destroy India civilization? They're not going to do it. Do we have tsunamis? Maybe once in a 100 years. Can it destroy India civilization? It can't. There is nothing that can destroy India civilization. No natural disaster. See Japan for example, it is prone to 9 plus earthquakes on the on the RTOR scale. You have earthquakes all the time. That's why they have to adapt. They have had to adapt their entire lifestyle to account for the possibility of very major earthquakes. So the earthquakes in Japan and the volcanism in Japan is such that it can indeed destroy Japan civilization which is why the Japanese society has had to adapt. So Japan is is located smack bang in the ring of fire. So that's why Japan has had to adapt and that's why they they have a different kind of society than what we have over here. We are blessed by the gods in the Indian subcontinent. There's nothing that can actually destroy India civilization. No natural disaster can. You will have floods, you'll have earthquakes, you'll have whatever from time to time. It will cause pain and suffering from various in certain parts of India. Yeah. And uh you'll have cyclones that come that that cause problems once in a while. But none of this is going to destroy India civilization. Nothing. Which is why India doesn't plan proactively perhaps. I mean we do have cyclone management systems now. We have early warning systems which is why we have so few deaths now. So once again I would not entirely agree that we don't proactively plan. If you look at the coasts of Odisha and Kerala and whatnot now we have advanced warning systems for cyclones. We hardly hear of of any disastrous death tolls from cyclones anymore. If if if five people die, it becomes national news now in a cyclone. Right. We have Assam. Yeah. That's another problem. The Brahmaputra floods every year. people are kind of used to it and nothing is done about it for some reason. I don't know maybe maybe something has been done but it happens anyway every year but once again it can't destroy India's civilization. So I think that we are taking steps and measures to certain extent to plan for these things but uh the fact is that none of these natural disasters can actually destroy India's civilization. So we are blessed by the gods in that manner. Maybe it has made us complacent, you know. Who knows? Dave says, "We are waiting for your channel on Aratai." Okay, Aratai. I still haven't installed Aratai. So maybe I'll have to do that. I should do it to well to support the Swadeshi cause. I hope it is a good enough app. I'm sure it is. Shidrabu is doing it. So it must be good. And then should we have a channel on it? See the problem is that I don't I don't mind getting on Aratai and using it as my messenger. The problem with managing a channel is that you have to have moderators and you need to look into it all the time. And I'm a very busy person. I'm busy every day. I'm writing. I'm doing something or the other. I don't have the time to manage a channel like a channel on Aratai, you know, moderation and all that. I don't have the time to be present and interact with people every day because I'm so busy. So, I I really appreciate the fact that you you want me to do this, but I'll have to be very I'll have to think about it properly before I I venture into that domain because in the past I've had a Discord channel once or twice and it it ran ran ran out of control. I had to end it. I think I have a Telegram group somewhere. I'm not sure. So, you know, it's it's worthwhile. It's valuable only if I can spend time on it and I can actually be be present over there. So I I'll I'll consider this seriously but I can't promise anything at this stage. All right. Rahul says isn't I inr Indian rupee depreciation a good thing for it depends on whether you are an exporter or an importer. If you're an exporter and you are receiving foreign exchange then you can earn a lot of rupees through that. But if you're an importer, so it depends on various things. It it's not necessarily a good thing or a bad thing. It depends on what your specific situation and circumstances is. So China for example has ensured that its currency remains undervalued and that has helped them a lot because they are a major exporter. So if India becomes a major exporter, it may be good if India's currency remains undervalued. Rohanja says why Sweden Sweden innovates but India has failed to do the same because of the Indian system which discourages innovation. Think of the time you were in school. Did your teachers ever encourage your in you to innovate? Did they ever encourage you to ask questions? Did they ever encourage you to do something different from everybody else? No. They will not tolerate that. They will squash that in the bud. If you ever dare to do anything different from everybody else, then the teachers will punish you for that. You have to understand the system is such that Indians are brainwashed like sheep. And even beyond school, Indian society discourages people from innovating. You try to do something different from everybody else, whole society stands up in front of you, right? These are these are problems that we face in India. Dish says, how do we completely eradicate internal enemies? Well, there are certain there are various models that exist from world history. I will not name any of the models, but there are models that exist from world history. It has been done by various uh world powers in the past in a variety of ways but I shall not name those world powers because it would be inappropriate to do so. It is entirely possible to to eradicate internal and to eradicate internal enemies. There are multiple ways of doing it but it is not um suitable to discuss those things here. Ritipar asks a question in Hindi. Well, okay. I'm not that good in Hindi. I I'm slow. Taiwan 2030 the CCP or exp on expansionist mode and USA officially YouTube block English oh really is that why I don't know why okay so you're asking what okay maybe there are some keywords that you're some some terms you're using that you YouTube is blocking. Okay, whatever. Okay. No, no, I understand totally why you're asking in Hindi. So, uh will so Taiwan 2030 if if Taiwan falls by 2030, what are the the the pros and cons for India and the world and will China go will the Chinese Communist Party go into expansionist mode and will the US fall because of this? Okay, so let's say Taiwan falls by 2030. What are the pros and cons of the world? First of all, let's understand what will be the effects. Taiwan will not fall just like that. Everything on Taiwan will be destroyed. All the industries, all the, you know, TSMC, whatever. China will inherit a destroyed island with some people on it. But no industry is nothing. So, it will be a hollow victory for China if China actually acquires Taiwan. But yeah, it will be the breaking of one of the island chains. So, China will feel that, you know, they've been able to score a major victory over the US. Uh, will that make China go into expan expansionist mode visav other countries? I'm not sure about that. I'm not really sure about that. Um, because see other countries have it's it's it's a totally different set of parameters that you have right between China and India, China and Japan, China and South Korea. It's a total different set of risks for China in each stage. So I'm not sure China will go into expansionist mode just because they have acquired Taiwan. But they will become definitely more confident. And will the fall of Taiwan cause the patan the fall of the US? I'm not sure about that. I think Taiwan will fall only if the US feels that it's time to let Taiwan go. If the US feels that that Taiwan is still important to us, they will not allow Taiwan to fall. Right? Uh so I don't think it's going to cause the fall of the US but it will certainly make China much more confident even if they acquire a a shell of an island with nothing nothing of value on it. Raal says how can I avoid adopting your bias by watching more of your content? I notice I start thinking in your line instead of de developing my own thoughts. That's always a problem if you watch too much of something. Okay, let me be very clear about this. If the the best thing to do is to if you are consuming content, you should consume content not only from one source but from multiple sources and not just from one kind of medium, not just YouTube, you should also read. Reading is very important, right? So if you have that sort of consumption pattern then it is more difficult for you to go along one line of thinking on uh you know to start thinking along the lines of one specific person and even more important you should if you really are worried about this you should write every day spend 30 minutes writing about any topic what do I think about this topic and why do I think that way just write it down because writing clarifies and crystallizes your thoughts And it forces you to think independently. So let's say you feel that you are you you're beginning to think like me for example. So take a piece of paper, take a pencil, pen, whatever. Give yourself 30 minutes and write what do I think about so and so topic about so and so issue. Why do I think that way? Right? And what other ways could I think? What are the other considerations, other perspectives I can think about? And what are their pros and cons? and try and convince yourself in this manner which is the best way of which is the best you know line of thought. So that's what you should do. Don't only consume content from one channel. I mean even though I would very much want you want everyone to consume only my content but I'm telling you truthfully you should not watch as many diverse sources as possible and read and more importantly write writing even 30 minutes a day just writing about anything. It will force you to think independently. So that's what you have to do. If you really want to develop your own way of thinking, your own line of thought, you must write. It's not enough to just sit and think for half an hour. That's not enough. Write. Writing will force you to think clearly. Right. Okay. Ab says Isra specifically BB refused to put sanctions on Russia and supply weapons to UA. What's UA? Ukraine. Ukraine. Is it because Israel is sovereign? BB is a strong leader. Um, Israel has refused to put sanctions on Russia and supply weapons to the to Ukraine. Is it because Israel is sovereign? See, Israel and Russia have their own relationship. There's a very large number of Russian Jews who live in Israel, right? That is one factor. The other factor is that Israel is no one's vasal. You see whenever I discuss Israel I see two kinds of comments. If there are 100 comments 50 comments will be saying that Israel is America's vasal. The other 50 comments will be saying the US is Israel's vasal. I will just say this that Israel is completely sovereign. Israel doesn't have doesn't feel that it has to go along with one with somebody's line of thinking. It doesn't have to take uh take take part in someone's geopolitical stance. It can act on its own. and Israel and see even even Zelinsky is Jewish, isn't he? So that's also another interesting fact. But see the thing is that Israel is a sovereign nation. That's the most important thing we have to understand. I I used to say there are four sovereign nations in 2024. I have revised that it is five because I had not thought clearly about Israel. Israel is definitely 100% genuinely sovereign. It's one of the only five sovereign nations in the world and as such it can decide its own course of action. It doesn't have to go along with what what the US wants. So that's just what it is. B Mandav says why is India behind build in building a motor engine? A motor engine compared to other countries also. What are your views on the flower engine which is made in India? I am not aware of any flower engine. Let's Google it. Flower engine. What is that? Let's find out. Flower engine India. Really? What's a flower engine? I don't see anything. A flower engine made in India. Really? Made in India. There is no flower engine. What is this? Uh there are flower engine flower gifting. Haridam artificial flowers India Mart. Okay. I have no idea what this flower engine is. So I don't know. Okay. I'm sorry. Um I I'm not sure what this flower engine is, sir. I apologize for that. But why is when you're talking about motor engine, are you talking about motor vehicles, car engines, you're talking about truck engines? You're talking about ship engines. You're talking about jet engines. Let's say you're talking about generic just engines. Well, it's because we because we we don't do research and development. We don't do R&D. We just want to acquire stuff from from abroad. Foreign say we'll take it. We'll buy it from foreign, right? Why make it ourselves? Why why reinvent the wheel? We can just import it. We pay some money. We get a high quality engine. Why do we have to start this process all over again? Laziness. Indian entrepreneurs just want to make money. They don't want they don't think long term. They don't think long term. They want to make money right now. Big issue. Uh yeah. So that's essentially what plagues India. Indian entrepreneurs. If you look at IT for example, it has always been the arbitrage model. They will we have such talented software engineers in this country. But do you see any IT Indian IT company developing any software products of his own? No. It'll simply work for other foreign country companies who have their own products and we will maintain those products. We'll develop the products for them. But we will not develop anything ourselves because that is slightly more risky. Right? That's higher there's higher risk in that. Do you see Indian IT firms or Indian companies uh you know when they talk about swadeshi apps h apps apps as in cell phone apps or whatever what does it mean for an for an app to be Indian totally Indian does it mean that Indians have developed it and Indians will profit from it is that all but let's say you have I am not talking about any specific app here I'm just saying let's say you have some app in which you have to login sign up all that and your data will be stored somewhere. Where is the data being stored? Is the data also being stored in India or is it being stored on Amazon's web server somewhere AWS or something else? If it is being stored in the US, is it really an Indian app? That also you have to think about. So there are all these things that we have to consider. The problem is that Indian entrepreneurs, they are still very risk averse. big Indian companies, big Indian IT firms, big whatever the firms, they have sought to make as much money as possible, as quickly as possible and keep that model going as long as it can go and they don't invest in R&D. They simply don't invest in R&D, which is why nothing happens in India, right? That's the issue. Swastik Mahesh says, what actions should India take against foreign funded industrial scale conversions? We should simply stop the flow of money. If money has to flow into India, it has to come through the FC channels, right? Why are we still allowing this? Why are we allowing this? Why? Why? I don't get it. Why is it some fundamental human right that others that foreigners have the right to convert people in India? Now they have set up Indian Indian um proxies obviously who do the conversions. So it's no longer foreigners who come to India and and convert people. It's Indians themselves who are converted and who will convert more. But all of these activities need a tremendous amount of money. Much of the money comes from abroad. End that. Right? Why are we not ending that? Maybe there is pressure not to end that. You see, it's it's high time we end all all of these things because anyway the US India relationship isn't great now. How much more will we will we tolerate? The money comes from the US. By the way, iss777 says BU has started using its in-house chips for AI. Also, China is producing electricity by solar at a much less cost, which is a big advantage for its super clusters. How big is their military advantage? Okay, let's deconstruct what you're saying. BU has started started using in-house chips for AI. Yes, China is producing chips now at pretty good quality chips, AI chips. They're just a few steps behind Nvidia, right? Because they have been investing in in chip development technology and all that for a very long time, for at least a couple of decades. We are starting now. So, they have a 20 year at least minimum 20 year advantage over us. That's number one. China is producing electricity at by solar at a much less cost much less cost. So no one's stopping India from innovating in solar. We also have huge areas of the country which are barren like the Thar desert and other parts of India construct gigantic solar farms and that also will be an advantage for our superclusters right okay so that's the deal so how big is their military advantage compared to India significant obviously first of all we don't produce chips of that quality right now it'll take us a decade to reach that quality of chips but anyway we have we are starting the process now which is great so in a decade we'll be at a good at a good stage in um chip quality Even now we produce we we are beginning to produce decent chips. Not bad. So at least I'm glad that is happening. It's not like we are not doing anything. We are doing something. Uh so if you talk about it's China's military advantage over India or over the US I'm I'm suppose I'm supposing India in that case they have a significant advantage because they have adopted AI at a very very very big scale. uh they have this facial recognition technology that has been u deployed in China for many years. It's very powerful, very sophisticated and they will have similar technologies that will be used in the military domain. So I think China has a significant military advantage over India when it comes to the adoption of AI and the fact that China produces higher quality chips than India's India and possibly more more electricity as well. So overall bigger advantage significant advantage over India. Okay. CJ Kos says uh a recent recent progress PRG progress I suppose from Israel happening in Cyprus. Is this a second step of Zionist expansionism? A domin domination plan in Mediterranean and next. Is it bad for India? A recent what is happening? P RGS from Israel. Recent progress from Israel happening in Cyprus. Uh let me Google this. I'm not sure what you're saying, sir. Let me try and Google this. Israel. Cypress. Really? Israel has an embassy. What is Israel aiming for in Cyprus? Israel Greek criate alliance weapons bases settlers Greek administers center for Jewish impact. Um Cyprus getting Israeli defense something or the other. This is 18th September which is pretty recent. Let's see what this says. Israeli defense system. Okay. Israeli defense system. Okay. That's good for for Cypress, I would say. Good for Cypress. What else do we have? What other news do we have? Israeli linked arament of Greek Greek criates. Okay. Israel is arming Greek criates. Outstanding. I I good for good for the Greek criates, I would say. Uh bases of Cypress globally, Reno. What is that? After barak system. Oh, the barak system that we also use. Okay. Why is Turkey losing its sleep? and so on and so forth. Okay. So, Israel is is uh enhancing its cooperation with with Cypress, with Greek Cyprus. Is this a step in Zionist expansionism? I'm not sure about that. I'm not sure. Uh dominion domination plan in the Mediterranean. Let's take a look at the map to see the Mediterranean region and then we can perhaps uh discuss this. Does Israel really seek to dominate the whole Mediterranean and expand into Cyprus? Let's see. So in case people aren't aware, this is Cypress. Okay, this island it is partitioned uh northern Cypress is held by by Turkey. Southern Cypress is uh is Greek majority and there's a significant uh you know this place which is uh no man's land essentially. So it's a part de def factor partitioned country and over here we have Israel which is not far at all from Cypress as you can see from southern Cyprus. If you want to see the distance between uh between for example Hifa and Limasol it's barely 278 km so not far at all. Uh so Israel seems to be um intensifying or expanding its military and other cooperation with uh the Greek criates which obviously will concern Turkey. Does this mean that there is an intention to expand into Cyprus? I don't think so. Is this is this does it signify that Israel has a plan to dominate the Mediterranean? I think Israel has a plan to ensure that nobody else dominates the Mediterranean at its expense. So it will take care of its uh of its interests in the Mediterranean. If Turkey is expanding its footprint for example in North Africa etc. then Israel will make sure that it expands its footprint in other other part of the Mediterranean that makes sense for Israel to do. So I don't see this as a Zionist expansionism. I don't see this as a great nefarious domination plan by Israel in the Mediterranean. They are simply looking out for their national interest. And uh you see what you do is whoever is friendly to you, you ensure that you have better relations with them. So Israel is doing the same thing and I don't blame them for it. They are doing whatever it takes to take care of their interests as we should also do. Deepankar Deori says, "What do you make of the recent hate on social media like X against India and Indians? Is it organic or sponsored by some other country like China, Pakistan, US?" This is not recent. I have been speaking about this since 2022. It all started in February 22. What happened in February 22? On the 22nd of February 2022, Shar Vladimir Putin gi launched his special military operation in Ukraine. And the US and the West insisted that India should participate in their sanctions against Russia and we refused. Not only did we refuse, we also amped up ramped up our purchases of Russian oil because they were now available to us at a discount. Right? So once we started doing that there was an outpouring initially of articles against India on western media outlets like the Guardian like the BBC like uh Deutsch Chavella like uh the New York the Washington Post New York Times whatever they all started this outpouring of of anti-India articles various think tanks like Rand Corporation and various rank Rand corporation minions ions all of those. But then it started on social media on on Twitter accounts. So I have been speaking about this since 2022. It's not recent at all. But then it's it became common place on Twitter. Before 2022, there was no such thing like India anti-India hatred on Twitter. But after 2022, it's by the end of the year, it had become pretty common place. And it looks like it is not really organic. Maybe the Pakistanis took advantage, maybe the Chinese took advantage of the situation to to spread anti-India messaging, to spread anti-India um you know cliches or whatever you want to call it, you know, anti-India memes, tropes, whatever. And um it is well known that that the Chinese use Twitter as you know a battlefield. They have millions and millions of bot accounts. You will see the server farms where they have, you know, I have books over here. Yeah. They will have stacks of of cell phones in server farms. Millions of cell phones each with one Twitter account and they'll all be, you know, programmatically putting out propaganda. So, the Chinese do that. The Pakistanis also are really good at this. India is the one nation that doesn't participate in these wars. India has been very poor at propaganda. India has been very poor at defending itself. This is the big fail of the government of India. And now it looks like even the American government may be behind this. So I am pretty sure that all three governments that you're that you are uh mentioning over here, China, Pakistan, US, all three are involved. probably initially it was just the western media outlets and think tanks that were that were doing this then you had NAFO something called NAFO NAFO those bought accounts went after went went after India the Ukrainian government started putting out anti-India memes on Twitter something to do with Makali that sort of thing once uh then you have the Pakistanis and Chinese getting into it and and amplifying the hatred towards Indians and uh now probably the Americans are also behind this so there's this huge wave of hatred towards Indians on social media. That's that's how it has happened. Praul says happy navatri well happy navatri to you praul and to everybody else as well. I see IT companies losing US clients citing cost reasons. I suspect a bigger wave is coming our way. What should our IT strategy be if the US tariffs Indian IT? What can our IT strategy be? Nothing. Our IT companies haven't evolved. The past 30 years they've been serving US clients. they have no other clients. Okay, maybe they can try and diversify to EU clients or whatever. The E the EU doesn't have the kind of you know tech support needs that the US has. There's no strategy. The only strategy is that Indian IT companies should start now start developing products of their own that can compete at global standards. Without that they will sink. I have been saying this for you are only talking about this because the tariffs are there right? I have been saying this even before this. I have been saying this for the past at least a year that AI is going to kill India's IT firms. AI can do the job of of junior programmers today. Right? So if if I if I can if I am a US tech company and I can get AI to work for me at a certain price, why will I pay more? For example, I I believe that you can get a pro plan of various AI systems at $200 a month, right? Whether it is Chart GP must be the the pro professional plan, the most advanced plan must be around $200, right? And the same must go for Grock and Gemini and whatnot. So, you can get a professional plan as an individual for $200 a month. Now if you look at the billing rates of Indian companies, IT companies, the the way they are billing American firms, it will be minimum $20 an hour. So for just one day, 8 hours for example, that's $160 per person. The US is is is spending the US company spending per day per person $160 at the lowest level. Obviously, there's going to be billing at higher levels also. So why not just get get you know an AI subscription for $200 a month you anyway spending $160 or $200 per day per person so just get 10 AI clients who will work 24 by7 it's much cheaper so the only way Indian IT companies will survive long term not short-term but long term next 5 10 years is if they develop highquality world-class products of their own and compete at that level not just provide services otherwise They're going to all sink. There's no other strategy. There's no other way out. Literally, Officer K says, "Some people compare the US to the Roman Empire." Well, okay. Do you believe that India today deserves a comparison to the Rome to the Moria Empire, or are we not there yet? The US, if we compare it to the Roman Empire, it's it's a comparison that makes sense. The US is an empire, but an empire at a much larger scale than the Roman Empire. I myself have made this comparison. So yes, that is a valid comparison. It's a legitimate comparison. Does India believe today deserve a comparison with the Moran Empire? Absolutely not. India is nothing like the Moran Empire. Today's India is nothing like the Morian Empire. Today's India is a is a slightly different version of the India that we we had during the British Raj. The India under British occupation. Today we are under our own occupation. We have the same system but we have our our own people ruling over India the way the British used to rule in a much inferior manner. We are not an empire. The Moran Empire was very clear about its administration about where the leadership lay. You had one person at the top, the emperor, the dictator. You never questioned the emperor. The entire subcontinent obeyed what the emperor said and everything got done whatever the emperor wanted. You do not have corruption. You do not have lazy corrupt officials. You do not have an administrative service that was self-s serving. You do not have other institutions that served themselves or served foreign powers allegedly hypothetically right. You do not have any of that during the Boran Empire. Is India something that can be compared to the Moran Empire? Absolutely not. It's a very interesting comparison that you've you know brought out over here. India cannot be compared to the Moran Empire. Absolutely not. There's nothing we can there's no basis of comparison. If India was comparable to the Moran Empire today, it would be it would be a very different entity, a much better entity than what it is right now. I mean look at India after today. Look at the modern Empire of the time. the you know India's temples are controlled by the bureaucracy and the government during the Moran era did death happen absolutely not today you have industrial scale uh conversions religious conversions happening in India would chupta Maria or Ashok tolerate that do you know what he would do to such people who would dare convert Indians uh let's not discuss what he would do right the education system in India during the Morian era. Do you think you can compare the quality of that with what we have today? The rotten education system today, the colonial education system that we have today, there is no comparison. You can't compare today's India with the Morian era. The Morian era was a time of way higher standards than what we have today. Right? So yeah, great great comic. vs says India denied American uh agro and dairy products in the Indian market. Could this be one among the several reasons why Trump is putting so much economic pressure on us? Is Trump ensuring that he gets his job done through the madman theory? See, Trump wants a vasal. That's the bottom line. He wants us to be the kind of vasal that the EU is. the EU. If you put all the EU nations together and add them up, they are kind of double the GDP of India cumulatively speaking. So India can only be compared with the EU. So he wants India to be a vasal the way the EU is and he wants a proper vasal. So it will start with economic vas but it will not end until there is military vas also. That's what he wants. And this entire matter of the the trade deal and the dairy products and agro parts is just to get a foot in the door towards the step towards vasalage. So the reason why Trump is putting so much economic pressure on India is because he wants India to bend to his will to cave in and become a proper vasal of the US. Today you had what Howard Lutnik or whoever it was was saying that India needs to be needs to be dealt with in India what I'm not sure what what exact words he used but he they they essentially want India to become an American vasal just like the EU just like Japan just like South Korea just like whatever else and because they're not getting it because India remains one of the five sovereign nations that's why they are putting economic pressure on us they're hoping that this economic pressure will eventually break and they will get what they want a complete unfettered access to the Indian market they can dump any product they want over here which means that all India's manu India's manufacturing sector all of the companies will die out right and then once that happens when India is completely controlled by the US economically then they can start installing American military bases on on Indian soil the first stage is economic the second stage is military that's the end aim that they seek and because we are not giving in because we are not caving in that's why they are applying pressure madman theory whatever it doesn't matter he's not really a madman he's a very shrewd man okay says many say Russia is polarizing the American society my opinion I don't think Russia has has the means to polarize American society Russia is simply a bogeyman that they the American politicians use in order to make political points so for example when when you had the last US presidential election which is in what 2019 uh they accused Trump of being in league with Russia and they accused Russia of trying to influence the course of the election by by hacking or I'm not sure what so I don't believe it at all I my opinion is that Russia has nothing to do with any of this and Russia is not not in a position to influence American society Russia doesn't have the techn technological capability to do that. ISX777 says Russia's median age is now 42. Big worry for them. Oh yes, big worry for them. Big worry for them. In 10 years it's going to be a big worry for us also because our TFR is now dropping below three. Big problems ahead for India. Rahul says the US citizens having guns is their freedom but independent countries apart from the west having nukes is a crime. Oh yes. See see there are two sets of rules in the world. One set of rules applies to the US and a different set of rules applies to the world in different ways at different times. That's how it goes. The US is the most powerful and most important country in the world. So it has to live by a different set of rules. You see, and those rules don't apply to the rest of the world. So the US can the citizens can have guns, they can have machine guns, they can have ARs, they can have AKs, they can have M16s, the US can have several thousand nuclear weapons, but no other country should have any of these rights obviously, right? The US is a different different kind of country. It's a superior country. They have rights that other countries cannot have. Okay. Ammon Patanya sir, thank you. Uh if the US is arming the temporary nation through Saudi, does that mean a low war is loading soon and was that going to be the end of that mercenary nation? Mercenary mercenary nation is Pakistan. If the US see right now the US has not announced any weapons sales to Pakistan. uh they have sent a few uh large scale C130 or whatever transport aircraft to Pakistan but they said that they were simply sending uh you know relief supplies to Pakistan. So as far as we know the US has not announced any arms sales to Pakistan officially and maybe they can't do it because Pakistan has this horrific track record of being a terrorist nation and if they sell arms to Pakistan openly officially then their own citizens may raise questions. So that's why this Saudi Pakistan deal is a great way of funneling weapons and cash and whatnot into Pakistan through Saudi Arabia and if it comes to light then you can simply blame Saudi Arabia like you've blamed in the past Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia has always been the fall guy for the US. You know they've always beaten Saudi Arabia whenever it whenever they felt like. For example, when the Kashog gi affair happened, that uh journalist who allegedly was murdered in the Saudi embassy in Istanbul in Constantinople, well, the US treated Saudi Arabia Muhammad bin Salman like a pariah for a few years, didn't they? Now everything is back on track. Um so it is possible that you may have announcements of Saudi arms sales to Pakistan not American arms sales but Saudi arm sales but obviously the weapons will come into Saudi Arabia from the US and Saudi Arabia will say that we have some surplus of weapons. So we are disposing of it by by selling it to it to our brotherly nation Pakistan. That's how it will most likely be done. Nothing has been announced thus far but I will not be surprised if such announcements don't happen soon. So in case we find that Pakistan is going to receive you know significant u sign significant uh you know dispatches uh deliveries of weapons and whatnot from Saudi Arabia. It means that that the the objective is to ensure that Pakistan does not lose another Sindu operation Synindhur like situation that they are actually in a position to to hit back hard at India. So if we start seeing you know such developments like Saudi Arabia is is selling weapons to Pakistan, it may mean that a war could happen soon. It may mean that yes the objective for the US right now is that Pakistan should not lose the next war to India. If operation sour had continued another week, Pakistan would probably have been, you know, broken into pieces. Very likely the the operation Sundur was was halted at the precise time when we took out their air force when we neutralized like 11 air bases in 20 minutes in 40 minutes. We created the runways. There was no way the Pakistani aircraft could could take off after that. Pakistan was helpless at that point. their radar systems were down right so the Americans don't want the situation to happen again so they will supply Pakistan with with whatever they need through Saudi Arabia and once the news starts coming out it means that if India doesn't take action soon Pakistan may be in a situation where we can't defeat them yeah so it could mean that a war could be loading soon could it could mean that yes Amisha says Trump hints at greatness in the Middle East and amid The 21point Gaza plan. What's happening? And when is the Maya chapter 2 coming? Okay. Trump hints at greatness in the Middle East. 21point Gaza plan. I haven't seen that. Let me check. Let me check. Let's quickly Google this. 21 point Gaza plan. Okay. Looks like something new. Trump 21 point point Gaza. Okay, what's the deal? Trump's Gaza peace plan revealed American 21point plan for ending Gaza war. Let's take a look at this. What is this all about? We are opening the Times of Israel. Vitkov proposal envisions all hostages released in first 48 hours. Grants amnesty to peace committing Hamas members. encourages Gaza to remain, Gazins to remain, sees US established Palestinian, Israel, Palestinian dialogue. 21point document shared by the US with a handful of etc. countries, etc., etc., etc. US proposal for ending the war in Gaza. The decision to explicitly encourage Palestinians to remain in Gaza, caps off a major evolution for Washington, significant tain to the idea that Netanyahu's far right, etc., etc. um voluntary migration of gazins. Okay. Okay. All of that exact sequencing isn't specified. Requirements will make likely the proposal diff difficult to sell to Hamas. The US plan is rather light on details and so on. Okay. So, so that's the kind of plan that Trump is proposing. I think based on what I very quickly saw, it's something that Hamas may not accept. But if they accept then things may go in in a certain direction towards peace. Yeah. Uh so we'll have to keep an eye on this. I think it's too early to decide what is happening, what direction things are going going to go towards. Most likely Hamas may not accept it. But if they do accept it, then maybe Netanyahu maybe not too happy because he would ideally want all the Gazans to leave Gaza, go to Indonesia or somewhere and he can then redevelop Gaza into a different part, a new part of Israel. So yeah, I think it's too early to decide what's happening. Uh Trump is trying to perhaps negotiate some kind of peace, but he will ensure that the peace is not such that it will inconvenience Israel. And if it is not something that will inconvenience Israel then and and if it is if it doesn't give too much to the Palestinians and to into Hamas then Hamas may not accept it because otherwise Hamas loses legitimacy in the eyes of its citizens Palestinians. And so I think it's very complicated. It will be an incredible achievement if Trump is able to get the Israelis and Palestinians to sit down together, shake hands and sign some deal. If it happens, he will certainly be remembered as a great man if the if the deal lasts, if the peace lasts. So, I think we'll have to wait and watch. Uh, Mirrors of Maya Chapter 2, I think, should come out by next by the coming weekend. Hopefully. Hopefully. See, writing stories is is way more difficult than than something I mean, let's say you you are making samosas. You can make samosas on demand, right? But writing a story, it has to be different and interesting and unique every time. It can't be boring. So it it takes time and I'm new at this especially writing fiction. So it takes time. I'm hoping it'll come out by by this coming weekend. But let's see. Right. But anyway, thank you so much. I thank you for so much for for the review that you left, reviews that you left. I really appreciate that. Rohit Singh says, "Big fan of your work, sir." Thank you so much, Sat Rohit G. Thank you. Why are there so many videos on on X of Americans fighting, looting or shouting while getting arrested? Is it normal? So, I was a few months ago I was at a at a at an event, a private event where you had some members of the EU Parliament. Okay. And after a few drinks, they talk better. I mean they they talk more openly. So we were discussing all kinds of things and uh I I said that you know the way I see it I've been in the EU I've been in the US. I've traveled I've lived in various parts of the world. The way I see it see it the EU and the US are police states. And the gentleman I was talking with he said you're right. The EU is a police state. You see what do I mean by that police state? It means that if you remove the police force from the streets that you're going to have anarchy in a short period of time and it's not that much the case in the EU as compared to the US. The ultimate police state is the United States. Go to New York City, go to Time Square, look around, you will see tourists. Majority of the people you see there are tourists, okay? But you'll see locals and so on. But one thing you will notice is plenty of cops. Not just in Times Square. Go around New York, travel, walk around, go by taxi, whatever. Go to Manhattan, go to the Bronx, go to Harlem, go wherever, go to go to New Jersey if you wish down south. What you will see is you will see cops everywhere. Cops, cop cars patrolling the streets all the time, cops everywhere, very ostentatiously displaying their weapons and so on. The moment you take away the cops, hypothetically, if you do a thought experiment, hypothetical thought experiment, remove the cops, you know, flip a switch and the cops disappear for 1 hour. If the cops disappear for 1 hour, there's going to be looting and rioting on the streets of New York. The society is barely kept under control by the threat of deadly force. That is the US for you. It's a police state and it's a nation that's armed to the teeth. It's a very violent nation. To understand why they are so violent, you have to understand America. You have to understand America. You to understand their history. You to understand their origins. You to understand Jamestown. The Americans don't want to recognize Jamestown as the true foundation of the nation. They want to say Plymouth is the foundation of our nation. No. Before Plymouth came, Jamestown, Jamestown showed what the US actually is. It was it was in in a sense, you know, it it it was an omen of what the US society was would would eventually be like. And then you had the Wild West. What you see in the movies is obviously exaggerated, but yeah, the Wild Frontier, the push westwards and so on. And the fact that the US is a nation that's founded on violence on on genocide on slavery unfortunately it's true right so because of that a lot of that is is is there in the DNA of the nation you know the Englishmen the English like to you know aim jibes at Australia they say it's a nation of convicts the English say that Ian Botham once said that it'll be fun to play in Sydney in front of 80,000 convicts. He once said that before before an ashes tour, cricket tour, right? He also said that the only place was worth in Australia to send your mother-in-law to is Pakistan. He also said that. So anyway, so if Australia as a nation of convicts and that is there in the blood then and if if the if your past deeds remain in your blood in your DNA then the past deeds of the US is also going to remain there right in their blood. So that's why you will see this. You will you So it's it's it's not surprising to me at all that you see so many videos on social media of Americans fighting, looting, shooting, shouting, uh god knows what else, getting arrested all the time. It's it's not like it happens all the time everywhere in the US, but it's more common place than in countries than in other countries. All right. Abhishek Shivasam says, "What is the max earthquake we can have?" Well, the greatest most powerful earthquake that has ever been recorded was what 9.6 9.7 9 was it 10 plus on the RTER scale. Uh look, the Anderman earthquake was one of the top three I believe the 2004 Anderman earthquake it was 9 I don't know close to 10 on the RTOR scale. I suppose around 10 is the maximum you can have. Beyond that, it's just like explosions. Let's let's Google this, right? I don't remember exactly, you know, top uh top 10 earthquakes quakes in the world by by magnitude. Okay, let's let's Google this. Let's see. So you had a 9.5 in Chile 1960 9.2 2 in uh Alaska 1964. 9.1 is the Sumatra Andaman earthquake 2004. Then 9.1 was a Tohoku earthquake. Unfortunate event in in Japan. Sumatra was even worse obviously. Then you had 52 Kamchatka. So 9.5 seems to be the most powerful earthquake ever recorded. It doesn't necessarily mean that it's the most powerful earthquake that ever happened. It's the most powerful ever recorded. You have undersea earthquakes that nobody records by the way. H uh especially in in zones that are you know sparsely inhabited and so on. And see for example when you had the explosion of Krakatawa the Krakatawa volcano in Indonesia in the what 18th 19th century whenever that sound was heard across the world that would have caused an earthquake that is beyond you something you can imagine. Then you had the explosion of of the Tambbora volcano in the same region in Java Sumatra wherever Indonesia that also would have had a caused very powerful earthquakes. Then you had we we discussed Toba earlier, right? A super volcano eruption that caused a volcanic winter that lasted a decade, no sunlight for a decade roughly. When that volcano went off, assuming it was one explosion, initial explosion, it would have caused cataclysmic damage. Well, the entire planet's crust would have rung like a bell. And when the chick impact event happened 66 million years ago, it led to the it caused the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs. the Chuk Chalobe impact event it caused supersonic tsunamis which were like 2 kilometers high so imagine the earthquakes that would have been like god knows what 15 or the earthquake erector scale 20 I don't know so uh it depends if you if you're just talking about natural earthquakes caused by tectonic activity I think 10 is around the maximum you could potentially have but if you're talking about volcanic events which are also tectonic events of course but not quite tect tectonic that's not quite tectonic right there is an element of tectonism in that but yeah so if you have volcanic events it may go higher than that on the scale and impact events well that's a whole different scale right areu says why do you refrain from talking about juice are you talking about the Jews or no oh are are you the person who asked the question about noses why do I refrain from talking about Jews I spoke about the Jews. I spoke about the Cypress issue. I spoke about Israel. Are you trying to say that I I I I refrain to talk about the Jews? Um I am equally diplomatic when I talk about everybody. Whether I talk about whatever religion, there are certain religions I don't talk about because I'm not an expert in that. Judaism is once again one of the religions that I'm not an expert in. I do talk about Israel. I do talk about Palestine. We just took a question about Gaza. So I I don't have a policy that I refrain to talk about the Jews. There are things that I haven't studied. There are people who say that, you know, the Jews control the world. Well, I haven't studied that. There are people who say that the Jews control um the US economy or the US or whatever. Um listen, I haven't studied all of that. So if I have not studied that, if I have not read books, there are people who talk about what Kazaria or whatever. Not sure what that is but apparently it's the original homeland of Jewish people or something like that. I I haven't studied everything in the world and whatever I haven't studied I don't speak about it. It's a very clear policy that I have. I do speak about Israel. I have spoken about the fact that Indian Jews who got converted who who converted to Judaism and went to live in Israel they were treated like secondass citizens. You you can see the videos on my channel. So it's not like I refrain from talking about them but I only spoke speak about what I know and what I understand to a to a certain extent to a to a good extent. Whatever I'm not clear about I don't speak about it. It's a very clear thing. You can also say that I don't speak about Islam. Of course I don't speak about Islam. I don't know anything about Islam. It's not something I'm any kind of an expert in. So that's the kind of policy I have. I think it's a logical policy. Speak about what you understand. Stay out of things you don't understand and you've not studied. That's how ideally everybody should live their life. Sumit says digital ID to be in the UK. Why West is controlled freak? The UK is going down the road of Nazi Germany. The third digital ID everybody will be controlled 24 by7. Yes. Everybody will have a social credit score now. And if you're naughty, they will not get access to whatever. Yes, the US, the UK is going down the road of Nazi Germany and the Il Dulce Shim Mussolini and the Chinese Communist Party. Fantastic. Rohil says, "How can India build a more efficient citizencentric system in parallel to IAS, IPS without provoking resistance from the effective from the existing bureaucracy?" I'll tell you what, there's one thing that needs to happen in India. End corruption. It is allegedly said that hypothetically the entire country hypothetically allegedly runs on corruption. Okay? If you want a more efficient, more cit citizenric system in parallel with whatever exists, start a war on corruption. Even if you remove the alleged corruption by even 50%. It's going to be a way more efficient citizencentric system than you can imagine that you can possibly have today. That's the number one thing India needs. Number one thing which will change everything which will transform everything is a war on this alleged corruption that allegedly is the backbone of the entire thing that runs the alleged country. Not the alleged country but you get what I mean right? You get you get what I mean? That's what needs to happen. That's what needs to happen. That will solve all the problems. All the alleged problems allegedly. Raavarura says Pakistan is getting support all over the world. US, China, UAE. Really? How will this set the stage for bat for now? Listen, we have two choices. We either become a vasal again and we're going to have another 150 years 250 years of East India Company like rule or we can try and stand up for ourselves in which case we'll be alone but are we really alone if we are if we are 1.4 4 billion of us, right? And those who will be used as tools against us will get support from whoever is opposing us and whoever doesn't want us to stand on our two feet. So that is the way it's always going to be. If you are someone who wants to grow, someone who wants to rise, if you want to reclaim your original position as the world's biggest economy and so on, well, the ones who are currently the biggest economy, they will not want this to happen. So, you have the choice of either remaining where you are a mediocre little nation of losers or you reclaim the greatness that is deservedly yours. Right? So, that's the situation we face right now. How will this set the stage for Bharat right now? We have to be we have to get used for the world to be tougher than what it is. The past 20 years India Indians have been able to travel all across the world. H1B vas are very easy to get blah blah blah. Now it's going to be tough. Everything is going to be tough for India. And that's what we need to get used to. We need to get ourselves used to for the next 20 years. If we can somehow ensure that over the next 20 years we keep on growing as an economy and we don't get vasalized then in 20 years the world will become way easier once again it's a question of surviving 20 years of tough times that's what India needs to do because if we continue growing our economy at 6.5% even 6.5% per year for 20 years we're going to be a whole different beast in 20 years and the world will not be able to push us around the way they do right now. So that's what India needs to do. We are not a hegemonic nation. We are not an expansionist nation. We don't invade other countries. We don't colonize and and destroy other countries. We have never done that. All we want is that you leave us alone. We will we will have good relations with everybody who wants to work with us. And we just want to do what we can the best we can for ourselves. That's it. It doesn't have to come at anybody else's cost. Right. G GG SSS says I discovered you from the beer bices podcast. Okay. Please make it a point to appear on other podcasts so the others can discover can learn basic geopolitics. I wasn't aware of non-s sovereign actors. Most people don't even realize. Well, these concepts that I speak about are actually pretty simple once you understand them. And then you think why on earth does no one discuss this? But no one does because the simplest and most common sense things are the hardest to discover. Once you understand the concept, it it be it it becomes like it's common sense. But you know that's a reason why they say that common sense is not that common. Uh so I'm glad that um you know I've been able to impart some of this understanding to whoever seeks it. I will be very happy to keep on keep on doing this. I'll be happy to uh appear on other people's podcasts. I'm I'm very happy to I don't care if it's a big channel, small channel. You will you will see me appearing on small so-called small channels, podcasts also. All I require is that the host, the person I speak with should be intelligent and should be interested and I'm happy to appear on any any channel as long as the conversation is interesting for me as long as I enjoy the conversation. So yeah, I'm happy to do that. Absolutely. Always. Adi Aayu says some people in chat said that said that Hindi is invaders language. These language wars need to end. Enough of this enough. Why? Why are we fighting about language? There are thousands of languages in India. Let it be whatever it is. Yeah. Hindi. See most of the Indian languages today have these words that have come in from outside. Hindi if you look at the origin of Hindi Hindi udu it's the same language actually you know some people call it Hindi some people people call it Udu and this language has a lot of loan words from Arabic Persian and Turic languages it is a consequence of history but the vocabulary the main vocabulary is still Sanskrit derived and the grammar is 100% Sanskrit derived so it's not really an invaders language it is it is you could say tainted with some of the elements of the invarious languages which we can choose to remove which we can choose to not use right there. There you go. It's no longer an invader's language. Right? Don't do intazar. Do pratika and so on. There's so many words that way that can be replaced by better words, more civilized words. No disrespect intended to foreign languages. I'm just saying that we consider ourselves more civilized. We that's why we we invented the word arry, right? So and and and and if you say that because Hindi is a arian lang Indo-arian language north Indian language that's why it's invaders language well that's utter nonsense you see this Arian invasion theory it's it's one of the bins of India it's complete lies but it has divided India into two camps those who believe that they are the original natives of India dravidians and those who are regarded as descendants of invaders people like me we are all natives of India there was no arian invasion or migration it's all lies And that's why I keep saying the education system has to be reformed because it it is poisoning the minds of Indians. All right. Vive Singh says Russia was allegedly in Alaska airspace with the 1950s bomber. Are they running out of air power? Many YouTube channels are also relating or reporting the same. A 1950s bomber. Which one? Dupole something. Really? Let me let's see. Let's see. Uh, Russia Alaska air airspace. Let's see what it says. NORAD scramles jets to intercept Russian um, let's go to news. The tupole 95 the bear with the counterrotating propellers. The incredible noise level. Russian drones and aircraft have made several incursions into NATO air. That's fine. I'm talking about Alaska. Near Alaska. Near Alaska. It's not over Alaska. As far as I'm seeing over here or over here, sorry, over here. Here. The detection of four Russian jets in international airspace of Alaska. Once again, it says in international airspace intercepted near Alaska. Near Alaska, near near. It's all near Alaska. It's not over Alaska or in Alaska. That would be a significant provocation if Russian uh aircraft were flying over Alaska within US airspace. That would be a massive provocation. That's not what's happened. They're flying near Alaska. That's okay. It's international airspace. It's perfectly legal to do that. So yeah, the I just checked it out briefly brief brief briefly whichever direction it was. Right. So it's it's not over Alaska, it's near Alaska, which is fine. Brashant says, "Why is Trump mad at the UN due to stance on Israel?" What happened? Trump did he give a mad speech at the UN? Did he? Let's see. Let us see. Trump's speech UN. Did he Trump speech UN? Let's see. Okay, he has 5 days ago. Okay, I haven't seen his speech, man. I don't really pay attention to his words. I only look at his actions. Trump's speech uh sparks European anxiety and so on news. What's it say? Trump's UN speech. UN US wants other countries to join crackdown on asylum claims. Okay. It doesn't say anything about his mad speech over here. Looks like he did give some kind of speech 5 days, five or so days ago, but uh I don't know. So, I haven't seen his speech. I didn't uh take the time to listen to his speech. I don't care about people's speeches. I just look at their actions. So, I don't know. I'm I'm sorry. I don't know. Uh B Mandav says, "Flower engine CV made by Ahiraata. Please check." Okay. Happy to check again. Let's see. Okay. Flower Flower Engine CV. Aha. Ahira. What is this? Ahiraata flower engine known as the constant velocity oh constant velocity engine or CV motion is a novel internal combustion engine designed by Ahiraata motor corporation that eliminates the traditional crankshaft. It uses a power shaft and rod rack assembly and a component called a flower to convert piston motion into rotary motion resulting in more continuous torque significantly better fuel efficiency more than 50% and a greater than 70% reduction in exhaust emissions compared to traditional engines. This innovative lighter and more compact engine is being developed for various applications from automotive motive to industrial and this video shows how it works. a Hiata hybrid and hydrogen engine multif fuel engine. Well, if what this summary claims is true, then there should be a revolutionary engine that should revolutionize internal combustion engines. And if that is the case, well, if they have any sense, they should make billions of dollars out of it. And it's an Indian Indian company. They should displace all the other engines in the world if they are really as good as what this uh the summary claims. Fantastic. I I'll I'll I'll look deeper into it. Um and thank you so much for uh pointing out exactly what this flower engine is. I'll check it out. If they really are as good as this what this uh this summary claims that should be a gamecher and the whole world should should adopt this this design. But they should license the design, right? They should patent it and they should license it and they should make billions or trillions of dollars out of it. Why not? That's how it works. Okay. Okay. Godliness says for 20 years, for 20 good years, Pakistan was in the Chinese camp and still somehow Pakistan succeeded in protecting its rare earths from them and now they're selling it to the US. Is China the biggest loser in this? Certainly Pakistan the loss of Pakistan is a big loss for China and uh maybe the Chinese never thought about exploiting Pakistan's rare earths because they're exploiting Myanmar's rare earths. So yeah, you are right. uh from 200 2012 onwards until 2022 for a decade or so Pakistan was firmly in China's camp. They the two nations call themselves the iron brothers or brotherhood is iron you know that sort of thing. And the Chinese never attempted to do you know any kind of exploitation of of Pakistan's rare earth reserves. Clearly they did not do that. They did not even attempt it. Uh so why is that? So were the Chinese not aware that Pakistan has some reserves of rare earths or were China were the Chinese happy with what they taking from Myanmar? I'm not sure. Is it a lost opportunity, missed opportunity? Potentially. Potentially. Were the Chinese not aware of it? The Chinese usually are aware of things. They're pretty good at these things. So surprising. Or maybe the Pakistani rare earth rare earth sector isn't as good as people think it is. I don't think it's one of the it's it's super rich in rare earths. Um I don't know. So now the Pakistanis are going to sell their rare earths to the US. Yeah. So maybe so I can think of two scenarios. Maybe the Chinese did do their due diligence and they concluded that it's not an opportunity that we need to get into because it may cost us more than we are able to extract out of it. Cost bene benefit analysis. Maybe it costs us too much, you know, and what we get out of it isn't worth the cost perhaps. So that's one scenario. Maybe the Chinese were aware and they didn't care. They didn't want to they didn't want to leverage this exploit the opportunity. And secondly, maybe the Chinese were not aware of it and they they may have realized now that they lost a big opportunity. I think it's more likely that the Chinese were aware and they made the conscious decision not to exploit Pakistan's rare earth reserves. That makes more sense to me. Anra says Abijit Ayar says cold war was my German scientist with versus Ayors. What made German scientists so much better than other developed countries? Well, if you have seen, in case you've been a longtime viewer of this channel, you will see that in 2021, I spoke about Operation Paperclip, how the German V1 and V2 rockets um were acquired by the US along with the scientists who developed developed these rockets. And not just the rocket scientists, all kinds of other engineers and scientists were taken out of Germany, out of Nazi Germany and shipped to the to the US essentially as prisoners and those who cooperated were given freedoms and they eventually became US citizens. Um the US space program was developed by Wer von Brown who was a Nazi rocket scientist, brilliant engineer but he worked for Nazi Germany. He worked for Adolf Hitler. He was taken to the US as a prisoner of war and he eventually developed the Saturn Saturn engines and um and the the rockets that took Americans to the moon and the Soviets also got their hands on Russian scientists and engineers and that's how the Soviets were able to develop their space program. So the American and space program are both offshoots of the Nazi space program. The world's first ballistic missile was a Nazi missile. The world's first cruise missile was a Nazi missile. The world's first jet engine was Nazi. The world's first flying wing design like the stealth bomber was the Horton brothers design from the from Nazi from from Nazi Germany. So all of the So once the Nazi regime fell, the Russians and the Americans scrambled to get hold of as many scientists and engineers of the Sudik as possible. And that's how these two nations took off technologically. What made German scientists so much better than other developed countries? Their education system. Yeah. Do you do you wonder why I keep on harping about the education system? How we need to reform the education system? Why do I keep saying that? Here's the example for you. Why were the German scientists and engineers so much better? Why did they come up with quantum mechanics? Why how did Max Planck made the breakthrough? How did Albert Einstein do everything he did? How did Vera Heisenberg come up with the uncertainty principle? How did Schoinger come up with the the differential equation? The Schoinger equation that's just quantum mechanics. How did German engineers and scientists develop all this technology best in its class technology decades ahead of every other country? Because of the excellence of the German education system. That is why I keep on saying that India needs to reform the education system. That's the kind of difference it makes. Arpitkumar says, "You have said in the past that Pakistan doesn't have its own nuclear weapons. Then why? What is the information you have?" I don't have any hard information. It is an educated guess. Every time I say that I don't believe Pakistan has its own nuclear weapons, I also said that I don't have any evidence to back it up. Right? But look at the logical change. Does Pakistan have the kind of education system that can throw up highquality scientists and engineers? Did Pakistan have any tradition of highquality research? We had scientists like Homie Baba from the 1940s, '50s,60s. We we had high quality nuclear scientists all the way, which is why we have our own indigenous nuclear program, civilian as well as military, right? It makes sense because you you can see the entire you can see the cause and effect chain coming that goes back all the way to the 1940s and50s. So in India it makes sense that India was able to develop its own nuclear weapons program. Pakistan what did they have? They had nothing. They had no scientists. They had no program. They have no tradition of scientific excellence or engineering excellence. Nothing. And suddenly somehow they developed nuclear weapons. How does it make sense? That's why I keep saying that I don't believe that Pakistan has ever developed nuclear weapons. The nuclear warheads that they may have are most likely American nuclear warheads on loan. Gapati says you say that India is one of the few sovereign states. Then but when and how did India become actually sovereign? We know it's not 1947 due to Gandhi real year date. How did India become sovereign? How did India become sovereign? See, good question. Actually, very good question. And I'm going to have to think on the spot because I've not thought about this. When did actually India actually become sovereign? Right? At what point has India actually become sovereign? How sovereign was India? For example, in 1962, 1962, we had a war with China, right? The Chinese invaded our territory. How sovereign was India at the time? I think India was 100% sovereign at the time. India was mentally colonized. India was messed up because of the Nairovian policies. But India was sovereign in 1962. How do we know India was sovereign? Because no one came to India's assistance. If India was someone's vasal that was the master would have come to India's assistance because India would would be valuable to them. Right? So India was clearly sovereign in 1962. In 1971, we were you could say allied or aligned with the USSR and Pakistan was of American vasal and we were on the point of breaking Pakistan which is why the Americans and British sent aircraft carrier strike forces uh strike groups to the Bay of Bengal and the Soviets they sent a nuclear submarine fleet to the Bay of Bengal and there was a stalemate there which is why we were able to break Pakistan and give freedom to East Pakistan which became Bangladesh which is now again East Pakistan. So in 71 also we were aligned with the USSR but we were not a vasal of the USSR. In 1991, USSR breaks up and we are kind of lost because we no longer have this big ally and it is possible that sometime in the 2000s we may have been for some time a vasal of the US possibly to some extent or maybe the beginnings of vasalhood but 2014 onwards once again we are very sovereign. So it looks like 1962 we were definitely 100% sovereign. We were not beholden to anyone. Despite the Nehuvian uh policy and whatnot and his great love for the Anglos and whatnot, we were still not a vasal state of anyone. How about 1948 India Pakistan war? The west supported Pakistan. Nu also took the whole matter to the UN. But once again, so it is clear that 1947 onwards, we had dominion status which made us still a vasal of the UK. But once we became a republic, 1950 was it. From then onwards we were actually sovereign very interesting. Very interesting. This is a very interesting question that you've asked Gpati sir. I'll have to think about this more clearly but it's clear 62 we are different. We are definitely sovereign. 1948 the British were on the side of the Pakistanis. their dominion. We also dominion. So it looks like we have been sovereign despite all our flaws, all our setbacks, all our drawbacks, whatever. We have been sovereign since 1950 more or less in the 2000s where we actually I think we were taking steps towards American Vasal during Shri Manuan Singh G's time but we never properly became a US vasal. So it looks like despite all our flaws, we have been sovereign since 1950. Very interesting question. Very interesting. All right. Sumit says, "Digital ID in the UK, why do they want to control people? Because if you control people, you get more power. And people who are the least charismatic and least deserving of power, they want the most power. It's because the UK and the West is becoming more authoritarian now." So why do they want to control people to have as much power as as is humanly possible that's why okay uh CJ Joe says I also meant Israel is buying land and real estate in Cypress a Cypress is a fantastic case study okay I'll tell you why you can buy land and real estate in Cypress you have to I don't know what what the cost is Cypress offers people this uh citizenship by investment I don't know how much it costs Okay, maybe a couple of million dollars or something. So if you have a couple of million dollars lying around which you don't really need, you can use that to buy some land and real estate or whatever in Cypress and then I suppose in a few weeks or months you will get a passport. So Cyprus allows this. Cypress allows people who belong to other countries to buy land and real estate and you get dual citizenship. Then if your country India doesn't allow dual citizenship then you have to give up your Indian passport. But if you belong to a nation that allows dual citizenship, then you can have an additional passport, a criate passport. So I think this is perfectly legal. And if Israeli people are buying land in Cyprus, I think it is perfectly legal. Once again, of course, it could potentially mean that Israel is trying to gain more influence in Cypress. But if it's legally allowed, then I don't see why it should be an issue. So yeah, I I haven't looked into this. So, Israel is buying is is the government of Israel buying land and real estate or are individual private Israeli citizens buying land which is a different story. I can assure you there are Indians also who have bought land in in Cyprus. Okay, I'll tell you that. So, right okay DN Singh is here. So, will Ukraine take back the conquered areas of Ukraine like again like the Donbas? I don't think so. I don't think it's ever going to happen. Trump recently put out a tweet, right, that you know, Israel is eventually going to take everything back and what we need to ensure is that Israel actually achieves uh what Israel achieves that is that it should retake all the territories that Russia has has conquered from them. So earlier Trump was saying that there needs to be some kind of a partition of Israel and Israel should accept whatever it has lost lost by now. But now he has changed his tune and he's saying that Israel sorry that that Ukraine should should be in a position where it regains the territories that Russia has taken. I don't think it's ever going to happen. Russia is in in a much more advantageous position. Russia is way more powerful than Ukraine. Russia is able to stand up to NATO as well if required. In the past three how many it's been three years more than three years three and a half years Russia's economy has rebounded Russia's military engine economic engine has also rebounded I don't think they're going to do be able to do a thing about the the territory that Russia has taken so Ukraine will not in my opinion regain the territory that Russia has conquered Singh says if Europe decided to militarize militi militarize and industrialize again How long until they become a superpower? Or will the Jewish bankers funding them fear the Hugo boss suits again? See Europe can become a superpower only if had if it has one single center of power which is legitimate in the eyes of the people. You can have a nation of you can have a region a EU region where the people are slaves but with a with a citizenry of slaves you can never be a real superpower. So for the EU to to become a superpower they first need to have a single center of power and that single center power has to be the legitimate center of power in the eyes of the population the majority of the population of the EU. Is Brussels legitimate in the eyes of the EU citizens? I would say most of the EU citizens don't like Brussels ruling over them. Right? I don't the sentiment I get when I talk to people and meet people or whatever and overall is that the people of the EU don't like the fact that Brussels Brussels is the overlord, the unelected overlord. Right? So that's one issue. Now imagine that issue doesn't exist and you just need a center of power and industrialization. So if Europe decides to industrialize and militarize again, how long until they become a superpower? See, right now if you take a cumulative accounting of the EU's uh GDP, let's let's do it live, right? Let's do it live. Total GDP of the EU. Total cumulative GDP of EU, what is it? 17 trillion euros please give it in USDR okay 19 it's it's about 20 trillion USD 20 trillion uh GDP uh nominal GDP which is slightly ahead of China so if you put the whole of the EU together it is slightly ahead of China actually but they aren't a military power but now they're going to they're going to invest double their GDP into the military domain so it would take probably at least a decade for this to have an actual effect on the ground of of of the EU becoming way more militarized than it is today. Because if you start spending 5% they're going to start spending 5% in the next 10 years. Right now it's less than 2.5%. So if they if if by 2035 they're spending 5% of the of the GDP on military then at that time they'll start becoming a major military power if they are united. So I would say it will take at least a decade for this to happen. uh if there are people who who who have these visions of the Hugo boss uniforms and those marching boots then they will not want this to happen ever. They will not want the EU to militarize as a single cohesive entity. What they will do is that they will they will cherrypick certain nations who should militarize in the EU and all the budget should go there. For example, Poland. Poland is being militarized right now and Poland probably now is more powerful from a military perspective than Germany already. So Poland could be the next Bulvar against the Russian Empire perhaps. You know the way that the Europeans talk it's like the Russians are going to advance further westwards. So you need Bulvar and Poland is the next one. Um but yeah I don't think Germany will be allowed to militarize. Poland perhaps France perhaps. um the UK. I'm not sure about the UK. So I think even if you do a theoretical thing, a hypothetical uh thought experiment, it will take at least a decade be before they they become you know meaningfully militarized minimum a decade. Divor Singh says is America temporary nation? So how do we define a temporary nation is the question. See the nation state system itself is temporary. It all came out of the treaty of Westfallia. The treaties of Westfalia. It's been around for like the a couple of centuries, two three centuries. And you already see this increasingly that there are certain nations that are once again behaving like empires. The US is, the Chinese are, even the Russians are. It makes sense that for India also to do that if India can get its uh ducks in a row. Now but the difference between nations like India, China, Russia, Germany, France and the US and Canada. The difference is that the US and Canada are artificial nations. Let's discuss temporary next. We will first discuss which are artificial, which are not. See, France is this large entity which once had multiple languages that were spoken. You had so many languages that was that were spoken in France, not just the French language. You had the ponal language. You had various brethn languages and so on. But but all of that was was essentially suppressed in the French languages. It was imposed on everyone. And today you have a nation called France. But it is not an artificial nation. It is a grouping of people who always kind of lived there together for centuries. It's not artificial. Germany is kind of artificial. It was never a nation until 1871. Um but the people they always lived there their ancestors lived there for for centuries. So that from that perspective it's not that artificial. The the US is a patently obviously artificial nation. It's a nation that was created through settler colonization through genocide and slavery. It's definitely artificial. So is Canada. and artificial nations are generally more temporary than than nations that are legitimate because of historical reasons. So yeah, I can certainly say that America is a temporary nation. So is Canada uh sorry artificial nation? So is Canada. Is it temporary? It depends on how powerful it is. As long as it rem remains super super powerful, it will not be temporary. But if it becomes fragile, if there is infighting, if if the there is the center of power fragments, then the US could soon fragment itself. You could have states seceding from the US like what happened in the 18 what ' 50s60s 1840s and 50s, right? You had the secession of the seceding the southern states seceded from the from the from the union. So the moment you have a weakening of the power the the center of power you're going to have this issue. So but you could also have that in India you know there are forces that seek to fragment India as well. So I think what I can say is that the US is an artificial nation and so is Canada. Temporary or not only time will tell. As long as they can remain cohesive, unified and the center of power remains powerful, it is not temporary. But if the reverse happens, then the nation could fragment quickly. Divor Singh says, "I bought I brought receipts today. Mr. Nathan Roth shield shorted UK bonds by knowing about Napoleon's defeat before the crown." Same thing happened in the First World War. How? Okay. Um, let me Google this because I haven't I I'm telling you honestly I haven't studied the Rothschilds and and so on. So, let me Google this. Nathan Rothchild. Nathan Rothchild. N A T H. Okay. So, who was Mu Nathan Roshchild? He was a British German banker and businessman. Okay. And he was born in 1777, died in 1836 at the age of 58. And what are his great achievements? Let's see. moved to England. Um, gold security. Ah, Napoleonic Wars. So, he began a deal in gold bullion and so on. Waterloo bought brought a many million pound scoop. Okay. Um, and they claim that this is an embellished version of events and so on. Did get to London first and alerted the family to Napoleon's defeat. Okay. So it looks like they did short possibly the bonds. Interesting. Interesting. And the same thing happened in the first world war. How? I am not sure how cuz I haven't studied this. Maybe they had uh you know maybe they had access to information that others did not have and maybe the information reached them first. I would I would have to assume. I haven't studied this. I haven't studied the role so I can't say but clearly what you're saying seems to be corroborated with what's there in the Wikipedia article. Uh it may be disputed but it's it's there in the article so it must it may perhaps have uh more than an element of truth to it. And uh if the Rothschild dynasty the lineage continued and they remained in power as powerful bankers and they they they retained the same sources of information that it's possible that they were able to do that in the first world war also. It would make sense that they were able to do that. So possibly that way but I haven't studied this in detail so I can't tell you exactly how. But interesting interesting clearly what you're saying is it's kind of corroborated by Wikipedia. Shivan Bakshi says, "Is India at a real risk of bulcanization?" Okay, we have crossed 2 hours 20 minutes. I should end this soon. So, please everyone stop taking super chats. I'll finish the ones that we have. Okay. Is India at a real risk of balconization? It is. If you have a government in Delhi that is not powerful enough, if you have a weak leadership, India will be at real risk of bulkanization. It could happen very rapidly. Yeah. Why is that? It's because of the federal system of India. It's because of the Indian population that is that is divided against each itself. It's because of the consequence of the of the education system. It's because of the arian invasion theory which makes people think that they are some people are natives and some are invaders. It's because of the religious divides that have been created in the Indian Indian population. It's because of the industrial scale Christian conversation conversion conversion religious conversion that's happening in various parts of India. All of these activities are designed to eventually balkconize India. So India is at real risk of balconization. Yes, India is. Divor Singh says 84% of Bal Bolsheviks were Jews. They killed 60 million Christians and all we remember is that the Jews died in the Holocaust. Albanian genocide was probably worse. Was it? Okay. Let's see. Let's see if this is true. Uh is it okay? 84% of Bolsheviks were Jews. Was it true? Let's see. Jews. Is this true? Let's see. No, the claim is false. It's a common anti-semitic trope. Okay. Uh this is what the the this AI says. It's an AI overview from Google. According to a 1907 estimate, only 10% of Bolsheviks were Jewish. In a later Bolshevik party census show that Jewish members made only 5.21% of the party. So key facts, minority, not a majority, anti-semitic origins. This false claim was used by anti-semites and enemies of bulchism to create a political slur conflating communism with Jewish interests and so on. The internationalist and atheistic ideology of the Bolsheviks was in fact incompatible with Jewish and so on. So it looks like it's not true. At least that's what this AI tells me. And the Jewish bulish bullsheism, what's it say over here? Percentage. These are a percentage sign that I can search for. Percentage 5.21% 6% and so on. So once again, what these articles claim and what the AI claims is that it's only five or 6%. Or 10% or whatever. Once again, I have to remind people that you cannot always trust what Wikipedia says. And AI also, you can't always trust it. But whatever it says is that it's not true. And what about the Albanian genocide? Let's see. Was there a genocide in Albania? Albanian genocide. Let's see. Albanian genocide. Mal massacres of Alban. The Balcon wars the first which preceded the first world war. Okay. So I haven't really studied the Albanian genocide. So I can't say. So uh Divor Singh G what the AI says what Wikipedia says is that no it's not 84% that's an anti-semitic trope the Jews are only 5% or 6% or 10%. So I don't know I haven't studied this part of history. I haven't looked at things from a from a religious perspective from you know I haven't studied this so I can't really say but uh yeah we saw what we saw just now. Okay. Divor Singh says was 911 an inside job? Well Tucker Carlson seems to believe so. Tucker Carlson is putting out videos on his YouTube channel saying that 91 911 was a cover up that the the truth hasn't been told to the people of the of the United States. And u if it's a cover up, it could indicate it's an inside job. I'm not sure. Um so I don't don't know. I think that there are elements of 911 that don't make a lot of sense. How did those buildings just collapse? Buildings made with steel frames. I remember Donald Trump came on TV that day on 911 and he said that it's not possible for these buildings to collapse because he had seen these buildings being constructed. He was a he is a real estate developer in New York. He had seen the construction of these buildings when they were being built and he he had seen the steel frames around the buildings. It's it's impossible for such steel frames to just disintegrate into dust. So Trump himself hinted on that day. I'm sure you can find the clip on YouTube. So Trump himself said that this could not have happened. So looks like there could have been some kind of cover up like Tucker Carlson is alleging. It's possible. I think I think there is more to this than meets the eye. What were the dancing Israelis? I have no idea. Let's Google it. Dancing Israelis. Let's see. Dancing Israelis. What is this? September 11 attacks advanced knowledge conspiracy. It's a term used to describe various dances performed by people in Israel. Okay, I'm sure this is not what Dn Singh is talking about. I think he's talking about this one. September 11 attacks advanced knowledge conspiracy theories. Do we have dancing Israelis here? Dancing Israelis? Really? So on se in September 2011, the New York Times and Israeli newspaper Harets reported that 4 hours after the after the attack, the FBI arrested five Israelis who had been filming the smoking skyline from the roof of a white van in the parking lot of an apartment building for puzzling behavior. They were charged with illegally residing in the US and working there without permits. The Israelis were said to have pulled into the parking lot after the destruction of the first tower and videotaped the remainder of the disaster with what was interpreted as cries of joys and mocker joy and mockery. The incident became known as the d as the dancing Israelis in conspiracy theory circles and so on. So it looks like what Dn Singh is talking about is this this particular uh incident which seems to have actually happened because it was apparently reported by the New York Times and Harets's So it looks like this actually happened. So yeah, I I I'm not aware of this, but interesting. Interesting. What happened to these people? They were held in in detention for like 2 months. Let's read read further. They they searched the van and found about $5,000 in cash, foreign passports, a box cutter. Uh the men were held in detention for more than 2 months during which they were subjected to interrogation and polygraph tests before being deported back to Israel. Back home, several of the men appeared on Israeli TV capture and one of them said that the fact of the matter is that we are coming from a country that experiences Taylor daily. Our purpose was to document the event and so on. Okay, I'm not going to read the whole thing, but it looks like there were some Israelis, five Israelis who behaved in a very suspicious manner who were arrested in New York. The arrests were reported by the New York Times and by Haritz. They were denained for 2 months and then deported to Israel. Yeah, Shivan Bakshi says, "I think China is still super vulnerable despite being efficient and powerful, but the US is much more stellar and stable. Truly the ultimate superpower. The US is way more powerful than China and they have things under control, properly under control. No question about it. China is way more vulnerable than the US. So I agree with you. So the US has more than 700 extr territorial military bases all across the world and these are run super efficiently. There are no issues. There are no logistical issues, no supply issues. Everything is running smoothly. People don't even realize there are more than 130 US bases in Japan. Similar number possibly more than 100 in South Korea. Doesn't even anyone even realize this. This operation is so smooth and they have the world's best technology. They have more than 4,000 nuclear warheads. God knows how many actually they may have and yeah they are in in the forefront of almost every technology in every domain. So they are obviously at the peak the pinnacle of their hard power. So I think the these reports of the impending uh collapse of US hedgemony or impending impending decline of US hedgemony. these these reports and these uh stories are are way too premature. ADB says many people say beyond the oil and gas revenues running Moscow, Russia is a failed state. What's my opinion? By the way, have you visited Russia or any Central Asian nation? I have not visited Russia. I have not visited any Central Asian nation. I would love to visit all these nations. I would love to visit them all. Um many people say Russia is a failed state beyond oil and gas revenues. I don't think Russia is a fail state. The what's the definition of of a failed state? A state where you don't have administration, you don't have governance, where you have uh people who don't hold legitimate power, who have who have actual power and who are running the show, there is no law and order, there is no government or less law and order, less government and so on. Pakistan is an example. The government should be running the country but it's the military who's running the country and the terrorists who are running running the country and terrorists get more protection than civilians and so on. That's a failed state. Is Russia like that? Absolutely not. I don't think so. I wouldn't agree with that. Divor Singh says when will we sorry now will we eventually inherit a destroyed world after the rule of the US empire? US Samson equivalent would destroy everything while going down. Yeah. Um you make a fair point here. The Israelis have something called the Samsung option and it was possibly leaked leaked out a few months ago and it it it had a list of various world capitals. Okay. So the Samson the Israeli Samson option is well known that if Israel goes down, it'll take out all of its neighbors before it goes down. If we go down, we're going to destroy you all all as well. So that essentially is is mutually assured destruction and that makes sense because Israel is surrounded by by by enemies. Now the US has its own version of of the Samsung option. It has the original Samsung option and it is far worse than Israel. The US Samsung option is that if if the US goes down, they will nuke every country in existence. Nothing survives if we go down. That is the American Samson option. They will nuke India despite India having never done a thing against them. Right? So that's the American Samson option. So if the US goes down someday, every empire eventually declines and disintegrates. Every empire in human history has gone through this. It eventually does disintegrate and and dissolve. So when this happens, whenever it happens, maybe 100 200 whatever years, will the US destroy the whole world while going down? That would be horrific, right? So if that is the case then yeah if if that's what the US does if that's what the US chooses to do then I think we will definitely inherit a destroyed world after the end of the US regime definitely and it won't be just a destroyed world it will be a poisoned world if if they launch a global nuclear attack then you're going to have a nuclear winter that lasts a decade which means that 90% plus of the human population will die out and what will we inherit? I mean it's it's going to be horrific if if it actually happens. But yeah, that's this that's the scenario that they have in mind. If they go down, they destroy everything. Um Dor Singh says, should we spend money on space programs? Many people dislike spending on space when we can spend on social facilities. I think we should spend on space. See for example if you if you look at this from the perspective of a nation like India in the 20th century India spent money on a space program when India was in abject poverty India was indeed in object poverty at the time India's GDP was growing at what 1% 2% per year the neuvian rate of growth and most Indians were really poor really poor most Indians did not have footwear those days at that time India spent money on the space program. Today India is in in a much better position and because of the money that was spent on the space program at the time today India is completely sovereign in space. India can launch its own satellites, its own spy satellites, military satellites. India has been able to develop um and deploy ballistic missiles and all kinds of missiles. Because of the investments India made on this seemingly wasteful thing in the 20th century, it has ensured that India is not dependent on other nations. India would not be a sovereign country today without its space program. So I think it's very important that you know things that seem like wasteful expenditure, you also spend money on that because of because you have to think of it as a long-term investment. Let's say the Americans implement their Samsung program and they start ning the world. But if you have an advanced space program, maybe you'll be able to okay hypothetically take a few million people into orbit and maybe settle them on Mars. I'm just painting a faroff picture here. But let's say in a 100 years time the Americans decide to nuke the entire world and and exercise their Samsung option. If India has and other countries have invested in in the intervening period on the space program, then by the time we may have rockets that can actually take several million people out of out of the earth's out of away from Earth and to Mars or wherever where you can build uh you know bases where people can live long term. So it makes sense and humanity eventually should be a multilanetary species for sure. We should eventually in the next 50 years have bases on the moon on Mars and eventually why not go everywhere we can go. So I think it makes sense to spend money on space programs and on uh advanced technologies that may not make sense to a lot of people but are actually valuable. Adi AU says do a live podcast with Dur Singh sir everybody is welcome to ask questions. Why are you getting upset about this? No one's preventing you from from asking 75 questions if you want to. Right? This is unnecessary sarcasm. Vimnor Singh says, "Are we capable of immense violence or is the top dog way too ahead with the runnerups US, Russia and China increasing the gap?" Uh what do we mean by immense violence? Is India capable of immense? It depends on see I'm not sure what our capabilities are from my perspective. What is immense violence? Immense violence is a function of the number of missiles you have. For example, so if we have a 100 missiles, we can do a certain quantum of violence. If if if your unit of violence is the explosive output, that is the end stage of a missile impact. If that's the quantum of violence, then if you have 100 missiles, then your quantum of violence is 100x that. But if you have 10,000 missiles, then yeah, then you are capable of reasonably immense violence. If you have a 100,000 missiles of different kinds, you certainly are capable of immense violence. Add nukes to that. Well, well, well, well, well. I think India will see we have no idea how many missiles India has stockpiled. I have been saying this consistently. India needs to have a stockpile of tens of thousands of missiles of various kinds including the Brahmos and including the Nirbay and whatever else the Shawya and whatever in case India has a stockpile of over 10,000 different kinds of missiles at least 10,000 then you could reasonably say that India is capable of reasonably immense violence and if you add the nuclear dimension to it it's certainly immense violence um I'm sure China would have more Russia they have been producing as many missiles as they can non-stop so they will have possibly even more missiles in the US right now. Maybe not ballistic missiles, long ICBMs, but definitely medium range and other the KAL type ballistic missiles, missiles and so on. Kinjal, you know what KJAL means? It means kar. It's the Russian way of saying kjar. It means dagger, the kunjal missile. Uh so I think India is capable of reasonably immense violence but probably not at the scale of Russia or the US. Maybe China may be capable capable of more violence than India but uh I think we are reasonably well off in terms of the capacity for immense violence. Divor Singh says do martial societies end up on top defeating more civilized nations? Oh yes, of course. If violence is your way of life as a society, you're going to defeat civilized nations. Which is why it's important for civilized nations to also have a class of society, a class of people whose profession is violence. But violence in service of society, you need to have a class of people whose lifestyle is the civilized application of violence, who are immensely talented in applying violence, but who control it and use it for the right reasons. Yeah. So yeah, otherwise martial societies, nomadic societies, etc., they will always end up defeating more civilized nations. That's what history teaches us. Rahul says, "Can you please show us the way in raise raising our standards by speaking in Hindi for one minute straight? How does speaking Hindi raise our standards? I am not capable of speaking Sanskrit because I'm not that good at it. Otherwise, I would show you how to raise your standards by speaking in Sanskrit." I don't think Hindi is that high of a language that raises your standards if you speak it. I can certainly speak Hindi. I've done many podcasts in Hindi as well. My point is how does speaking Hindi raise your standards? The only the only language that actually raises your standards is Sanskrit. Not Hindi. Not even your mother tongue. The only high language, the only language of civilization which actually raises your standards is Sanskrit. But if you speak Hindi without the foreign words, it kind of does raise your standards. But it is something that's very difficult to do. which is why I typically speak prefer not to speak in Hindi because I'm worried that some of those foreign words will intrude into my speech patterns. The reason why I prefer not to speak in Hindi is precisely this because I don't want to honor foreign cultures and languages by using their words in my Hindi speech. And I've learned Hindi essentially as I went along. Hindi is not my mother tongue. I' I've learned Hindi in various part in various parts of you know some of it I've learned on the streets you know by interacting with street vendors and whatnot. So the language I've learned isn't that pure that's why I prefer not to speak it. So I don't think speaking Hindi standards I don't think so says your thoughts on the Aratai app so I think that everybody should adopt this app and try it out and use it if it's good enough switch to this app I haven't done it yet and I shall do it I shall do it vivor Singh says do you think the US Russia China are just putting up a show of struggle and are secretly cooperating. See, among the biggest rivals, there is always some element of cooperation. When you are the top three rivals, you want to manage your rivalry. You don't want it to run out of control. For example, the US and China want a G2 kind of world, a bipolar world. The Chinese can have whatever nations and territories they can control as as vasals and the US wants to control the rest. And that's what they want to recreate what they had in the 20th century. The USSR US rivalry. That was again a G2 kind of situation. So the US doesn't want a G3 G4 kind of situation. They don't want multiple sovereign states. They just want the US and China to be sovereign. Which is why they want to deal with India right now. India is is is problematic exactly for this reason because India is standing up as as a as a poll in its own right and India and the US doesn't want this. Maybe maybe the Chinese also don't want this. Maybe the Chinese want the the Indians on their side. So there is an element of some kind of cooperation between the US and China for sure. Their rivalry is a managed rivalry. Russia not quite so at this moment. That's which is why Trump is very upset about Russia and India is is not that powerful and India is still standing up which is why the the US is going all out after India. So there is certainly some element of cooperation, some element of managing the rivalry when it comes to the US and China and the US would like to perhaps have a similar relationship with Russia as well which is why you had this this summit in Alaska but it's not it's not that managed right now. So the big rivalry which is kind of managed is the US China relationship. Divor Singh says freemasons Freemasons I saw their office in Colorado Coronado Coronado Coronado San Diego NYC even Bombay who are these do they control London these are it's this shadowy organization and and they have offices and outlets or whatever lodges they call them lodges pretty openly you have lodges in Turkey you have lodges I'm not sure about China India you certainly have lodges, Freemason lodges. I'm not sure who these people are. Once again, another shadowy world that I have not really studied. But if you want to see um let's see the the Indian Freemasons. Let's see Indian free. So there is this thing called the Grand Lodge of India. Okay. It's the main governing body of Freemasonry within India. It was constituted in 1961 and blah blah blah blah blah. So there are some of the their great luminaries I suppose what are their aims objectives I'm not really sure what what these are if you look at the grand lodge of India uh the the grand lodge of the freemasons of India let's let's take a look at it should be pretty interesting let's get rid what excuse me what is this so apparently Shri Swami Viveandarand G was a Freemason uh who else did we have as Freemasons this guy looks like Salman Rodi Okay. Okay. Okay. That's okay. Uh let's see if they have something about the history of Freemasonry in India. Um contact about us. Freemasonry grandmaster past Grandmasters. What is Freemasonry? What is it? Do they have an explanation of what it is? World's oldest secular fraternal societies. Long story here. I'm not sure. Um grand honors their projects what is this popup it's some kind of presentation so you you have swami vive which is interesting you have shriatant tati very no jd tat gi jd tata was a freemason who else did we have pandit mortilu was a freemason fascinating and once again swami viveananda so interesting it looks like some kind of secret society that is not that secretive which likes to flaunt the great people they've had and they they have offices openly. I'm not sure what their objectives are, what their mission is and so on. So I am not sure. I have not really studied the Freemasons, what their history is, what their aims, objectives and so on are. And whether they control London, I'm not sure. Yeah. Teen Talks Dharma says Russia has a great military. The Chinese have production. Israel is special. What does India have to remain sovereign? Why doesn't the US just use military on us? See, you need just causes to go to war. Even if you're a tyrant, even if you're a hedgeman, you always want to put on the appearance that you are a good person. Why why do the Americans keep on uh speaking about human rights and democracy and freedom and all that? because they want to portray to the world that they are the freest society and the nicest society and the fairest society in the world. We are the shining light that everybody should try to follow. So when you have that portrayal in front of the world, you can't go around invading nations. So they cannot use their military against us unless they have a just cause to go to war. Right? That's why they can't do it. Uh what does India have to remain sovereign? We have our big population. We have tremendous population. Uh we have tremendous potential. We have a huge territorial extent, gigantic territory, subcontinent size territory with all the resources you can ask for. You have a lot going for you Indians. India has a lot going for it. We have a huge maritime shelf. We have access to the largest ocean I mean one of the largest oceans in the world. Our geographical location is is gifted by the gods. We have so much going for us but we don't realize it because my teacher did not teach me so I don't know because I I can't think for myself. Right? That's what has been done to us by the education system. We are we have been made incapable of thinking for ourselves. So whatever is not in the textbooks, whatever the teacher did not teach us, we can't imagine. That's the problem. Okay. Okay. Divor Singh says, "Will we ever achieve world peace or are we just violent apes who will always fight each other? We will never achieve world peace." Nah, not going to happen. We are indeed violent apes. And it's in our blood. It's in our DNA to be violent. Even even even if you look at the history of ancient India whenever India was not unified under a single empire we had kingdoms that that fought each other. Of course because of our culture we did not target the civilians. We did not touch women civilians ever. The armies fought the armies and that's how things were decided. But we did fight and we had a whole class of society which was warriors. Right? So even the most civilized society had an entire class of society whose profession was warfare. It's who we are. We are violent apes. We will never have world peace. I don't see it being possible unfortunately. Sadly Dnour Singh says should we get multiple passports? Caribbean, Turkey, Indian OCI. Look from an individual perspective. The perspective the more passports you have the freer you are and the more options you have for the for yourself and for your family. So from an individual perspective, it makes a lot of sense to get multiple passports. If you are an Indian citizen, you can't get multiple passports without relinquishing your Indian citizenship. I mean there are people who will have multiple passports and they will not inform the government of India. Those people are breaking the law and there are people like that who exist. But see from an individual perspective it it is great if you have if you have multiple passports because it opens more doors for you. Definitely. Echo says language and religious tensions threaten stability. All these factors threaten stability. If there is hatred between languages in a country, you let's say you have a country which has the same culture civilization but different languages and people of different lang linguistic groups don't like each other. It obviously threatens stability sir. And similarly with religion, religion is more deeprooted. So yeah it does threaten stability. Gapati says your your take on Prescat Bush connection with Hitler. I am not aware of this. Prescuit Bush connection with Hitler. I'll have to look into it. I'm not sure about this. Let's let's quickly take a look. Okay. Prescat Bush. George W. Bush's father. No, the 1988 Bush's father. Okay. So this gentleman his his children was George HW Bush who was uh the president in 1988. Now what did connection do we have with Hitler? Did how Bush's grandfather helped Hitler's rise to power? Very interesting. Guardian Wikipedia. Really? Really? Very interesting. Very interesting. Hitler. Hitler. Okay. There seems to be something I I it will take me time to read this so I'll not go into it. But interesting that you are pointing this out. Looks like there is some kind of connection. Very interesting. Um, Sanchit says when will Africa rise as a power or it won't and not anytime soon sadly. To rise as a power it has to be fully sovereign first of all. Africa has tremendous uh quantities of various kinds of resources. Uh but they are not sovereign. That's the major problem in Africa. There's not a single country that can be regarded as sovereign in Africa. um they are dependent on others for all kinds of things and they they have so many structural and other issues right so it doesn't look like Africa will any part of Africa will write rise as a power anytime in the near future or even medium-term future next 50 years I don't see it happening I hope I'm wrong for the sake of the people of Africa but I don't see it happening anytime soon sadly Gorov says did people ever land on the moon or was there was this a propaganda by the government during the cold war era. There are many reasons. One of them being the Van Allen radiation belt. Okay, look. Did people ever land on the moon? Is it true that the Americans developed very massively powerful rockets? People saw those rockets being launched live. Is it true that the Americans spent like significant percentage of their national budget, annual budget on NASA during the space race? Of course they did. The money was spent. These gigantic facilities were were constructed. Thousands, tens of thousands of people were employed in NASA in NASA with very big salaries. So many rocket tests happened. People died in the rocket tests. You had Ed White and his two other colleagues who died on on in a rocket Apollo program rocket test that happened on the ground itself. I suppose um so if you see all of this thing it makes sense to just put people on the rockets because you've already made the rockets and they're being launched right so I don't believe this this uh story that the Americans had a fake space program did they land on the moon or not once again I tend to believe that they must have landed on the moon the van Allen radiation belt doesn't kill humans so that's not an issue and it it you know you can shield certain it does if if you have microchips that are shielded or radiation hardened, the radiation will kill the microchips, which is something that happened to a Russian um Russian space uh mission once which was supposed to go to Mars and the radiation fried the chips and it it just died. So if you take the precautions the van Allen radiation belts won't do much you can you can mitigate that. Aravsha says I know it's not geopolitics but can you tell us about Sarakur's role in guiding Nitak? I don't have any understanding of this. I haven't studied Sawakur G's life. I haven't even studied the independent struggle in that much detail. I haven't studied the life of Nitaki. I can't tell you sir. I I'm not any kind of an expert in this. There are many things that I stay out of. There's a good reason why I stay out of this because I don't know. I haven't studied it. I don't discuss Marata history in detail because I haven't studied Marata history. I don't discuss Mughal history in detail. Muggle history because I haven't studied muggle history. I have no liking for the muggles right um I haven't studied the the the Dr. Ambedkar for example I don't have any understanding of his life his career I don't speak about that similarly Sauurkar Nit these gentlemen these great freedom fighters I haven't studied their life in detail so I won't be able to help you with this I'm very sorry about that um Zishan says why did the US secretary of war war call all the US generals for a meeting is it hap has it happened this far or not probably not why why has he called them for a See generally you call all your generals for a meeting when you are making a huge change of some kind and you want them to be present so that your change has legitimacy or you are you are going to mount an invasion. Perhaps the Americans are going to invade Canada now. Perhaps they're going to incorporate Canada into the US and you need all your generals present for this for for for this invasion announcement or whatever. I'm not sure what exactly it is because they haven't disclosed what the reason is, but maybe the Americans are planning to invade Canada or maybe they're planning to launch a war on the entire world. I don't know. Something big could be a foot. Otherwise, you don't do this. Maybe Trump is announcing himself president for life. In that case, you need the general's present. I don't know. We'll have to see. Da Ganesh but doesn't have a question, but thank you so much. Thank you so much, ma'am. Really appreciate that. Thank you, ma'am. Jade Dev Takar says, "Your visit to to BJ is due. I got selected in my dream medical school hometown. Please visit soon. I would love to have you as my mentor. I would love to visit. Whenever I come to BJ next, I will certainly get in touch with you. These days I'm not traveling much but yeah, whenever I come to BJ, I will certainly let you know. I would be very happy to meet you and uh yeah, have have a conversation with you." Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Very nice of you. Very kind of you. ISX777 says once AI crosses the threshold of AGI would it even be possible to catch up and remain sovereign. It will be very hard to do that. See even if you have AI crossing the threshold and becoming AGI if you don't deploy it in a manner that will vasalize everybody then it is possible for other nations to remain sovereign. Let's say I I have the objective of of sending humans to all the planets in the solar system and if I use my AGI capabilities in that direction then every other nation will remain sovereign. But if I am evil, if I am hegemonic and my objective is to create a one world government under me and I develop AGI, then it's almost impossible for the rest of the world to remain sovereign. So it depends on who has the AGI in his in his hands or their hands. That's what matters. But yes, in case it's a hgemon hegemonic power, it's very hard for the others to remain sovereign if you decide to vaselize them all or conquer them all. Jed Tucker says, "Buj seven sky hotel is my mentor." All right, sir. Noted. Thank you. Aravsha says, "Brahma had four sons. Today we know radiation matter, lambda, curvature, coincidence. I have no idea. Many things like this. What's going on? What can be done to further look into this? a little premature to say a say coincidence. I I never connect science with non-science. Okay. What is the difference between science and non-science? What's the difference between science and philosophy? For example, science deals with observable material objects and phenomena. Observations that can be replicated. It deals with only the material world. material objects, material phenomena. Observable phen obser observable objects and phenomena. Philosophy deals with non material objects and phenomena. Love, it's a phenomenon. But does it can you can you quantify love? Can you measure it? Can you weigh it? Can you observe or or or quantify the soul? So these things are non-material things. That's in the realm of philosophy. Then you have things that are in the realm of religion or or or mythology or whatever you want to call it. I am a person who is grounded in science. Maybe it's a limitation that I have but I respect the scientific method and I don't mix other things into it. So I am not the right person. I'm not qualified to talk about uh you know religious matters and and and combine them with with science or try to relate scientific concepts with religious concepts. I don't do that. I simply am not qualified to do that. That's why I stay out of it. Okay, that's the deal with me. Dyang Patel, no question but thank you very much sir for your contribution. Really appreciate that. Divor Singh says thank you very much sir. Divor Singh G I really appreciate your your questions as well. Very interesting questions as always always very challenging at times. Thank you sir. Um Captain Saj beats says US founding fathers oppose behavior of the CIA. Do they? Okay, let's let's uh quickly fact check this. Uh US foration the US was founded foundation foundation foundation year it was 1776 was it? Why won't it give me a simple straightforward answer? USA independence okay independence. Ah, independence 17. Oh, yeah. Yes, I was right. 17 1776. Now, CIA, which which year was CIA founded? Yeah, here we have it. 1947. So, 1776. 1947. I think that's a significant gap in terms of time for the US founding the fathers to oppose the formation of the CIA. I'm not sure. So I I'm not sure of the US founding fathers opposing the behavior of the CIA because the CIA did not exist in 1776 or for that matter in 1800. The CIA was formed in 1947. So there you have it. Dimning says I'll be back with more receipts next time. more challenging each stream. OB absolutely please do that. All right. All right. I look forward to that. Okay. With that we are at the end of all the super chats and the live stream. Okay. There is one final question that I will take. Wtiagi says racism against India has been on the rise recently in a especially in Australia. Why do you think it's happening? I to so it is I took this question earlier also but I'll take it again. Since the year 2022, there has been this concerted effort to malign India. On the 22nd of February or 23rd, whichever date it was, February 2022, Russia launched its special military operation in Ukraine and India refused to join the western nations and participate in the sanctions against Russia. India also decided to buy more Russian oil because it was now available at a discount. From that time onwards, the western nations started putting out this outpouring of of anti-India propaganda in various articles, various um western media outlets like the BBC, CNN, uh Deutsche, uh New York Times, Washington Post and so on and various think tanks like the Rand Corporation and whatnot. They started putting out this outpouring of anti-India propaganda narrative whatever whatever you want to call it. Then it started on social media. It started with the nafobots na for nafobots and then the Russians and the chi not the Russians the Chinese and the Pakistanis got into it and from 2023 onwards there was this big outpouring of hatred against Indians on social media and it looks like the Americans are also now participating in that. So that is why you have this happening and that's why there is a lot of hatred towards Indians these days because people are influenced by what they see on social media and that's why there is a rise in racism against Indians in the western world. Australia may be physically in Oceanania or Asia but politically it's part of the western world. That's why it's happening. People are being manipulated manipulated into being hateful towards Indians. That's what's happening. Okay, one last question. Dyata says u okay my suggestions on how government should deal with illegal immigration. It's a huge problem that we are facing in this country. Um I'll tell you in 2014 the government of India had officially stated that there are about 5 crore illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators in India. 50 million in 2014. today it would be double easily. So I would estimate that there it's it's a guesstimate but we most likely have at least a 100 million illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators in this country. What needs to be done? See recently when operation zindur happened the government was able to identify tens of thousands of Pakistanis who were living in India illegally for decades. If the government wants they know they can find out exactly where the illegals are. The government knows everything. So my my point my suggestion to the government is since you know exactly where the illegals are, please round them up and send them back to Bangladesh. If there are any more Pakistanis who are still squatting on Indian territory, please repatriate them to Pakistan. And the cookie infiltrators, the several lakhs of them who are squatting on Manipuri territory, please repatriate them to Burma and deal let the Burmese government deal with those troublemakers. That's what the government of India needs to do and then do a what what is it uh whatever those terminologies we need to have a proper register of citizens and ensure that no further illegal immigration happens. So I think the government is very capable of doing this if it wants to and Mr. Modi, Prime Minister Modi, Modi GI recently said on this during his 15th of August speech address uh that uh the country is is forming a highowered task force to deal with the demographic issue. Well, please do that sir. Please 10 years we've been waiting nothing has happened. Let's do it now at least. Let's get rid of all the illegals. So that's what needs to happen. Okay, there are more questions. Captain says their values oppose what was the question the earlier question the founding fathers of the US would their values oppose the CIA. I'm not sure what their values were. If you ask Howard Zinn you will say that the founding fathers only wanted more profits for themselves. Howard Zinn is a highly respected American historian. If you read his book, A People's History of the United States, he doesn't have a great opinion of the founding fathers of the US. So I don't know what their values were. The US is a nation that was founded. See why was why did the Americans fight the war of independence against the British? Because they did not want to pay 2% tax to the crown. They wanted all the money for themselves. 2% tax is too much for them. So I don't know what the values were. The values were capitalism. I suppose capitalism and CIA. I don't think capitalism has anything against the CIA. Okay. Mama Bucket VFX's to Tony Nadar's book may change your perspective about what exactly? Let's let's Google Tony Nater quickly. Tony Nar Nater, are you talking about the Did you ask the question about the space program? Is it There's so many questions I can't find your old questions, but it looks like you're talking about the space program. Oh, okay. I I I have See, I haven't read all the books in the world, so This guy seems to be a neuroscientist living in his transcendental movement etc. I I'll check it out. I'll check out this this gentleman. Sure. Uh Anish says, "Thank you for the live stream." Well, you're very welcome. It is my pleasure. It's always exciting. It's always fun to feel all these questions in real time. Always fun. Divor Singh says, "Trump just tweeted something against something interesting against the Middle East." Let's see his Twitter. Let this be the last thing we do today. Trump Twitter. What's he say? Real Donald Trump. What's he say on Twitter? Will it load? It should load. Yes. Um, this is September 15. Looks like he has not been tweeting. Are you talking about his other thing? Uh, Truth Social. Truth Social. Truth Social. Let's see his Truth Social. Let's find out what's he have to say on Truth Social. just uh let's see his actual account. Okay, I'm not logged in so it won't show me perhaps his What is this? He is selling pillows. Donald Trump. That's good. And a dog and some Jesus crime. Some some shooting. King Charles Camila make crime illegal again. More dogs. We have a real chance for greatness in the Middle East. All are on board for something special. First time ever. We will get it done. President DJT. Maybe he wants to create Trump Towers in the Middle East. Maybe that's what he wants. We'll see. We'll see about that. Okay, we should Okay, there's one more super chat. I always appreciate the super chats, but please let's end it here. I've already crossed 3 hours. It's supposed to be twoour session. I'll take this one last final super chat by Vishno. As a developer, we need some software ideas that we can build to help this community to grow. What are some solutions sir that you would live you would love to get built for the people of our country also love the show well thank you so much look if you ask me on the spot right now I may not be able to give you a lot of solutions but one thing we need is our own social media platforms something that's an Indian equivalent of Twitter we need an Indian equivalent of of uh of uh Facebook an Indian equivalent of a photo sharing picture sharing thing like Instagram and we need an Indian search engine, the Indian answer to Google, Google and we need an email solution for India, an Indian version of Gmail, an Indian answer to email to Gmail and we also need an Indian highquality LLM ideally multiple high quality LLMs and different AI solutions that that's a lot of stuff that Indians can build. So these are software ideas you could say these are things that India needs these are platforms that India needs and uh yeah you could start there obviously these are not these are not small things these are not low hanging fruits that these are immense challenges to take up but that's the kind of that's the kind of development India needs so yeah maybe I can think of more later on but right now that's what I can tell you off the cuff of the top of my head all right people thank you so much everybody for all the questions it was really fun I really enjoyed Thank you everybody and I look forward to seeing you in the next episodes of Ask Abij and wherever else. I look forward to it. Thank you so much. Keep learning. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your raising your standards and do check out my books that I'm working on in the description. Take care everybody. Thank you so much. I'll I'll see you very soon. Bye-bye.