Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Heat. Heat. >> [music] [music] >> Good evening. Good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Abijit show. Today we discuss history, Indian history and world history. I have chosen a number of questions that you have asked in the comments and I'm going to take those today. But before we do that as always, let me see who all is there in the live chat. I can see Mac 4 Amya Chri has become a new member. Thank you very much Amy Chri welcome to the membership. I really appreciate that. Sai Suraj nine real Vladimir Putin AJ Raul uh geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor good evening Chatanya Manuja is here. Vorto anonymous artististic is here. Good to see you. Uh seek for seeking Chetanya Manuja once again. Sudhir Kumar the Ashwini Dak 1894. Uh I might testic again. Sar. All right. S VSVS 2400. Namaste. Namaste. Good to see you. Thank you so much. Uh Nawad Tadas Namaste. VSVS once again. Uh Aush Singh is here from Pranam Sarji. Good to see you. Abhai Singh. Chetanya manuja once again. Geopolitical way from Indor. Um who else do we have? Uh Swami is here. Son J4s is also here. Vinina Jooshi. Shashank Koshik. Good evening. Pratarana Namaste sir Mahita Bushetti J Krishna ma'am online yo bro good to see you Shukla is here Adashini once again Vikash PJ J desai hello civilian wizard prrenam um who else do we have Vikas PJ Shubam Vare Sagar Gare uh Sager Dadani Pray Paul from Kolkata good to see you good to see you. Welcome back. Kalist Mahushi says Haruhar Mahadev. Yes indeed. Harar Mahadev. Uh Shubam Shubam XJ Priyanka Javalia. Good evening ma'am. Sager Dadani. Uh who else? Nirvana Shang Shanks Kodi Shiva good to see you Mr. Sumit. Namaste. Um who else do we have? Amish Mishra is here. Good to see you. Sumit Sumit Agarwal. Have I watched Durand yet? I did watch it. Yes, I will speak about it. Maybe not today but maybe tomorrow. Yeah. Um and uh Gajapati Dave is also here on the live chat and everyone else. Okay. So Bala Subraman good evening Ritik Tagi namaste. All right let's let's get going with the questions. What questions do we have? As always today is going to be history. We're going to discuss various aspects of history. So what's the first history question for today? Here is the first one. Amish Mishra says how rich was the sunnath temple in the 11th century before it was plundered and destroyed by Mahmud of Gazni. The loot of sunnath gave Mahmud of Gazni a worldwide fame. He sent incalculable values of looted gold and silver to the khif in Baghdad I suppose and I'm sure he must have kept huge lots with himself too. So how rich was the subnath temple? So first of all, where is the SNAT temple located? Let's orient ourselves first of all. So let us go to the map and put the map on the screen and let's uh find the let's locate the place. So we're talking about western India. We're talking about uh the southern part of Sarashtra. And here we have Sumnad, right? Uh the town is called Viral. And there is a temple, the great temple there. It's it's it's the reconstructed temple that we have uh over here. Can we find it on the Google on the on the map? Okay, here it is. Here it is. So, this is the temple. This is the modern reconstruction of the temple. And this is the site where the ancient temples stood. And the temple was destroyed multiple times. First by Mahmudi and then by various Dar Sultans. and eventually by Aurange the Turk uh king who the the tyrant who ruled India in the uh six 17th and 18th century. So this is the location it's in western India the southern part of Saashtra. Okay. Uh just for orientation now the question is how rich was it? because we have all these uh you know these stories these records from the past that say that Mahmud took so much incalculable amount of wealth. So Mahmud of Gazni he uh looted plundered and destroyed the temple in the 11th century probably 1026 AD. At that time Gujarat was ruled by the Solanki or or Chaolukia dynasty. The king was Bhimadev Solanki. Okay. Rajput. Today they are considered they they're classified as Rajputs this dynasty. Wow. And and there are records of the of the temple by Persian chroniclers who have uh described the temple as as some as a temple that possessed tremendous amounts a tremendous amount of wealth in gold, silver, pearls, jewels and this wealth was accumulated over centuries maybe millennia and they said that it was one of probably one of the richest temples in the whole of India. But there is no there is no inventory that they've given in in terms of the exact quantity of let's say gold in terms of kilos or gold in terms of there was this older uh unit that was used mana. So they haven't provided any of that. There was this uh historian called who said that no treasury of any king in the world contained this much wealth. So that's how much wealth was contained was was there stored in the temple. Now the question is why would a temple store so much wealth today people won't understand that right? See temples first of all subnat is is one of the iconic great temples. It's uh probably this location where the current temple stands. It's probably been the site of a temple for thousands of years. It is recorded that Lord Krishna when he ruled over Duara this region he also visited the place and his resting place I mean not resting place but uh the place where Lord Krishna died eventually by after being shot by the arrow of a hunter that temple is also in in Viral nearby you can see it on the map so it's a very ancient temple and temples were places obviously holy places this is a great jot linga temple of Lord Shiva And uh as such because it was it was such a great temple people would you know pilgrims would come from all over the let's say Indosphere you know and they would come and they would donate whatever they could for the upkeep of the temple and typically they would donate more than was what was required and so over the centuries and millennia tremendous amounts of wealth I mean you know you know uh treasure was accumulated in the temple kings would come from various parts of India. There were times when India was under a single emperor. There were times when when India was was politically divided but the kings would come on pilgrimages and and donate large amounts of wealth and that's how over time the temple accumulated tremendous wealth and there are some temples today in especially in southern India where you know you have large amounts of wealth. One of the temples that has not been plundered fortunately is the Sharipan Narabas Swami temple in Kerala and that is known to uh have a treasury that commands that that contains a tremendous amount of wealth. So that's how this sunnah temple accumulated so much wealth. It's it's a very ancient place and uh so what Mahmud of Ghazni did is he came to the temple. He was able to defeat the forces of Bhimdev Soleni and he desecrated the temple, killed all the brahmans, all the priests, all the all the staff uh beheaded them in the most merciless ways and he you know damaged the temple as far as possible. He destroyed the great jotir linga the floating jotir linga that was magnetically magnetically levitated over there and he took away all the wealth. Now um if you look at Wikipedia, Wikipedia will quote Roila Tapar okay and it will say that uh according to Romeil Tapar about uh I don't know 20 million dinars or something worth of wealth was taken away. I'm not sure how Romeila Tapar G came up with this figure but she says 20 million dinars was taken away. That that's the quantification of the wealth. Now once again that's kind of vague because what exactly is a dinar in today's monetary terms is a dinar equal to a certain amount of gold or is it equal to something else? We are not quite sure but Romela Tapper says 20 million dinars. Um the the truth and and you have all kinds of popular articles and social media posts etc. Sometimes secondary literature not primary literature but secondary sources that state that maybe Mahmud took away a treasure worth about a 100 million dinars. Once again we don't know what is the actual value of the dinar of that time right? So um we can't really trace the exact quantity you know of of wealth uh administrative records from that time from the 11th century do not survive [snorts] uh accounts detailed accounts by Indians of the SNA temple of that time from the 11th century do not survive and that's why we can't really put a precise number whether it is in dinars whether it is in rupees whether it is in kilos of gold dollars whatever we can't really put a precise figure on the amount of wealth that this uh great temple contained. U but it is known to have uh you know made Mahmud a very wealthy man and he was able to use that wealth to finance his subsequent military operations and uh you know yeah it made him one of the wealthiest men in the world and you had temples like this all across India. I mean Zumnat may have had more wealth than most temples but you had temples that contained such wealth all across the length and breadth of India and all of that was plundered. So you can imagine how rich India was before the Turk invasions um began and after the Turks it was the British that plundered India and that's where that's how we have ended up where we are today and still and yet we have some temples like the Shirat Munab Swami temple that still contain trillions of dollars worth of today's wealth. I mean if you were to quantify that it's in the trillions of dollars. Uh so yeah that is the deal about the surah temple how rich it was we can't really tell because we don't have any contemporary records from that time. Okay. Math and CLFMAO says, "What's the lore with the Nanda DVP? Is there really a lost nuclear device there?" I remember I had taken this question several years ago, maybe 3 years ago or something. But let's revisit this because these days it's it's again in the news apparently. So it seems that there is a lost nuclear device on the Nanda Dvi peak. First of all, let's understand one thing. It's not a nuclear weapon that was lost. It's a nuclear device that contained a specific isotope of plutonium. Not the isotope that is used in uh nuclear weapons, but it's plutonium 238 that was uh contained in this device. Now, first of all, let's locate the Nanda Dvi peak, shall we? Let's do that. So all we have to do is we have to go north north northern part of India Uttarakhand and you will see that there is something called the Nanda Dvi National Park over here. Okay. And if we zoom in further we have mountains like Trishul and so on. And where is the Nanda Dvi peak? Okay here it is. It is uh the second highest peak in India after the Kjanjunga if I am not mistaken. uh you can check out the actual details but here it is. This is the Nanda Dvi peak the second highest mountain within uh the present day boundaries of India. This is the peak. All right. Nanda Dvi. Now let us uh zoom out and and and look at the surrounding region especially north of Nanda Dvi. North of Dunda Dvi you have Chinese occupied Tibet and further north you have Chinese occupied Shinjang. Now in Shinjang present day China there is a place called Lnor which is where the Chinese in the 20th century tested their nuclear weapons. Where is Ln? Let's let's figure it out. Ln. Let's find it. It'll zoom in quickly. Okay, this is Ln. It's it's essentially barren land obviously that's where you will test nuclear devices not in a populated area so we can see how far it is from Nanda Dvi about 1500 km or so let's let's uh take a rough rough estimate shall we from here let's measure the distance to Lnor yeah about 1500 roughly kilometers pretty far away right from Nanda Dvi so the so in 1960 what 64 the Chinese tested their first nuclear device in in Lnor in Chinese occupied Shinjang and that was a matter of concern for the United States. Okay. And at that time I I when did when did the great Mr. Nehu die India's greatest ever see Shri Javaharlal Nehuji was India's greatest ever prime minister and it was a tragic day for India when Shri Neuji passed away I think it was in 1963 or 64 probably 1964 so a tremendous tragedy for India Shri Neuji passed away and subsequent to his passing Mr. Shastri Mr. Albadu Shastri became India's prime minister and he passed away in early 1966. Okay. So it's in 1964 that the Chinese test their first nuclear device nuclear weapon in Lnor and the Americans are concerned. India also I suppose may have possibly been concerned. I mean Mr. Nu we could not I mean you know he was so great we could not understand him but uh may he he may have been concerned. So the Americans said to India, let's uh set up a you know a signals intelligence station in northern India on the Nanda peak or near the peak of the great mountain from which we can look far into China. We can see the Nanda mountain is about roughly 8 km tall, 8 km high and from that vantage position you can look far into China into Chinese occupied territory. Okay. So that was the deal. So the Americans proposed that they would uh furnish a device. They would come with a device uh which would uh be a signals intelligence device and they will place it on the Nanda Dvi peak or near very close to the peak and from there the device would acquire signals intelligence essentially uh you know yeah data about Chinese activities what the Chinese were doing. So what kind of device was this is the question. So this this expedition happened in 1965 in in probably October or something 1965 which is a strange time to do such an expedition. October it's autumn right? October November is autumn and the weather isn't great in October November in the Himalayas. The best time to do it do something like this is during springtime or summertime when there is less snow it's it's warmer in autumn it's going to be cloudier and the you know the weather will be rougher but they decided to do it in October there must have been some reasons for that so the uh expedition was happened in October 1965 and there was a team of Americans maybe probably more than 10 Americans who came and they were accompanied by Indian mountaineers and you know officials of various kinds. Uh and they climbed the mountain and they they they had this uh this RTG radioisotope thermmoelect electric generator which contained plutonium. It contained more than 50 kilog of plutonium. It was called the snap 19c. Okay. So this so the equipment was aboutif more than 50 kg of plutonium plutonium 238 which is not the one that is the isotop that's used in bombs and it had the the equipment also contained a 10- ft antenna. So the uh the RTG radioiso thermmoelectric generator would provide the heat and the the power needed to power the system and the antenna would acquire signals from within Chinese occupied territory and monitor future Chinese nuclear tests. Okay, that was a deal. So the expedition went ahead in October 1965 and while climbing the mountain pretty high on the mountain there was an extreme weather event a blizzard which is a massive snowstorm and it became um the weather became so extreme that the expedition members had no choice but to leave the expedition behind somewhere on a ledge in the mountain and go back down otherwise they would have lost their lives. Right. So they left the equipment behind on a ledge on the mountain near the peak of the mountain somewhere near the peak and they tried their best to climb down the mountain and fortunately for them they all survived. No, nobody lost their life and then the deal was that you know they knew where they had kept the equipment and when the weather would be better they would go back and finish the mission. So the weather, you know, after October in the Himalayas, the weather gets worse, not better. So you have to wait out the entire winter. And then in spring, that's what, March, April, around that time, that's when you can uh have sufficiently decent weather to climb the mountain again. So that's what they did. So they went back the next spring, they climbed all the way up and there's nothing there. Okay. So the device is gone. And uh what happened is the question. How did the device disappear all the way up there on the mountain? So there's two possibilities, okay, two logical possibilities. One possibility is that maybe there was a blizzard again. Maybe there was an avalanche. An avalanche is when there's a, you know, hundreds of tons of snow falling down the mountain. It's very common in the Himalayas. So maybe there was another law and that may have dislodged the device and know the device may have tumbled down into some travass or something down the mountain slope and maybe it still lies somewhere there buried under I don't know how many dozens of meters of snow perhaps. Okay, that's one possibility of, you know, a natural explanation, a Nava launch or something that dislodged the device, the plutonium uh RTG and the antenna and that's how the device was lost and maybe it tumbled all the way down. That's one possibility. The second possibility is also a logical possibility that the Indian government sent mountaineers during the winter or whenever and they retrieved the device and maybe for whatever reason. So that's two possibilities. Those are the two logical possibilities. Now which is true, we don't know. But the device disappeared. The device is lost. Now in case the Indian government went and retrieved the device and did whatever tests, experiments, whatever and maybe reverse engineered technology, what whatever the reason is, in that case we are fine. In that case there is no danger. But if there was a launch and the device actually tumbled down the mountain and it maybe lies somewhere in the catchment plane of the Ganga, then it's a very big danger. Now let me explain why. So once again we go back to the map and understand why this region is so sensitive and critical. So this region the Nanda Dvi National Park region where you have the great mountain where once again I'm going to have to locate it. Where is the where's the mountain? Nanda Dvi. Ah come on man. Nanda Dvi uh Chamol Utrahan. Okay here it is. Nanda Dvi Parvat here is the mountain. So this region that we are talking about it is the catchment area for the Ganga. Okay. The catchment region from where the great Ganga river the Ganges like they say in English the Ganga the Ganga gets its waters from this region. So what happens is that this is the Himalayas right? As you can see it's it's the heart of the Himalayas. You got all these peaks with glaciers and snow and ice. And when the ice and snows melt those all of that water trickles down into a couple of rivers over here, the Alaknandanda River and the Bhagati River. Where is Dva Praag? Let us let us find where is Dva Praag. Okay, let me just search for it. Da pra. [snorts] Okay. It is over here. So it is over here that you have two of these rivers the bhagati and and the alaknanda that that merge and they see over here it says the bhagirati right this one here and over here it says the alaknandanda. But once they merge what is it called? The Ganga. So it is at dva pra that the Ganga actually emerges out of the merger of the Alakanda and the Bagrati and the catchment region for those rivers is the Nanda Dvi you know region. So if there is a device that contains plutonium which is lying over there exposed to the elements maybe the the walls of the device are corroding maybe there is you know natural grinding because of because of either the wind or rocks or whatever. In that case the plutonium may actually spill out and then it may get dispersed. It see when plutonium spills out you have plutonium oxide particles that are you know dispersed in the region and when snows and ice melt and all that mixes with water it becomes part of the sediment the sediment and and and the sediment that is floating in the river okay in in the water and if that ends up in the aland the bhagati and eventually into into the Ganga that can poison hundreds of millions of people who live downstream Right? Because the Ganga goes all the way down from Uttar Pradesh all the way into West Bengal eventually to into Bangladesh where it is called the Padma river. Now why is this dangerous? If the plutonium you know it spills out what happens? So if the if the capsule ruptures then the plutonium is exposed to the elements it forms plutonium oxide. Those particles eventually you know merge you know they flow out uh into the air. They mix with the snows, the ice, they eventually melt. The ice and snow eventually melts, goes into the river. Now plutonium is an extremely toxic substance. There are multiple isotopes of plutonium. Plutonium 238, plutonium 239, there is 240, 241. The plutonium isotope that is used in nuclear weapons is plutonium 239. Okay, it's the more common isotope. So plutonium is not a naturally occurring element. It's a man-made element. It's a heavy metal. It's a man-made heavy metal and it is produced in nuclear reactors. So plutonium 239 which is used in nuclear weapons, it has a halflife of about 24,000 years. Which means that if you have 1 kilo of plutonium 239, then in 24,000 years about half of it will decay. But the plutonium that is used in the in this uh in this device that was lost, it was not plutonium 239. It was it was plutonium 238. And plutonium 238 has a half life of 88 years. Which means if you have 1 kilogram of plutonium 238, half of it will decay in 88 years. If you had 50 kg like we had in the device, then about 25 kg will decay and no longer be a problem in 88 years. And then the rest of the plutonium, 25 kilos, half of it will decay in another 88 years and another half and so on. That's how it goes. That's that's the concept of halflife of radioactive elements in nuclear physics. Now plutonium is also extremely toxic. See why was plutonium 238 it used? because it is it it it uh it is a heat generator. Okay, it generates heat and uh it can also be used for for keeping uh your equipment your circuits warm in the extremely cold temperatures up there and also it can it can produce power. It uh gives off alpha radiation which is essentially helium nuclei. Now how does plutonium affect human beings? It will cause radiation poisoning. The most dangerous form of plutonium poisoning is when you inhale plutonium particles maybe plutonium oxide particles that will be very easily absorbed by the body and it will get absorbed in your tissue in your bones and whoever is is unfortunately you know uh who has got this they're going to get cancer. It's almost a guarantee. Now if you absorb plutonium oxide through water then it is it has a lower probability of getting absorbed in your gut in your digestive tract but it it still obviously emits alpha particles and it can you know still give you cancer. So uh [clears throat] that's the situation. So plutonium is extremely toxic. If someone is exposed to plutonium they're going to almost guarantee to get get cancer. um if it is plutonium oxide that's out in the atmosphere or in water but if it is sealed within within a radioiso through the that generator RTG in that case it is not going to be that much of a problem. So that is the situation. So that is the story and and I think in 1978 uh the Indian Atomic Energy Commission had conducted some kind of testing in the rivers in the region and they found no evidence of plutonium being present and I suspect that the government of India must be testing from time to time in case it has actually been lost otherwise it may be performative testing or or whatever. So the best case scenario for us is that the government of India it retrieved the plutonium in 1965 or 66 winter around that time before the Americans came back. That's the best case scenario. The worst case scenario is that the thing was lost and after all these years maybe it will well I hope it doesn't happen but if it ruptures it's going to be a big catastrophe for millions hundreds of millions of people. So that is that is the thing that is the story about the Nanda Dvi plutonium device that was supposedly lost there and yeah it could pose a real danger to people. Okay next question. Okay Omega Omega [snorts] Realms says as someone who is not Indian or Hindu how are the Greekans and later Indo- Greeks viewed in India today? Are they viewed neutrally as a distant culture that no longer exists? Are they viewed positively as people who brought positive things to India? Or are they viewed more negatively as conquerors or colonizers who tried to replace India's culture? Well, the truth is that most Indians are today not even aware of them. The most ind that an Indian person will know about the Indo Greeks is maybe a paragraph somewhere in a history textbook and you know maybe in high school or something unless you actually study history at a at a higher level maybe as part of a bachelor's degree or or uh master's degree or a PhD level in that case you may perhaps uh study this in more detail. So most Indians do not even know about uh the the Indo- Greeks. Most Indians I would assume don't even know about them. And [clears throat] obviously there is this you know in popular culture everyone kind of knows about Alexander. Most Indians believe that Alexander invaded India and successfully defeated King Porus who was a great king of the time and then decided to go back or whatever. That's what most Indians believe. The truth is that something entirely different happened. It was a catastrophe, a disaster for Alexander and his attempt to invade India killed him. Ended ended up killing him and then he u the governors he left behind they then established these you know um these city states kind of you know small kingdoms in the northwest of India present day Gandhar, Afghanistan etc. present day parts of Pakistan and parts of Punjab as well, right? And those eventually became the the Indo- Greek uh kingdoms. You could also call them Dracoactrian or whatever. And that's what happened. Now, most Indians don't know about this. Most most Indians have no awareness of this. Uh most Indians know about Alexander. Most Indians think of Alexander as this great heroic figure. And there have been movies made about Alexander in in India that typically depict him in a very positive light. So most Indians kind of think of Alexander as a great conquering hero and not a bad person overall, someone who potentially brought something good to India. Most Indians would probably think of it that way. Uh are the Indogreeks viewed negatively as conquerors or colonizers? No. Most Indians don't think don't know about them. those who know about them most of them don't think of Indo- Greeks as as you know in in a negative light as colonizers because they weren't colonizers they Alexander did try to invade India didn't did not work he left behind these governors and the governors eventually the Indo Greeks they eventually assimilated into the population of India today lots of people in northern western India will have a fractional amount of maybe 1% 2% Greek ancestry nobody will know nobody will care so that's how is they and the truth is that the Greeks never tried to replace Indian culture. They did not do that. They brought their own culture with them. Okay? They set set up kingdoms, small kingdoms in the northwest part of India and they did not ever try to impose Greek culture, Greek customs on the local populations and they eventually themselves Indianized. So um the so there is no question of of uh regarding them negatively as colonizers who tried to replace India's culture because they did not try to do that. U eventually what happened was that you had this new kind of uh artistic styles that emerged out of Gandhara you know the Gandhara style art style the Indo- Greek art style which blended Indian styles with Greek styles. So as you can see it was a syncret it was a syncratic kind of culture that evolved and existed for a while a few centuries and then eventually even that disappeared and become part of became part of the overall greater Indian culture. So that's that's how it went and most Indians either are not aware of the Indo Greeks or regard them as either either as in a neutral way or in a positive way. I would imagine that very few Indians, a very small minority of Indians may regard the Greeks, the Indo- Greeks in a negative light. And when it comes to present day Pakistan etc., I think they call what they call Alexander Sikundar and they they kind of regard him as some kind of hero, some kind of a good person. And there are some small ethnic groups up in the Himalayas who are regarded as being descendants of Alexander soldiers. For example, the Kalash people. Um the the the the people who are part of what is now called Nuristan which was originally called Kafiran because they held on to Hinduism until the 19th century. Uh even the Kalash people. Do you would you like to see what the Kalash people look like? Okay, let's not this, not the map. We'll uh ask our friend Google. Okay, so here we have it. Kalash people. So the Kalash people are this small ethnic group in present day the Chhatral region especially of Pakistan who look kind of European. I mean you can see you know many of them have blonde hair uh light color skin uh blue eyes and uh they have features that some people would regard as European features right um and these people are erroneously considered to be descendants of the uh uh soldiers of Alexander they actually aren't they are a very interesting ethnic group which u a very old ancient ethnic group they have been kind of isolated in the mountains for millennia Yeah. And their genetics are actually Indian, not Greek. But you know, so there are all these legends and myths that have sprung around, sprung up around the Indo- Greek period. So overall, the answer is that nobody almost nobody in India regards the Indo Greeks negatively. It's either neutral or positive. Rohan Biri says, why was Ian so terrible? Ian the terrible. Yes. Um there are I mean he is regarded as one of the most terrifying kings that Russia ever had. So first of all Ivan the terrible he lived in the 16th century. Okay in the middle of the 16th century. Now he was the first Russian king to call himself a tsar. Before him Russian kings were called grand princes. But Ian the terrible called himself the the Tar and that's how this this title of Tar took root took root in Russia and then you had a lineage of Tarinas. So what does Sar mean? Sar is the Russian form of Caesar Kaiser. Yeah. So Ivan the terrible he was called Grojni. Grojni in Russian and Grosni kind of means terrible. It also means awesome. Oh inspiring. um that sort of thing, formidable, scary. So, it kind of means that that's what the word grosi means in Russian. Uh it doesn't necessarily mean cruel. It means uh scary, frightening, all inspiring, uh formidable, that sort of thing. Now, why is Ian called Ivan the terrible? Like I said, he lived in the 16th century, 1530 to he lived for what 55 or so years, 54, 55 years, and then he died. So let's go back to the beginnings of Ivan the Terrible. When he was a small child, his dad died, his father died. His father died when he was about 3 years old. And 5 years later, when Ivan was about 8 years old, his mother died. And she was most likely poisoned by various noble families who were competing for power in Russia. Okay? And Ivan had this brother. I don't remember his name, but he was deaf and mute. And Ivan and his little brother, they were treated as political football by the competing royal noble families in Russia who wanted to be the power behind the throne. And Ivan and his brother were neglected terribly when he was a child. They would be dressed in rags and they would be starving. They would not be given enough food and they would be given very poor clothes to wear. I mean almost almost dressed in rags. So they were almost like street children. That's how they were treated. Okay. Uh by these noble families. There were two major noble families in Russia at the time and they were competing with each other and and trying they were trying to be the power behind the throne. But Ivan survived his childhood and by the by the time he was 13 he had consolidated enough power to have one of the princes of one of the noble families executed during a feast. So during a feast he he accused that that prince of of mismanaging the rule of whatever region he was ruling and he was then executed in a very brutal way. Uh there are all kinds of stories about the execution. Maybe he was eaten by dogs or something but most likely he was just beaten to death by the jailers. So that was uh [clears throat] the first show of uh of of independence of Ivan when he was 13 years old and he formally became the Char of Russia when he was 16 years old and he married this young lady whose name was what? What was I the Terrible's wife's name? Alexandra was it? Ian the Terrible wife. Wife. Anastasia was it Anastasia? Anastasia Romanova. His first and most beloved wife. He he had several wives like it says. Okay. But his beloved wife was his first wife. Anastas Anastasia Romanova. So once he becomes a sar he ruled very nicely for a while. Okay. He implemented reforms and he had a nice happy loving stable marriage and he was fine. But then but because of his terrible childhood he had this great distrust this great mistrust of the nobility. He believed that they were after him. They wanted to kill him. Okay. So he always distrusted the military the the the nobility the nobility of his country. Then what happens is that uh he led the conquest of various parts of Russia. He he expanded his empire. uh he went to the the region of Kazan, Astrahan. So the territories that belong to the Tatars is the Tatars are Turk origin ethnic group in Russia today and they the and they were the the formidable enemies of the Russians when the Russian Empire was expanding because it was expanding into Tatar territory, descendants of the Hoons. Yeah. Turks. So uh so Ian conquered Kazan, he conquered Astrahan down south Crimea region. He expanded his territory. He expanded his empire and he started slowly gaining this reputation as a warrior a victorious fearsome warrior king. Okay. And uh that's how this this image starts you know starts forming that Ivan is gni Ivan is terrible. Then he was fighting a war, the the so-called Levonian war with Lithuania and one of his close allies who was again a noble, he deflected to the other side to to the Lithuanian side and he took command of a Lithuanian army and defeated the Russians. So that once again reminded Ivan that you know what uh the kind of childhood he had and the nobles were always plotting and conspiring against him and so this this reinforced his mistrust of the nobles. So what Ivan did is that he abdicated the throne. He said I don't want to rule. And he gave up his throne and he gave the power to the boy which is a group of nobles and clergy you know church people priests. So he left Moscow. He went to a neighboring city which is you know not very far away but not close also and he left the boy to rule Russia and it was almost impossible. They found it almost impossible to rule the country. It was really really difficult. they could not make the decisions and then this they they had to go to him and beg him to take the throne back. So he said okay I'll take the throne back on one condition you let me rule whichever way I want to rule and whoever I consider to be traitors of the enemies of the nation you let me deal with them in whatever way I want. So they gave him this right this permission. Okay. And that's when that's when he divides the country into two group into two territories. One was a territory which was which would be administered by the nobility and the other territory would be administered only by him. It was called the Opricnina. Okay. So he created the Opricina and he created a secret police called the Opritniki. They were they would be dressed in black. They would have they had some connection with the church and they reported only to him. They were loyal to him. And he used the Opricniki, the secret police to unleash a reign of terror in this region called the Opric Nina. and he went after any and every person he considered to be a traitor or to be disloyal to him. So the secret police it tortured and killed thousands maybe tens of thousands of people. Okay. It was a kind of a terror apparatus. It was like the like like the gestapo you could say. Yeah. And uh they they they took the land of people who were considered to be traitors who were suspected of being traitors, suspected of being destroy disloyal and those people in their families would be killed off in the most horrific of ways. Okay, torture was common. People would be burned alive and let's not go into the details. So it was just absolute terror. Okay. Um so that's in the 1560s and then there was this city north [snorts] west of Moscow near St. Petersburg. It is called Nogurod. Okay. It was the second largest city in Russia and it was considered to be a rival of Moscow and Peter was deeply suspicious of the people of Nogarod. He believed that they were not loyal to him. They were traitors. So he attacked Nogorod, besieged the city, conquered it, sacked it and there were mass executions, horrific atrocities, 10 to 15,000 people were killed off. Okay. Uh monasteries were destroyed, churches were destroyed, priests and you know monks were killed, merchants were killed, politicians and nobles were killed. Essentially it was merciless cruelty and he essentially destroyed the city of Ngurod. It did not recover for centuries you know uh because of what he did. So that reinforced his reputation of being a very vicious cruel ruler and he he started descending into this mental instability after his wife died. So he was very fond of his first wife Anastasia Romanova. Okay. And after she died that that stabilizing and moderating influence in his life was gone. And then he married multiple ladies. Some he married for like less than a year or whatever. Uh I think six or eight I don't know what the actual number is but a large number of ladies he married. But he became mentally unstable. He became deeply deeply paranoid and he went on this long decadesl long rampage against anybody who considered who he considered to be disloyal. Eventually, you see, he created this this uh police secret service force, right, called the Opric Niki. Eventually, he started suspecting that the Oprici were were potentially plotting against him. So, he disbanded disbanded the Opric Nikki and had many of them also executed. Okay. So, [snorts] that's how it was. That's how he was super paranoid. And near the end of his life when he was probably in his what early 50s around 50 um he had a couple of sons maybe more than a couple of sons at least two sons he had and one of his sons who was who was the crown prince he was married his wife was pregnant and in the palace uh Ivan happened to meet his son's wife and apparently she was not dressed properly enough or something she was heavily pregnant and he beat her up. He beat her so badly that she miscarried. So his son, the crown prince come, crown prince came and confronted his father. How dare you do this to my wife to your own daughter-in-law? And Ivan, he was carrying some kind of staff. He hit his son on the head with a staff and that ended up killing his son. So he had his daughter-in-law miscarry his own grandchild and then he killed his own son. And there is this extremely uh famous painting of Ivan. [clears throat] Let's see that. Ian the terrible and his son, right? Um ah safe search. Yeah, because it is not a nice image to see. So there we have it. You can if you want you can look into it in greater detail. This is when he realizes what he has done to his son. So he was just mentally unstable at this point in life and he died in his what in his mid-50s or something. So that was a deal about Ivan. He started off as a reasonably good king. As long as he was married to his first life, he was fine. He ruled well. He had a terrible childhood. In his childhood, because he was so powerless, it is said that he would torture animals, throw dogs and cats off the roof and pluck the feathers of birds, that sort of thing. So because of his extremely traumatic childhood, he he became cruel. He was fine as long as his wife was alive. But afterwards, after she died and possibly she was also poisoned. His mother was poisoned, his wife was also poisoned. There were exumations of those of the of the bodies of his mother and wife in the 20th or 21st centuries wherever and poison was most likely detected in the bones. So his mother was poisoned, his eventually his wife was also poisoned. He became extremely paranoid and he went after anybody he suspected was disloyal or a traitor. He had lots and tens of thousands of people tortured, killed in terrible ways and what he did to his own family was also brutal. So that's why he is called Ivan the terrible. [clears throat] Hope that explains this. Nirvana Shanks says, "As I've grown older, I've become in increasingly disillusioned with the idea of democracy. I'm not even sure if this is a history question or geopolitics question." Well, history and geopolitics are interconnected. So, we can take this. [clears throat] But I genuinely no longer understand what democracy actually is. Is it simply elections or is it something deeper like civil liberties, rule of law, institutional checks, individual rights? What where exactly is the line beyond which a system stops being a democracy? What is true democracy supposed to be? And even if it if such a form exists in theory, is it really the best model of governance for a large and complex civilization? Right? Democracy. Well, democracy for the past century or so, most people believe that democracy is all about holding elections. So once in five years or in the case of the US, four years, but most of the world, it's five years. Once in 5 years there's an election and that makes your country a democracy and as part of this this process you have to go and vote. So your job as a citizen is to vote once in 5 years and then leave the rest to the pe to the individuals who are elected. That's how it is. Now ideally democracy is not supposed to be like that. Ideally democracy is supposed to be more participative. For example, let's say you you have a football club and you appoint a manager of the football club. Let's say you have a cricket cricket team. Okay, let's say you have a cricket team, national cricket team and you have appointed a coach, a manager of the cricket team. Let's say you give him a maybe three-year contract. Hypothetical, completely hypothetical. Now if he doesn't perform well and you lose multiple you know series very quickly then you have the right to sack him to fire him after 3 months after 6 months whenever required. You don't have to honor the old the entire three three-ear contract right. So if you are running a football club, a cricket team, you can hire a manager or coach for a certain number of time, but you can fire the person if the person doesn't doesn't perform, if the performance is not satisfactory. Right? If you hire a CEO, if you appoint a CEO of a company, you let's say you are on the board of a company and the board appoints a certain person as a CEO, you give that person let's say two year, three year tenure initially contract. Okay. But if the quarterly returns aren't good, if the if the if the the quarterly returns are shocking, you can fire the person after one quarter, after two quarters, whatever. You don't have to honor the entire contract. But in democracy, once you elect a person for 5 years, you're supposed to shut up and get get lost and let the person do whatever for 5 years. There's nothing you can do about it, right? That's one of the big issues with the democracy, right? It's not it should not be like that. It is possible that people may be compromised. People promise one thing and and deliver something else or don't deliver anything at all. That happens. I think it's pretty common in democracy. Um, another issue with democracy is that democracy can be game. The democratic process, the electoral process can be gamed. It can be hacked. There are multiple ways of doing it. Vote bank politics. Democracy is based on one assumption. The basic central assumption in democracy in electoral democracy is that in an election each individual will vote for a candidate based on what they think is the best candidate. Merit. It is assumed that each voter will vote based on what they think is the merit of the candidates. But in reality, merit often has nothing to do with the way people vote. They vote based on religion. They b vote based on these days cast in India. They vote based on maybe they have been given some money. Maybe they may been made some promises that are bad for the country but good for them. There are vote banks that are created by importing illegal administrators into a country and settling them in a region in a ward, municipal ward or whatever. So the local people who are actually citizens, their vote doesn't count anymore because the the the people who have been settled in a slum or whatever, they're going to now outvote them and they will vote for whoever allows them regularizes their their citizenship or whatever. So there are so many ways of gaming and hacking democracy. When it comes to social media, it's so easy for foreign countries to influence elections by by gaming social media because they own the social media platforms. So that's another way of of hacking democracy and making democracy completely into a joke essentially, right? Then there are nations where the for example the European Union. Okay. [snorts] Who rules the European Union? It is the individuals who sit in Brussels, the capital of the EU, right? But those people are unelected. So in a European Union nation, the people will vote for their local representatives in the in the nation's assembly. they'll vote for their president or prime minister or whatever. But it is the EU government in Brussels that actually rules these countries. They determine the policies that will be applicable on the on the people who have never voted for them. Economic policies, immigration policies, dos and don'ts and whatnot. So where's the democracy in this? Where's the democracy? There's no democracy. It's a joke. Then you have some nations like Japan for example. No matter who you vote for, they can't do a thing about the occupation, the military occupation that the country is under. H their constitution is written by foreigners. That can't be changed. So where's the democracy? Just having elections is not democracy. There are so many issues with democracy. The the truth is that there is no real true democracy in the world. Ideal democracy, idealized democracy where you actually vote for representatives based on based purely on their on their merit. That doesn't happen anywhere in the world. There are some countries where it's a democracy in name because you only have two political parties. Only two parties. You can vote for either this one or that one. And both political parties have the same economic policies and the same military policy and the same foreign policy. So where's the democracy again? So democracy unfortunately is a big sham that has been pulled over the people of the world. And what they do to justify it is that they will teach you in your school, education, textbooks, etc. that democracy is the best thing. Without democation doesn't have democracy, it's evil. Right? So uh nam what exactly is democracy? Is it only elections? It's not elections. Is it about civil liberties? No. Not not necessarily civil civil liberties. Rule of law, civil liberties, institutional checks, individual rights, all of these can be available to citizens even in a non-democratic arrangement. Right? So um democracy is not simply elections. Democracy means you get to you get to decide who represents you at c at a certain level in the governance system in the government. So you can vote for your local municipal bodies who's going to who's going to be in in those m municipal bodies. You can vote for your state bodies like the legislative assembly, MLAs. Then you can vote in India for the central government, the MPs, members of parliament. So there are multiple levels of voting and multiple levels of representation. But at the end of the day, what does it give you? Not sure what it gives you. Uh and it's not just India, it's all over the world. There are flaws everywhere. The system can be gamed. Democracy can be hacked. Democracy exists in many places only in name. And that's a that's the problem. So democracy has increasingly become a sham in the world. It is just a means of ruling people. I mean for example in New York in New York in the 1930s4s50s there was this gentleman called Robert Moses who ran the city okay and it would be democratic elected democratically elected etc. And he said that he never did any political dealings. He built everything in New York, all the construction, all the uh all the development activity based on what people needed. But at the but if you look behind the scenes and you go below the surface, he had all the politicians on his side. So there is this sort of corruption everywhere. It's not just in India. I mean, Robert Moses is a great example of someone who appears on the surface to be such a great visionary developer, somebody who transformed the city of New York, who displaced millions of people to create new infrastructure in the city. But what he did ended up being worse for the poorest sections of sections of society. So you have this issue everywhere in the world. So democracy is is increasingly a sham now. It doesn't it it gives people the illusion that they have control and and they have power over the system. Actually they have no power whatsoever. So what is the what is the best model of governance? Well, it depends on your your history and your culture. And historically the the form of governance that has worked the best is monarchy. Historically, that's the form of governance that has worked the best. Do what what with this information whatever you want. Amisha Mishra says, "What's the oldest brick disc ever discovered? How did early bricks differ? Are these bricks still standing?" Oldest bricks. So, the oldest bricks discovered that have been discovered archaeologically are found in West Asia. in Syria, in Turkey, and in um in Israel, well, the west bank of the river Jordan where you have Palestinians who live there. So, there is this place called Tel Awad, Black Tel in Syria. Okay, let's let's look that up. Okay, Tel Awad. Tel Asad. Okay, it's double L whatever. So if you see Tel Awad first of all uh let us go to the map and see where it is located. So Tel al-Assad. Uh let's zoom out a little. So as you can see it's in Syria, northeast Syria. And now let's zoom in and see what it looks like. Do we see anything here? Tell Alasad. As you can see it's some ancient archaeological site clearly. Right now let us now uh once again tell us and let's see some images and you will see ancient bricks here ancient bricks talasad. Okay. So the thing is that they have discovered really ancient bricks in this uh in this site. Um oh you can see some bricks here maybe some here also. So this is one such place it is in present day Syria Telaswad. And the bricks that they have discovered there about are about 7,500 from 7,500 BC. There is another place called Jericho. Jericho in the west bank. West Bank. Okay. Over there also they've discovered uh ancient bricks that are about that from that time period maybe 7,000 BC or 7,500 BC. And then there is one more called Catalyuk Catalyuk which is in Turkey and over here also they have discovered very ancient bricks. Okay. So you you can look up these these sites. So these are the oldest archaeologically discovered bricks and they're about they are from about 7,500 BC to about 7,000 BC which is about almost 9 9 and a half thousand years before today. And the bricks they've discovered there are made of clay mixed with dried grass or hay and the clay has not been fired. It has not been baked. So it is raw clay. It is raw mud mixed with uh dried grass with hay and that's the kind of bricks they have disco that have been discovered in these places Jericho and tell alasad closer home for us uh bricks have also been discovered in Mehergar Mher is in Balojasthan Pakistan occupied territory and the bricks that have been discovered there are from about 6,000 500 BC maybe a thousand years later after Telasawad Jericho and the bricks they that have been discovered in Maher. So Megod was part of the extended extended Saraswati Hindu phase of our history and the bricks they've discovered there are kind of rectangular [snorts] again not not fired not baked some of them are described as cigar- shaped so that is uh in the Indian subcontinent in Mherar Balojasthan and the thing is that in the Saraswati Sindu region the Sapasindu region there has been very little archaeological work that's been done. Thousands of archaeological sites uh remain unexavated. Nobody has ever bothered to excavate them. So if that is done, maybe we'll find older bricks in the region. But as of now, it is these three sites in West Asia that have where we have where we have discovered the oldest bricks. Some of the bricks are still standing. I mean see when you do excavations you discover ancient buildings under layers of soil. Okay. So they're not freestanding today but once they once the archaeologists go and dig and discover something then they are able to excavate these ancient structures buildings and yeah once they're excavated they kind of stand to some extent. Uh so yeah that's the deal about ancient bricks. Rishi says there's a theory that the gate, a tribe that inhabited what are now the modern nations of Bulgaria and Romania in classical antiquity were actually Jats or at least the ancestors of modern Jats. Do you think this theory could be true? The gate the Masagate the Masagate defeated the Persian emperor Kru. They had a queen called Omirish who took his head off. So what's the question? What's the deal about the gate and the masagate? Are they connected to India's juts? Well that I will refer you to an article by professor subashk. Okay. Subashk Uttarakuru and the Juts. Is that what it's called? Yeah. Utturu and the Juts. So what does the article say? Professor Subashak has been on my podcast multiple times. Uh great scholar. Uh not now. So the Saka. So let's go to to the portion about the the gate and the Masagate. So Herodotus the Greek historian says that one of the Skian tribes was the Masagate Sanskrit Mahajat and it was settled somewhere in the great plains to the east of the Caspian Sea. Tommy geography 6102 says they're much further south near Kashmir. They were also simply called the gate or in Sanskrit jut and tisagate tishut. Uh the Frankish benedicting monk Rabanus Mauus stated the masagate are in origin from the tribe of the of the skithians and are called masagate as in heavy maha as in strong gate. Uh during Alexander's campaign in western India there were rebellions of the soians backrans and the masagate. From this it may be concluded that they were to the south of the bactreans and thus situated squarely in Punjab. They were they are also seen as neighbors of the ashwakas which is apparently the early form of the name avagana for the avans used by the Indian astronomer vah vahir. When Arabs entered Sind in the seventh century, the Juts were the chief tribe they met and they called them Zat or Alzat, right? We have discussed that last week. The Alz shows that the Juts were spread all the way from Cind to Afghanistan and beyond. Shiva is called Jut and Mahajut in the Mahabharat and the Shiva stora indicating that he was a leading deity of the Jut for the Jut people. How do we know that the language of the Juts was Aryan or Indoarian? The Juts form about 25% of the population of Hiad and Punjab and they're also present in large numbers in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states. If they were an intrusive group from Central Asia with a different language, they would have been able to maintain their separate speech just as large intrusive groups in Europe and Asia have done over centuries. The most famous jut of ancient history like I said is queen Tomish Sanskrit Tamri named after a daughter of Daksha. She k she defeated and killed the emperor Kurush Cyrus in 530 BC and Hirous describes her great victory. Okay. Um yeah so in Europe the the the Kate were considered similar or equivalent to the thrians who not surprisingly worshiped Dionius the Greek form of Shiva and the goddess Bendis Artemis who is seen as equivalent to Dura. So that is you you can look up the article it's called utturu and the jats it's by professor subash kak and you can read it in more detail in your own time. So the deal is the the Gate and the Masagate were were skithian tribes. Skitheians the stakas. The sakas themselves were of Indian origin just as the Kushans were. And the Masagate and the Gate eventually you you see they they found their way into India and they spoke in Indoarian language otherwise they would have been m able to maintain their their foreign language because they were present in such large numbers. So that is the deal about the gate and the juts. The connection is that the gate and the juts are the same people. All right. Leru online says why most of the ancient Vishnu temples located all across the world are considered uh to be Buddhist temples despite the deity having shanka chakra gada or the traces of what they once were. Okay. Well, who considers Vishnu temples to be Buddhist temples? First of all, let's understand that Vishnu has many incarnations, right? And the last incarnation is considered to be Goautam Buddha. You had Lord Krishna, before that you had Lord Rama. Before that, you had others. And the last incarnation is considered to be L Goautam Buddha. So if you have a Vishnu temple, you can say that you know Goautam Buddha was a reincarnation of Vishnu. So it can also be considered to be a Buddha temple if you want to. Now when it comes to Southeast Asia which is all the way from Burma, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, the entire region, it will also include Indonesia etc. But this entire region was for like more than 2,000 years a Hindu region. It it became Indianized and Hinduized over time because of the efforts of the great people of Kolinga, the great merchants of Kolinga. So and and you had kings who built great temples in the region, Hindu temples. Many Shiva temples are there but many Hindu temples are also there. For example, the great temple of Ankorwat in Cambodia. The temple of Ankurvat is today considered to be a Buddhist temple, but it was originally a Hindu temple. Let's see this, right? It's called a Buddhist. Okay, Hindu temple. So here it says Hindu temple in Cambodia. Right? But if we go back ah if we say here it says Buddhist temple. So here it says Buddhist temple. Once we do the search it says Hindu temple. So it's both. And that's because Lord Vishnu is a shared deity and Buddhism is not really a separate religion despite what people will keep claiming. It is an offshoot of Hinduism. It is nothing but one specific form of Hinduism. It is one of the philosophical ways of life or or philosophical paths within the Dharmic umbrella just like Janism and so on so so on so forth. Now if you go to for example Thailand you will see lots of statues of Lord Vishnu all over the place and the locals worship these statues. They worship Lord Vishnu through the statues without classifying it as either Buddhist or Hindu. It's just part of their culture. But it is westerners and India's India's compromised historians who classify all this as Buddhist. Right? Vishnu is originally a pre-B Buddhist God, a Hindu god. Right? Buddhism came later. Buddhism arose about 2 and a half cent thousand years before today. But for thousands of years before that, there was no Buddhism. But Lord Vishnu was woripped. So you know there is this there is this movement to deny the Hindu origins of everything in the world right now. And there are multiple reasons for that. cultural civilizational reasons, geopolitical reasons. Right? So, India's historians deny this, India's teachers, professors deny it, India's textbooks deny it, and western academics deny it. And that's how it goes. But the fact is that Vishnu is a Hindu deity. It is also he is also Lord Vishnu is also a Buddhist deity because Lord Buddha is considered to be an incarnation or reincarnation of Vishnu. So that is the thing and and I I'll tell you this denial of the Hindu origins of everything can be seen everywhere. For example, the great emperor Kaneska, one of our greatest emperors. Okay, let's let's Google Kaneshka. Kaneshka the great the great Kaneska the great so if we go into the Wikipedia page okay see it's going to talk about kaneshka and Buddhism the in Buddhist tradition keshka is regarded as utmost importance gold coin of kanka with Buddha once again Buddha Shakamuni Buddha Buddha Buddha Buddha Buddha Buddha everywhere the truth is that less than 1% of Kaneshka's coins are have Buddhist iconography on them. The overwhelming majority of Kaneska's coins are either they either depict Hindu gods or synratic gods like Hellenistic gods, Apollo etc. But the majority depict Hindu gods. Some depict Zoroastrinism, Aurora Mazda, etc. Some depict some Greek deities and about 1% or less depict the Buddha. But see how much importance Wikipedia is giving to Kesan's Buddhist the Buddhist imagery on Kesha's coins. So that's how history is distorted. Let's ask Google. Okay. Uh let's see what percentage of kanishkas kaneskas ah coins have Buddhist imagery let's see what percentage well under 1% like I said Buddhist imagery appears on well under 1% of all known coins of Kaneshka and yet when you see the Wikipedia article it's all Buddhism Buddhism Buddhism Buddhism see Ganesha and Buddhism this is the problem this is how they distort history okay that's the deal so there is this this this campaign this movement to deny the Hindu origins of everything and we have to be aware of it. Okay. Sassan lion says Ayatahi had half Hindi half Persian origin. His grandparent was Ahmed Hindi was born in Lacnau. After that in the 18th century his family migrated to Iran Kmeni. So Kmeni came to power in Iran as a consequence of the 1979 revolution that happened in Iran, the Islamic revolution that ousted the puppet sha of Iran and brought in the the government that still exists today, the government of the clerics, the government of the ayatas, right? A theocratic government and Ayatah Kmeni was the first leader. And what did it look like in case you're wondering? Okay, Ayatah Humeni, the former Supreme Leader of Iran. That's what he looked like. If you want to see what he looked like when he was younger, I'm sure we'll be able to find. Yeah, that's what he looked like when he was younger. When he was a young man, these are two images. Um, which one is it? Yeah. Okay. This is him through the ages through through through the years. This is another way of looking at it. Yep. So that was his that's how he progressed in life. He his appearance. So what is the story behind Ayatahi? So his grandfather was a Shia scholar from present day Uttar Pradesh. Kinur village in Uttar Pradesh. Where is Kinur village? Let's let's let's find out. Okay, let's go to the map and see. Okay, Kinur, Kinur, Uttar Pradesh. Okay, we will first zoom out and zoom back in. So, it is not far from Lacnau. Okay. And this is the place Kinthur. So that is where uh his grandfather was from his grandfather was from this village in Uttar Pradesh. We'll zoom out. Okay. Now but how did they end up in Iran is the question. So Mr. Kmeni's grandfather say Ahmed Musafi Hindi was a Shia scholar from Kinur in Uttar Pradesh and he was not fond of the British rule over India. So in around 1830 Shy Ahmed Musavi Hindi left India and he went to Iraq. He went to Najaf and Karbala in Iraq and uh there is there are there are Shia schools or seminaries over there and he first went there but then he went to Iran and he settled down in the ta in the town of Kain Kumain. So let's find out where is Kmen. We saw where is Kin. Now let's find out where is Kumain. Okay. Kain Iran. Um must be this I suppose. So this is Hain in Iran and that's where his grandfather um eventually settled. Okay. So he left India because he was not a big fan of British rule of the British occupation of India. uh he did not feel safe or he did not feel happy and that's why he first went to Iraq and then he eventually settled down in humain in Iran and that is how ayatahi had an Indian grandfather and he did acknowledge his Indian origins but he was but he was not a great friend of India let's understand that okay so the the origins are very clear his from his paternal side there is Indian origin but when it comes to u modern day India so in the 20th century India you already had the Kashmir issue right Mr. Neu gave away a significant portion of the territory of Kashmir to Pakistan then he went to the UN instead of taking it back and that's why this dispute still this this issue this dispute still exists that Pakistan occupies Indian territory that's the dispute so that dispute exist existed in the 20th century also and Mr. Kmeni Ayatah Kmeni he sometimes referred to Kashmir in in reference to Palestine. So he would say that the that if the Muslim if the Islamic world were united then the Jews would not have Palestine and the Hindus would not have Kashmir. Right? So yeah that was his that was his views about Kashmir. So anyway, yes uh no no no question that Ayatahi had Indian origin from his grandfather's side from Uttar Pradesh near Laknau. Poorest defeated Alexander says if India is the greatest civilization why did India have no great structures like the pyramids? Well I could ask you something else in a similar way. The United States is the greatest uh civilization today or empire today. Why don't they have great structures like the pyramids? The British Raj was the greatest empire in the 19th century. Why didn't they have pyramids? Right? Rome had a great great empire. Why did they not build pyramids? The Greeks are a great civilization. The Chinese are great civilization. Why did not they don't build great structures like the pyramids? So is the benchmark of a civilization's greatness going to be how large a pyramid they can build? Why is it so? Every civilization has its own benchmarks, has its own way of expressing its culture, has its own way of expressing its civilizational outlook, right? Um so in Egypt they built pyramids. We're not quite sure what the pyramids were built for, but it took tremendous amount of labor for God knows how many years or decades to build those structures and the labor they used was mostly slave labor. Now in India, we did not have slavery. If you ask Google, they will say yes, you had slavery in India. You had dasas. But Google is so stupid because it is just a computer that it doesn't understand that the word Dasa means servant not slave. Some of our emperors had the name Dasa. Some of our kings had had the name Dasa in their names. The the term Dasa in their names. Who was King Dvodas? The father of King Sudas who won the battle of the 10 kings. Why was he called Sudas? Does it mean good slave? Sudas yeah obviously not it means good servant good servant of the people so dasa doesn't mean slave now coming back to your question we in India did not have slavery right we never had slavery and to build something as as magnificent let's say and as as as enormous as the pyramids would not be feasible because it served no purpose in society It gave no value to society. What is the point of building a gigantic pyramid? What what good does it do for society? In India, we build we built structures that served a good purpose in society. We had temples. Temples were not just places of worship. They were educational institutions. That's why we had temples all across the length and the breadth of the country. Then you had, you know, the Mahaviharas and so much more. We we had assembly halls. We had great baths like in the Saraswati Hindu period of our history. So all the great monumental architecture that we constructed it served the people. It served society. It served the civilization. I think that is more of an indicator of a civilization's greatness than constructing gigantic monuments that serve no real purpose for society. Ask yourself, what purpose did the pyramids serve in Egyptian society? Maybe some kind of we we're not quite sure what the pyramids were for because see, they were not burial places of the of the kings of Egypt, the pharaohs. The kings of Egypt were buried in in a different location. So, we're not quite sure what purpose the pyramids served. But the pyramids did not serve any useful purpose in society as far as we can see. Did not produce it was not a machine that produced goods. We we don't know what it what it did. But it it required so much labor which was wasteful actually. That labor could have been used for something else. So that's how Indian civilization is. It is different from Egyptian civilization. It's different from other civilizations. And overall I would say that the greatness of a civilization cannot be measured in the size of the monuments it builds. The greatness of a civilization is measured in how long it it exists and how good the quality of life is as long as it exists. That's how you measure the greatness of a civilization from my perspective. Real Vladimir Putin says Jews after the fall of the Third Reich in 1945 were in a pretty bad condition. Then how did they manage to create modern day the modern day nation of Israel and get all this support from the United States? What did the US gain from it? So you see the Jews, the Jewish diaspora has been present in Europe for about 2,000 years. uh and they lived in various parts of Europe and they were persecuted from time to time. There was tremendous anti-semitism that was you know done against them. They also did well in various parts of Europe and they became pretty wealthy. They became pretty influential. They were money lenders. They were merchants. They were wealthy. They would even lend money to kings to finance to finance their various military and other campaigns. So Jews, see Jews fared much better than the Romani people in Europe. The Romani people were were subjected to all kinds of horrific atrocities. The Jews fared better. They also had to face massacres. They also had to face all kinds of horrible accusations. They also had to face pogros, the Jews in various parts of Europe from time to time. But they also were able to be successful in Europe. Now, a lot of Jews migrated to the United States in the 19th century. And a significant portion of the Jews that migrated to the US in the 19th century, they settled down on the east coast. A lot of them settled down in New York City. More than 20 more than 30% of the population of New York City was Jewish. Let's let's fact check what I'm just saying here. I should not. Yeah, let's let's fact check that. What percentage of NYC population uh population population was Jewish in 1880? Let's see. Over 6.6%. Really? What about 1800? Do we have figures less than 1%. What about 1900 70 to 20 [laughter] 1900 17 to 20% of the city's total population. What about 1930? So you can see there's a big influx of Jewish people. So by 1930 the Jewish population in New York City was about 27 about 30%. Okay. So there were a lot of wealthy Jewish people. So they they didn't when they came to the US many of them were poor. They had escaped Germany. They they had escaped various parts of Europe and they wanted to settle down in this new country and start a new life and they were pretty industrious. They they took initiative and they became successful. Some of them came with some money. So eventually by 1930 or something about 30% of the population of New York City is Jewish and many of them are really really wealthy. So that's one thing we have to understand that yeah Jews were in terrible condition in Europe after the fall of the third Reich and during the Second World War because of what the Nazis did to them, what Hitler's Nazis did to the Jews. No question. But in the United States, Jews were increasingly wealthy. Okay. Now there was in the 19th century the beginning of the Zionist movement the movement for a nation of the Jewish people. There was this journalist an Austri Austrohungarian journalist called Theodor Herzel who uh because of rising anti-semitism and other issues he essentially gave Zionism a clear political program. He said that Jews needed a state of their own. Jews were a nation in their own right and they needed a physical geographical state or nation of their own. And the first Zionist congress happened in Basil in 1897 in which uh this guy he published a pamphlet arguing for the uh for the creation of a Jewish nation. He said that his he and his and his allies they said that their goal was to create a Jewish nation in what was then called Ottoman Palestine, right? And they built this international organization, Zionist organization to pursue this objective diplomatically um through settlement of Jews. So during the sec during the first world war, okay, the first world war is the 1910s. During this time, the British captured the region of Palestine. It was then called Palestine from the Ottoman Empire. And Britain then started to see began to see Zionism as something that was in alignment with British strategic interests in the region. So in 1917, the British government issued something called the Balfur declaration. It said that it was in favor of the establishment of a Jewish nation in this region called Palestine. And they said that they would not be they would not do anything that would be bad for the people who who already live there, the Arab people who already live there. Right? So that was the Balfur declaration and after the first world war ended, Turkey was carved up and the League of Nations which was the pre precursor of the United Nations, it gave Britain the mandate of Palestine. So Britain would manage and administer and rule Palestine and that's when Jewish immigration starts in the region in the 1920s30s 1940s. There is there are multiple waves successive waves of Jewish immigrants coming into what is what was then called Palestine and settling over there. Right? And why were they settling over there? Because there was this rise of anti-semitism in Europe and know eventually because of the German the Nazi you know atrocities against Jews. was the Holocaust, right? So the Jews would then settle in Palestine. They would purchase land. They would create agricultural colonies. They would they even created uh you know militias, armies and uh political parties, all of that. And they created eventually a separate Jewish society alongside the Arab majority at the time in in what was then called Palestine. And this began to spark violence, resentment from the locals. And uh this began to start violence between the Arabs and the Jews. Okay. So then the second world war ends and in a couple of years later the UN general assembly it said that part it it said that part Palestine should be partitioned into two separate states nations a Jewish nation and an Arab nation [snorts] and Jerusalem would be under international administration. So the Jewish leaders, the Zionist leaders, they accepted this plan. But the Arab leaders were unhappy with it. They said it is unjust and they rejected it. So after the vote for the partition, fighting broke out between the uh Arabs and the Jews in Palestine. And once the British withdrew by 1948, this escalated into a full-scale war. So is the state of Israel was was declared or proclaimed in 1948 and immediately once this happens all the Arab nations they attack Israel and that is the 1948 ArabIsrael war and Israel gets support from its allies and there is a ceasefire armistice in 1949 and by the time the ceasefire happens the nation of Israel controls about 80% of the former mandate of Palestine the British mandate of Palestine much more than the area that was given to it by the United Nations and it is said that several hundred,000 Palestinians were expelled or they had fled from the territory. So that essentially is how the nation of Israel was formed. And uh even though Jews had they had to face terrible terrible circumstances in Europe because of the Holocaust, because of the uh policies of the Third Reich, the Jews in the United States were very wealthy and they were able to uh support the Jews who needed help. And eventually um because of US support Israel was able to survive and uh that is the story. What does the US gain from it? The US gains an ally in the Middle East, right? Uh see the Middle East is a very important region geopolitically from the perspective of energy security because much of the world's oil petroleum comes from this region and uh it makes sense for the US to have a very strong ally in the region, right? And a powerful ally in the region. So it makes sense for the US. Okay. Amisha says, "If Roman society was so stratified, why did the Romans pour so much funds, money, whatever into public infrastructure that benefited everyone?" Good question. Great question actually. See, Roman society was a hierarchical society. Okay? It's it was like a pyramidal structure. At the very top, you had people called the patricians, wealthy citizens at the very top. Then you had people who were called the equites, the plebeians. Then you had the freed men. And at the bottom you had the slaves. And slaves constituted very large percentage of the population of Roman society. And there were freed men who were former slaves who had been freed. So they were one rung above the slaves. The the slaves were not free. The freed men were free and that sort of thing. So you had a pyramidal structure, a strictly sharply rigidly hierarchical society. you had in Rome. And despite the situation of the society being so hierarch hierarchical, many major public works, amenities like baths and fountains and roads and sewers and aqueducts and even entertainment u uh you know buildings dedicated to entertainment such as uh amphitheaters etc. These were constructed and they were made accessible to large segments of the urban urban population mostly in Rome. Not just the upper classes but large segments of the urban population. Now what is the why do that when you have all the power all the money? Why do so much public works and and and give so much nice stuff to the to the people who are not in power who don't have the money or the power? Why do that? Right? So in Roman society, wealthy people, wealthy individuals, they were expected to fund public works, okay? Baths and theaters and temples and libraries and amphitheaters. Um they would even distribute food to the po poor people. This was done as visible gifts to their communities and these would be recorded. Okay. So by doing this prominent Roman citizens would would gain honor. They would gain social status because I have so much money I'm able to donate and do all this work. And they all this work would be commemorated in inscriptions and monuments. That was a means of attaining glory on the on the in the historical record in monuments in inscriptions on monuments. Right? And all all of this was very important. It really mattered in the Roman culture the elite culture of Rome. Now Rome had two periods. One is the republic. The other is the imperial period of Rome. The imperial period begins with Augustus, right? With with the ascent of Augustus. Octavian becomes Augustus. He was Caesar's uh chosen hair. Uh Caesar was the bridge between the republican period and the imperial period. So during the republican period of of of Rome, if you were an ambitious highborn person, a noble, if you were ambitious, you sought high office. If you wanted to gain more power, more influence, you would use public works as a win as a as a as a means to win popular support and outshine your your adversaries, your rivals. Uh nobles would would organize games. They would organize games in amphitheaters, you know, gladiatorial combat or other things. That sort of thing. Uh, similar to what we have today like football games and cricket games, you know, it keeps the public's mind occupied away from what really matters. You're going to keep watching your IPL. You're going to keep watching your cricket match, football match. You're going to keep obsessing over this rivalry, that rivalry, my favorite player is this guy, your favorite player is this guy. I hate that guy. I like this guy. those little petty minor insignificant things consume the time and the energy and the thoughts of the majority of the people. The same thing was also the case in Rome where they had these great gladiators and they would organize these great games, right? And whoever organized this, you know, they were able to outshine their rivals. So, and it's not just games. You you built aqueducts, you built roads, you built highways, you built temples, all of that. So by doing this, you were able to gain support from the public because public support still mattered. You were able to gain votes. You were able to able to bring people into your into your inner circle of power. Yeah. It gave you prestige. It gave you long-term family reputation. And the the poor masses, the population, they also received tangible benefits. So if you became powerful and you were super wealthy, they would not be too jealous. They would not be likely to stick a dagger between your ribs from in the night, right? That sort of thing. So that's another reason why, you know, so much uh infrastructure was built. In this public infrastructure, it also helped to maintain law and order in Rome. Okay? Because if you have [snorts] good roads, if you have temples where people can go and worship, if you have amphitheaters where you can go and watch gladiators kill each other, if you have a reliable water supply from the aqueducts, if you have good sew sewage systems, if you had if you have good public baths, if you have all of these things, it is going to bring potential the potential for discontent significantly drastically down. It will also limit disease. If you have high quality water supplies, sewage systems, public baths, all that, then diseases, the incidence of diseases will will also go down. And this once again will keep the public happy. So all of this, the effect it had is that it made the populations more governable. Okay? And when it comes to roads and bridges and ports and harbors, well, these served geopolitical and military purposes. Okay? They helped military movement. They helped people they helped the administration collect taxes from various provinces, far away provinces. They they helped the administration and the Roman Empire conduct long-distance trade between its provinces and between its vasals and the the core state. Right? So this made the state more powerful. It made the empire more powerful. It made the landowning elites wealthier. Right? So these are the reasons why Roman society despite being so stratified etc so hierarchical it still spent so much money on public infrastructure which benefited the larger society because you have to keep the people happy that way you will have an orderly and governable society. If the people are unhappy if they are discontented if their their living conditions are unbearable then you're going to have anarchy. No matter how many soldiers you have, you can't you can't govern the people who are in the millions. So that's the reason why the Romans poured so much wealth into public infrastructure into public works. Abijit Shira Rajish says the loose baggy shalwar pants worn in the northwest Indian subcontinent with its folds and creases seem quite reminiscent of some styles of draping a traditional Indian dohi. However, Wikipedia claims the shalwir is central Asian in origin. Is this right? Is it a coincidence? Let's find out what Wikipedia has to say about this. Okay. So, we'll go to Google and say shall shalwir ah shalwir. Let's see. Shalwir kamse. So, um shalwars are trousers that are typically why we know what they are. Okay. Thank you very much. So, what does Wikipedia say? The shalwir and kamse were introduced into south Asia by arriving Muslims uhhuh in the north in the 13th century at first worn by Muslim women then their use was widely spread and made blah blah blah blah blah. So it says that salvaries came into India in the 13th century. It was brought by Muslims. It was first worn by women. This is what Wikipedia claims. Now this is nonsense. Let me destroy this this claim once and for all. Have you heard of Emperor Kanishka? Emperor Kanishka the Great. Kaneska the great. Here we have it. So what does Emperor Kaneska the Great look like? Let's go to Wikipedia itself. Look at this. What is our emperor wearing? What is that? He's wearing a Shalwar Kamese. He's wearing a coat. He's wearing trousers and he's wearing boots. Right? Do we have other? See once again what is this? He's wearing boots. He's wearing trousers. He's wearing a coat kind of thing which which goes all the way down. This is the original form of the shalwar kamse. This is from sulkotal. See once again what is he wearing? What is he wearing? This is a this is nothing but the shawwar kamse. So Wikipedia is lying to you. See once again what's he wearing here? Shalwar Kamese here once again it's Shalwar Kam. So the Wikipedia the the claim of Wikipedia that um Shalwar Kamese was brought into India in the 13th century by invading Muslims. It is absolutely nonsense. Emperor Kaneshka was wearing Shalwar Kamese 2,000 years ago. Now the question is what's the origin of the So first of all we have debunked Wikipedia's lies. It did not arrive into India in the 13th century. It did not come with invading Muslims. It was born in India 2000 roughly. See 1900 years ago Emperor Kaneska used to wear it. So it doesn't mean that Emperor Kanishka invented the Salvar Kamis. It would have been in usage for a long time before him. So at least 2,000 years ago Indians were wearing the Svar Kamis. Now you can say that Kaneshka was a foreigner. He was a descendant of Kushans. But he was an Indian emperor, right? He governed he ruled India. He was Indian. Most of his coins are Hindu coins. 1% are Buddhist coins. Much of the territory he governed was Indian territory. And he fought on behalf of India. He did more to serve the Indian national and civilization interest than any other emperor I can almost think of. So he was absolutely Indian. Sure his ancestors came from what is now called Sinjang but they were not Chinese. They were Kushans. The Kushans can be regarded as the eastern mostians. The Skithians were of Indian origin. So once again it's a round circle. Now what's the origin of the Salvaries? Now this is we're going to use logic and a little bit of speculation for this. See if you go to north India historical north India the subcontinent then we are talking about regions such as Gandhara Afghanistan right present day Afghanistan all the way to the borders of Turkmanistan etc and 1500 years ago this entire region was Hindu Buddhist Hindu and Buddhist you had Hindu monks and Buddhist monks and Buddhas and viharas and whatnot tupas all over the place. When Schwanzang reached the Bameyan Valley in present day Afghanistan, what did he say? Did he say yes, I have reached Afghanistan? No, he said thank God I've reached India. Right? So that was India. The people were our people. So now think about the climate in that region, northern subcontinent. It's cold in Afghanistan today. In the summer it can get quite dry and hot but the winters are can be frighteningly cold like seriously chilly. It snows most of the winter in Kabul for example and other parts of of of Gandhar. So the Indians who lived there and other parts of India like Chetal etc. do you think they used to wear dotis in winter? Makes no sense right? they would have worn something that was suitable for the climate. So, it's possible that they would also have worn something like the Salvaries, but a heavier version of that, you know, a thicker jacket, thicker coat and thicker trousers and boots because if you're going to walk around in the snow, you can't be barefoot. You can't wear slippers or sandals. You got to wear boots that cover your feet. And from the evidence we have from the coins of Kaneshka, the Salvaries was worn during this time. So the way I see it, it's most likely a northern Indian. It's northern Indian attire. Wikipedia will say whatever it says, we don't have to believe in it. So one clear unambiguous piece of evidence is that Emperor Kaneska wore Sulvar Kamese. And if he was wearing that at this about what 1900 years ago, it means that it was something that was commonly used during his time, which means it would have been commonly used for centuries before him. So most likely there was no Central Asian origin of this. Most likely it was northern Indian attire, attire that was used that was worn in cold parts of the Indian subcontinent such as Kashmir, such as Gandhar, present day Afghanistan, etc. Okay, next question. Nirj gi desai says when did crossing the sea become a sin for Hindus? It is said that Rammanujan was not ready to cross the sea even though we already had sea routes for trading with Africa, Middle East, Europe etc. and we had navies like the Maratas and the Cholas. So was this taboo thing real or if so why did it start? I'm not sure I have seen any research paper or book that deals with this this this taboo. So the taboo seems to have been real in the in the last couple of centuries maybe last few centuries that if you lost I mean you became an outcast or something you would have to beified or something if you cross the sea. That sort of taboo did exist in the past few centuries. Clearly and that is so strange because India was a maritime civilization. When Raj Raj when Rajendra Chola crossed the sea and conquered free Vijaya did he break some taboo? No. Nobody said a thing about that. Right. He did cross the Indian Ocean, the western the eastern Indian Ocean, the the Bay of Bengal. He went all the way to Shir Vijaya, which is Indonesia present day. He conquered the place and he then he set things in order over there and he came back. There was there was no problem at that time. Indians arrived in Australia 5,000 years ago, 4 and a half thousand years ago. They obviously arrived by sea. We know that the the genetic footprint is still there among the native uh Australian populations. So Indians cross the ocean almost 4 and a half thousand years ago. And that is not just Indonesia, that's all the way to Australia, Northern Australia. Indians have had a presence in Eastern Africa for centuries, thousands of years essentially. East Africa. If you look at East African culture, the kind of clothing the people wear, especially ladies, it's very similar to what you have in Gujarat, the Gujarati textiles. If you see the the cuisine of places like Kenya, Tanzania etc., it's very Indian influenced cuisine. And you have communities of Indians from western India who have been living in in East Africa for centuries if not millennia. Vasco Dagama when he came when he reached there he was able to reach India because he was guided by an Indian sailor. So Indians were thriving in East Africa. They would cross the ocean all the time back and forth from India. They were trading right? They were trading. So Indians have been crossing. I mean when it comes to the oldest literature that we have in humanity in human history the rigida it speaks about ships with a 100 oes you don't need a ship with 100 oes to cross some river or to navigate a river you don't need that ships with 100 oes you need them in the high seas in the high oceans where the where the ocean can get rough so even thousands of years ago when the rig weather was written Indians were already crossing the seas, the oceans. So now that we have we understand this history that India has always been a maritime civilization, how did this extremely strange taboo become a thing in India? I'm not sure it was if it was a taboo all across India but it certainly seems to have been in some parts of India. I mean Mr. Gandhi, Mr. Mahindra Gandhi probably did not probably may have faced this taboo and so did Shinasa Rammanujan apparently. So how did this happen is the question. Now we like I said we don't have any research papers. No historian has bothered to look into this. So let's think about it logically. India was a maritime civilization. Indians used to cross the oceans. But something happened and this became a taboo. What happened is the question. Now what is the clue that we have? What are the clues? The taboo is a recent taboo. Rajendra Chola crossed the ocean a thousand years before today. Roughly there was no taboo then. So 1,00 AD, no taboo. But 1900 AD, taboo. Something happened between 1,000 AD and 1900 AD. What happened? I think we all know what happened. The most traumatic event ever. The foreign occupation of India. First by the Turks and then by the British. The Turks when they occupied India, they were genocidal. Hundreds of millions of Indians would have been killed over the centuries. And because of that the entire structure of Indian society crumbled. It oified. It was no no longer able to evolve naturally the way society naturally evolves. And because there was this constant constant threat of murder, genocide by the Turks, I I expect that the men folk of families were expected to not go and cross the oceans and they were expected to stay stay back home and defend the family. Most likely that's what happened. When the nation is under foreign occupation, you can't go trading. You can't go and cross the ocean when your your your family is at risk. They are under the threat of the Turks. So maybe that's why the taboo became a thing. And that's why it was no longer seen as reasonable behavior for somebody to cross the ocean and to go abroad in search of whatever trade, adventure, whatever. It was no longer responsible behavior. And if you did that, you were no longer part of a community. You're gone. Out outcast. Maybe that's what happened. That makes sense logically the way I see it. Okay. Uh Amisha says, "Every great civilization has declined when its culture of openness is replaced by closed minds and an aversion to questions. Western civilization has flourished and prospered precisely because it has cast off the yoke. That's the Catholic Church and allowed free thought. We in India are in decline because of our because of our culture has lost its ability to question and innovate. We also prefer shortcuts. It's is it is a historical inevitability that and there is nothing we can do about it. Do you agree that this can be the reason for the decline of Indian civilization? Okay. Multiple reasons for the decline of Indian civilization. You make some interesting points here. Multiple reasons. First of all, we gradually lost a sovereignty over our territory with the expansion of the Turk occupation of India. Starts with Gandhar, starts with Afghanistan about 1,000 years before today. Afghanistan was the first part of the subcontinent that fell and it was primarily Buddhist at the time, which is why it converted very rapidly to Islam. So civilization, Indian civilization switched off there. It becomes part of Turk and Islamic civilization. Right? Then slowly the Turks started encroaching into various parts of India. For 3 4 500 years the Rajputs fought them, fought them, fought them. Eventually the Turk Turks were able to make inroads. They established the Delhi Sultanate and then eventually the Muggal Empire became a thing and they took over very large parts of India. When you come under foreign occupation, your institutions are no longer able to function. What institutions did we have in India before the Turks came in? We had monarchies. We had empires at times. We had indigenous administrative systems. We had an indigenous education system that was the same more or less across the subcontinent. We had our own ways of of conducting social rituals, marriages, weddings, child births and so so many other things. Right? When you are under foreign occupation, none of these things, you're no longer free to do any of these things unless the foreign occupiers allow you to do it. The foreign occupiers, they had a very clear purpose in India to convert everybody to their foreign religion and they went to the extent of doing genocide in India multiple times. They destroyed all the temples. So the entire education system that was built around temples in northern India wiped out. Only small scale temples with that somehow survived. They were able to function. Then the indigenous administ administrative system is gone. The great uh universities are destroyed and burned. So when all your knowledge is destroyed, when your system of education is destroyed, when all your intellectuals are killed off, when your kings are no longer kings or they are killed off and foreigners are ruling you, they are imposing foreign laws on you, then where can you have a culture of openness? Where can you have a culture where you can have free thought and free debate? When you are under threat of dying any time, there's no free thought. There's no free free debate. There's no innovation. There is no cultural manifestation of of new cultural forms. Your music dies out. Your dance forms die out. Your forced to do weddings at in the middle of the night otherwise the Turks will abduct the girls. So you see everything the entire society oifies. It becomes calcified. It can't evolve. Right. So that sort of thing happened and that is the reason for the decline of Indian civilization first of all. Then you had the Europeans who who came and took over. The British did that and the British went multiple steps for f further than the Turks. They said we will not genocide the Indians. Yeah sure we'll starve them to death and maybe a few hundred million we can kill off like that but we want to mentally coronize the Indians. So they imposed they first of all abolished the whatever was surviving of the indigenous Indian education system and then they made it mandatory for you to have an English medium education if you wanted a government job and because they completely de-industrialized India. The only way to earn a livelihood was by having a government job. But for that you had to know English. You had to have an English education based on the system the British had imposed on you. So that completely wiped out our society our our culture and it it it planted the seeds of mental colonizers and mental slavery into the minds of Indians and that education system the British imposed still continues today and it's an education system based on wrote memorization see how do you actually learn something you learn by asking questions right but in the Indian education system you're not supposed to ask questions you're supposed to answer questions so it is completely killed off. You know, critic the ability to think critically, the ability to to learn things on your own. You simply you're not supposed to ask questions. You're not supposed to learn things. You're not supposed to think critically. You're simply supposed to accept whatever you told. These are the reasons why our civilization is dying. Now, when it comes to culture, one of the most important elements of civilization is culture, which manifests itself in multiple forms. architecture, dance, music, all of that all of this is and and in India in in a civilization like India civilization all of this needs state patronage and today in today's 21st century society even 20th century society there has been almost no state patronage for Indian cultural activities like dance music nothing has evolved Indian musicians are still playing the same sitar they were playing 100 years ago. The instruments haven't evolved and the ganas are dying out. So because there is no money now and the pe and and the the masses they now watch the cheap Bollywood music and whatn not that's why Indian cultural forms like Indian classical dances non-class dances there's no actual distinction Indian classical music all of this is simply dying a slow gradual death and the education system for it doesn't teach you how to innovate how to question so because of all these reasons Indian culture Indian civilization is declining and if this continu another 50 years will be finished. India will be put note in history. Okay, I still have a lot of questions that I have chosen but I want to be able to take them because I've already crossed two hours. There are a lot a lot more questions. Okay, let's take some questions that you all have asked in the live chat. Okay, I can see super chat a whole bunch of super chats. Okay, what do we have? have Anil Chri is a new member. Welcome to the membership. Thank you so much. Vsvs, namaste. Namaste. Good to have you. Vsvs has gifted five memberships. Thank you so much. You're so kind. Very kind of you. Vsvs have to deal with Kanglu Mia from Super Slum Bangladesh. We'll deal with them. Look, I know. See right now the relationship between India and Bangladesh Bangladesh isn't good because Bangladesh is now run by by individuals who are puppets of a foreign country and who are inimical to India. And as we know there are horrible things happening in Bangladesh right now. If you are a Hindu in Bangladesh you don't know whether you will be alive tomorrow morning or not. That is the situation in Bangladesh. So, we're going to have to deal with this, but we're going to have to deal with this judicially, judiciously because the last thing we should do right now is to do military action because that's what the West wants. That's what the US wants so that they can portray us as the same as Putin, right? Even Putin is not wrong for for what he has done. But whatever. So, yeah, we have to deal with them. How should we deal with Bangladesh? The first thing we need to do is to expel all the illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators who are sitting in India. That's the first thing we we must do. We need to expel them all. I think some action is happening on that front. But there are about 100 million possibly Bangladeshes, illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators who are embedded across India. We need to get rid of these illegal infiltrators. I have nothing against legal immigration. you come through the proper channels, apply for a visa, get a visa, then come legally. I'm you're welcome. But my issue is with the illegal infiltrators. They need to be dealt with. So that's the first thing India needs to do. Visa Bangladesh and then yeah, we need to pressurize Bangladesh to to to safeguard the Hindu population and so on. Okay. WBR says, "What was the ancient and medieval age equivalent of nukes or was there none with the deterrence and destruction capability of a nuke and nuclear weapons? Are they the first kind of their thing in history?" There was no ancient equivalent of nuclear weapons. There was nothing in ancient times that could unleash that much destruction. Nothing. Um that sort of destructive power has only become readily widely available in militaries in the past couple of hundred years. And it started with gunpowder. Gunpowder and projectiles that explode that sort of thing. But even those explosives were nothing compared to the kind of devastation a nuclear weapon can unleash. So there was no equivalent in ancient times and medieval times of nuclear weapons. There is nothing that has ever existed that is comparable to nuclear weapons first of their kind in human history. Indeed. An subramanyam says one historical ruler lesson individuals can apply today. What is one historical pattern you you actually change your daily behavior. One historical ruler lesson individuals can apply today. One individ one one historical lessons individuals can apply today. Um let me think there are so many lessons that we can learn from history. But you're talking about individuals not nations. Well one [laughter] look this doesn't apply to everybody of course. One historical lesson that is relevant even to people is that power always trumps wealth. If you're powerful, it's it's so essentially it's better to be powerful than to be wealthy. If you are powerful, then wealth will anyway automatically flow to you. But if you are wealthy, no matter how much wealth you have, think about this example, Jack Ma of China, the wealthiest man in China, right? How much power did he actually have? A low ranking Chinese Communist Party official in in any given city actually has more power than Jakma and can put Jakma under under bar, you know, behind bars. And that's essentially what happened to Jakma, right? He had a big downfall. So power always trumps wealth. That's one historical lesson that applies to everybody. Um is there any pattern that changed my behavior? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Lakshadep becomes a new member. Thank you very much. Let us all welcome Lakshadep to the membership of the channel. Thank you so much. Sorab says recent Epstein files release. So look, I it's a very new thing that's happened. I think uh it's all redacted. A lot of it is just black black lines and stuff. I haven't even had the time to look into it. So yeah, I can't really comment at this point in time. Yeah. And this is anyway not a historical matter. It's a it's more of a it's more of a local matter within the United States and it will have some geopolitical ramifications based on depending on what kind of individuals are exposed as part of this uh this disclosure. if it is if it can be called a disclosure. I'm not sure about if it's a disclosure or not. But yeah, so it's so so it's too early to speak about this at this point in time. Let some time go by. Let people analyze what actually has been disclosed. What has been redacted, we can't say, but what's been disclosed. Maybe some people will analyze that. I won't be doing the analysis. It's not something that interests me that much, but I'll keep an eye on it to see what kind of names come out. So, we'll see. WBR says, "What's your opinion on the person on my profile pick?" Well, a tragic person, you know, he used to be a chef. He used to be a restaurant, then he became the head of the Vagnner group. Yes. Mr. Yvgrio Gojin and then he sadly tragically died in a plane crash. What's my opinion? Well, he did serve his nation. He served his nation and he died the death of a warrior. Yeah, that's what I can say. Uh, Leroy Jenkins Kins says, "Are Jats ironic or indicetically Jats are the Jats?" I like I answered in great detail a while ago. The Jats are related to the Gate and the Masagate tribes. Those were skitsian tribes. If you ask Wikipedia, the skits are ironic. So if you want to go by the Wikipedia definition, the Jats are ironic then. Iranic. But if you look at the Jats, do they look ironic? They look indic. So what does that tell you? That tells you that the Skitians were also Indic, not Iranic. See, there is this big movement right now to deny the Indian and Hindu origins of everything. So everything I mean Iran is this and India is that big, but everything is irranic. Whatever is in Central Asia, why? Whatever populations exist in Central Asia that speak Indo-Aran languages or Indo-Iranian languages, they're going to be classified always as Iranic. So that's an issue that these historians and other individuals have. They want to deny the Indian and Hindu origins of everything. But the truth is that the Jats are indically and culturally and linguistically etc. If they see the Jats are a very large population. If they spoke any Iranic language then the language would still be spoken today but they speak Indo-aran languages. None of them speaks any so-called irranic language. So the answer is the jats are indicants to destroy most ancient Ara range. I have no idea. This is not a historical question. Today we are talking about history and I am not aware of what's going on over here. I have not looked into it. So yeah, Parthonon says, "Why do Indian brahinss look like southern Europeans?" I can show you brahinss who don't look like southern Europeans. Why are you generalizing everything sir? [laughter] Don't generalize everything. Who says all Indian brahinss look like southern Europeans? Shinwasa Rammanojanjunjanjunjanjunjanjunjanjunj did he look like southern European? Let's see what shinasa ramanojun looked like. Okay. Shini Shini Vasan Shinasa Ramanujan. So does this fine gentleman look southern European? Shinas Ramanujan was a Brahman. So my point is let's not generalize things. You I can show you a 100 counter examples. There's no such thing. Do I look like a Southern European? I'm not a Brahmin. Okay, Bali today says, "Was Nazis were the Nazis way ahead in propaganda than communists?" Well, the Nazis had the propaganda ministry and they did a reasonably good job, I suppose, for the time. But see, today at the end of the day, you have to look at the long-term impact of their propaganda. Today, everybody rightfully regards the Nazis as monsters. Their propaganda has failed. But the communists there are so many people who worship communists. There are so many people who regard uh Mahatong as a great great guy. There are so many people people who regard Joseph Stalin as a great guy. There are so many people who believe in the religion that KL Marx created. So I think communist propaganda has been way more successful than Nazi propaganda. uh Sanker says how China grew land with Mongols Turks next to it. So the expansion of the Chinese empire happened at various points in time. They did a lot of expansion eastwards. They gobbled up Manuria. There were no Mongols or Turks there. The Manchus are a different people. Eventually the Manchus ruled China. The last dynasty to rule China was a Manchu dynasty. Right? U the Mongol Empire was there for only a while and then it dissipated. It weakened. The Mongol Empire conquered China. It gave China the Yuan dynasty which was a Mongol dynasty. And then the Mongol Empire, it just crumbled and fragmented like all empires eventually do. And that's when China took over parts of Mongolia and Russia took over parts of Mongolia as well. And then China used the claims started claiming territory that the Yuan dynasty, the Yuan Empire had had. So look, it's it's a process that happened over multiple centuries. Once the Mongol Empire was no longer a major force, the Chinese were able to take over. And the Turks, well, yeah, Sing Jang has some Turks, but those Turks were not that powerful. And of course, they did rebel against the Chinese in the middle of the 19th century. And the Chinese dealt with that very harshly. The Chinese knew how to deal with the Turks. There's only one way the Chinese know how to deal with any any population group that uh that challenges their hgemony. They try to wipe them out of existence. So yeah, long story. I can't explain everything in detail right now over here because that is something that that that encompasses like 600 700 years. UX Glowha says why do coins have ridges along around the edges? Okay, let's see. Uh let's see. Morian coins Morian coins. Do Morian coins have ridges around the edges? No. No, no, sir. No, sir. Okay. What about um Kushan? Kushan coins. Well, you see there are no ridges around. There is some decoration for sure, but there are no ridges around the edges or Kushan coins. No ridges. What about Gupta coins? Gupta coins. Once again, Gupta coins. You will not find ridges around the edges. So in India, coins have historically not had ridges around the edges. Are you talking about coins from some other part of the world? But see, I I showed you multiple examples of big Indian empires that have not had coins with ridges around the edges. Maybe you're talking about some other part of the world. Well, it depends on the local context etc. Don't know. Okay. VPS says Ashit Tagur sir not getting tech not getting tech job asked 100 companies every day and did not get response sub are up for experienced candidate. What does this have to do with history first of all? Okay. Anyway, let me just since you've asked, you're not getting a tech job. You asked 100 companies every day. Well, there must be some reason for it, right? Maybe you aren't experienced enough. I see the problem is I don't know you personally. I don't know your background. I don't know your track record. I don't know your CV. I don't know what kind of job you're looking for. So, I how can I answer your question? How can I give you a solution? If you want me to give a workable solution or some kind of way forward, some kind of guidance, then first of all, I need to understand your background, your personal history and your current circumstances. Only then can I give you any kind of guidance. So all I can say in the absence of any of that information is don't give up. If there are some deficiencies in your record, maybe the CV isn't strong or whatever, address those things. Work hard, but also work smart. And if you don't get a tech job, look for some other kind of job. There's always a solution, right? There's always a solution to every problem. So, be creative. Expand your horizons. Try to find a solution. Don't take no for an answer. And if this is not working out, look for plan B, plan C. That's what I would say. All right, sir. All the best. All the best. I wish you the best. I I wish you success. Shiraat says, "Can you explain the conflict? Can you explain about the conflict in Yugoslavia and how that what led to the break up of that country?" See, I can go into this in great excruciating detail which can take hours or I can tell you what actually is the deal. In 1991 roughly, the USSR lost the Cold War. The USSR broke up, right? And the United States took over. They they they installed a pizza loving puppet. Boris. No, not pizza loving. Vodka is vodka. Vodka loving puppet. Boris Yelim. So they had won the cold war. They This was the uniolar moment for the US. They could do whatever they wanted and they said we will dismantle everything the Soviets created. The nation of Yugoslavia was a protectorate of the USSR. They said the the USSR made this. We will break it up. And that's why they broke it up. This conflict was completely artificially induced. Of course, you had these ethnicities in the Balkans that those ethnic issues go back centuries and all of that is the consequence of the Ottoman Empire's occupation of the Balkans. The conflict within the Bos Bosnians and the Croats and the Serbs and the the Kosovoirs and so on. All these issues go back centuries and all you have to do is to reignite that. So they they said we will destroy Yugoslavia and that's what they did and all these little nation states came out of that. Croatia north Macedonia um Albania was never part of it but so on. So what I can tell you in brief is the US did this. The US broke Yugoslavia up and then there was this you know that conflict that happened in the 1990s. You had the siege of Sarah Evo. You had the battle of Mustar. You had all kinds of atrocities that happened there. Yeah. So that it's it's pretty convoluted history if I were to go into detail. But essentially the big picture situation is that the US decided that we can do whatever we want. So we will break up Yugoslavia. That's it. Vir Kamat says I recently discovered that the Rango script of Easter Island is almost identical to the Indust script. Something very interesting to share with the viewers. Is it evidence of IVC sailing expedition? We don't have the answer to this question. No question. The wrongo script is very similar to the Saraspati Hindu script. It's it's like let's see that right. Okay. Wrongo wrong indust. Okay. So if you look here, Indust Valley East Island, Indust Valley, East Island, if you see see the comparison, it's like almost identical with some small minute minor differences, right? So clearly it's almost like a mirror image. The wrong script script of Easter Island is like almost like a mirror image of the more way more ancient Saraspati Hindu script. Is this evidence of Indians having sailed to Eastern Island? Now, let's look at where this island is. It's in the middle. It's in the heart of the South Pacific. Let's go to uh Google Maps and let's go to the South Pacific. Okay. Rapanui. Where is Rapanui? Hungaroa. Um this is Easter Island. Yeah, it belongs it it belongs to Chile. So if I zoom out, okay, if I place a pin there, sorry, if I zoom out, you will find that it's in the middle of nowhere. And how far is it from India? Let's let's measure the distance. Okay. From let's say um let us say from from the east coast of India somewhere over here and let's measure the distance to here roughly it's about 18,000 kilometers 18,000 kilometers. Now is it possible that Indians 4,000 5,000 years ago traveled 80,000 km and went there? I think it's highly unlikely. But then how did the script end up? That's a big mystery. So is it evidence of IVC sailing expedition? Not necessarily. It is evidence of a sailing expedition only if you find evidence of a ship or actual evidence of Indians having been there. Maybe skeletal evidence, maybe some other kind of actual hard archaeological evidence. We have no such thing. So maybe it means that that maybe it could possibly mean that the people who lived on Easter Island in the past they maybe they lived somewhere else maybe they came from somewhere else and wherever they came from maybe there was contact there with the people of ancient India maybe it's like maybe that could explain it but right now as of now we don't have the answers we only have questions okay how long has it been it's in 2 and 1/2 hours. WBR says some many say Ukraine was created by linen and commis. Do you agree Ukraine? Look, was Ukraine created by commies and Lenin? The the Ukrainian SSR was a constituent unit of the USSR. SSR means Soviet Socialist Republic. So all these in India we have states like you know Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and so on. So we have states in India in the USSR you had SSRs, Soviet Socialist Republics, you had a Tajik SSR, you had a Ukrainian SSR, you had various SSRs all over the place. Now this designation of the region of Ukraine as a Soviet Socialist Republic SSR was definitely done by the Chinese by the by the Soviet Communist Party. But Ukraine was historically a region and it was designated as a special separate region, separate SSR because the Ukrainian people speak a slightly different language. So it is just a historical fact but the Ukraine war is a whole different thing. Abida Singh says your thoughts about Tamil Nadu future both politically and spiritually after. No I'm not taking this question. This has nothing to do with history and I don't talk about Indian politics. I stay away from it. See I can't fight every battle in the world. I talk about history, geopolitics, science, very very vast domains and I stick to that. I am not going to discuss Indian politics. I I'm sorry but I don't do that. It's a matter of policy. I don't discuss Indian politics and anyway this is a session about history. So please I have to remind people every time and people will still disregard what I say that when I do a history session let's talk about history. Let's not talk about every other thing in under the under the world under the sun. Right? So anyway I will not be able to take this question. Sorry about that. I apologize. Biju Sika says why USSR was considered superpower. It was not like the USA who could invade any country in the world within 24 hours. The USSR was considered a superpower because it had the ability to destroy any part of the world it wanted. That's number one. Number two, it was an industrial superpower. It had a massive industrial base. Thirdly, it had the world's largest territory with about half of the world's natural resources. It had a frighteningly powerful military, maybe the largest standing military after the Chinese eventually. So, because of a variety of factors, it was rightfully called a superpower. Technologically incredibly advanced for its time. For the longest time, they were ahead of the US in the space race. Very high quality science and technology research happening over there. Super powerful military, way more powerful than China. Huge area, all the resources you can want and a massive nuclear arsenal. Clearly, it deserved to be called a superpower. Bijua says, "Who was Katherine the Great? Why is she still celebrated in Russia even though she was German? She was a tsina in Russia, a female sar. She [clears throat and cough] she is celebrated because she brought Russia to a certain level of status in power. She was German indeed and she kind of ousted her own husband who was Assar and uh but she overall did a good job of of of uh of ruling Russia and Russia became significantly powerful and and and the prestige of Russia increased around this time which is why she is called Katherine the Great. Yeah, maybe we can do a separate you know segment on Katherine the Great. pretty interesting and significant and consequential person. Maybe I can do that in the future. But yeah, she was one of the Russian Serenas. What 18th century was it? Let's let's quickly look up the exact time frame that we are talking about. Katherine the Great. She came after Peter, I'm sure. Katherine the Great, Empress of Russia. Correct. 18th century. Yes. And um she definitely came after Peter the Great, right? Peter the Great. Peter the Great. Yes. Correct. Yes. Yeah. So my rough chronological timeline is correct. But uh so that's what I can say in brief order. Uh Zir Khan says it's shortsighted to support legal Bangladeshi immigration. I am not I am not saying I support anything. I am saying there is a difference between legal and illegal. Now legal immigration we can make it as easy or as difficult as you want. I would say make it as difficult as possible for Bangladesh. Make it almost impossible. That's fine. I am not supporting Bangladesh coming into India. I am saying please understand the difference between legal and illegal. That's all I am saying. I'm not supporting it. Why are you construing what I say as support for that? Why I didn't say that? Please pay attention. Language and words have nuances. Please learn [clears throat] to understand the the minute nuances between something that's like surface level and something that's slightly deeper. I do not support Bangladeshes in India. Bangladesh is a very problematic nation today. We should not even have legal immigration. We should make it as difficult as possible. But I am not okay. Patriot Enfield says when will India recognize Armenian genocide? That's not our fight. We have when will we recognize the Indian genocide? We have suffered genocide at the hands of the Turks and at the hands of the British. We don't even recognize that and you want to fight for the Armenian genocide. It's like the people some parts of certain Indians they have they don't care about India but they want to support Palestine. Right? It's like that what you're saying here. Do you understand what I'm saying? Do you understand? We need to first recognize our own history. The genocides we have suffered. Why do we have to fight every fight in the world? Why? Maybe I mean I recognize the Armenian genocide. India officially doesn't want to get into all these matters right now. But let's first recognize about what what happened to our own people, right? To our own ancestors, to our own relatives. Bijuya says, "English-speaking empires have been dominating and ruling the world for the past three centuries. What special did they have that the Spanish and French did not have? They were better at the organized application of violence. They were better at c creating bureaucratic and governance systems that lasted and grew and supported the empire. They were better at divide and rule. They were better at at colonizing and subjugating the defeated populations than the Spanish were. They did everything better than the Spanish and the French. And that's why they have dominated the world. They created systems that worked. And I' I've answered this question even last week, the week before that. So, yeah. Okay. James James says, "One second." All right. James James says, "We colonized you, yet you still behave univilized. I was in Daravee recently. Absolutely bad and horrible. Our trains in the glorious stations in Bombay Victoria terminus UNESCO site not enough. Okay. Yes, Daravi. Well, um I suppose it may not be great. Daravi, um the trains and glorious stations in Bombay Victor are tremendous. Are they in UNESCO side? Not enough. [snorts] Look, I don't know what you mean by univilized. Poverty, if you have a state of poverty in some part of the world, does it mean that that part of the world is univilized? I would say univilized behavior is when you have no law and order, when people are doing any kind of nonsense, when you have violence, when you have that sort of thing. If you go to Daravi, you will see no violence. It's pretty well organized. It has a GDP of more than a billion per year. It it uh the people live in peace. They live in an organized manner. Everybody's employed. There is no lawlessness. There is no drunkenness. There is no homelessness in Daravi. Everyone's employed. Everyone's gainfully employed. Everyone's doing some work. People are running businesses. I know it can be better. It is classified as a slum. I suppose it is a slum. And there are structural issues within India which is why we still have these issues over here. So we will overcome these issues. No question about that. But the presence of poverty is not equivalent to the presence of to the absence of civilization. Right? Um the trains and glorious stations in Bombay. Have you glorious stations? Have you been to the stations in what you call Bombay? We call Mumbai now. Uh there's nothing glorious about those stations and all the glory which you see from the great architecture that came from Indian money and Indian labor. Right. So anyway, good to see you James. Good to see you. Bus says, "Did the world did the word China come from Sanskrit word China?" Most likely it did. Yes. Most likely it came from the Sanskrit word China. Yeah, VS says James is always in rebellious libo bro mode. James does a great job of bringing bringing out you know issues and topics that need to be discussed and I very much appreciate James very much so. And that brings me to the end of today's live stream. I have dealt with all the super chats hopefully. All right. Okay. Yeah, I I think I have answered all the super chat questions and that should do it. All right. So, thank you so much everybody. Thank you so much for the questions. It was great. Once again, I am not discussing Epstein today. No. [laughter] All right. All right. I will do another live stream tomorrow as you know in which I will take questions about any topic. So, ask me all those questions tomorrow. Thank you so much for the questions. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards and I will see you in tomorrow's live stream. Until then, take care. Good day, good night, good evening, good morning wherever you are. I'll see you tomorrow. Bye-bye.