Heat. Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Askab show. This is episode 343. I hope you're all doing great and uh it's been 6 days since we discussed what's happening in the world especially in the US Israel Iran war. So we're going to do much more of that today and I'm going to take as many questions as possible from you about this topic and other topics as well mainly from the super chat. And uh before we do that let's see who is there on the live stream with us. I can see SKR from the Assam Manipur border. Well, good to have you. Good evening. Put N6. Hello Tushar SK. Namaste it sat pranam. Who else? Who else? Uh real painter skran sarji. One punch man. Herman baya skr technos j bharat. It is atim sat real radi one punch man once again are you saying narendra des pandemish uh bharata is here from pur good evening namaste akshit sharma hello dik shrian namaste uh soldier boy is here swami is here from Jaipurshi is here from Pune Baja geopolitical from Indor good evening namaste uh Karan Kumar is here from Sakit Delhi. Uh Ham Brahasmi. Yo yo yo. Um who else? Shishi Shishir Upadya. Hello Vidiar. Good good evening ma'am good to see you. Abishek live is here from Jalme. Um technos j bharat karan nalawad jashidam. Good to have you. Good to see you. Aishna singh. Thank you ma'am. Thank you so much. Good to have you as well. Omnak from Odisha. Good to see you. Heisenberg Jind good to see you as well. Good to have you again. Uh Hussein Lakdavala is asking me when are you coming to Bangaluru? Well, I don't have any immediate plans for Bangaluru but if I do plan to come which will happen sooner or later I will let you all know that I'll be in Bangalore. Maybe we can meet up. Let's see. Uh Gopolik is here. Good evening. Uh Lish Tind. Hello. Hello. Uh Aiit is here from GB Great Britain. All right. Good to see you. And who else? Push. Push. You're from Bihar. Ajal says before World War II. Well, I hope there's no World War II, but the way things are going, haha, terrible. Sishi Siliguri, good evening, ma'am. Namaste. Critical thinker. Hello. Good to see you. History Go N9B. Uh, this is Sag Honeybadger of Kolinga, Dragon Slayer, Business, etc. Uh, Monkey Duffy, Jack. Okay, Jack. Hi. Daval Shindai W KB BKT Kalist Adita Takal Cherry Dota Nadas and and lots and lots of other people. Okay, good to see you all. Thank you so much for being on the live stream and uh let's get going with today's episode. So before I start taking questions, let's do a recap of what's happened in the last uh couple of days, last few days. Uh I've these days it's very it's very useful to get your information from X from Twitter. So let's go to X and see what's been happening. Okay. What's happened in the last few days? So as we know Donald Trump had given this uh proposed ceasefire 5day ceasefire. Right. So has has his side stuck to the ceasefire or has the ceasefire been ineffective? Let's take a look what has been happening. Ceasefire. Okay, so this is from 27th of May, March, which is uh yesterday, right? Coordinated strikes have hit all three of Iran's largest steel plants simultaneously. Mubarak, Esahan, and Kustan, the backbone of the country's non-oil economy. They together produce roughly 70% of Iran's steel output. Iron and steel is Iran's second largest export category at 6.48 billion, its primary hard currency lifeline outside of oil. So yeah, so hitting all three at once targets critical infrastructure capacity and the economic architecture Iran spent spent decades building to survive western pressure. Right? So this is a huge disaster for Iran. And who has hit? It's most likely Israel who has hit uh Iran's three largest steel production plants. So they are trying to bomb Iran back into the storage essentially, right? Iran is taking massive massive hits, massive pounding. What else do we have? Okay, this is from Mr. Aragi, the foreign minister of is of Iran. Israel has hit two damage three two or three of Iran's largest steel factories, a power plant also and civilian nuclear sites along with other infrastructure. Israel claims it acted in coordination with the US. Attack contradicts the president of the US extended deadline for diplomacy. Iran will extract heavy price for Israeli crimes. That's what the Iranian foreign minister said yesterday. What else do we have? Israel then just struck the Iraq nuclear complex. Iran's Iraq nuclear complex. The heavy water facilities provide heavy water for an IR40 reactor which could produce between 10 to 12 kilograms of plutonium a year from its spent nuclear fuel offering Iran a second pathway to nuclear weapons on top of enriched uranium. hitting a nuclear site where you have radiological radioactive material. I think that is extremely unwise because it's going to reduce release radiation into the air. But Iran, Israel has gone ahead and done that. So they've hit an Iranian nuclear complex. Uh yeah, civilian nuclear sites. Yeah, that's right. Okay. Uh what else? Israel is now confirming the Iranian reports. Israel did indeed per purposefully strike an Iranian nuclear reactor. Reactor. Okay. Massive escalations have been happening. Uh this is um the United States Air Force just struck the Ardaken yellow cake factory in Iran. Yellow Cake is concentrated uranium ore. Okay. So this yellow cake factory produces concentrated uranium powder for enrichment. This strike will obviously have a radiological signature and so on. Right? So this is obviously if it's hit the yellow cake production factory is going to release uranium particles uranium uh ore concentrated uranium ore maybe vaporized uranium ore into the atmosphere. So we're going to see a radiological signature of this. There could be radioactive fallout of this in the extended region. So they are striking at Iran's nuclear civilian whatever you know nuclear facilities. What else? This is from today. Iran has attacked US military gatherings on Bubian Island in a surprise assault targeting American deployment centers there. This is Kuwait. According to Kuwaiti reports, Kuwaiti hospitals have declared a state of emergency. Approximately 1270 soldiers from the US Airborne Division, 82nd Airborne Division had arrived in the region yesterday in preparation for launching a ground operation against Iran on Kerg Island. So there is that, right? So it looks like the US is preparing for a ground invasion, a ground operation against Iran, maybe on Kirk Island, maybe somewhere else. And they have brought in they are bringing in Marines and and armed forces personnel. And Iran seems to be preemptively striking at these people. So yeah, this is obviously unconfirmed. The US will not confirm any of this, but you know, this this news kind of tends to come out on X. What else do we have? um attempt to destroy Iranian knowledge. Yesterday, March 26th, the Isvahan University of Technology was targeted. Today, the 27th, the Thran University of Technology also came under heavy bombardment. So, this lady says these events reinforce her previous point that one of the primary objectives of this conflict is the destruction of Iranian academic and scientific knowledge. Right? So the US or Israel or who or maybe both are targeting Iranian universities rather institutes of technology. See Iran has actually Iran has one of the world's best academic uh one of the best education systems in the world. You some of you may say blah blah blah because you know girls even girls get PhDs in Iran. You know that girls have to wear burkas that's all that's their issue. That's not of our concern. But Iran has one of the world's best education systems and they have some of the best engineers in the world, best scientists in the world who have been operating under sanctions and still you know as you can see producing the goods, delivering the goods, uh missiles and whatnot. So the Americans and Israelis are striking at that. The Isvahan Institute of Technology, the Thran Institute of Institute of Technology. So they want to do long-term damage, lasting damage to Iran. They want to ensure that in the future Iran can't produce world-class scientists and engineers and maybe target uh maybe even the academics, maybe even the teachers. Kind of I'm not sure if it's the correct comparison to draw but it's kind of like what invaders did to India a thousand years ago. Kind of like that, right? Okay. Uh breaking. This is from yesterday. US intelligence has determined that about just 33% of Iran's missile arsenal has been destroyed as the Iran war nears its one month mark. As per Reuters, the intelligence assessment shows that Iran still has significant missile inventory. The status of another one-third is less clear, but bombings likely damaged, destroyed, buried these missiles, etc. U US intelligence was similar to similar for Iran's drone capability and Iran is expected to recover some buried or damaged missiles once fighting stops. So we are one month into the war and Iran still has significant missile and drone uh inventory. What next? Uh the Trump administration has just vaporized a quarter of the entire tomahawk stock stockpile for the Iran war which will quite literally take years even with accelerated production just to replace what was already a short supply and obviously this helps China. Right. Right. Okay. What else? In a major escalation, Yemen's Houthi group, the Ansarah faction, they have officially joined the war with the ballistic missile launch at Isil just as the war hit its 1 month mark. All eyes are now on the Bab al-Mandibra. If that closes, the world loses another 6 million bar barrels of daily oil supply. That's going to be a disaster if the Houthis close the straight of Babal Mand like they've done like they've done in the past. It's going to be a disaster for the world. So the Houthis have officially joined the war now, right? They have been activated. What else? Now let's move to Ukraine. You know everything is interconnected. The war on Iran is not separated. It's not separate from the war that's happening in Ukraine. So in Russia, massive Ukrainian drone strike strikes blew up vast areas of the port of Primorsk, Russia's largest oil export terminal that processes 1 to 1.5 million barrels of oil per day. A 100 million tons of oil and old oil products per year, a thousand kilometers from Ukraine. So you see because of the closure of the straight of Hormuz Russia has become very important. Russian oil has become very important. Now if Israel now if if Ukraine is able to significantly dent Russia's oil production and delivery capabilities, it's going to be a disaster for India, for China, for the rest of the world. And who benefits? The US benefits from this. The US will end up as a long-term beneficiary of this. So this was from the 23rd of March. Today is the 28th of March. Okay. So Ukrainian drone strikes blew up vast areas of the of the port of Primorsk. There's more. This is from March 25. Okay. A major Ukrainian drone strike hit Russia's Uluga port, sparking a fire at the Noate gas condensate plant. Nu Luga is one of Russia's key Western export hubs for oil products and condensate on the Baltic. used to move large volumes to foreign markets. This uh port handles about 700,000 barrels per day of oil exports and exported 32.9 million metric tons of oil products last year. This is a deep strike roughly a,000 kilometers from Ukrainian territory in some estimates. Um what else? So 40% of Russia's oil exports are currently stopped after Ukraine attacked the Pimor, Usluga and Novorosis crude oil ports. At the same time, the Durushba pipeline remains closed and multiple refineries have been hit. It's a big blow to Russia. Massive blow to Russia. So you see this is all interconnected. Close the straight of foremost. It favors it's good for Russia. So destroy Russia's oil production capabilities. It's terrible for Russia and great for the US. Now, what's Russia's response been so far? Nothing significant. So far, nothing significant or or or or reciprocally equal. You see, so far none. What else do we have? This is from 26th of March. Ukrainian suicide drones struck the Russian oil refinery Kirishi in the St. Petersburg region. The SL the sky is glowing red over Kirishi. What else? About 400, this is from March 25. About 400 Ukrainian Kamikaza drones attacked the Russians last night. The largest share of revenge falls on the Leningrad region. So this is once again Luga, right? The city of Le Vibborg in the Lingrad region. The strike a strike also hit a building uh and so on, right? So this is a continuation of the pattern. What else do we have? And this is March 27 which is yesterday. Ukrainians are now really going for the complete elimination of the of the oil terminal install luga leningrad region in Russia. Uh UAVs just keep on coming in. Judging by the intensity of the UA UAV swarms recently, there's a chance that the Russians will soon run low on air miss air defense missiles. So the Russ Ukrainians are going after Russia's oil production capabilities. They're going to destroy everything which will be a major major uh boost for the US. is going to be a win for the US and Russia seems to be well um right now seems to be not doing much about this matter. They're just taking it looks like they must be responding retality retaliating in some way but uh you see um this is still continuing. Okay, let's see this flight path of Ukrainian drones into the Russian Linenrad region. The drones were launched in coordination with Brussels allegedly from western Ukraine through Poland, the Baltics, which is Latia, Lithuania, and Estonia, and then into Russia. Right? So, as you can see, it's multiple countries that are allowing the drones to pass through. There's Poland, there's Latia, Lithuania, Estonia, and then it's entering Russia. So, from Ukraine into Poland, into the Baltics, and then into the St. Petersburg region uh and the Leningrad region of Russia. So as you can see this is a co multiple nations are coordinating in these attacks against Russia and one of the major beneficiaries like I said is the US and this hurts India and China a lot. Right. Okay. What next? Meanwhile, Meanwhile, India has cleared the purchase of $25 billion worth of weapons, including more Russian-made missile systems, according to the Ministry of Defense of India. A move that could potentially annoy the US. It's not going to potentially annoy the US, it's going to infuriate the US. So, India is going allin with Russia. oil, liqufied natural gas, weapons, nuclear plants, building SJ 100 and illusion 114 aircraft. What else? Uh, India's Defense Acquisition Council approves proposals worth $25 billion on Friday to buy medium transport aircraft, Russian S400, S400, more of those surfaceto-air missile systems and remotely piloted strike aircraft. That sounds like UAVs, right? Kamik Kazi drones whatever. So this account says Modi woke up this morning and decided to ignore US sanctions and buy Russian weapons and oil. Interesting development. India is pivoting away from the west back to bricks. More importantly, what currencies will be used for this trade? Yuan, rubal, rupee. If this gets done in yuan, the US is done and effectively lost the Iran war. Don't forget Trump went to the war to save the petro dollar. So, India a month into the war is buying $25 billion worth of Russian uh goods and equipment including oil, LNG, various kinds of aircraft, drones, S400 systems and uh much more. Very interesting development. This is guaranteed to make Trump see red. guaranteed right so well I've said many times that there's a 50% chance of India becoming a US vasal in the next 5 years I think now I would say it's a 40% chance India is strongly uh you could say pivoting away from the US very strongly very visibly it's a message to the US clearly okay so Let's continue before I take more before I start taking questions. So that's in very interesting development. What else do we have? Okay, this is about the US uh weapons industry. America's largest exports are the are weapons and war. So Switzerland ordered some Tomahawk missiles from the US a few years ago years ago. Now the US said they can't deliver them. So Switzerland said that we won't pay. The US have now seized the funds the Swiss paid for F-35 aircraft which the Swiss probably won't get as as well. So they've just stolen the money of the Swiss and they will not deliver any weapons as per the contract. Neither missiles nor F-35s. Very interesting. Uh there's more about this. Europe spent Europe sent $750 million to the US to support Ukraine with weapons from the US. The Pentagon now plans to use that money to refill American weapons stockpiles instead, most likely because of the war against Iran. Even US officials admit that it's unclear if European countries fully understand where the money could actually go. Okay. So, the Pentagon notified Congress on Monday that it intended to divert about $750 million in funding provided by NATO countries to restock the US military's own inventories rather than send additional assistance to Ukraine as per according to two US officials. So the Europeans sent this money to the US so that the US can send them weapons that can be supplied to Ukraine. And the Europeans are paying out of their own pocket. So the Americans have said, "Okay, we'll keep this money and we'll use this money uh to to refill US weapons inventories for themselves." But that's not your money, right? Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. It's NATO. It's a vas. It's a bunch of vasals. Who cares? Fantastic, fantastic, fantastic. So, Trump has now single-handedly killed the entire US arms industry. Every country now knows that if you buy weapons from the US, Trump could simply decide not to send them to you. Who in their right mind would buy weapons from the US going forward? It's a good question. Okay, here's one more before we start taking questions. Okay. Um, Denmark secretly deployed soldiers to Greenland prepared to blow up airport runways to stop a US invasion. So Trump has been threatening to invade Greenland, right? And to annex Greenland. So the so Denmark secretly deployed soldiers to Greenland and they were prepared prepared to blow up airport runways to stop an American invasion. They brought blood supplies to treat the wounded. France, Germany, Norway and Sweden quietly coordinated against the Americans. This was not a drill. This was America's closest vasals preparing to fight Americans. Right? So the US seems to well doesn't seem to be trusted a lot by its own vasals these days. Right? So that's a quick update of what's been happening. Now let's uh now let's take some questions. Let's begin with the questions. What questions do we have? All right. This is a question by Anikit. uh if Houthis block the Bab al-Mandde then would India take action against them that's first secondly India started buying gas from Russia and Iran after years your take on that and three views on trans bill 2026 okay Houthis are could block the straight of Babal Mad it's not happened yet but they could they could they are capable of doing it and the Americans tried a year a full year of air strikes against the Houthis could not force the Houthies to open it until eventually there was an agreement between between the two and still the agreement was such that Iranian Israeli ships could not transit the straight of Hormos and that is still effective so the US isn't able to dislodge the Houthies and defeat them so if the Houthis go ahead and block the straight of Babal Mande should India take against action against them India should stay out of the matter the American stride for over a year they launched hundreds of air strikes against the Houthis they lost aircraft They lo lost drones. Their ships were targeted by Houthi missiles and drones. This is not our war. It's going to hurt us. Yes, I know it's going to hurt us. But we don't want to put our naval assets, our our navy in harm's way. India should stay out of this matter. We should look for alternate means of receiving oil, gas, whatever. We should not get involved in this war in any way whatsoever. Okay. Secondly, India started buying gas from Russia and Iran after years. What's my take? Good. Good. It's a good thing. Sir, your views on trans bill 2026. I have no idea what is a trans bill. Trans bill 2026. What is that? Let's uh take a look, shall we? Trans bill 2026. Let's see. Trans bill 2026. What is that? Transgender persons amendment. I have no idea what that is. I I have not looked into it. I I'm I'm not going to I'm not going to do the research right now. I have no idea. So, sorry. Anik once again says, "Don't you think that Iran's foreign policy after 1979 was emotional and unrealistic? They antagonized the US by capturing diplomats. Israel Jews don't have the right to live. Condemned USSR's invasion of Afghanistan. Tried to poke in India's internal matters by Kashmir at least verbally." Words of somebody. Um, so Iran's foreign policy after 79 was emotional and unrealistic. Yes or no? Initially, you could say it was unrealistic and and emotional. I think there was no need to antagonize the United States by capturing diplomats. We're talking about 1979. We not talking about 2010. We're talking about 1979. That's ancient history. Okay? So, yes, that was stupid. But Iran, the Islamic Republic of Iran was just born at the time. There was still chaos and anarchy on the streets. There was a lot of hotheaded young people around who were doing all kinds of nasty things. And at that time there was not a stable government in place properly that controlled the whole nation and you know could stop people from doing things. Uh so there were elements in Iran obviously related to the revolutionaries who did this who captured the embassy and more than 400 Americans were taken hostage and this went on for a very long time more than 400 days I don't remember the exact day number of days but yeah so that was stupid it was unnecessarily antagonistic unnecessarily they unnecessarily antagonized the United States yes I completely agree with that now what But the rest of the question, Israel, Jews don't have the right to live. Well, that is obviously no nation can accept that, right? Uh is Iran saying that Israel and Jews have no right to live? I don't know about Jews, but they said that Israel doesn't have the right to exist. Well, that obviously is well, that's not going to fly with anybody, right? So, that but it's an ideological position that they've taken. And a lot of Arabic nations also have in the past had the same outlook. Once Israel was formed, every single neighbor of Israel, Arabic nations all attacked attacked Israel with the objective of, you know, of of ending Israel's existence. So they also believe that Israel has no right to live. Right? Today that's a different story. in the situation in the in the region and a lot of these nations are you know on reasonably good terms with with Israel because they're all US vasals and Iran has stuck to the original position. So yeah obviously that's going to be a problem for Israel and that's why we have enmity between Iran and Israel. Uh USSR's invasion of Afghanistan I don't remember what was the situation with that. I don't know what Iran's stance was in that situation. probably US sir would have uh maybe Iran condemned that okay tried to poke in India's internal matters with like Kashmir verbally yeah verbally they've done that but they have taken no actual action that hurts India's interests but verbally they have the position that you know Kashmir is blah blah blah all that stuff which is annoying very annoying even for me but I keep words and actions separate I ignore words I look at actions so yes it's annoying Even I can't always disregard words. It annoys me as well. But from the perspective of actions, they have taken no actions that are pro Pakistan and anti-India. Right. So yeah, that's my um yeah that's my analysis. Okay. Pratt, good evening says, "Isn't Donald J. Trump sounding insane? Mental health issue." He well he's sounding like himself. Is he sounding a little more unhinged? What has he said of late? I I saw a couple of clips earlier today of Donald J. Trump speaking, you know, press conference or or speech or whatever it was in public. Obviously, in one of these clips, he is saying that I don't like people who are super successful. I like to be in the company of losers. That makes me feel good. I don't want to listen to other people's success stories. I want people who will listen to my success stories. I'm paraphrasing. It may not be the exact words, but he says that he prefers the company of losers. He doesn't like to be in the presence of very successful people. Well, that's a very interesting psychological data point about Donald Trump. Yeah. He likes to be in the company of losers. Makes him happy. He doesn't like other people's success. Okay. Okay. Interesting. Another thing he said was about uh Muhammad bin Salman. So he was speaking in a press conference. He was answering questions or some something, right? And he's talking about Muhammad bin Salman who is the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, the kingdom of Saudi Arabia. He will be the next king of Saudi Arabia. And he's talking about Muhammad bin Salman and saying, and these are his words, not mine. I don't use such language, at least not here. He says that Muhammad bin Salman has been kissing my ass. That's what he said. That those are the words ass kissing or kissing ass or whatever he said. Yeah. That is so incredibly disrespectful of the the de facto leader of a sovereign nation. So Trump, if you are on good terms with Trump, he's going to make it a point to humiliate you, to disrespect you in front of the entire world. He respects only those who are his enemies or opponents. If you're on good terms with him, he's going to drag you through the mud. He does that to everybody. He does that to Emanuel Mak. He does it to the the leader of England, whoever it is, Sar guy. uh whether it is u the the leader of Canada, whether it is whoever, he he will speak respectfully only about his enemies, right? So it's it's if you're a world leader, it makes a lot of sense to stay as far away as possible from Trump. Limit your communications with him and never ever be in the same room with the same with this guy. And that's a policy Mr. Modi has adopted. Okay? And see we don't want to see our prime minister being spoken about in the in the same manner because our prime minister you may like him or not that's your problem but he represents our country and if Trump is insulting and humiliating our prime minister he's humiliating us and insulting us. Okay understand that that's what it means. So Trump is certain seriously certainly sounding a little more unhinged than usual these days. But I think that's just Trump. I I've I've known Trump for a long time. Not personally, but I've been observing and watching him for more than 25 years. Okay. And this is him. This is what Trump is like. Uh I'm not sure there's any mental health issue. He's definitely more present than Biden. But yeah, he's also pretty elderly. He's getting on in age and maybe that's why you can see more of his true personality shining through from time to time. Okay. Aniket says one is it not in India's long-term interest that Iran does not get nukes. Yes, they are not enemy of India but now but their theology is it not good for world that not no more nations get nukes okay let's deal with that question first there are three two more questions so is it not in India's long-term interest that is that Iran does not get nukes they're not our enemy right now but their theology their the is an Islamic nation shia Muslims okay and is it not good for the world that no more nations get nukes. Okay, let's imagine a scenario hypothetical scenario where Iran has acquired nuclear weapons. Is it bad for India? See, we have a nation, the temporary artificial nation of Pakistan that has nukes and they are aimed at India. Now imagine this. See look at the map. Okay. Um the map is is a great friend of ours. So let's let's take a look at the map. So Pakistan is our enemy. They seek to see us dead. They seek to see us destroyed. I'm not talking about the people of Pakistan. Many of them are nice people I'm sure. But I'm talking about the nation of Pakistan who have always treated us as as an enemy. So if Pakistan has nukes and those nukes are aimed at us and Pak and Iran is still the current government of Iran which is not a friend of Pakistan and Iran acquires nuclear weapons. Well, that's going to be an issue for Pakistan. It's going to be a big issue for Pakistan and Pakistan is going to then have to aim half of their nukes to towards Iran, right? So it becomes a problem for Pakistan because Pakistan and Iran are not friends, they are enemies. A couple of years ago they launched missiles at each other. Iran has repeatedly in the past accused Pakistan of uh harboring terrorists and of crossber terrorism. Same as Afghanistan. Nobody likes Pakistan. So Iran doesn't like Pakistan. The Islamic Republic of Pakis of Iran does not like the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Okay? They are enemies. So if Iran acquires nukes, it's bad for Pakistan. Is it bad for India? Not necessarily. We have no issues with Iran. We don't have territorial disputes with Iran. We don't seek to destroy Iran. We don't seek a regime change in Iran. We seek no, we have no issues with Iran as such. Iran will of course become way more assertive if it gets nukes and they have missiles that essentially can reach anywhere within India, anywhere within most of Europe as well. So if Iran acquires nukes, it's going to be a problem for everybody and they will have to then deal with Iran more carefully the way they have to deal with other nuclearpowered nations more carefully. So if Iran acquires nukes, I don't see it as being a problem for India, it's going to be mostly a problem for Pakistan, for Israel as well, and for the US and for the other nations in the neighborhood. As long as you have good relations with Iran, there will be no issue for you. So Iran's nukes can reach China as well. I'm not sure if they can reach Beijing, but they can reach at least half of China, if not more. So it's not like it's an issue for India. I don't see it that way. It may make the region a little more stable. It may actually be, you know, a really bad thing for Pakistan. Okay, next question. DAC uh Okay, what about um is it is it not good for the world that no more nations get nukes? If no more nations get nukes, then it's only a small it's essentially only a couple of strong nations that can bully everybody else. But if you have 15 nations with nukes, hypothetically, I'm not saying we should have it. Then I think that will be a truly multi multipolar world. A multipolar world is not a world where everyone has the slogan of multipolarity. A multipolar world is a nation in which multiple nations are genuinely sovereign and can't be bullied. That can only happen if you have 15 20 nations with nuclear nuclear weapons. Okay. Is it bad for the world? Well, it is what it is. Yeah. After what's happened now, I think many nations will seek to acquire nuclear weapons. And if you have decent engineers and scientists, it's not that hard as long as you have access to facile material, the specific isotope of uranium. Uh DAC approves 60 gatak with caviar engine. Well, I think that's great, right? The gatak is the uh aura program which is now called the gatak program. It's an un unmanned stealthy uh fighter aircraft. It can also do bombing runs and it's a stealthy aircraft. It's a stealth aircraft. So you can't really it's it's like the American stealth aircraft, right? And uh since 60 of these have been approved, it means that it's it's performing performing well in trials. So 60 of these aircraft are going to come into production whatever time it takes with cavary engines. the non non with the dry version of the cover engine which is the non afterburner version I think it's fantastic let's induct these 60 aircraft test them out uh wherever possible and improve upon them and have 60 more and so on right I think it's great it's fantastic news um Israel hits 75% of Iran's total steel manufacturing capa capacity I discussed that it's it's obviously the objective is to send Iran back into the stone age they want to destroy Iran completely whether it's Israel whether it's the US they were saying They want a regime change in Iran and they want to liberate the people of Iran. Well, you're not going to liberate the people of Iran by destroying the nation's industrial capabilities, right? So, yeah. Yeah. But that's war. That's war for you. It's it's nasty. Okay. Adita Tak says, "Do you think if Iran government survives, this would be a bigger humiliation for the US than Vietnam?" Will it be a bigger humiliation for the US than Vietnam is a question that has to be approached from multiple perspectives. See, right now the Americans have not attempted thus far, as far as I know, um 8:39 p.m. on the 28th of March. Thus far as I know, the Americans have not yet launched or attempted a ground invasion of any part of Iran. Um ground invasions are bloody. Iran is a well-defended country and uh a ground invasion will is guaranteed to generate lots of casualties from the attacker side and from the defender side as well. So I don't know how many American armed forces personnel have thus far lost their lives in this war but in Vietnam the number was very very high. Okay, that's one perspective. So, let's let's find out. Okay, how many Americans lost their life in the Vietnam War? So, okay, officially uh 58,000 military fatal casualties. Okay, that's a very large number. So in this war the official figure is like 15 people have died or something 15 soldiers or whatever have died. That's what the America Americans are claiming. The actual number is possibly much higher but you don't reveal that right? You can reveal that long after the war is over but right now you don't reveal it because otherwise it will you know boost the morale of your enemy. So, so officially about 15 or so soldiers, American soldiers have died. So, that way hum Vietnam is a much bigger humiliation and of course the Vietnam war lasted more than a decade, right? And the Americans eventually had to move out of Vietnam and they had to evacuate their embassy in a very visible humiliating way. Those things haven't happened thus far. So, I think Vietnam is the biggest humiliation the Americans have experienced. I don't think this Iran war is uh u thus far anything comparable to that. The the war against Iran is not going the way they expected. Um it is very clear that they will not be successful in achieve achieving a regime change anytime soon. Right? Even with nuclear weapons potentially being used, which I hope never happens, but even if we consider the hypothetical scenario, it's still unlikely that they will achieve a regime change. So um if they don't win this war, it's a humiliation because the US is the biggest badass nation in the world, right? And Iran is the small little regional nation. So the US expected they'll walk over Iran. That's not happened. It's been a month and the Iranians are still hitting back, right? Iran is being smashed for sure. is being pounded. You know, nuclear plants, steel plants, schools, universities, everything is being destroyed, is being destroyed, but Iran is still fighting back and hitting hard. So, it doesn't look like the regime change is possible anytime soon. And if the Americans can't open the straight of hormones and can't do a regime change in Iran, then what have they achieved is the big question. So, if the war ends the way things are right now, it's going to be a defeat for the US or at least not a success for them. It's going to be humiliating for Trump especially, but I don't think at this point in time it is a bigger humiliation than Vietnam. Vietnam was a massive humiliation. This is not comparable to that at this point in time. WYKT says 29 US troops got injured in a recent attack on Saudi Arabian base. Yes. Okay. Let's see what Google has to say about that. Yes, that's true. I I saw the I saw the news. Was there a recent attack on a Saudi Arabian military base in which American troops got injured? Yes. 27 28 March, Iranian missile and drone attack on Prince Sultan air base in Saudi Arabia injured at least 10 to 12 US service members. Two Americans uh were seriously injured etc etc. They're not sure. Okay. How many uh dive deeper dive deeper? Okay. Uh blah blah blah is going to go into that. Okay. Multiple US Air Force refueling aircraft were damaged. Damaged means destroyed. Okay. Damaged means destroyed over here. So multiple aircraft of this category were destroyed on the flight line during the assault and also damaged to an E3 Century Awax command and control aircraft. Okay. Okay, so this is the second confirmed Iranian strike on the Prince Sultan air base since this conflict began and about 13 official officially 13 American uh personnel have been killed in the region and 300 have been injured. Okay. Right. So as I said, thank you for drawing our attention to this, sir. And as I said, the Iranians are hitting back hard. WB BKT says Houthis have now joined the war is our friend Donald Trump cooked. Um the Houthis joining the war is a complication and it can be potentially disastrous if they succeed in closing the straight of Babal Mandib once again. So it doesn't mean Donald Trump is cooked but it may actually be good for him because then the world will have to somehow or the other depend on oil coming from the US. It's going to put India and China under pressure, significant pressure. Things will go bad in India and China if both the straits are closed. In case some of you are not aware what this strait is, the strait of Bab al- Mandib, let's go there. There are two major straits that we are concerned about. One is obviously the straight of Ahuram Mazda or Hormuz which is here. Okay. between the Persian Gulf and the U Gulf of Oman. And then you have the straight of Babal Mande which is another major geographical geographic choke point which connects the Red Sea to the to the Gulf of Adan and this is a very narrow place and the Houthis have in the past completely closed this straight for more than a year. So they are certainly capable of doing that again. The question is if they close the straight of Babal Mand how long can they keep it closed? Because the Houthis, the Ansar Allah faction in Yemen, they depend on Iran for supplies of missiles, rockets and whatnot. So if they run low on those supplies, then they may not be able to close this trait uh indefinitely, but they can at least close it for a while, right? And that could be a problem. So yes, that complication could be on its way towards us. Okay. Shishi says, "What happened to your right eye? Are you feeling okay? My right eye is completely fine. Did something happen? I'm not sure. It's fine. It's fine. Thank you for the concern, ma'am. It's perfectly fine." Pranjal Torres says, "Why Iran? Why Iran allowed Pakistani tankers to cross the straight of Hormuz? Maybe tactical reasons. You know, thus far Pakistan is not involved in the war officially. So let them cross and you can still at this point in time portray Pakistan as one of the friendly nations. So right now Iran is portraying India, China, Pakistan etc etc etc as friendly nations. Nations who are not officially at war with them. So as long as there is no official Pakistan involvement in the war against Iran, they will allow Pakistani tankers to cross the street of Hormuz. If Pakistan starts allowing American military activity on its territory and its in its airspace, then the Iranians uh will uh possibly interdict Pakistani tankers from crossing the street of hormones which the Pakistanis could uh you know could interpret as an act of war potentially and then things will u escalate from there. So right now Iran doesn't want an escalation on the Pakistani front. That's why they're allowing them to go. It it makes no big difference actually right now. Kakashi says love to where to see love to see you wear saffron. Thank you sir. Please explain 2015 NP blockade and what whether what India did was correct also kamay is anti-India and Kashmir but action greater than what's NP blockade. Let me see what is NP Nepal. Nepal Nepal blockade. Oh well I don't have any explanation for that. I have no explanation for that. So in 2015, India apparently blockaded supplies of various things to Nepal and that led to a significant amount of anti-India sentiment in Nepal. Before this blockade, the people of Nepal were significantly positive towards India and this blockade soured relations between the two nations and made the people of Nepal see India with with hostility. Because Nepal was dependent on India for a lot of supplies of you know oil, gas whatever groceries, various products and so on and India imposed a blockade and that obviously is going to hurt the sentiments of the people of Nepal who see us as the same as you know we are the same people right and that's why there was a lot of this this gave rise to a lot of pro-China hedging in Nepal. that if India is unreliable, let's tilt towards China. And the Chinese took full advantage of that, right? It's been more than 10 years and you can see the result of that. I don't have any explanation for this 2015 Nepal blockade. It did not make any sense from the strategic or tactical perspective. It created problems between the two nations. I simply don't understand the reason for this blockade. It was a stupid thing to do is what I will say. Stupid. Absolutely stupid. Okay. Kame is anti-India and Kashmir. The Kame is dead. Iran overall is um it's anti-India and Kashmir. Verbally. Verbally. Verbally. They verbally support whatever nonsense Pakistan does verbally but they have never taken any action that is pro Pakistan or anti-India. What kind of action could be taken? Funding Pakistani terrorists, supplying Pakistani terrorists, giving them diplomatic cover. All those things are done by the Americans. The Americans for decades in the past have funded and financed Pakistani terrorists and terrorist organizations and they have supplied Pakistan with indirectly with weapons and munitions and whatnot with training and they have repeatedly given Pakistan diplomatic support and diplomatic cover and even now they are taking the side of Pakistan right even last year during the three-day war operation The Americans took Pakistan's side. Iran has never done any of these things. They have not given a single rupee or single whatever to Pakistani terrorists. They've never sent arms to Pakistani terrorists. The Iranian support is just verbal. Verbal support is no support. Okay? When someone is drowning, you say, "Oh, I support you. I support you. You have my full support." Full support sir. But you don't send put your hand and pull the person out. Then what what support is that? That's just verbal support. Verbal support is no support. Okay, everyone. I mean, anybody who uh you're supposed to understand that. Okay. All right. P SA says, "Will this war end the US petro dollar system or Chinese yuan will rise and all the American vasals will become Chinese Russian vasals?" Love from Bhagalpur. Thank you so much, Push G. Um, will this war end the petro dollar system? the American petrol dollar system with the Chinese UN rise all American missiles will become Chinese Russian missiles. See right now we are in a situation first of all where China and Russia are not equals. They're not equal nations. Russia is you could say become slowly but steadily becoming a de facto Chinese vasal state. Okay, it's very heavily dependent on China. See, when the war started, the Ukraine war in 2022, Russia was in danger of very quickly becoming a full-fledged Chinese vasal. And the only thing that saved Russia was India's decision to start purchasing huge quantities of Russian oil. And that gave Russia an alternative beyond China. It was still dependent on China for a lot of things, but it also had a major source of revenue from India. And India purchased large quantities of Russian oil for years until the last half or last quarter of last year when India started slowing down its its reducing its its purchase of Russian oil. So India saved Russia from becoming a Chinese vasal and that um according to the west and Ukrainians and Americans was India financing Russia's war against um Ukraine or whatever right so we bought Russian oil in very large quantities Russia was our primary supplier for years for about 3 years and then last year we slow started slowing it down reducing it now we are again purchasing more but Russia now is becoming more and more of a Chinese asset and that is very dangerous for Russia. So if American vasals were to become somebody's vasals, they'll not become Russian vasals. They'll become Chinese vasile first of all there is that. Now will this war end the US petrol system? Well, it depends on how the war ends. If the war ends with a stalemate let's say the war ends tomorrow morning for whatever reason, then what is the situation that you will get or at the end of this war? You will get the American military bases in the region are mostly destroyed. Iran is very badly devastated. Israel is very badly damaged and the Gulf nations Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain, um Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, etc. All these nations, they have a big question mark about the about the reliability of American promises and they will understand that the US can't really is not in a position to help them if Iran attacks again. But they will also understand that Iran will not attack them unless America uses these nations territory to attack Iran. Um so if the war ends tomorrow morning, these nations will remain American vasiles but the vasalhood will be shakier than before because there will be no longer be American bases on those ter on those nations territories unless the Americans rebuild the bases which is going to be unacceptable to Iran. So I so then these nations Saudi Arabia, Kuwait etc. they will now have the option or they will at least seriously consider that let's sell oil to China in yuan not dollars and as because the Americans don't have bases there anymore the Americans can't threaten them. See these American bases were not for protection they were for occupation purposes. Um, so it won't end the US petrol order system completely, but it will put it on shaky ground. But if the Americans and Israelis win the war against Iran, destroy Iran, destroy Iran's missile and drone capabilities and do a regime change eventually, then the petro dollar system continues. So if the war ends in a stalemate, then the petro dollar system comes on a comes on shaky ground. Chinese yuan may rise yes but the US vasals will not become Chinese or Russian vasals they will become slightly more somewhat more independent somewhat more sovereign and they will not become anyone's vasals they'll they'll be you know the amount the extent to which they are vasalized by the US will will will will come down so right now if they're 100% US vasals maybe in the future they'll be like 30 40% US vasals and they will have more autonomy. That is what we can expect. If the war ends in a stalemate, if the war ends with an Iranian victory, well, then the situation is very different. Then the petrol order system ends or at least is is very badly damaged, right? If the Iranians win, if they defeat the Americans and the Israelis and the Americans have to completely withdraw militarily from West Asia, then the petrol system is well, it's half dead, almost dead. The Chinese are the big winners then. Yeah. So, it depends whether there's an Iranian victory, there's a stalemate, or there's a US victory. Okay. WBKT says, "Have you ever listened to the Tuan throat singer Sidash Mongush?" I have not. I have listened to other throat singers. I've listened to Batsurik Vanig. I've listened to the band called The Who. I'm not aware of Sidash Mongush. But let's quickly take a look at who Sidash Mongush is. Sidash Mongush. No, no, no, no, no, no. S A I D A S H Mongush. Okay. Um, Mongush Tuan for So, he's Russian from Tua Kazil known for his throat singing performance. So, I'm aware of uh of of B Zorig Zorig Wanchig. Great Mongolian throat singer. Okay. Very famous guy. And I am also aware of the who band uh the who the who they're also awesome. So their style of music could be could be called Mongolian folk rock music. Yeah. Right. Okay. Anoj art says Q Portugal versus India getting opportunity in both. What's Q? Portugal versus India. Getting opportunity in both. I'm not sure what that means, but let me see. Q L Portugal versus India. What is that? Quality of life. Portugal versus India. Getting opportunity in both. Portugal. Portugal. Portugal has a way better quality of life than India. Okay. Go ahead and follow your dreams. All the best, sir. Portugal has a far better quality of life compared to India. There is no question about that. There's no question about that. Okay. Sergeant Skylin says, "Is Pakistan's military better than Iran's?" Pakistan's military has only one advantage. They have nuclear weapons. But those nuclear weapons are on their own. They are American nuclear weapons that are kept on Pakistani territory. And those weapons are handled by Americans not by Pakistanis. So if you remove the nuclear factor, I think Iran can devastate and destroy Pakistan. Pakistan has no answer to the kind of missiles Iran has. Absolutely no answer whatsoever. If Iran and Pakistan go to war, it's a conventional war. Pakistan will be wiped out. It will be flattened by Iran. Even if Pakistan tries nukes, Iran will still win. I think if there's a clash between Pakistan and Iran, Iran will devastate and destroy Pakistan and the infantry capabilities, tanks, nothing will matter. Iran will flatten Pakistan from a distance. And don't ask me about Iran versus India. Don't ask me that. Such says, ceasefire. Is the US looking for an offramp or buying time for a ground invasion? Will Iran double down on getting nukes if the war ends in their favor? Okay, ceasefire. So Trump had proposed a five-day ceasefire or he had announced a five-day ceasefire. He had said that we have been secretly having conversations with Iran and we have had very good conversations and we have decided to have a 5-day ceasefire. Iran said we have had no conversations. You're lying. But Trump went ahead and announced a 5day ceasefire. And what's happened in the past 5 days? Israel and the US have struck at Iranian steel production facilities, the three largest steel production plants in Iran. They've destroyed those. They have hit at least a couple of Iranian nuclear facilities, civilian nuclear program facilities. They have destroyed Iranian universities. So that's not what a ceasefire looks like, right? And Iran has obviously retaliated in various ways. they have struck uh just now a few few hours ago a Saudi air base where the Americans had refueling aircraft and various personnel and whatnot. So this is not a ceasefire but Trump's announcement of a ceasefire was a trick. It was a trap that he laid for Iran. So the trap was such that if Trump announces a ceasefire and Iran says no we don't respect your ceasefire then Iran looks like the wararmonger the aggressor. It doesn't really matter what you look like in a war, but yeah, they can portray them as the aggressors, as those who don't want free, don't want peace. You don't seek peace. I'm giving you peace, but you don't seek peace. You are wararmongers. That's what they can claim. And if Iran accepts the ceasefire, then those five days of peace, Trump can use those five days to reinforce his troops positions, his military positions in the region, and bring in more troops to prepare for ground invasion. It's like heads you win uh heads I win tails you lose that sort of thing. Uh but anyway the is Israelis made sure that there is no ceasefire and the war has continued. Uh Trump is not looking for an offramp. Trump see if you look at Trump's past actions. You will see that he constantly lies. He lies lies lies. It's a pattern with him. Right? The US military says that you know what in a war there is no such thing as a fair war or just war the only objective in war is to win lie cheat do what steal do whatever matters but win and I think that's how war is fought today right so you can trick your enemy and make him look like a fool if that works great for you um so the ceasefire was not a ceasefire it's it's you know there's been constant fighting and constant attacks and uh the US doesn't seem to be looking for an offramp. Trump knows that he is being humiliated right now and he wants a win. He wants a win of some kind. So, looks like the Americans are preparing to launch a ground invasion of some kind. Maybe on Karag Island, maybe somewhere else. Let's take a look at the geography. Where is Kar Island? Let's see. Okay. So, here we have uh the Persian Gulf region. Okay. And Iran has a number of islands. The largest one is Kashmir over here. The Americans in the initial days of the war hit a desalination plant on this island. But there is Kha Island over here. Khark or Kar Island. And if you look here, there's plenty of uh oil uh you know there are plenty of oil reserves etc on this island. Oil oil storage and transportation facilities on the island. And the Americans are saying that, you know, it looks like they want to invade this island and occupy this island. A lot of Iran's oil is exported from this island. Okay. So, it looks like the Americans are preparing for a ground invasion of this island. The question is, how do you invade this island? If you want to send a warship through the Strait of Hormuz to send troops to the to the island, well, the straight of Hormos is closed. If you send a warship in the state of Hormos, it's going to be destroyed by the Iranians, guaranteed. So you can't send a warship into the Persian Gulf. So then how do you do it? Well, you can maybe send it through Saudi Arabia. Maybe you can send the troops through Saudi Arabia. you can maybe u have the troops transported by air to a Saudi Arabian airfield air base and maybe then they can uh you know make an incursion onto Khark from one of the Saudi ports maybe that's what they could do. Uh so there's multiple options they have maybe from Kuwait or whatever but all of these options they sound or look suicidal. So maybe it's not Karak they want maybe they may be thinking of perhaps making a move on Chabahar maybe on Kunarak you know to catch the Iranians off guard Chabahar is not far far from Pakistan at all maybe you can push in troops from Pakistan into Chavahar maybe into into you know Kadarak port. So you have Chabahar and Kodarak which are ports over here. This is Chabahar Bay and that could be a target possibly. So I I don't know but it looks like the Americans are planning something. I don't know what they're planning but uh you see this this ceasefire is merely a time some 5 days they they've taken they've set aside to plan for plan for essentially the next stage of the war. So I think that's that's what could happen. I think this weekend is going to be pretty critical and we could see the next phase of the war and maybe more escalations. Yeah. Uh will Iran double down on getting nukes if the war ends in their favor? It makes sense for them to do it. Yes, it makes sense for them to acquire nuclear weapons. Of course it makes sense. Team talks says if the US backs off, will Israel do the same? They both seem to have different objectives. The US Senate is also panicking. Do you think there can be a coup in the US? Coup in the US? Well, in the US, a coup is typically done in a pretty different way. In the US, when does a coup happen? A coup happen when something happens to the president. That's a coup. So the last time there was a coup of that kind was in 1963. Um the assassination of the American President John F. Kennedy. That's cool. And Lyndon B. Johnson took over and he was very pro deep state. Um Kennedy was taking on the deep state. So so that's what happened there. So u Trump is not against the deep state. He's not swimming against the current. He's trying to do his best to, you know, carry out the instructions of the deep state. It would look like. So, I don't see there being a coup in the US unless Trump messes up catastrophically. Yeah. Then perhaps it could be. I don't know what are the avenues to remove a US president from power. But I'm sure there are ways and means of doing that. But at this at this point in time, it doesn't look like that that sort of thing could happen. Um, if the US backs off and will Israel do the same? They seem to have different objectives. If the US backs off, Israel is not guaranteed to do do the same. See, Trump announced a 5day ceasefire, but Israel kept on hitting uh Iran, didn't it? So, Israel won't do what the US says. But the US seems to be somehow duty bound to come to Israel's aid no matter what happens whenever it is required. So, if the US backs off, Israel will not do the same. But how long can Israel keep fighting on its own? Let's say hypothetically the US backs up and says we're out. How long can Israel keep fighting? That's a big question. Israel can keep fighting as long as they keep getting supplies from the US, arms, ammunition, and so on. If that stops, Israel can't keep fighting. Israel becomes defenseless. So there is that also. But I don't think Americans will ever stop helping Israel. So Kakashi says, "Was Maduro the only nationalist or patriot in the Venezuelan government?" I I don't know. I have not studied um the Venezuelan government's composition, who are the other people in the government and how patriotic or not were they. So I don't know. I've never really bothered to pay much attention to Venezuela. I knew about Maduro, but I did not know about the other other people in the government. Right now I know Madame Deli Rodriguez who is the current leader of Venezuela who was his number two. I have no idea who are the others. So I have no idea. Sorry. Prutharadana says more S400 is indirect big no to F-35 speculations. I think we can now put this F-35 speculation to rest. We are not acquiring F-35s. The Iranians took out an F-35. Okay. And if we are buying more S400, the Americans can never sell you F35s. They can't. They simply can't. Right. Um, it's their greatest, not it's the number two best aircraft. The F22 is the best. The F-35 is the next best according to them, stealthy aircraft and so on. But if they sell F-35s to us hypothetically, but we also have the Sounded, then we will know exactly how to take down an F-35. And since we are now once again very strongly aligning with Russia after after signing various agreements to buy about $25 billion worth of various things including AR including arms and rockets and drones, missiles and whatnot from Russia, nuclear cooperation as well. Uh the Americans won't sell us a thing. I'm glad. I'm glad. Kakashi says, "Did the US warn India about 2000 terror attack? If so, why? I have no idea. I have not studied um you know the details of the 2008 terror attack. I am not aware of the Americans warning us about it about this at all. I'm aware that the that the British were aware of what was happening. they were actually monitoring the whole attack in real time somehow and uh so they were aware of what was happening. They did not offer any help despite knowing exactly what was happening in real time. They did not offer India any help and the Americans had an American terrorist involved in this right David Coleman Headley and they have never allowed India to interrogate this guy despite or forget about extraditing him to India. they have not allowed India to even interrogate this guy despite having an extradition treaty with India. So yeah, the the Americans haven't cooperated in this matter. And there was an American terrorist who was at the heart of this matter, right? Who was in some way at least partially the brains behind the Pakistani terrorist operation against India. It was an American terrorist, David Coleman Headley. The Americans haven't cooperated with India. They're hiding something. There's something to hide. Okay, Kakashi says, "Compare dud dur dashan to Russia today. I don't watch duran. I last time I watched must have been in the 1990s or something or early 2000s." And Russia Today, I don't know much about them also. So, I don't know what the comparison could be. I'm not a regular watcher of either of the two channels. Russia Today is not even available on YouTube. I believe they've been banned from YouTube. They have a TV channel which I don't quite know how to watch. because I don't have I have a TV at I have multiple TVs at home but I don't watch TV on that I don't have cable TV or whatever you know so uh no idea sorry Indian media talks about Pakistan but not the northeast the Indian media what can I say about the Indian media what can I say about them yeah matters that are truly important for India they wake up only after uh the thing is done right see there was the time maybe before the year 2020 when for the entire Indian media foreign affairs meant Pakistan Pakistan Pakistan Pakistan I remember there was a time when Prime Minister Modi had visited the US he was in the US and there's a bunch of Indian senior media people the top ranking media personel of various Indian media houses they had gone to the US to cover the visit of Prime Minister Mr. Modi Modi to the US and you have these Indian anchors asking a panel of American experts but what about Pakistan was Pakistan discussed Pakistan Pakistan Pakistan so for them international affairs and all that meant only Pakistan afterwards after Galwan etc suddenly China appeared China now now there's a bunch of China experts okay so now with Pakistan and China the last few years people have started focusing on the focusing on the US and other things as well trade deals and so on. So now the media is aware of those things but the me in India neither the politicians nor the media have any understanding whatever whatsoever of the northeast the far east of India. Nobody understands that. Nobody understands you know the different ethnicities the ethnic groups the different linguistic groups in the region what their histories are what their aspirations are what the problem what are the problems they faced each state in the past had multiple insurgent insurgency movements what's the history of that what caused that nobody has any understanding whatsoever of it everyone sees things from through a very simplistic lens and there's tremendous foreign interference in our far east region right there's this project K going on cookie land for for Christ akistan for Christ akistan for Christ that's what's going on it's entirely foreign orchestrated and there I think only one media channel was discussing that I went on that channel right republic I'm glad Arunab was he discussed this on more than one occasion uh I don't think anybody apart from republic they even discussed this matter. Uh so yeah there's a lack of understanding and there's a lack of interest in in India's northeast right. Narendra Desh Pande says if tanks are Bishma remember tanks were named Bishma drones are Don Achara who are Karan and Arjun will Duryodan be harmed before century end yeah you had tanks named Bishma I don't know who are Karan and Arjun uh Karan and Arjun were adversaries right Karan was the bad guy Karan was a bad guy he was on the side of the adheries the the korovas right and he was not nearly as capable or great as Arjun. He was a great friend of Duryodhan. Uh you know he has he had a tragic childhood and all. It's okay. Doesn't mean you to become an admi, right? There's been plenty of people who had bad childhoods. It doesn't give you the the license to become an adheri. Uh so who are Karan Arjun? I have no idea. Duryodan be harmed. Who is Duryodhan? Is it China? Is it Pakistan? Look, tanks, tanks, they in today's warfare, in 21st century warfare, the most important weapons are drones and missiles today. Okay? Not even aircraft anymore. So drones and missiles are going to be your first second line of offense also defense. And then you can have bring in tanks and aircraft and whatnot. Uh so that's how I see it. I don't know what names to give to each but all right Janya says can you explain types of missiles in detail ballistic cruise hypersonic other types maybe okay let's start with ballistic missiles ballistic missiles have you studied Newton's laws of motion have you studied projectile motion in high school in projectile motion you have let's say you throw a stone okay you throw a stone at a certain angle then that stone will will the the trajectory it uh will describe is going to be a parabola. It's a parabolic arc that the the stone or the ball or whatever will describe before it hits the ground again. And that's the trajectory of your ballistic missiles. Okay? You launch a ballistic missile, it goes up into the air, it exits the atmosphere, it reaches its high point, and then it comes down in that parabolic arc. It's it's a standard projectile motion. Of course, today you have ballistic missiles that can maneuver that can launch submunitions that can that can have maneuverable re-entry vehicles and whatnot. But your standard ballistic missile, you know, it describes the same parabolic arc as a stone or a ball thrown into the air. Uh that's a ballistic missile and those missiles can have different ranges. short range ballistic missiles which is maybe 500 km or so maybe 800 km or 1,000 km that's short range there's medium-range ballistic missiles that are up to 3,000 km there is intermediate range ballistic missiles maybe 5,000 6,000 km then there is intercontinental range ballistic missiles that is I would say above 8,000 km to 12 15,000 km so there are different types of ballistic missiles And you can use them for different purposes. You can have different kinds of warheads, payloads on those missiles, including nuclear payloads. Um, cruise missiles are missiles that behave like aircraft. Okay, they fly like aircraft. Some of them are subsonic. They'll fly at the speed of your standard passenger aircraft, you know, subsonic speeds. Some of them are supersonic cruise missiles like the Brahos, which is Mach 2 something. Yeah, that's it flies at more than two times the speed of sound. And there's hypersonic cruise missiles that fly at more than five times the speed of sound like the siron, the Kjal etc. Uh and so on. So these are different types of missiles. Sarakai says what was mother terrorism propaganda predict. What sakai says what was mother terrorism propaganda? Predict engine emergency India. Mother Teresa propaganda is that the propaganda is that this woman was a saint and she was a great great savior of the poor. That's that's the propaganda. Okay. If you want to understand the truth behind it, read the book called the missionary position. Was it Christopher Hitchens who wrote that? Uh let me see. Let's quickly take a look at that. The missionary position. I think it was Hitchens who wrote that. The missionary position. Hitchens. The missionary position. Mother Teresa in theory and practice. Was it? Yeah. Read this book if you want to understand the propaganda around this uh this individual. Energy emergency of India. Um energy emergency of India. um we could face an energy emergency. Mr. Modi has kind of hinted about that in various speeches um including in parliament. He reminded us of the days of COVID on more than one occasion including one occasion when I was there in the hall. Um that was a week or so ago in Bharat Mandapam in Delhi. Uh so look if the straight of hormones remains closed, if the straight of Babal Mandib is closed, if Russia is no longer exo able to export oil to India, if LG supplies to India are significantly affected, India could face an energy emergency in the coming days. Okay, restaurants could shut down, you know, hotels could shut down. Uh possibly people could, you know, face shortages of cooking gas and whatnot. eventually. Okay, so that sort of thing. Imagine what can go what can go wrong, what what more can happen. So yeah, that's a possibility. Hopefully it doesn't happen, but we have to be prepared mentally for this and the government will have to prepare um you know contingency measures for this. Rumit Mishra says since Pakistan is a US is it possible for the US to start a ground invasion from Pakistan as it shares a border with Iran? It is certainly possible uh the Americans may launch possibly. Looks like they're preparing for some kind of ground invasion of Iran. Okay. So let's once again discuss that. Once again let's go to the map. Okay. So this is the map of the region. This is Iran squarely in the in the center of the screen. Right. Now there's a possibility that's been discussed that the Americans want want to take this island Kirk Island. But it's very well defended and it's not far away from the Iranian u you know sea coast. Uh what's the distance? Let's say it's about 30ish kilometers 30 35 km from the Iranian coast. Which means that if the Americans even succeed, even if they succeed in taking the island, they will be they will have to take the brunt of Iranian um missile fire and it's very very hard for you to survive that right and even if you can take the island, you can survive the Iranian missile attacks, how will you be resupplied? You need food, water. You when you invade, you take a couple of days worth of food and water. After that, what happens? So, it's very difficult to take that island. But you know what? What if the Americans want to invade Chabahar and take Chabahar? Chabahar or even uh Konarak. So that's not very far away from the Pakistani border. What's the distance between Chabahar and the Pakistan border? Let's say the Balojasthan region. It's about 100 kilometers. So this may be more likely. Maybe the Americans launch an invasion from Guadada or something like that. So that's also a possibility. So it is certainly possible that that the Americans may launch a surprise invasion of Iran from Pakistani territory. Very very possible. Yeah. Because as you know Pakistan is a full-fledged American wasal. It is Shatabish says bit off topic. Objectivity is disappearing from every form of life personal social media news education decision-m on almost every level. Is it fair to say this is a reliable trait of kal rel relatable trait of kalyuga? Objectivity is disappearing from every form of life. Um the media media is full of propaganda. I would agree with that. Social media is full of propaganda. News the news media is full of propaganda. Yes. Education at least in India is full of propaganda and and distortions and poor quality teaching. uh personal life and decision-m well it depends on you whether the objectivity is disappearing from your personal life you know that's a personal choice uh decision- making no objectivity I'm not sure about that it depends on where you are in some nations you have objectivity some some nations you have less objectivity but overall you're seeing more of this happening I would agree that overall seeing more and more of propaganda and distortions all over the place yes is this a trait of Khal Kalyuga. I'm not sure what has been written about Kalyuga. What are the characteristics of Kali Yuga, but yeah, it looks like this this is a signature trait of Kali Yuga. Lies, chaos, misrepresentation, propaganda, the victory of Dharma or Dharma, the victory of Asatya or Satya. Yeah, these are traits of Kalyuga indeed. Akit Sharma says Iranian missiles. Thank you people of India, your views. I'm not sure if this is true news or fake news. I've seen some reports on social media on some social media accounts claiming that Iranians Iranians Iranian missiles have been inscribed with with the the statement thank you the people of India. I'm not sure if it's true or false. It could be propaganda. I don't know. So I'm not sure if it is reliable information. Anybody can Photoshop or an image of a missile and put some such words on that or you could use AI for that. How will you know the difference? I mean, I'm sure there are ways of finding out if an image has been manipulated. But for the for the 99.9% of people who don't know how to do it, it will look like the truth. So, I don't know if it's reliable information or not. So, that's why I will desist from commenting. Praep Kumar says your insights offer great clarity. Great fine. Thank you. Thank you very much. Trump extended sessation of hostilities hostilities till the 7th of April. Is he buying time for a land invasion? Your take? Okay. Has he extended the secession of hostilities? Let's find out. Has Trump extended the ceasefire until the 7th of April? has he? Yes. Based on reports from March 26, 27, Donald Trump announced an extension of the pause on striking Iran's energy infrastructure by 10 days, setting a new deadline of April 6 Eastern time, which is April 7 in some time time zones. Uh he's pausing the destruction of Iranian power plants and energy infrastructure to allow ongoing negotiations to proceed. per Iran government request. Um it's uh the extension is intended to allow Iran to open the straight of Hormos and address a US backed proposal aimed at ending the war. Trump is saying that talks are going very well. Iranian officials have dismissed the US proposal as one-sided and unfair and they have publicly denied that direct negotiations are taking place. The previous deadline was for March 26. So Trump has announced an extension of the so-called pause, but it's only a pause on striking Iran's energy infrastructure. So he has said that we we're going to pause striking Iran's energy infrastructure. But that means you can still continue striking Iranian um steel plants, Iranian um universities, Iranian airports, whatever else. Thran. So that I suppose will continue. Well, that's hardly a ceasefire. That's hardly a ceasefire. Uh but why is he doing that? So, first of all, he's claiming that the Iranians are negotiating with him, which the Iranians are denying. They're saying it's a lie. He's lying. Um so, clearly, it's it's uh he's trying to buy time for some kind of uh for regrouping and maybe launch an invasion, right? But as long as Israel keeps striking striking at Iran, Iran will not stop striking back at American assets and bases in the region. I suppose by now the American bases must be completely destroyed if not very severely severely degraded. I think that is very clear by now. Um so what is American action right now in the region? I really wonder are the Americans still launching some kind of strikes on Iran or is it only Israel who's doing that? Um so I I think this war will go on if Trump has said that we will no longer strike at Iran's energy infrastructure until um 7th of April but Israel keeps striking at other infrastructure etc. then it makes no difference from Iran's perspective, right? So I suppose the war will go on but maybe the Americans will be able to regroup because they are right now not involved in the action directly. So they can regroup, strategize, plan and then proceed with the next phase of the war. So I don't think it's going to lead to any I think it's unlikely to lead to an actual end to this war. I think the Americans are simply trying to buy time for the next phase of whatever they're planning to do. Kakashi says in UN vote to condemn slavery only US, Israel and Argentina voted against the European Union abstained. Mille went to the wailing wall and says he's the most Zionist president in the world. Okay, that's interesting. UN vote to condemn slavery. Let's let's uh double let's let's double check that. Which nations abstained in the recent UN vote to condemn slavery? 52 nations abstained including all 27 members of the EU. The UK abstained, Canada, Australia and Japan abstained. Okay. USA, Israel and Argentina voted against it. So the resolution was to label the transatlantic slave trade as the gravest crime against humanity and supporting reparations. So the resolution passed but the US, Israel and Argentina voted against this. So the US, Israel and Argentina do not consider the transatlantic slave trade as the gravest crime against humanity. Um okay. What was India's position? I wonder what was India's position. Let's ask the Google AI. Uh, of course, you should remember the AI is not always necessarily telling you the truth. But let's see how did India vote in this resolution. India, what did India what was India's position? India abstained from the resolution. Okay. India abstained. I Okay. So, India abstained, the EU abstained, Japan abstained, um UK abstained. Okay. And India abstained. But the US, Israel and Argentina voted against. So they don't consider this to be the gravest crime against humanity. If you had asked me to decide on India's behalf, I would have abstained. Now, why would I have abstained? Let me tell you why. The transatlantic slave trade, uh, how many people were trafficked as a consequence of this? Maybe 10 million, maybe 20 million, let's say 50 million. Let's, let's ask Google Google's AI. Let's let's see what it has to say. How many people are estimated to have been trafficked in total as a consequence of the transatlantic slave trade? Let's see what the numbers are. 10 to 15 million Africans. Okay. 10 to 15 million Africans. Is this the gravest crime against humanity? It is not. It is not the gravest crime against humanity. When the Europeans colonized, very nice word, colonized. When the Europeans colonized the Americas, about a 100 million natives were killed as a consequence, the transatlantic slave trade pales into insignificance compared to the genocide perpetrated on the native Americans by the Europeans. So, the US is correct. It's not the gravest crime against humanity. The US is a nation that that was founded on genocide then slavery. Genocide came first and in the US the continental US I wonder at least half of that must have happened or a third of that maybe 33 million deaths would have happened there perhaps. I don't know what the numbers are, right? But so the genocide of the Native Americans, it consumed about 100 million lives. Even that's not the greatest genocide of all. The worst genocide ever perpetrated in human history was perpetrated by the Turks against Indians. over a period of about 700 800 years approximately 500 million Indians would have died. Okay. So 700 to 800 million 700 to 800 years. Let's say it's 700 years and 500 million Indians. So that's less than a million a year when you have a subcontinent with a population of 330 or so million. If a million die million people die per year, less than a million die per year, that's less than 0.3%. And that continues for 700 years, you have more than 500 million deaths. That was the worst genocide ever. It happened against us. So if you had asked me to to vote, I would have abstained. Uh, okay. About MLE, I I have no comments about what MLE said. Krishant Boralo says, "Have you watched Durand thus far?" No, I haven't watched it yet. I I'm trying to find the earliest possible slot where I can watch it. It's a 4-hour movie, so I'm going to have to set aside a big chunk of time. This coming week, I will definitely watch it. Yeah. Ritiki says, "What's happen? What's going on between Russia and Ukraine in the war? Is it a stalemate or has or has Russia captured more territory despite Ukraine hitting their oil sites?" I wonder what is happening. So, what's happened in the past few days is that the Ukrainians have blown up about 50 40% of Russia's um oil export capabilities, right? Let's let's see once again what did we have? Um where was this? Okay. Uh so once again, let's go back. Let me put this on the screen. So, what's happening is is really perplexing. This is from March 23. Massive Ukrainian drone strikes blew up vast areas of the port of Pilmore, Russia's largest oil export terminal that processes about 100 million tons of oil and oil products per year. Then you have a major Ukrainian drone strike hit Russia's Luga port. Okay, massive attack. So 40% of Russia's oil exports are currently stopped after Ukraine attacked the Primorskuga and Novo Rossk Novo Rosisk crude oil ports. So the Nova Rosisk port is in uh the Black Sea and Primorsk and Usluga are up north right and this is this is major major uh attack on Russia. 40% of Russia's oil exports are currently stopped. And this is continuing. This is continuing. This is this is like from a couple of days ago. This is from yesterday. They're trying to completely destroy Russia's oil production and transportation capabilities and Russia's oil exports. So, Russia, Ukraine is going hammer and tongs after Russia and Russia is sitting and taking it. I'm sure they're responding in some way, but it's Russia looks rather helpless right now. Right. So, Russia has captured territory. Sure. Maybe a fifth of what used to be the nation of Ukraine. They have taken the Donbas region, the Lhas, the Luhans, Donetsklasts and so on so forth, right? About a fifth or to a fourth of Ukraine's earthwile territory, also Crimea. But after that, it's been a war of attrition. It's been a frozen conflict, long war. And it made sense that Russia weaponizes time and all that to drain Europe. Who are their who are their enemies? I understand that. But right now, Russia is sitting and taking it more or less. They may have launched a thousand more drones at Ukraine in response to this. But has it done the kind of damage to Ukraine that the Ukrainians have done to Russia? So, I don't know what's going on. What is going on in Putin's mind? Has Russia been offered some kind of ceasefire proposal from the US and Russia is just waiting for something to happen or is Russia now just sitting and taking it? So I'm not sure what's happening. Ukraine seems to becoming be becoming more and more capable and Russia seems to be right now it looks a little helpless and we know that Russia has tremendous military capabilities but Russia's sitting back right now which is perplexing. There is something going on behind the scenes that I am not aware of. Right? So there is some information that I lack. That information could explain Russia's behavior because Russia has all the options on the table that against Ukraine that Donald Trump has against Iran. Trump and is Israel together have hit Iran's industrial sites, steel production sites, desalination plants, oil production sites and oil reservoirs, oil storage sites. They have hit uh Iran's universities, schools, they've assassinated Iran's supreme leader. I think Putin has all those options on his table also, but for some reason he's not exercising any of them. I'm not saying he should or he should not. I'm just making an observation here. I'm not recommending he should do this or that. None of my business. I'm a neutral observer. But he has the same options on his table that Trump has. He also has those capabilities. But Putin, for some reason, has chosen thus far not to exercise any of those. I'm not saying he should do this or that, but the lack of u response to what Ukraine is doing is a little or more than a little perplexing. So, I'm not sure what's going on. Call Mitrids says, "Why does the US give so much importance to tiny Israel history?" I don't have an answer to this question. Um I mean, I could answer this question. I mean the answer obviously is a plausible answer that you know a lot of very prominent American politicians are of Jewish uh ethnicity origin whatever it is right so a lot of Jewish people occupy very prominent positions in the US government and in US politics and the Jewish community is always pro-Israel and they are a very tight-knit uni unified community there's a lot of unity among the Jews, right? And because of that, it makes sense that, you know, America's position has always been pro-Israel. The Jews have been very prominent and very very powerful and very uh influential in the US for uh way more than a century. Way more than than a century. In the 19th century, there was there was a time when Jews were uh demonized and they were despised by various American politicians. But for the last century and a quarter at least, the Jews have been very influential. Um, you know, there was a time when about almost 30% of New York citizens were Jews. You know, uh, when was that? Let's let's let's find out, shall we? Let's see. What was the Jewish population of New York in the 1920s? see 29% of the city's population. By 1920, Jews were about 29% of New York City's total population, the largest Jewish city in the world. And New York is obviously America's financial center. So that kind of tells you how important and how powerful and how influential Jewish people are in America's industries, in America's uh economy and of course in American politics. So when you are very influential in these sectors, energy, industry, finance and politics, well that explains why the US is always so incredibly pro-Israel. Menuk says Menuk, US Ukraine citizens who went to Mizuam posed no threat to India. Why this stand? Why are we not calling the Yankees out? Why are cookies so important to us? Okay. When you say Sha, who is it? Is it the Sha of Iran? Which Sha is this? Are you talking about are you talking about the Indian home minister Mr. Amit Shra? Uh let's ask Google has m whether Mr. Sha has made any statements. Has India's home minister Mr. Amit Sha made any statements about the American and Ukrainian citizens who were arrested recently? He stated Mr. Amit Sha India's home minister Mr. Amitra stated that a group of foreigners including one American and six Ukrainians arrested in the NI arrested by the NIA in Mizoram posed no threat to India. The arrests were related to alleged violations of the restricted areas act and the ind individuals were taken into custody. They were not perceived according to Mr. Sha as a danger to the country. Uh okay. So I was not aware of this and it's an interesting statement. See, arresting a bunch of Ukrainians is no big deal, but arresting an American is a big deal because the US is the most powerful and dangerous country in the world. And uh look, they have a big issue if uh something happens to one of the citizens. In the US, their citizens die of drugs or whatever, they don't care. But outside of the US, it's a prestige issue. Um now, what does that have to do with this? possibly something possibly nothing. Uh so I'm not sure what the deal is. This is the first time I'm hearing about this that Mr. Amit said that they did not pose any threat to India. Maybe it's just a diplomatic statement. You know, words versus actions. Verbally you say that it is no big deal. They did not pose any threat to India. But legally you take action against them as if they are posing a threat to India. That's one possibility. I'm not sure. So I'm not sure why the stand why this stand has been taken. Maybe it is just words. Like I say, ignore words and look at actions. So, ignore the words, ignore the statements, just observe the actions. What actual actions is the government of India taking against these individuals? The time will tell. The next few days will tell. Will they be kept in judicial custody? Will they be released on bail and escape from India? If they are kept in judicial custody, if they're charged with some crimes, what crimes are they be charged? Are they being charged charged under? And so on. We have to see about that. Uh why why are we not calling Yankees out? Because the Yankees are very dangerous. That's why we are not calling them out. Okay. Very dangerous. Very dangerous. Why are cookies so important to us? Well, that's a question you have to ask to the government of India. Why are the cookies so important to us? That's a question you have to ask to the government of India. I am not the right person to answer this question. Right angle says we convert our agricultural production to fuel. We do not need to import gas. Why our leader not looking for energy drive economy? We can convert plastic to diesel. It's saying yeah this this is this is true right? Uh you can convert biomass biomass into into fuel. You can uh see every household produces waste. When you chop vegetables, you peel them off and there's a lot of uh waste product that is produced, right? So that's one form of u organic waste that can be turned into fuel. Then every human being has to poop. That can be turned into fuel. Right? So if we uh harness all these uh waste products that come out of every household and if you harness that and you turn that into whether it is uh bio gas or various kinds of fuel and if you can do that effectively and at scale then you don't really need to import at least gas Right. So that and I don't know about converting plastic to diesel. Is it is it is it possible? Can you convert plastic to diesel? Can plastic be converted to diesel? Yes, it can be converted into diesel and other fuel oils through a process called pyrolysis which involves heating waste plastic in an oxygen free environment to break down its molecular bonds. This converts solid plastic into gas which is then condensed into liquid creating a fuel that can power diesel engines often blended with conventional diesel. So once again India produces a lot of plastic waste. This can also be converted into diesel. But the problem is how do we harvest the waste products of each household? How do we effectively segregate all the plastic from other waste and then properly channel it into these these factories or whatever these plants where it can be converted into diesel. You will have to set up a whole new infrastructure for doing this. India is a super inefficient and super allegedly corrupt country where nothing is done efficiently. So theoretically we have everything we need to produce lot of diesel and to produce all the bio gas we need but to create that infrastructure and to make this happen at scale it's it's going to take a lot of logistical effort and because of the inefficiencies in in alleged corruption in India it's almost impossible for this to happen. It can happen I would say it should happen. It's a great opportunity for India, right? But it will take logistic logistics. It will take engineering. It will take proper leadership and governance and administration. It can be made to happen in the next 3 to 5 years. Maybe sooner, maybe two years it can be done. In a nation like China, it can happen in 6 months. I suppose 6 months to one year, maybe two years. So, it certainly can happen. uh why our leader not looking for energy drive economy look I don't know why our leader is not doing this or not doing that that only the leader can answer but yes this certainly is a great opportunity to to create to to to convert a problem into a great solution a long-term long-lasting solution it's a great opportunity let's see what uh our leadership does about this rtx army says Iran blast trusts a Pakistani tanker in Hormuz for helping the US. Fascinating. Let's see. Did Iran target a Pakistani oil tanker in the state of Hormuz? Okay. Reports that Iran destroyed a Pakistani oil tanker in the state of Hormuz are currently unverified and appear to be part of a viral false claim circulating on social media. Okay. So, I don't know if it's true or not. Right now the the AI is telling me that it it's unverified. So okay we'll we'll wait and watch. Vijay Bupat Langawan says love your insights on geopolitics Jind. Thank you so much Vijay G. Thank you so much Jind. Thank you. Right angle says why government sponsor traitor like like air amir shahuk khan look I think this question should be asked to the government not to me I don't know I don't speak on behalf of the government I don't represent the government of India I don't know the thought process and traitor that um I don't know so look I'm not the person to the right person to to answer this question. Okay. Saksham says, "Thoughts on us on thoughts on India said we are not dal like Pakistan." Good. Very nice laser statement. Very nice. Very good. What job? Excellent. Right. Angle says all IPL team buying Pakistani player in other leagues. Why? Because it's legal to buy Pakistani players in other other leagues. It's banned in India. In other countries, if you have your franchise team there, you can legally buy Pakistani players because the government of India has not imposed any restrictions on what IPL teams can do outside of the country. That's why because it is not illegal. They are doing it. It's not illegal. Is it right? I would not say it's right. I think it's not right. But because it's not illegal, they're doing it. If the government of India issues a clear directive not to do it, I suppose they'll have to stop because they are Indian teams. But because there is no such direction from the government, they're doing it. I think that's terrible. Sanchar Chilikuri says, "Us purpose of this war? Is it depriving China of energy and dent their AI race in sustenance? Um the US purpose. Why did the US start this war? See, yeah, it has something to do with China for sure. Absolutely. See, this year it began rather ominously with the US regime change operation in Venezuela. They walked into Venezuela into Karakas and they killed a bunch of people there and they captured the president of Venezuela, Mr. Maduro, and they took him hostage. Right. They kidnapped him and they took him to the US and they did a regime change essentially de facto regime change in Venezuela which means that they made they ensure that the the government that is now in power is very pliable which it is it does what the Americans say and that's how the Americans have taken control of the Venezuelan energy reserves. So that's a that's a small setback for China. Not a huge one but small but still it's there and now they have gone after Iran and the objective see Trump thought that the Americans are were going to win the war in a couple of days okay that's what he had expected the objective was to do a regime change in in Iran and then to take control of Iran's oil reserves control that and that's how they would be able to deprive China of about 20% 15 to 20% of its oil supply which would be a big big massive blow to era. So that was the objective. The objective of the US was to take control of all the oil producing nations in the world. Taking control as in either taking over directly or vasalizing them, converting turning them into vasals. Uh that's not worked out obviously. So one of the objectives was that the second objective was to uh help Israel once again. So, so the American objective was to uh take control of the oil. Israel's objective was a regime change and America also wanted that. Um yeah, essentially that Dhad says Trump is anti-West. I think the deep state wants the West to fall. Trump is anti-West. What is the West? First, let's address that question. What's the west? The west is the US and its western European vasals. That is the EU and NATO nations. That's the west. Also, politically, Australia and South Korea and Japan are politically part of the West. Even though they are geographically not part of the West, but politically they're part of the West. So, it's the US, it's Canada, it's the EU and NATO nations, it's Japan, South Korea, and Australia. That's the West. Politically, Mexico etc. are not part of the west. Okay? They are the global south. Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, they are politically part of the global south, not part of the west. So now, now that we understand what the west is, is Trump anti-West? Is Trump anti- Canada? Is he anti-EU? Is he anti-NATO? Is he anti-Japan, South Korea, Australia? not so much as being anti- them as being uh very rude and dismissive of them. So in the past um the US before Trump also these nations were American was but they were treated as equals at least in public behind the scenes whatever happened happened okay but in public they were treated with respect they were treated as equals of the G7 and all whatever right that sort of thing so they were treated as equals but now they are being humiliated by Trump in public you know that that illusion of of of uh courtesy, politeness of civil of civilized behavior, all of that has been destroyed. So, and and Trump has been taking actions that are so forget about the illusion and all the behavioral things and all, but u even when it comes to actions, Trump has been very harsh towards his uh his vasals. He impose all kinds of punitive sanctions, punitive tariffs on them. Do we still remember the tariff war? all those heavy tariffs that were imposed on them, he forced the EU, the NATO nations to to essentially double their contribution, their financial contribution to NATO by 2030. So the NATO nations have accepted everything Trump said. So they have been humiliated over and over again. They have been arm twisted and that sort of thing. And now you know there are nations who have purchased American weapons, who have placed orders for American weapons that the Americans are not going to deliver now. and they have misappropriated those funds for their own benefit. So the Americans are now essentially outright stealing money from their vasals. So and and the past few years the Americans have been de-industrializing Europe. It was Biden who blew up the Nordstream 2 pipeline which was delivering very large quantities of very cheap gas to the EU nations to the European economy. Without that the European nations went into like Germany etc. they went into a recession. So it's not just Trump who is doing this. It's the US overall that's doing it. Okay. Various at least two American presidents have been doing this. Now assuming all American presidents are controlled by the deep state, looks like the deep state wants to well they want to transform the world. Um they want a very openly overtly imperial system now. Um they want a different kind of world order, the so-called rules-based world order. It has it no longer serves their interests. That sort of thing. So uh they want the US and Israel to succeed and other nations fail at their expense. That sort of thing seems to be going on. Dir Khad says Israel wants to be the second superpower. Possible. Yeah, it's possible. Looks like they want to expand their their territorial uh extent and become the only power in West Asia. Um and they of course are a nuclear power. So, and they have they they have very good relations, very good terms with the US. So, you could say that they could be in the process of aspiring to be the second superpower. Yeah. Iden Trestler says, "Is stopping a war hard? If so, did India did great with Operation Synindur?" Um, is stopping a war hard? If you have two reasonably evenly matched adversaries and neither of them has achieved what they seek in a war and both have lost more than they had bargained for, then it becomes really hard to stop a war. It becomes really hard. But if you have a pos situation where you have an unequal contest where one nation one belligerent is obviously more powerful than the second one then the more powerful one can end the war on their terms. So in the case of US versus Iran, the US is way more powerful. But locally, regionally, Iran has been more than a match for them and Israel put together. The US has only one way of fighting war, the bulldozer method, brute force method, but it's not working against Iran. And Iran has been they've done their homework really well. And Iran has essentially thus far lost the war tactically but strategically they they have been winning since day one. And uh for Trump it's a matter of his ego right we will be humiliated if he does not achieve uh clear clearly a clear victory or or the objectives he had started the war for. So for him it's very difficult to end the war. for Iran. Well, if the war ends tomorrow, it's going to be a victory, a strategic victory for them. Uh when it comes to India and Oprah Synindur, well, it is a good perhaps a good thing that India ended the war after three and a half days or whatever. But uh who won that war, the three-day war against Pakistan? See, India did not achieve achieve any India did not acquire any territory. So what was the outcome of the war? It was like a slap in the face for Pakistan. Okay, India won the military victory. India destroyed a whole bunch of terrorist training camps, killed a whole bunch of terrorists, destroyed a whole bunch of Pakistani uh military facilities, air force facilities and so on. Pakistanis could not hit a single land a single blow on India. But the Pakistanis won the narrative war because of Trump's support that they destroyed. I don't know what starting with three, four, five, six, seven Indian Indian aircraft that sort of thing. Trump kept on repeating. So the Pakistanis won the narrative war for a while. Now it's not the case but initially they won the narrative war. But on a on the military front, India obviously hit Pakistan very hard and I think Trump made India stop. So I don't know what the actual military objectives were for India. Did we only want to give them a slap in the face or did we actually want to acquire some territory or regain some territory? you a war is not won through a sports score line you know 70 or 181 or whatever a war is decisive decisively won when there's an exchange of territory so that India did not achieve but overall yeah India stopped the war after 3 days maybe it was a good thing maybe perhaps Amisha G good evening ma'am the situation in India is not good because of the war the situation in India is It's difficult right now. You're right. It's difficult. India is facing a shortage of well I'm not sure if it's an official shortage or not but uh there is growing anxiety about the supply of uh cooking gas whether it is LPG, LNG whatever. Um some one hears some restaurants may be may already be in the process of being affected. Um if the straight of hormones remains closed and there's the shortage of oil coming into India from Russia because 40% of Russia's oil exports have been hit now then there's going to be a long-term problem for India that could very badly affect India's economy right it could India it could affect India's households if there is a shortage of cooking gas in the future so the situation is not good and who's responsible for this disaster It is Trump and Israel who are responsible for this for starting this war and if they started a war they should have ensured it would have that it should have ended fast but it's just escalating now escalating escalating escalating so it doesn't look that this war is ending anytime soon and soon it it is possible that the straight of Babala Mandib may also be closed so yeah you are right the situation is not good right now I hope the Government of India is planning and and putting in place contingency measures of various kinds uh to ensure that India is not hit too hard by the by the continuation of this war. Ready always ready says India Iran versus India at present please okay Iran versus India Iran doesn't have nuclear weapons India has that's number one India has a much bigger navy than Iran much larger much more capable navy than Iran India has a much larger air force than Iran Iran most likely has way more drones and possibly better drones than India. India, Iran definitely has way more missiles, ballistic missiles, way more ballistic missiles than India. Cruise missiles, not sure about how many cruise missiles Iran has. India may have a few thousand cruise missiles, Brahmos type missiles, which are very very dangerous. Um, yeah. So that's the kind of comparison one could make. But in today's context, so I don't know how many tanks Iran has. India has lots of tanks. But in today's context, it is missiles and drones that make all the difference. And I I think Iran is way ahead of India in terms of drones and missiles. That's a very brief comparison between the two. Crack easily. Thank you very much. Krakisily Krakisily says, "What's your view on CAPF bill for India internal security impact?" I am not aware of this bill but let's take a look at what it could be. CAPF bill India. What is that? Cap bill. Central Armed Police Forces Kap bar and bench. Let's see what it is. The bill empowers the central government to frame service rules by notification. Overriding code judgments in existing laws. Overriding court judgments in existing laws. Okay. I have no idea what this bill is. What is cap in India? A central armed police forces. Okay. NDTV. What does it have to say? The bill seeks to create a unified legal framework for governing personnel across different cap forces. Okay, look, I have not studied this bill. I'm sure there's a lot of legal stuff in that. I I don't know. So, I don't have any views about this right now. And I typically don't look into things that are internal matter. I look at geopolitics. I look at history. I look at science. I don't look at bills that pass in India. So, it's it's beyond my purview unfortunately. Okay. Right. Angle says, "Can submarine cut fiber cable? If yes, impact on India. I suppose submarines could do it." Yeah, I'm sure submarines can do it. You're talking about internet cables. Internet cables that you know fiber. Yeah. Impact on India. I have not studied it, but it's possible it could have a massive impact on India's internet. Uh a lot of these uh internet cables pass through the straight of hormones, right? Let's see. Do internet fiber cables pass through the straight of hormones. Let's see. Yes, critical subc fiber optic cables pass directly through the state of hormones serving as a vital digital outreting the Middle East, Europe, and Asia. These cables are essential for internet connectivity for Gulf nations, UAE, Qatar, etc. and carry significant internet traffic for India. Oh, that could be a big problem for India if something happens to those. So, it's also a digital choke point. The straight of Hormuz. What's the impact on India if if some of these f some of these cables are cut? Let's see. um it would significantly impact India's digital economy as this corridor handles about a third of India's westward data traffic. So rerouting traffic through longer paths while the Pacific would increase long roundtrip latency from 80 millconds to over 200 millconds causing catastrophic slowdowns for real-time applications like video calls and gaming. Okay, long story short, yeah, it will have a big big impact and a very bad impact on India's digital economy and India's internet connectivity and that's bad. Danush has become a new member. Thank you very much, Danush. Welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Ritik Yadwanchi says, "Why can't Russia defend its oil ports from deep from deep Ukraine strikes when those same strikes were sites were targeted before? Shouldn't air defense be stronger there? That's a big question. That's a that's very perplexing, right? Why is Russia not able to defend its uh its ports um which account for so much of its of Russia's oil exports? Um I think it's very very difficult in today's day and age to defend critical infrastructure and installations from from drones. You know, drone warfare is evolving very rapidly and there's measures and counter measures being that are being taken in real time, drone offense and anti- drone defense. But if you send, let's say, a thousand drones, a swarm of thousand or 2,000 drones, first of all, they don't turn, they don't show up on radar if they are low-flying drones and they are anywhere small, right? And if they have a long range, thousand kilometers or whatever, then you can send a thousand drones, 2,000 drones to one place and then just bombard the place without any warning. Then how do you defend against that? There's no anti- drone missiles. I mean, you can use missiles for that, but that's stupid. As you can see, as we've seen in the the in the Iran war, taking down a $1,000 drone or $10,000 drone with a $3 million missile makes no sense. And if there's a thousand drones coming in, 2,000 of them coming in, how many? You won't have those many missiles. You could use shotguns, but shotguns aren't that accurate. um you could use the kind of um anti- drone measures India used during operation but Russia doesn't seem to have learned that lesson. So I don't know what Russia is doing and I'm not sure why Russia is not retaliating against Ukraine after these terrible terribly effective strikes. I'm not sure. Uh yeah so I would say that yes Russia's air defense should be stronger but I'm not sure what's going on. Is it that hard to defend certain ports? I'm not sure. Perplexing. Russia should have taken better measures. Yeah. After all, we've seen what Ukraine was able to do last year in Operation Spider when they sent drones uh and destroyed significant numbers of Russian strategic bombers deep inside Russia. Russia should have learned the lesson of the of of from operation spider web, right? and they should have identified critical u locations that needed to be defended against future strikes like those but it looks like Russia hasn't learned those lessons which is very strange. Noise says Nepales are Nepales are Biharis but with superiority complex. Okay sir I am not aware of that but okay thank you for sharing your opinion sir. Abishek says coid9 new variant BA32 your views what really really oh please oh enough of COVID I think we need to move past COVID now new variance whatever uh what's my views nothing no views about this Nishan Johan says you said don't ask about India was I gave my gave my opinion. You said don't ask about India versus Iran but I want to hear your opinion maybe in wargaming manner. I think India needs to learn much too much from this current GCC war. Love your work sir. Thank you so much. So like I said in terms of nuclear cap capabilities India is Iran doesn't have any. India has nuclear capabilities in terms of air force. India has a way better air force in terms of naval naval capabilities. India has way better naval capabilities in terms of its infantry. India's infantry, you know, ground military is way more well larger in number than Iran. India has way more tanks than Iran. But in terms of drones and missiles, Iran most likely has way more drones than India. And Iran most likely has way more ballistic missiles than India. Way more. India may possibly have more cruise missiles. Possibly. I don't know. But in today's context in 21st century warfare, it's drones and missiles that are the key the critical uh weapons that uh that win or lose wars. So I think Iran is way ahead on in those two things. Right. Omni says, "How come the US doesn't have any answer to Iran's underground offensive capability? Does the US have technological limitations regarding their bunker buster bombs?" Okay, Iran knows what American bunker buster bombs can do. They can penetrate maybe 60 m below the surface of the earth into bedrock. Not bedrock, but 60 m. Okay, as as much as 60 m below the earth's surface. Let's let's first of all verify that. How deep can American bunker buster bombs penetrate? How deep? How deep? 60 ft. Not 60 m. 60 ft. Okay. Okay. Okay. 60 m or 60 ft. What is it? 200 ft. Let's say it's 60 m of reinforced concrete. 60 m. 60 m of reinforced concrete. So if you are Iran and you know that the Americans their bombs can penetrate 60 m below the surface reinforced concrete let's say 100 m just to be safe then all you have to do is you build your facilities 500 m down then what will the Americans do what can they do so the Iranians have been aware of America's capabilities for a very long time and they have planned and executed accordingly so it looks like Iran's underground uh tunnels and and whatever installations, storage sites, etc., launch sites, all of that a vast network. Apparently, it looks like these u Iranian assets are very deep, maybe half a kilometer deep under this earth's surface. So, American bunker busters simply can't reach there. Simply can't reach there. That's the simple answer, right? So that's why the Americans haven't been able to really do much about Iran's uh underground offensive capabilities. Kakashi says, "Please talk about Idi Amin and Robert Mugab." Idi um Tanzania, right? Robert Mugab, Zimbabwe. So Idi was the dictator of Tanzania. I think Tanzania Idi Amin sorry Uganda Uganda. So he was the u dictator of Uganda and um he was uh well he tried to ethnically cleanse Uganda of uh all non-UN of non-African people and uh that included Indians and Arabs mostly Indians. So the Indians who lived in Uganda were forced to flee from Uganda. Most of them went to the UK and the west and some of them I suppose some of them was would have come to India. So there were Indians who lived in Zanzibar and the east coast of Uganda and Indians of Uganda. They all had to flee from Uganda and yeah it was a pretty brutal dictator. There are allegations he was a cannibal. I don't know about how how true that is or not but that sort of thing. and that destroyed Uganda's economy. But because much of Uganda's economy was dependent on Indians, that destroyed Uganda's economy. So that's about Idi and Roat Mugab was the dictator of Zimbabwe who was in power until the 2010s and he Zimbabwe was in was earlier known as Rudesia named after the the the the brutal Cecil roads the guy who was responsible for so much slavery and misery in Africa. Cecil roads, Rudesia and Ug and and Zimbabwe was after Rhdesia was uh was freed from white occupation from European occupation. um it gave rise to the nation called Zimbabwe and Robert Mugawi was the leader of the that nation for a very long time until the 2010s maybe late 2010s and um it is alleged that he was very anti- European anti-white and um during his time a lot of land was stolen from the white people which obviously was not theirs to begin with but whatever that sort of thing. So that's about that's about these two gentlemen in brief. Vishal R says if you okay first of all you used to practice weak plus fasting but how you used to gain 5 to 7 kilogram in small b of days before starting that secondly how will Russia retaliate yes I've done extended fasting in the past in 2020 I did a 21-day water fast in which I only drank water no food at all 21 days, 21 days. And then in the same year, a few months later, I did a 23-day water fast. 23 days without any food, only water. And I have a different channel called Abijit Chava Vlog on which I vlogged every single day. Just brief updates. And you can see me visibly shrinking and slimming down, right? So yeah, the first one was 21 days without food, only water. Second was 23 days without food, only water. And then I've done a 14-day fast also. I've done 7-day fasts. That sort of thing. So yes, uh I would not recommend you all do that. Okay? It's not for everybody. It's very very tough, very brutal. It's not easy at all and it may affect your health very badly. It's not for everybody. So please don't because I did such things. You don't have to do it. Um how did I used to gain 5 7 kilograms in a small matter of days before starting that you don't gain 57 kilograms in 5 days right you take time to gain the weight if you want to do an extended fast you have to make sure you have extra weight in your body okay look my height is 61 if I am 75 kg it is that is the ideal 75 80 kg is the ideal weight for me and if I am at the right weight ideal weight I should it it is dangerous us to do an extended fast if you are at at the right weight. But if you are let's say 5 to 10 kilos overweight then it's fine to do a reasonably extended fast. So you should always have extra weight on you before you ex you attempt any extended fast otherwise it is dangerous for you. It can be life-threatening for you. So you don't gain that weight in a small matter of days. You spend a couple of months, two, three months gaining that, you don't get it in a few days. Okay, next. How will Russia retaliate? I have no idea. It depends on Mr. Putin entirely. Yeah, we'll see. Right angle says Chad GBD says the Gotland class sub is submarine is outdated and why Japan will send sell India Sorya Sorya submarine. Will overlord allow it? BDLMD said agnify production capability capability capacity 20 per year. Your views? Okay. Like three four questions in one. >> Uh Chbd says Gautland class submarine is outdated. >> Yeah. >> Um okay. I have not kept up with the Gautland class. It's a very stealthy submarine. It's a submarine that costs $100 million per piece which is super super cheap. It's cheaper than an F-35 fighter plane. It's super stealthy and it's outdated. I mean, look at India's submarines when they were built. Some of them are new like the Scorpions. The nuclear subs are new, but some of the subs are pretty old, right? So, I don't know what outdated means. I think it's still very very capable. Uh, next, why Japan will sell India's Sorya sub? What's a Sorya? Shyu Shoryu Shyu class submarine. Is Japan selling India Shyu submarines? It's Soryu. Soryu. I don't know. I don't think so. Is Japan planning to sell Soryu submarines to India? I don't think so. Absolutely not. Nope. Why will they sell? There is no there is no report of them of any plans for Japan to sell to India. And Japan's Soryu submarines are so incredibly dangerous and advanced that their decommissioned Soryu submarines are more capable than India's present day submarines. That's how advanced those submarines are. That's something that frightens China. Uh BDL MD, what's BDL? Bhat something limited. Bat dynamics whatever MD said agnifier production capability capacity is 20 per year what's my views um that is um very very very very very low very very low very low that's my view the posture co says based on your assessment do you think this war could realistically lead to the collapse or decline of the petro dollar system why or why not So what is the petro dollar system? First of all, let's address that. The petro dollar system is simply the fact that most oil producing nations, they sell oil only in exchange for US dollars, not for other currency. That's historically been the case since the 1970s at least. the Saudis, the Kuwaitis, um, whoever else, if they sell oil, it's in dollars. That's that's the petrol system. The Nigerians, whoever, right? So, that's the petrol system. And that has ensured that the US dollar remains the most relevant and currency in the world and the world's reserve currency. Now in the past few years the Saudis, the Saudis have been selling oil to China in exchange for Chinese yuan, not US dollars. That is very naughty. Uh but yeah, but mostly it's still the petro dollar. So if this war ends in a certain way, could that lead to the decline or collapse of the petro dollar system? It depends. If the US and Israel win and Iran is defeated, then there is no collapse of the petro dollar system. If there is a stalemate, the war ends at the stalemate which means that the state of Hormos is still closed or controlled by Iran and Iran is not defeated. There is no regime change. In that case, what happens is the question because the the neighboring nations of Iran, the Gulf nations, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and so on, Bahrain, Qatar, etc., They were living under the illusion that the Americans would protect them from any Iranian attack. And that has turned out to be a complete illusion because the Iranians have defeated America's military capabilities in those nations. The Americans have military bases in these nations. Most of these have been essentially destroyed. The American fifth fleet base in uh Bahrain has been most likely wiped out. So if the war ends in a stalemate, the Americans devastate Iran but can't defeat it and Iran's ballistic missile capabilities and drone capabilities remain um this they still continue then the Gulf nations they will be in the situation where they may have to accept Iranian primacy in the region instead of American primacy in the region. If the Americans are forced to withdraw from the region militarily, then Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain and so on so forth may have to accept that Iran is the big dog in the region, top dog in the region. And then Iran may say you sell oil, you have to sell in Chinese one or whatever. In that case, that can lead to the decline and perhaps collapse of the petroleum system. Or maybe that doesn't happen. So, it's it's a 50/50 if there is a stalemate. But if Iran wins and America is expelled from the region, then the petro dollar system declines, possibly even collapses. Siddhi Gigawoker says, "Your opinions on Van Djk and six Ukrainians arrested. I am not surprised at all. This has been going on for a very long time. So these individuals, what why why have they been arrested? This Van Djk is a mercenary. He's most likely an American covert operative. He has been involved in all kinds of regime change operations, whether it is Libya, whether it is Iraq, whether it is whatever else. Okay. He he has a documented history of being involved in various American regime change regime change operations. Very dangerous guy, regime change expert. He was also there in Bangladesh apparently when the Americans did the regime change against Shik Hassina in 2024. And this guy Van Djk has been crossing over from either Manipur or Misam into Burma, Myanmar. And he and these Ukrainian mercenaries and other individuals have been training cookie terrorists in drone warfare and other things. And they have been supplying these cookie terrorists with drones. The question is how they most likely crossed over from Mizoram which is south of Manipur into Myanmar to train the cookie terrorists. The question is how look if you want to enter these states Manipur, Misoram etc you need something called an innerline permit. Even if you are an Indian citizen and you want to visit the states, let's say you land at the airport in Aizaw, Misoram, you land at the airport. Before you exit the airport, you have to fill out a form and get an eline permit. They'll take you photograph of your face. They'll ask you why are you here? What what is what is your the purpose of a visit? Where are you going to be staying? Where are you from? What are what's your background? They're going to ask you all these questions. And depending on whether they see you as a threat or not, they will issue the innerline permit to you or maybe deny it. In which case you do go back even if you're an Indian citizen. Now these people are foreigners. How did they get in innerline permits for misoram? How did who facilitated their crossing over into Burma? Because they are foreigners. Somebody must have taken them to the border on vehicles or whatever. How did they get drones into the region? Military drones. Since 2023, military drones have been used by Kokita terror risks on the civilians of Manipur. Even the capital of Manipur, Impal, it had to be shut down a few times because of drones flown by cookie terrorists in the region. And the entire disaster that is currently unfolding in Manipur, it's a geopolitical matter. It it the root cause of the problem is that more than half of Manipur is is under foreign occupation. Lacks of cookies have crossed crossed over into Manipur and set up artificial new villages. They've crossed over from Burma. Some of them allegedly have come through Misaram. So the question is what is the involvement of miseram also in this all kinds of complex issues and these cookies they are coordinating with the church there's church elements in this there have been lots of various pastors priests coming into the region and organizing the cookie terrorists so there's a big involvement of the church possibly the Baptist churches that that emanate out of the US. And what's the role of Ukraine in this? Ukraine is American vasal state. Ukraine is it still exists because the Americans are Europe supplying it and keeping it you know ensuring it keeps fighting the Russians. Now when Ukraine is fighting this war against Russia, it's a do or die war for Ukraine, right? And the Ukrainian government is is drafting elderly guys into the armed forces. It's drafting pregnant women into the armed forces because the young because the young guys are dead. At that time you have this well-trained Ukrainian armed forces personnel who instead of fighting for the country are coming to India and crossing into Burma to uh to train terrorists who will then fight Indians and they are led by this Van Djke person. And there are other American church guys, special forces officers who are now church guys who are also involved in these matters. There are all these videos out there on on Twitter. You can't deny these videos, the authenticity of these videos. So this my question is how how on earth is the government of India allowing these activities to happen? the all these years this suddenly erupted in 2023 the the the disaster in Manipur it's which is still ongoing which the media doesn't cover now but it's still going on um but certainly now on YouTube so not on YouTube on Twitter etc there's this uh looks like looks like there's a change of mood yeah um I think it's too early to say whether the government of India will finally take some action against the cookie terrorists and those who are empowering him. Um I think it's too worried to say but it's I think the arrest of Van Djk and the six Ukrainians I think it is a positive step and I'm hopeful that the government of India will now perhaps decide to take some action to end the terrorism in Manipur against the against the Indian citizens by foreigners. I hope so. Kakashi says Maduro and the Deli Rodriguez admire Hinduism and visited temples. I am aware of this. uh they were disciples of uh Satya Sai Baba I believe right yes I'm aware of this yeah we know Vav says observation I don't relate to pashons Punjabi sizes are blo uh but middle and upper middle class muhajers feel uncannily same psyche and approach as eastern UP brahmen takur kayasta homes insane how even household things. Um, so the muhajars are essentially the people who came who who migrated to Pakistan from India, right? They are those Indian Muslims who chose to migrate to Pakistan. The majority of the Indian Indian Muslims chose to remain in India. But a certain number of them chose to migrate to Pakistan. Those who migrated from India to Pakistan are called muhajus and a large number of them I suppose they come from Uttar Pradesh and so on and look they are Pakistanis today their religion is Islam but their blood is ours right and they are from UP and so whatever places UPH whatever so they won't lose their ethnicity and their deep culture those things I suppose will remain. So I am personally not aware of what the similarities etc are but I'm I'm sure there'll be plenty of similarities even among the Punjabi Hindis Pton Balois Balo people there'll be lots of similarities with us because after all we are all descended from the same people right so there's going to be similarities but I am not aware of the specifics of what you have observed but there is no surprise as far as I'm concerned that these similarities exist. Rummit Mishra says quantity overpowers quality. Pakistan did the same thing during operation sundur but failed badly. We need to find cheaper way to take down those cheap drones for any upcoming misadventures since S400 missiles is quite expensive are quite expensive. Okay. Quantity will will always overpower quantity. Quantity will will always overpower quality. Yes. Uh true. True that Pakistan did the same thing during Operation Synindu but failed badly. I'll tell you why they failed badly. They launched hundreds of drones every night against India and those drones maybe each drone costs let's say $1,000 $2,000 $3,000 and India shot those drones down with uh with uh um bullets essentially that cost a fraction of what the drones which each drone costs. So India had these guns, right? What are the guns called? Let's let's ask the the AI. Which automatic gun did India used during Operation Synindor? Um upgraded L40 40 mm anti-aircraft guns. So let's ask it. Um L40, right? Uh where is it? L L70. Now L70. How much does each round of the Oh, sorry. How much does each round of cost? Let's see what it says. How much does it cost? Ammunition, ammunition, ammunition, ammunition. Okay, let's say it's $345, $350 per round. Okay, let's say it's $350 per round and the Pakistani drone costs, let's say, $1,000, maybe $2,000. Let's say it's,000. So, we taking down one drone, which is $1,000, with a $350 round. And these guns that we that India used were automatically targeted guns using AI and radar. So it essentially guaranteed that each shot will destroy one one drone, right? It was targeted through using radar data and AI. So there was no human interaction, human involvement in the targeting of the thing. It was all done automatically and that's why the hits were guaranteed. So each $1,000 drone was taken down with a three $350 uh bullet or round. So that ensured that the economics of war were were on our side. So the Pakistanis launched hundreds of drones each night all those three four nights and India took down each each and every one of those drones. So you understand please this that we destroyed the Pakistani drones using bullets or anti-aircraft rounds which were which were cheaper than the drones. We did not use hundreds of S400 missiles to destroy hundreds of drones. The S400 is for a different purpose entirely. We have a multi-layered air defense system to destroy cheap drones. We have those L70 guns, anti-aircraft guns. Then to destroy other kinds of other classes of incoming targets, we have the Akash system. Akash surfaceto-air missile system essentially to destroy helicopters, fighter aircraft and so on. And then we have the S400 system that also can destroy incoming cruise missiles, perhaps ballistic missiles, definitely aircraft. So it's a multi-layered system that we have, right? So we already have a very cheap way of taking down drones. The economics are on our side not on the not on the on the Pakistani side. So we have done a great job of this actually. Push says Saddam Hussein decided to sell oil in euros instead of US dollars which would which would benefit Europe. So why is it that the EU nations sided with the US and remote Saddam? Very simple answer. The EU nations are American vasals. Even if Saddam Hussein was on on their side, the Americans could arm twist the Europeans into doing whatever the Americans wanted. It's as simple as that. The EU nations are American vasals. They were American vasals at the time. And as vasals, you are essentially forced to do whatever the overlord orders you to do. Otherwise there are very very bad circumstances situation consequences consequence very bad consequences okay that's why Jimmy says post Mandela South Africa down don't fall my views um um yeah looks like the South African the nation of South Africa is not as well governed today as it was uh post Mandela's post Mandela let's say post Mandela Maybe the the governance is no longer that good. I I I hear that there are parts of South Africa where there's a lot of crime, South African cities where it's dangerous to go into and so on. So it's unfortunate and hope I hope things get better for the nation of South Africa. Wonderful nation. Dur Kamat says Hindu genocide is the gravest crime against humanity. I agree with you like I said and none of our historians have bothered to research this or or speak about this or document this. Nobody has done this. It's the worst crime against humanity. I would say at least 500 million Indians would have died in that at least over a period of 700 years which is less than a million a year. Okay. Prattana says India did not abstain. AI lied. Okay. Let's find out once again. Um what was the what was the uh resolution? Uh at transatlantic trade. Okay. United Nations transatlantic slave trade resolution. Let's see. Um voting voting results. Let's see. D let's see I forget about AI let's see what um voting results declaration of the blah blah action what is this chair blah blah blah this is just a long text Ghana oh please Microsoft take a hike UN votes to decide describe Does it say anything about India? It says nothing about India. India. Let's see. Al Jazzer. Do we have anything from India? New Indian Express. D. Have they just copy pasted uh western talking points? What did India do in this? India. Come on. So this is an article in the Indian Express. This is where did it go? Okay. Let's see if there is any mention of India in this. So this is clearly copy pasted from the west. Yeah, this is an article in the Indian Express but it doesn't mention India. How India voted. So, I don't know. I can't find anything and I'm I'm not going to waste everyone's time looking into this, but okay. 24 Bat says, "Can you please stop using the weak Google AI to retrieve your info? It's annoying me." Please leave if it's annoying you, sir. I am doing whatever I can do as fast as possible. But let me see once. You also saying India voted for the slavery resolution. That's interesting. So, look, first of all, u if you don't want me to use something Do you have a better option that you can give me instead of simply complaining? I am not here trying to, you know, I'm trying to do the best I can here. This is the fastest, easiest option I have. Now, since all of you are saying it's AI is lying, that's very interesting and I'm I'm going to look into it. Um, once again, let's look into this. United Nations transatlantic slave trade. Let's see. UN news. Okay, let's see here. Green is in favor of right. What do we have? What do we have? India seems to be in favor of the resolution. You're right all of you. Three countries voted against. So, Israel voted against, red, Argentina voted against, US voted against. And the yellow nations are those who abstained. Switzerland, Sweden, Lithuania, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Norway, Finland, France and India voted in favor of this resolution. Okay. But the Google AI is lying to us. That's very interesting. Very interesting. So once again, let's ask the Google AI. In the recent UN vote, no, forget that UN resolution about the transatlantic slave trade. What was India's vote? AI mode. What was India's vote? India abstained. India voted in favor of the resolution. Why are you saying that it abstained? Let's see what it says. Okay, so it's trying to see UN news. UN news. Let me see. Let me try and argue with the EI. India voted in favor favor of the resolution. See image. Let's see what it says now. I understand the confusion. It's from a different UN session. So in Okay, looks like this is a different session. I have no idea. Okay. So, okay. Looks like there is some confusion. The AI is adamant that India was voted against the resolution. Uh multiple people here are telling me India voted in favor of it. It's annoying some of my viewers. Okay. But look, I'm going to continue using the tools that I have at my disposal. Uh that's until I can find better tools. I usually just do Google searches, but now Google is throwing up its AI generated things. So, one just uses it. Okay. Herman Bavija says, "If Pakistan enables a GI, a ground invasion into Iran while attacking India to distract, does it risk India, Iran, Afghanistan aligning together to wage war? Pakistan will not attack Iran or facilitate a ground invasion of Iran while fighting India at the same time. It is stupid. Uh attacking India to distract distract whom? It will itself be distracted if it's attacking India while facilitating ground invasion on on on the other border. It uh doesn't make a lot of sense. and attacking India is is uh well it essentially guarantees defeat for Pakistan. India is just too powerful for Pakistan. So it makes sense to distract using Afghanistan and not not using India doesn't make sense to attack India for Pakistan. Other says go to this location on Google maps in satellite mode. We can see Panchamuki Hanuman and other figures. What causes these? Okay, let's try that. Let us try that. Let's see. Let's go to Google Maps and I will go to satellite mode later. Let's see. Minus 55.5 4444 22 68 and - 69.2 66 22. Let's see. And let's go to um let's go to satellite. Yes. So where is this punchoki Hanuman? Okay. First of all, what place is this? Let me zoom out. Oh, it's Chile. This is Cape Horn almost. It's almost Cape Horn. So now if I go here there is punchuki hanuman. Um okay so where is panchamuki hanuman? Yeah there are some some artifacts that could perhaps look like humanoid faces or something. You mean this here is this punchuk one? I am not sure what you are referring to sir. Is this Hanuman somewhere? This could be anything. It does look like human faces here. It does look like some human faces. But I would not the first thing that would come to my mind would not be Hanuman when I see this. 1 2 3 four I don't know there are four things that look maybe five things that look like human faces but they do not look like hanuman to me to for to for me maybe for you it's hanuman maybe but for me it's not so I have no idea what this is it's interesting that we have this thing here that looks like human faces but we humans have this tendency to see faces everywhere don't we have this tendency as human beings um to see faces in everything wherever there are certain patterns. So yeah, what causes this? I think it's what it's our human tendency tendency to see faces in everything. That's probably what causes us to maybe imagine that this is this is Hanuman. Rahul Rahul says Iran's uranium extraction site hit by Israel. Yes, I did discuss this uh in the beginning of this live stream. Indeed. Yes. Ra says, "Please search law 27 in 48 laws of power." Okay, let's do that. Let's do that. What is it about? Law 27 in the 48 laws of power. What is it? Law 27. Play on people's need to believe to create a cult-like following. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. You can be a cult leader of some kind if you do that. Um I referred to that law due to religious fight in the chat. There a religious fight in the chat. Okay. I am not monitoring the chat so I don't know but okay. Narish says, "Who is benefiting from the war? Trump's ratings after who is benefiting from the war thus far, it's China that's benefiting from the war. But if the Gulf, if the straight of Horus remains closed for a long time, even China uh gets hurt progressively more and more over time. Um so who benefits? I think nobody's benefiting at this point in time. The Americans are not winning. They are looking like fools right now. Iran is being pounded very badly. It's being hurt very badly. Israel is being hurt very badly. India is suffering because is beginning to suffer because of a shortage. Well, if this situation continues, there will be a shortage of uh oil and gas. That will be bad for India. India will be hurt. China will be hurt. Japan will be hurt. Who wins? Who's who benefits? Long-term. Who benefits? Right now, it's a disaster for everybody. Nobody's benefiting. Trump wants to somehow find to he wants to somehow engineer a victory out of something. I'm not sure what victory is going to engineer. So right now no one's benefiting. This is this is a disastrous situation. Lakshadep Bhak says Pakistan just threatened Israel that the will be out what? Pakistan just threatened Israel that the will beat out of then the if the will. What are you saying? they threatened Israel that they will beat out of them if they will attack their embassy in Iran. Uh so Pakistan is threatening Israel that if if if Israel attacks Pakistan's embassy in Iran then they will take some action. Okay. Is the US Israeli ass? That's a good question. The way the way things have gone in this war, the Israelis essentially dragged the Americans into this war. Maybe it's a very good and very a question we should take seriously. Stoikbot says, "Are you concerned about the increase in hatred farming against Indians in the US? What specific interests are fueling this division and why now?" I think it's concerning. there is an increase in at least um online uh manifestations or or expressions of hatred against Indians. A lot of that is coming out of the US, right? A lot of that is there. Um a lot of this is because of engagement farming on uh social media platforms like Twitter like X where if you say something hateful which doesn't technically uh go against the terms of service then you will get a lot of engagement from Indians. So if you just say something hateful against Hindus or Indians then you get a lot of engagement from Indians who get all you know upset and that makes you money that that that that railon bucks right uh so that's a very easy way of farming for engagement and a lot of American accounts are doing that and there is also well you know an increase in hindu phobia or or or um a dislike towards Indians in the US. U a lot of that comes out of MAGA. Uh you know there's been this propaganda that Indian H1B visa holders they steal American jobs. They steal the jobs of Americans and uh Indians are an easy target in the US right Indians don't fight back. Indians aren't as well organized as let's say the the the Muslims or the Jewish people which are close-knit communities and they look out for each other. Hindus don't do that. So Indians are a soft target. Right? So because of these factors there's been this increase in what you call hatred farming against Indians in the US. What specific interests? It's all these interests, right? Uh MAGA doesn't like Indians. MAGA is very ba is very racist. A lot of the MAGA crowd is is racist, right? And they they hate all other races, but the Indians are the ones they can target openly. Others, they can't. That's why they go after Indians. Um, and engagement farming and so on. So, these are the the interests that are fueling these uh yeah these these behaviors online. Vish should I access? Namaskar. Namaskar. If you want to fix and improve our hard power, where would you start from? In here in Dank. Um, you got to fix your hard power, you see, you have to fix your military. You have to be very dangerous. The more dangerous you are, the greater is your hard power. So, how do you fix your hard power? See imagine this hypothetical scenario right now we are seeing the Americans have tried to destroy Americans and Israelis together teamed up ganged up tried to destroy Iran and they have been hit very hard right so now the world can see what Iran is capable of Iran's hard power is really high high they are a hard hard retaliator right now imagine a hypothetical scenario where India is attacked in the same manner Can India dist whoever is attacking let's say they come with 50 ships to attack India 50 ships and aircraft etc to attack India does India have the capability to take out 50 ships and all those aircraft does India have the capability to let's say hypothetically destroy nearby military bases of of of enemies I'm not very sure about that India still thinks that we will fight aerial wars with fighter planes doing uh dog fighting. That's a 20th century mindset that we have. So if we want to improve our hard power, we have to have a stockpile of a of several million drones and a few lakh missiles. That's where I would start from. Easy fix begin with that various kinds of missiles. ballistic missiles and India only thinks of ballistic missiles as something that will deliver nuclear weapons. We have to stop thinking like that. Ballistic missiles should be used for everything, not just nuclear delivery. They should be used like the Iranians are using them for conventional for the delivery of conventional munitions and submunitions. And look at the advancements the Iranians have brought about in ballistic missiles, maneuvering warheads, subcluster submunitions and so on. India doesn't have those capabilities and it's not that hard to to to develop. So India I would how would I start? I would invest in tens of thousands of cruise missiles, tens of thousands of ballistic missiles total. In total, I I would want to have at least a stockpile of at least a lack missiles of various kinds of various ranges and I would like to have an inventory of perhaps a at least a million drones of various kinds and those drones have to be very capable in different ranges and al and so on. That's what I would start from. If you do that, you don't even need an air force essentially. And then there's so many other steps you can take. You should I would also focus on the navy. I would want to uh distribute the lethality lethality of the navy instead of concentrating it in big ships like aircraft carriers. Aircraft carriers are obsollet officially now. Okay. I would invest in submarines. I would want India to have at least 50 submarines and I would want India to have at least two or 300 missile boats to defend India's coastline. Then let's have an invasion. 50 ships, 100 ships will wipe wipe you out. So that's what I would do. That's how that's where I would start. That's where that's what I would begin with. Okay. Anik says, "Please ask AI trans bill 2026. You will be pleased to with the government." Okay. Trans bill 2026. What is that? What does AI have to say? Okay. AI. So I'm once again AI may be lying to us. Okay. The transgender person's protection of rights uh amendment act bill was passed by the Indian parliament March 2526. The bill amends the 2019 act and has sparked what does it say? Removal of selfidentification. It deletes section something of the 2019 act effectively removing the legal right for a person to self-determine their gender identity. Good. Good. Identity recognition now requires verification by a government appointed medical board. A district magistrate issues a certificate only after examining this board's recommendation. The definition of a transgender gender person has been narrowed. It now specifically includes individuals with socioultural identities like hij kers, aravani, jtda and those with biological interex variations while explicitly excluding those with self-p perceived identities. Good. We are saying no to wokeism. Uh okay. Punishments against for crimes against transgender persons. Very good. Good. Um, right. Okay. So, you are right. I am pleased. This is an anti- vocism bill. So, transgender persons do exist and this bill takes it. It protects their rights and gives them more legal resource if there is any crime committed against them. But the bill says that you know nobody can identify selfidentify as transgender because the Americans have introduced this new nonsense right in the past few years you can identify as whatever you want he him she her they them and there are what all kinds of weird identities have people have come of this uh what fries and what whatn not so I'm I'm glad I'm so glad that the government of India is doing this We are purchasing $25 billion worth of Russian equipment and weapons and we are slamming the door shut on wokeism. The Americans will be really really displeased with us today. Really displeased. India very bad. Very bad sir. Very bad. Very bad. Okay. Uh Suman Vikran says missed my super chat made yesterday in the comments. I have taken every single super chat that's come in front of me. So I'm sorry if you have put something yesterday that was not shown to me by YouTube but I am trying my level best to answer every single super chat and I've done I've answered every single super super chat that has come in front of me. Now who decides to put this in front of me? It's YouTube that gives me a list of super chats. Okay. So I am sorry that this has happened but it's not done by me. It's done by YouTube if it was not shown to me. I'm sorry about that. Very sorry about that. 24 Bat says surely Greenland is US Vasal already. Cuba is next. Greenland is not a separate country. So saying that Greenland is a US vasal is like saying that Balojasthan is a Soviet vasal Balojasthan is not a separate country right today. It's part of Pakistan. Saying Greenland is is a US vasal is like saying that uh that that that that uh Cind is a Chinese vasal. How can Sind be a Chinese vasal? Pakistan can possibly be a Chinese vasal but Sind can't. Right. S is a subset of Pakistan. So Greenland is a subset of Denmark. Okay. Yes. But larger picture what you're saying I agree. The US already has de facto control over Greenland. They already have their military in Greenland. They have military bases in Greenland. So yeah, that Americans like I agree have de facto more or less control over Greenland and they can just walk in and take over. There's nothing nothing Denmark can do to oppose them, right? So yeah, that's that's true. Cuba could very much be next. You know, if Donald Trump wants to salvage his broken ego, then he could go and take Cuba next. Cuba uh they don't have missiles, they don't have drones, they have nothing compared to what Iran has. So it'll be way easier possibly for the US to take over Cuba. It could be next. Yes. Rumit Mishra says getting fuel from plastic and biomass is possible. I did my Btech in chemical engineering final year project on this topic and we did get some yield of bofuel. So it is indeed possible. So you were able to do this as a student in your BTech chemical engineering. So imagine there are people who are experienced chemical engineers maybe 10 years 20 years of experience. Imagine the efficiency with which they can extract fuel from biomass. Right? So let's say you got some yield of bofuel maybe their their the amount of bio fuel they will get through their processes through because of their experience and expertise will be maybe 10 times more potentially. So it certainly can be done. You can extract fuel from plastic and from biomass indeed. And that is a huge opportunity for India. But for for it to become possible, we're going to have to set up the infrastructure all across India. And we're going to have to do it efficiently without any wastage and without any alleged corruption. And we'll have to do it quickly in the next couple of years. So it's going to it can be done. It can be done. And that could make India significantly self-sufficient in at least possibly diesel and also cooking gas. It's certainly very much possible because we have a tremendous amount of biomass that comes out of waste, kitchen waste and other other waste from households, right? With a population of 1.4 4 billion. It's a huge opportunity for India and we have a lot of plastic waste also in this country in India. So I think that's a tremendous opportunity for the government of India to uh to invest in this to invest in this infrastructure. It's not going to be easy. It's going to cost a lot of money but it will make India significantly more self-sufficient than what we are right now. Is it financially viable? I suppose it should be. Yeah. Yeah. I hope the government takes this very seriously. Anik says if the F-35, the American F-35 can take a hit, imagine what will happen to the J20 F35 copy. There are there are rumors that as soon as the J20 takes off near the Indian border, it gets locked in by Indian radar and that's why the designers of the J20 the designer of the J20 young way was found dead after removal. JTBC.under undermining Chinese. Uh, please do podcast with General Rajiv Narayan. Um, so the Iranians were able to hit the F-35. They were able to hit an F-35, one F-35 and the J20, the Chinese, the Chinese copy of the F-35. I suppose it can also be then you know uh be targeted by by by by missiles or whatever. Uh the Iranians seem to be using a different technique to acquire a lock onto American aircraft. So typically you have radars. You have radars that ping the aircraft and then the aircraft knows that you have been pinged. You've been locked on locked on to but if you instead of using radars if you use heat signatures if you're close enough then I suppose without using radars you can lock onto aircraft. The F-35 I'm sure has a big heat heat signature there's a very small radar cross-section but the heat signature is much bigger. So if you are close enough to the aircraft, you can't do it from far away I suppose but if you are reasonably close enough maybe a few kilometers or something you may be able to acquire the heat signature and you can use that to have a missile lock onto the target instead of using radar and then the aircraft which is being locked on will not even know about this. So uh that's I think what the Iranians seem to have done and uh if the F-35 can be hit so can the J20. Now there's rumors of u I don't know about the story of young wei being found dead and all I don't I don't I don't know about that. I can't comment about the young way's death or not. I'm not aware of this. Uh please do podcast with Rajiv with General Rajiv Narayan. I did one. It's been released just a couple of hours ago. Uh it is on the Avara Musafer podcast. Yeah. So, it's out just a couple of hours ago, I think. V for Valor says, "Russia Israel relations and common anti-Nazism views. Does US deep state not allow Israel to come close to Putin who is a known anti-Nazi? Also, how are Ukraine Israel relations? Does the US deep state not allow Israel to do something or the other? The US deep state doesn't doesn't get to tell Israel what to do. I think it's possible that Israel may be the US deep state. It's possible. I'm just speculating, but who knows? So, the US deep state doesn't give orders to Israel. That I can assure you of. Israel decides what it does. Now, what is the deal with the Israel Ukraine relations? Well, in case you are not aware, the president of Ukraine, Shiri Zalinski, is Jewish, which guarantees that Israel and Ukraine have excellent relations. And Mr. Putin is fighting against Ukraine, against Mr. Zalinsky, which means that Russia Israel relations will not be very good right now. Anti-Nazism, that's that's obsolete stuff. Who cares? I mean there was there were recent resolutions in the UN against Nazi ideology. I think u Israel voted on the wrong side in that so Nazi ideology it's it's obsolete. Nobody cares about that anymore. Every nation has its own interests and they follow it, you know, irrespective of of ideology. Let's ask the Google AI about that, right? In the last 3 years, was there any resolution in the United Nations um condemning Nazi ideology? Yes. Okay. Adopted resolutions annually. That's very interesting. Nazi ideology. Let's see. Let's see. Okay. Pastor How did Israel and the United States vote in these resolutions? Let's find out. So the resolutions were about combating glorification of Nazism and the US said no we don't want to combat glorification of Nazism and Israel said no we don't want to combat glorification of Nazism Israel said no we don't want to combat glorification of Nazism we are against combating glorification of Nazism All right. Okay. So, Nazism, anti-Nazism, all that nonsense, nobody cares even in Israel today, right? Just because Putin is anti-Nazi doesn't mean that he is Israel is going to like him. Okay. All right. 24 Bat says since 2014, Western social media media have turned anti-India. Uh 2014, yeah, Mr. Modi came to power and yes Hindu nationalist bad guy etc. and uh he did a lot of good for India. He you know turned India's economy around built a lot of infrastructure made India more visible more powerful geopolitically and obviously a lot of media a lot of western nations will will have been very unhappy about that so it's true and it's been even more so since 2022 when the Russians launched the special military operation in Ukraine and India refused to condemn it India refused to join and participate in western sanctions against Russia. And on the other hand, India started buying large quantities of Russian oil. So after 2022, it's been even more anti-India. Whether it is the western media, whether it's social media, whether it is think times, whether it is BBC, CNN, Guardian, whatever, everybody just overly totally anti-India. And their reportage of India during COVID was atrocious. Atrocious So I agree with you. Yes. Dwap Priya Mukharji says big fan from Kolkata. Thank you so much Dwapri G. Thank you. Uh tell me tell me what do you think if Iran wins this war what what would happen then? And judging by the current situation will Israel destroy the Iranian regime. Okay let's ask the second answer the second question first. Will going by the way things are right now will Israel destroy the Iranian regime? I think it is very unlikely that Israel will succeed in destroying the Iranian regime. Why do I say this? Because the Iranian regime is fault tolerant. What do I mean by that? It's like a distributed fault tolerant network with lots of nodes. You destroy a few nodes, it doesn't destroy the system. The system is not made of glass that you destroy. You poke it once and the whole thing shatters. It's not like that. It's distributed and fault tolerant. You can destroy multiple nodes and the system still functions. You you kill the ayatah, it doesn't affect the system. You kill the supreme leader, the system generates a new supreme leader without any loss of continuity or functionality. You kill 50 uh top commanders, they've come up with 50 more. You you nuke one city, Iran still keeps fighting. They have made sure that the system is fault tolerant. The IRGC, see this, the power in Iran doesn't lie in the hands of the ayatah. It it lies in the hands of the IRGC. And the IRGC is distributed. It's not one person. No one person is important IRGC. The IRGC is more important than any individual. It's more important than even the Ayatah. The Ayatah simply gives legitimacy and personification to the IRGC. But the Ayatah is not that important. He is an important symbol, religious symbol for the Iranians. But his death makes no difference to the IRGC Iranian Iranian revolutionary guard core. Right? So because of these reasons and because the Iranians have perhaps more than a lack drones and tens of thousands of ballistic missiles, they're going to keep fighting. If they run out of drones and missiles, they're going to fight handtoand if required. And launching a ground invasion of Iran is as Saddam Hussein discovered suicidal. And without launching a ground invasion, you can't do a regime change. You can't ever successfully conduct a regime change from altitude. You have to have boots on the ground. So that's why it is in my opinion at this point in time the way things are very unlikely that that Israel will be able to destroy the Iranian regime. They may kill more leaders, more commanders, but that won't make any difference. The Iranians will keep fighting. This will give rise to the to the to the to the it will give rise to the ascent of more and more hardline and younger leaders and commanders, which is bad actually for Israel. Um so yeah it doesn't look like Israel will be successful at the way things are in destroying the Iranian regime. Now what happens if Iran wins this war wins this war? If Iran wins what does it what is the definition of victory from Iran's perspective? The definition of victory from Iran's perspective is to survive the war. To survive the war. If the Americans can't destroy the leadership and and the IRGC, then they can't occupy Iranian territory, that's a victory for Iran. The fact that Iran remains sovereign at the end of the war is a victory for them. But beyond that, what could be the definition of an Iranian victory? A bigger victory for Iran would be the complete destruction of all the American military bases in the region, which most likely has already happened. If the if the war ends with the Americans unable to return to those military bases or reconstruct them, that's a huge victory for Iran. If the Iranians successfully persist in keeping the straight of Hormos closed or selectively closed, it's a huge victory for Iran. yet. Um, so so if that happens, it could be the end of the petro dollar system and the whole balance of power in the region would change completely and it would be totally a different world order. It doesn't mean that the Americans will no longer be the most powerful nation. They'll still be the most powerful nation, but their uh their myths and aura of invincibility will be shattered very badly if Iran wins this war. And that will have effects everywhere. It will give other nations way more leverage against the Americans than right now as is right now visible with India. India is openly now pivoting towards Russia in just a month's time. India has more leverage now. India has definitely more leverage now and that will even that will become even more if the Americans actually um actually like visibly lose this war. Okay. Ritikuni says saw you with General Rajie added to my queue fast. Thank you so much. Thank you so very much. Thank you. Herman Baja says does India also have mosaic strategy like Iran? If political and military top leadership goes different state commands of MI military should separately without order IB ro MI should together run lead India that's a great question actually it's a great question how do I answer In warfare, there is a slightly outdated concept. It comes from the Prussian military commander and theorist Carl Fon Clausovitz. And this concept is called the center of gravity. Center of gravity. It's it's an actual military concept. It's not something you should make fun of. Of course, when the Pakistanis speak about it, you can make fun of them, but it's an actual military concept. What is a nation or a kingdom's center of gravity? It is that particular combination of assets upon which everything depends. And if you take that down, the whole structure collapses like a pack of cards. That's the center of gravity. So in some nations the center of gravity is one person. Saddam Hussein you take him out everything collapses. The whole nation collapses. I mean in the year 1066 when William of Normandy invaded England he fought a battle at uh Hastings Hastings against Harold King Harold. Harold Goodwinson and the battle was going it was neck to neck until King Harold died. He got a stray arrow in his eye. The moment he died his whole army collapsed and they just ran from the field. The center of gravity was the person of Harold himself. One person was the center of gravity of the whole nation. He died the whole structure collapsed. In the middle ages in India, him Chundra Vikramaditya, right? He was the king in Delhi, the last Hindu king, the last Hindu emperor of Delhi. He was fighting an army against against an army of Akbar, Jalaludin Akbar. And Himu got an arrow in his eye. He died and the whole structure collapsed. So once again, the center of gravity was the person of the emperor. So that's not a mosaic strategy. That's all the power all the whole center of gravity that's that's embodied in one person in IRGC the mosaic strategy the IRGC which is a distributed force tolerant network is the center of gravity to defeat Iran you have to destroy the entire IRGC which is next to impossible so that's why Iran is so resilient even if it is nuked even if they have to find fight hand to hand with knives is they'll still fight. They'll not give up. They also have this people's war approach that Maung had because of the ideology, the Shia ideology and so on. Now what about India? What is India's center of gravity? I wonder. India doesn't have a mosaic strategy at all. India doesn't have it. India is way more vulnerable from a center of gravity perspective compared to Iran. Yeah. So if India's hypothetically okay political military top leadership goes I'm not sure how well the armed forces will are in a position to keep fighting individually separately. Uh I'm not sure about that. Maybe these things are classified and we are not supposed to know about them. Maybe we have that but if we have that it's not disclosed to the public. So hopefully we have all these you know fallback options etc. Hopefully we will have that but I am not aware of it. Maybe we we are not supposed to know about this. Okay 24 says what's your favorite James Bond film? Ah um as a kid one of the first Bond movies I watched was uh The Spy Who Loved Me. Um Roger Moore was there. Yeah Roger Moore. Uh, but I think my favorite Bond was James was was was Sean Conry. Dr. No was great. Thunderball was great. You Only Live Twice was outstanding. Moonreaker was funny. Um, I don't know. I'm not sure if if I have a single favorite Bond film. I've I was I've been a big fan of PSA also a couple of his movies. I think um Daniel Craig's Casino Royale was great actually. Some of the later movies have been kind of let downs. I'm not sure which is my favorite Bond movie. Uh must must be one of the Shan Conry movies pro perhaps perhaps you live only twice perhaps. Um, yeah, I I like the whole series, you know, many movies. There's no one specific movie that stands out as my favorite. But yes, my favorite James Bond was Shan Conor. Mama Bucket VFX says, "Us burning oil like we got zero PT energy or do they zero PT energy?" Zero point zero point energy. Uh, I'm not aware of Look, Zero point energy is a quantum mechanical concept. Okay. Even when you bring a system down, you you cool it down to 0 Kelvin, there's still going to be some residual energy in the system. There's going to be some vibration. Okay, that's called the 0 point energy. Now, US burning oil like we so so can we actually extract energy out of the concept of zero point energy? I'm I don't know about that. I am I'm not aware of any such thing. um US burning oil like we got that I I'm not aware of that but yeah the Americans are burning oil like there's no tomorrow for sure you know war all those climate change things and all they go out of the window they don't matter anymore later once the war ends they will once again come back to lecture us about climate change and about energy and all that but when they need energy they'll they'll burn it like anything okay uh Dh Kamat says a certain Bobby Eens making controversial assertions such as Christianity being superior and Jesus being the greatest which are deeply offensive to Hindus. Okay. Um All right. U is that on my live chat? Is it? I am not monitoring the live chat. I'm looking at the the super chats. So I want to be able to look into that because there'll be lots and lots of live chats. But okay, thank you for letting me know. I'll look into this later. Mittal says, "India is again turning to Russia for its defense and oil needs. Isn't it helping Russia and India both from becoming vasals? Russia of China, India of US." Exactly. Exactly. If India and Russia cooperate, work together, it helps both nations, it helps Russia against China and India against the US. Absolutely 100% correct. Yes. And that's why it's it's a win-win thing for India and Russia both. It's mutually beneficial for India and Russia. That's why I am I have always been a big proponent of more robust relations between India and Russia because Russia isn't a nation that that that wishes India ill. Right? Russia doesn't seek to vilize or colonize or destroy India or destroy destroy India civilization. Russia doesn't have any such such agenda but certain other nations do have such such agendas. So India and Russia working together makes a lot of sense for both nations. Ratamsuri says India versus Iran who will win when India need to learn from Iran. What India needs to learn from Iran? Who will win India and Iran? India and Iran will not fight. Okay, we are not enemies. There is no reason for India and Iran to ever fight each other. The last time there was any kind of dispute between India and Iran was about two and a half thousand years ago when Dario extended his border all the way to the Indis river. So that was the only time that there was some kind of friction. You will some of you will say oh no what about Nadra? Nadra came and destroyed Delhi and killed one lakh people in one day. Nadr Sha was not Persian. Nadr Sha was a Turk who ruled Iran just like orang was a Turk who ruled India. Understand that? So India and Iran there's no need for us to fight. Uh what does India need to learn from Iran? Like I said many times today learn the importance of drones, high quality drones and cheap drones and also large quantities of ballistic and other kinds of missiles. That's the simple lesson India has to learn from Iran. Okay. Invest invest in very large quantities of drones and large quantities of various kinds of very scary, very dangerous, very nasty missiles. Right. Herman Baja says, "White guy claims India is a joke for us. No need to fight India. Reshape it from within via NOS's, education, media narratives, rituals and religion dilutes with secularism. One side guilt install atheism equality." Yeah. You see you can destroy a nation a civilization without fighting it. Reshape it from inside. When a nation is poor, when a nation when the when the people have a sense of inferiority, it's very easy to infiltrate the nation. When when the whole system is allegedly super corrupt, it's very easy to infiltrate the nation and just destroy from eat it from within like termites all over the place with NOS's with with the the rotten education system that that's full of propaganda and distortions of India's history and culture. The media, the entertainment industry, the narratives attack Indian culture, attack Indian religion. Say India's rituals are bad, India's religion is misogynistic, patriarchal, whatever, whatever. Backward. India's culture is backward. Just keep on bombarding India's people with this propaganda. Do it through the education system. Do it through your politicians. Some of them do it through the media. Do it through the entertainment industry. do it decade after decade, generation after generation and eventually the whole civilization crumbles. Yeah. And our system itself is our own enemy. The entire edifice of the system it's working against us. Our own system. Yeah. So yeah, the white guy is right in this case. No need to fight India. godliness. If your cost of victory is becoming another Afghanistan or Gaza while your enemy enjoys his dinner in New York, heritage in London and spirituality in Jerusalem, is there a victory standing on on ruins? Um, it depends what what is an acceptable cost of victory. First of all, what is the definition of victory? Right? There are two things here involved. Two things are involved here. One is what's my definition of victory? Second is what's my cost? What's the acceptable cost of victory? The bare minimum victory that is required is preservation of sovereignty. We I think you are discussing Iran here, right? So let's say we discussing Iran and from Iran's perspective the bare minimum definition of victory is preservation and continuation of sovereignty that Iran no matter what happens should remain sovereign. Then there's the question of the price of victory. What price are you prepared to pay for your sovereignty? That's the question. So if you are being bombarded, your schools are being destroyed, your universities are being destroyed, your oil refineries are being destroyed, your nuclear power plants are being destroyed, your steel industries are being destroyed. Is that an acceptable cost of victory as long as you remain sovereign? Well, that's what that's the choice for you to make. What is the cost of dignity? That's that's a choice everybody each person has to make. Our ancestors in India, they gave up their millions of them gave up their lives fighting the Turks and the British, right? And during the British occupation of India, India became a Gaza. By the way, India's uh life expectancy in 1947 was 32. I promise you the life expectancy in Gaza is higher than for 32. I promise you the life expectancy in Afghanistan today is higher than 32. India's life expectancy was 32. Right? So we were worse than Gaza but we became a sovereign nation. That's why we are able to be where we are today. And even now we are a poor nation but better. So as long as you are sovereign, even if you are ruined and reduced to rubble, as long as you remain sovereign somehow, you can rebuild and maybe your children and their grandchildren will have a way better life. So it's up to you. If if if for for some people that's too high of a cost of victory and let's just put down the arms and surrender, well, that's your choice. I don't think it's the right choice. I think death is preferable to loss of sovereignty. Right? If you if you are a person with self-respect, then you would give rather die than give up your sovereignty. So I think Iran will prefer to become a Afghanistan or Gaza or even worse than that as long as it remains sovereign. You may think otherwise that is you you have the right to your opinion. Your enemy is enjoying dinner in New York, Heritage, London, Surity, Jerusalem. Fine, that's about the enemy. And I assure you that by the time the war ends, um, you know, even Israel is being hit very hard by the way. Okay. Okay. Praradana says, "Are defense deals hard to keep secret to avoid sanctions? Why the government has to publicly announce the five more F400 deal, etc.? Maybe I'm naive. What's your opinion? Defense deals can be kept secret. They can be kept secret. Yes, you can do these deals behind closed doors and not announce them. And um you can certainly make it harder for uh enemy nations to find out about your defense dealings with your friends, let's say. So why has the government of India announced um the deal with the Russians? The total quantum of the deal is about $25 billion which is gigantic. Huge big big sum of money. you know, a bunch of S5 S400s, a bunch of illusion transport aircraft, other sorts of transport aircrafts, um, nuclear cooperation, um, rocket systems, anti-aircraft systems, drones, whatnot, whole bunch of bunch of things and the government has government of India has announced this publicly, right? So why are we doing this? For some reason, India is sending a message to the Americans. Yeah. See before 28th of February when the Americans and Israelis launched the war on Iran. One day before that the prime minister of India was in Israel and 2 three days after the war started India made a very clear turn towards the US and Israel. India refused in the first 3 4 days to give to to even comment about the assassination of uh the supreme leader of Iran and India condemned the violation of sovereignty of the Gulf nations etc. So India was clearly taking a stand against Iran the first 3 four days of the war. Then India slowly pivoted back to a neutral position. The government of India officially gave condolences for the death assassination of the Ayatollah. India gave an Italian warship refuge in an Indian port after another ship was destroyed by the Americans near Sri Lanka. And the longer the war goes on, the more India is pivoting away from the US and Israel. The past week or so, India arrested an American terrorist and five or six Ukrainian terrorists, right? Who were giving terrorism training to cookie terrorists. So India is as the longer the war is going on the more India is pivoting away from the US and now this is a very clear message that India has sent to the US by announcing this deal in public. So India is visibly pivoting away from the US pivoting towards Russia not towards bricks like some people claim but towards Russia. Yeah. So I think it's it's messaging that's going on towards the US. India seems to somehow have acquired more leverage against the US than we had in the past couple of years. That is what I uh sense is happening. Susant Gurj said says watching Durand now watching Durand now I understand what you wanted to say by that after demonetization certain someone committed suicide in Pakistan. Look now people are realizing right I spoke about these things like three three or so years ago I was old videos about demonetization in which I said that demonetization hurt Pakistan's economy way more than it hurt India's economy this was the beginning of the decline of the Pakistan rupee and all those things which went wrong in Pakistan with its economy etc they it all happened after demonetization I think now people are beginning to understand after watching this movie Durand what demonetization was all about. But I spoke about this like 3 four years ago way before Durand was imagined by the creator. So I'm glad people are beginning to understand this now. I suppose it takes time to understand certain things which is fine. Which is fine but I'm glad that more people are understanding. Good. Pratepar says about pulsars and neutron stars. Pulsars and neutron stars. Okay. Let's start with neutron stars. Neutron stars are gigantic atomic nuclei. A neutron star is made of essentially almost only neutrons. It's got a very thin outer crust of exotic atomic you know nuclear exotic matter essentially and it's got a very very tiny thin atmosphere of various kinds of ions I suppose and in a neutron star you know a neutron star is is is what it's it's a couple of kilometers in in diameter But it's the mass of more than the sun. Okay? And mountains on a neutron star may be a millimeter or so in height. A mountain or a neutron star may be a millimeter high. But they have more mass than Mount Everest and so on. So neutron stars um they are produced um um how are they produced? How are neutron stars produced? Okay, when a star collapses, so our star will at the end of its life become a white dwarf. Okay, but if a white dwarf is is more than 1.44 solar masses, which is the Chundra Shakhar limit, then it collapses into a neutron star. And there is something called the Tolman F tool folk openheimer limit which is the maximum mass a neutron star can have. And if the neutron star exceeds that even if you put a spoonful of matter into it then it collapses into nothingness which is a black hole. A black hole. So neutron star is very compressed super compressed matter in which even protons and and and electrons combine to form neutrons. So that's what a neutron star is and uh it's the end state of many stars. Pulsars are neutron stars that that spin incredibly rapidly and give off these radio pulses that are like you can time them like a metronome. maybe 50 pulses in a second. That's that sort of thing. And you, you know, if you have a a shortwave radio or whatever, you can actually detect pulsars. They sound like that sort of thing, you know, very rapid beeps. Initially, when astronomers detected that through radio telescope, etc., they thought it was alien civilizations trying to contact us because the pulses were so incredibly fast and so incredibly precisely timed. But that's simply the radio waves given off by a very rapidly spinning neutron star which is called a pulsar. Right. Okay. Urgital says some users are repeatedly using foul language in the live chat. Please take actions. Well, I'm not monitoring the live chat today. Sir, I'm okay. Let's see who is that. Um, okay. I don't know what's going on, but I will look into this later on. Right now, I am not monitoring the live chat, so anyway, thank you for letting me know. Thank you. I will look into this later on. Ankita Kachab, good evening, ma'am. The US controls the world economy through petro dollar and its banking system and funds Israel on a regular basis. Isn't Israel in a way an offshoot of the US and helps carry out they help carry out each other's projects? US deep state Jewish lobby is Israel in this sense. How is Israel benevalent to us? How is Israel benevolent to India? Israel's interactions with India are on the basis of mutual interests. So what you are saying is correct. Um the US controls its economy through the petro dollar system banking system and the and the petro dollar system. The petro dollar and the banking system and the US is an unconditional ally and supporter of Israel. No question about it. Um, is Israel an offshoot of the US? Well, Israel, you could say, is a protectorate of the US, but uh, Israel is very influential in US. Israeli Jewish politicians and financiers and, um, industrialists etc are very, very, very influential and powerful in the US. So you could say that Israel to some to some extent may possibly control a certain amount of certain aspect of US foreign policy. Right? So Israel is a protectorate of the US. It could be perhaps an offshoot of the US but not quite an offshoot of the US. It's a permanent uh asset, not an asset, permanent ally and protectorate of the US and the US is essentially duty bound to take Israel's side no matter what happens whenever required. Um they do help each other carry out each other's projects. Yeah. And that's why I've raised the question about Pakistan that Pakistan is an American vasal you and Israel is America's primary unconditional ally or America is Israel's unconditional ally. So what's the connection between Israel and Pakistan? They should be on the same side and uh that's the question I've raised in the past. And uh when it comes to this Gaza thing, you know, um the board of peace, Pakistan is on the board of peace. When it comes to Gaza's reconstruction and development, Pakistani soldiers are are going to be involved in maintaining the peace there on behalf of Israel essentially. So you can see there are there are some connections between Pakistan and Israel. Um a few months ago when aimir the Pakistani dictator went to the US to Washington DC uh the Pakistan embassy I think in the in in that city it it uh organized a dinner banquet for him and there was an Israeli military presence there in this event organized by the Pakistani embassy in honor of Aim Munir. So clearly there are connections you know behind the scenes between Pakistan and Israel. Now when it comes to how is Israel benevalent to us? Well overall India and Israel we have a mutually beneficial relationship right. Um u for example there is technological cooperation between India and Israel. U India and Israel together have jointly developed the Barak missile system which is an anti- which is an anti-missile system. So let's say you are on a ship and there's a missile coming to hit the ship, you can destroy that with the Barak system. The Barak system probably can destroy a Brahmos missile. That's how powerful and accurate it is. Um and it can also take take out targets, you know, aerial targets from land also. So it's a great missile system, missile defense system that is India and Israel have developed jointly and India purchases all kinds of all kinds of Israeli weapons um manufactures some Israeli weapons in India under license like the like the Harop drone and so on and so forth. So most of the cooperation between uh India and Israel is very mutually beneficial and so it's it's a rel relationship of mutual benefit. It's not one nation or the other being benevolent towards the other. It's about both nations engaging with each other in a mutually beneficial way. Of course there are question marks about Pakistan. There's also the question mark about the Israeli involvement, possible potential Israeli involvement in India's far east, northeast and so on. There are those question marks, but overall it's it's a good relationship overall from a big macro perspective. Pratip Kumar Roy says about the Hercules Corona Borealis Hercules Corona Borealis Great Wall. Is it real? What's the axis of evil in space? I have no idea about an axis of evil in space. Um, Hercules Corona Borealis wall. Great wall. I don't know about this. Hercules Corona Borealis Great Wall. Why is it making a list? What is this? Largest known structure in the universe. Massive gigantic galactic filament measuring 10 billion light years across. Discovered in 2013 via Gamarray bursts. This structure defies current cosmological models which suggest that no structure should exceed 1.2 billion lighty years. Okay, it's a it's a galactic filament. What is a galactic filament? A galactic filament is a massive large scale structure. See the universe at small scales looks pretty uh inhomogeneous, right? There are there are inhomogenities in the universe at the small scales. But if we zoom out of the solar system of the Milky Way of the local cluster and zoom out further further further further then you will see that the universe at the largest scales seems pretty homogeneous and isotropic in all directions and you will see that there are these filaments that there are these massive galactic uh clusters that are held together by filaments of dark matter and so on. So if you look at the structure large scale structure of the universe at the largest scales and if you look at the galactic filaments and dark matter filaments that hold everything together it looks like a cross-section of neurons from inside the brain. Okay. So you have these galactic galactic filaments and dark matter filaments and this hercule corona boralis great wall seems to be one of these filaments. I was not aware of it because it's not relevant to the work I do. But it it is one of those filaments and apparently it's too large to exist which means that you have to rethink the way we understand the universe. So according to what uh current cosmological models no structure should exceed 1.2 billion light years but this thing is 10 billion light years. It's about 10 times too large. So yeah, mystery clearly from the astrophysics perspective. What's the axis of evil in space? I am not aware of any axis of evil in space. Shall we Google that? Okay, let's Google this. Axis of evil in space. What's that? Okay. Yeah, I'm not aware of this. I'm not aware of this. I'm more into theoretical physics, not into observational astrophysic stuff, dark matter, black holes, that sort of thing. Pen and paper stuff, not looking at this thing. So, okay. Omni says Iran's underground installations are really the master stroke. I agree with you. Iran has a lot of aces up its sleeve. Definitely a master stroke. Yeah. Pratip Kumar says, "Did you see durand? Your views about the Israel scene? What what was that?" Aim previous ISIS chief. I haven't seen it yet. I haven't seen it. Hopefully by next weekend I will have seen it. I will try and watch it at the earliest in the next 3 4 days. Hopefully. Hopefully. Uh definitely by next weekend I will have seen it. But I haven't seen it yet. So I won't be able to answer these questions so far. Mittal says please advise the pranayam for overall health. Pranayam is a very straightforward exercise right alternate nostal breathing. There are different forms of pranayam. It's about breath control. It's about Yeah. So I am not an expert as such in pranayam. One thing I know about is walking pranayam which I suppose no one knows about. I'm sure there are people who know about it but it's not well known. You can do pranam while walking. And that can have great effects on your mind, on your lungs, on your on your oxygenation of your blood and your overall health. And you can also walk a few kilometers while doing that. Uh so you can do pranayam while walking. It's just about counting breathing in and out. I mean a number of steps for an inb breath for breathing in then a certain number of steps steps you just hold the breath. Then a certain number of steps you exhale completely and then a certain number of steps you you keep your lungs empty and then you repeat the cycle that's walking pranayam essentially right so that's a great that that has I I am most impressed by that particular technique of pranayam magnani says can you please can you talk about the kalpa vigraha and how it changes the current timelines of history as we understand it especially for our civilization. I am sorry to have to disappoint you. But I am not sure the kalpa vigra whatever it is is a genuine thing. So it is claimed that this object is 25,000 or something years old. It's made of metal and they say it's been carbon dated to 25,000 years or something 24 25,000 years. You can't carbon date a metallic object. The basic principle of carbon dating is that there are certain isotopes of carbon. There's a naughty isotope of carbon called carbon 14. I think the standard carbon is carbon 12. Okay, which has 12 protons. But there's a naughty of 12 nucleons. But there's a naughty of carbon which is carbon 14 which is unstable. It's radioactive and we know at what rate it it decays. So if you have any organic matter then like wood let's say you have ancient wood that you've discovered. So you can determine how old it is based on how much carbon 14 it still has because the moment an organism dies it's it starts losing carbon 14 the carbon 14 starts decaying decaying. We know what the half-life is and so on. So that's how based on the amount of carbon 14 that still exists in a particular sample of organic matter you can determine to a reasonable amount of accuracy how ancient how old it is like a piece of wood or a mummified body or a piece of bone right so if you find a skeleton human skeleton and you carbon date it you can determine how old it approximately is 500 years 2,000 years 7,000 years by carbon dating you Find out if you find a piece of wood you can carbonate it. That's how we know that Dwara the ancient city of the city of Dara which is underwater. We discovered a piece of wood from there and that was dated to about 8,500 years or so before today. So that's how we know how old the city most likely is. Dara now if you have so so for this to work you need organic material which contains carbon. We are a carbon based life form. All living beings on our planet are carbon based life forms. Right? So that's how we can do carbon dating. Now if you have a piece of metal, how will you carbon date it when there is only metal in it? There's no carbon. So how can people claim that the kalpa vigraha was dated to was carbon dated to 24 25,000 years before today? How? It doesn't contain carbon. It is metallic. Do you understand? So, I don't know what this object is. I don't take it seriously at all because you can't carbon date something. A piece of metal. How will you tell how old it is? How can somebody claim it's so and so years old? It's a piece of metal. There's no way of knowing how old it is. That's my issue. So, let's see what Google has to say about the Kalpa Vigraha. Kalpa Vigraha. What is this thing? A legendary small idol of Lord Shiva claimed to be 28,000 years old. How have you made this claim? I don't I don't know. Okay. Radiocarbon testing LinkedIn posts refers to the timber of the chest or box holding it, not the metallic idol itself. which is a key scientific distinction often missed. Okay. So it lacks verification historical journals. Yeah. So listen listen I don't know whether any I don't know what credence we can give to LinkedIn posts and so on. I will need to see an actual you know evidence of scient proper scientific testing of this thing. So uh this about this matter I am extremely skeptical. I I'm sure it will hurt the sentiments of some people who are seeking some greatness out of it. But I am very skeptical about this. I have an open mind if this can be proven to be 28,000 years old. If somebody can actually show me the data and and the the the readings of the radiocarbon test of the wooden box or whatever which contained this thing. If we can actually find out where this originates from not based on LinkedIn post but actual you know credible sources then I can take it more seriously. Okay. Ser Limbusu says should I chase money or power? We have limited time on earth. Getting everything all at once is not possible. What's your take on it? You should chase whatever makes sense to you. Yeah. If you are somebody who well who is pleased with power, who is happy to have power, it depends on you and your inner nature. Some people they crave power, some people crave money, some people crave peace in life. Everybody craves something different. Everybody desires something unique to the to their own identity and to their own personality and their own to who they really are. Right? So it depends. It depends and it's not like if you chase one thing you will get it right. Everybody wants to chase something but how many people actually get it? How are very few people actually get power? You can get power at low levels and all but real power is something different. So I think you have to make your decision for yourself. You have to first understand yourself properly. Who am I? What do I genuinely desire and seek in life? Why was I put on this planet? For what purpose was I put here? Understand that through introspection. You have to spend time with yourself to understand who you are. Based on that understanding, you have to determine what is best for you. Right? Money or power. Power is a very rare commodity. Money is more abundant. Power is rare. Real power is rare. Money, it's easier to acquire. Power is much harder to acquire. So remember that also. But that's entirely up to you. I can't tell you what to do. 24 Bat says Sergio Gore is our viceroy and our baboos are well Sergio would certain Sergio Gore would certainly like to be our viceroy. But hopefully we don't allow him to assume that position, right? The way things are going right now doesn't look like it's working out that well for him. Yeah. So hopefully we don't give him the prestige of being our vice roy. So he would like that. But hopefully we don't make this happen. We are we matches. What if hypothetically India versus Iran? Who wins? Please tell. India and Iran we don't fight. There's no need for India and Iran to fight. And secondly, India and Iran are not neighbors today, right? We don't have a shared border. So how do we fight? There's a temporary artificial nation in between. So how do we fight? Yeah, you could fight an aerial war. Aerial war. In an aerial war, Iran has the advantage. Iran has thousands of ballistic missiles, tens of hundreds of thousands of drones in that aerial war. Iran has the advantage, not India. 24 Bat says Modi, Jashankar and Dual would never let India be vasalized. I agree. I agree. That's why I'm hopeful it won't happen. Rahul says, please explain Goa Inquisition. Why was it done? Goa Inquisition was the brutal torture, murder, maming and and genocide of Goan Hindus. Why was it done? To impose Christianity on the people. Very simple. The aim of Christian missionaries and and Christian nations occupiers is to impose Christianity on those uh who they have conquered. The Goan Inquisition was to was a brutal uh and brutal act to you know brutal institution and period of time which was used to impose Christianity forcibly on the people of Goa and many of them were secretly even if they had been been converted to Christianity they were secretly practicing Hinduism in private and those people were burned to death by the by the church. So the Inquisition was all about imposing Christianity forcibly on the people. It was a brutal brutal um thing that the the Portuguese did to us. Rohan Sharma, thank you very much. Rohan Sharma GI No says Bobby says Christianity has nothing against non-believers who and also says Goa inquisition. Oh Goa Inquisition is not done by Christian missionaries. Educate sir. The Goa Inquisition was a brutal period of time. See who brought the Inquisition into Goa. First of all, it was this individual called Francis Xavier. Some people call him St. Francis Xavier. St. Xavier. There are all these schools and colleges and universities. I don't know about universities but schools and colleges in India named after this person. St. Xavier school, St. Xavier College and whatnot. So this person who was a Jesuit priest Francis Xavier, he brought the the Spanish Inquisition, the Portuguese Inquisition, the Inquisition into India because Indians who had been converted to Christianity, they were secretly practicing their their own culture in private, their own religion in private, right? So this was unacceptable. They have to become proper Christians. So they brought the Inquisition into India. The Inquisition was all about identifying those who were secret secretly practicing Hinduism and punishing them in the most barbaric way possible. There was this thing called the oto daf oto d act of faith. Okay. Okay. O to the let's see what it looks like. Oto. It's about essentially burning people alive. Burning people alive. Otoay in Goa. How about that? There we have it. They did this to our people. They burned Indians alive in Goa. Okay, look at this. They also cut the hands of thousands of people. There is this pillar in Goa called the hutkat stamb where these these people their hands were chopped off and kept right. The brutality was incredible. I don't know how many lakhs of people may have been killed in this but officially only a few thousand were killed or or only a few hundreds. You know what happened when the Portuguese realized that the Maratas would would defeat them? They destroyed most of the records of the Inquisition and they sent the rest of the records to Rio de Janeiro in Brazil and only a few records are still there in Rio de Janeiro and they are pretty brutal but the vast majority of the records of the Inquisition were destroyed by the Portuguese. So imagine how brutal it must have been that they themselves destroyed the records. That's the Inquisition. And the person responsible for that was this person called Francis Xavier. Okay. This week again India placed defense orders worth billions. When will this romance of buying foreign toys end? We need self-sufficiency ASAP. I agree with you. The worst thing India can do is buy Western weapons or American weapons. The best thing we can do is manufacture our weapons ourselves. As a stop gap measure, we could deal with Russia. Russia is reliable. Well, more reliable than the West at least. Uh but yeah, I agree with you. We need to be self-sufficient ASAP. Completely agree with you. RV Matt says if Russia oil bases are getting hit, how is India safe? Well, it will be bad for India, right? Because the bases that the Russian oil bases that have been hit, they account for about 40% of Russia's oil exports and a lot of that is coming to India. So, that is going to be affected now. So Russia's exports of oil to India are going to be badly affected potentially. So it's bad for India. India is not very safe. I agree it's not. Vir Kamat says proil proilitization which involves claiming other religions are false is inherently problematic and offensive. Bobby even supporting it is offensive to us. Uh anyone who supports proletization and anyone who claims that one religion is superior to another one. I cannot agree with that. Right. Especially religions that have been responsible for genocides to claim that such religions are are superior to ours. Vikas says, "I am raising a daughter from Bangalore and what options do I have to give her a proper non-colonial education? Please help me understand how can I circumvent current education system which are largely money focused institutions." Look, I understand the conundrum that we face. Uh the fact is that if you want your daughter to have a proper, you know, career, future, all that, she will need to go through the education system, get her degrees and all that, right? You need to have 10th, 12th college degree, university degree, etc. Depending on what you want to do in life. So that is going to be unfortunately necessary the given the current state of India. But what you can do to make sure she that her mind is not ruined by the colonial education system. What you can do is you can teach well have her read the Ramayan and the Mahabharat and learn from those you do that it's I think it's enough right and and make sure that she learns how to read and write her mother tongue whatever it is that helps for sure. So if a child studies the Ramayan and the Mahabharat properly over a period of years, I think that's more than enough. And make sure you practice your traditions and traditions at home. That should be enough. Okay. All the best. All the best to you and your daughter. Um Mittal says, "Which top five leaders do you consider great if you judge them on vision, stability, and long-term impact on their country? I now understand why subs are superior to career carriers, aircraft carriers. Okay. Which top five leaders do I consider to be great as you mean today's leaders or historical leaders? If you ask me about today's leaders, the leaders of the you know world leaders today who are great today who I can consider to be great today. uh look which which leaders um are doing a good job. I would say it is Mr. Modi, Mr. Putin and Mr. Shei for their respective countries. I don't think Trump is good doing a great job for his country. I think he's doing a terrible job for his country. But I think Mr. Modi, Mr. Putin and Mr. Shi are doing the best they can for their respective countries. Uh, I'm sure some, you know, things could be better for them, but at least they they're trying their best and they're doing a reasonably good job for their nations. So, I can think of three leaders. I can't think of five leaders. I'm sure there are more, but I'll give you three names. I can think of three names. Yeah. Okay. Debashit Mishra says, "World War has already started or will it start in time? predictions of what's coming for India and the world in the near future. Energy, economy, Indian middle class. I don't think this is the World War II yet. But if more nations get involved in this, it could be World War II. If for example European nations are dragged by Trump into the war. If let's say for some reason Russia and China are forced to get involved then it's closer to World War II than not be because it becomes multiffront war with nations from lots of different parts of the world participating. That's a world war. Right now it's still a regional war. It's still localized. But you are seeing now that the Ukraine war and the Iran war are happening not separately but it's kind of interrelated already. So that's a concern. But it's not World War II yet. I hope it doesn't become World War II. Predictions of what of what's coming for India and the world. I think if this war continues, there's going to be an oil crisis, energy crisis worldwide, which is going to be bad for economies worldwide. is going to be bad for the middle class worldwide including for India right if this war ends now then things will be perhaps okay but if the war doesn't end if it it continues if Hormuz remains closed if Bab al- Mandib is closed if Russia's oil exports are impacted by Ukraine it's going to be a disaster for everybody it'll be and disaster from the energy perspective from the economic perspective And it'll be bad for the middle class worldwide including for India. Okay, I just found out about Roschill Island. Google any Epstein links? I have no idea whatsoever but let's find out. Roth shield island. What is that? Is it Antarctica? I thought so. So it's a 24 mile long ice covered island in Antarctica located in the an Australian Antarctic data center built in sound named after Edo Alild. This isolated Antarctic feature contains blah blah blah blah blah. So why is it named after the person black rugged island? Okay. Why is it named after this person? In honor of Alons James Roshield. Okay. Um, okay. I was not aware of this but interesting fact. Uh, any links? I'm not aware of any. Godliness says in Indian parliamentary panel says Isotch is is been sold to private players illegally on cheap rates. Corruption will end any future this sovereign has what really is technology sold to private players illegally? Really? Okay. Indian parliamentary panel found that ISRO technology has been legally transferred to private firms at significantly undervalued rates. Okay, that is a totally different thing from illegal stuff. Okay, so it's been legally transferred to private firms at significantly undervalued rates. Undervaluation. The parliamentary committee in a March 2026 report highlighted that high-end technologies developed with public funds were being transferred to private firms at undervalued rates. Some technologies were transferred for as as little as 6,000 rupees with others costing about five lakhs and a few transferred at no cost. And who were these private players in space in SIL? Well, okay. I'm not aware of exactly what this signifies and what is going on, but looks like something is not right and that's unfortunate. Okay. Pratt Dhana says on X, type transatlantic UN vote. Google's confused. Looks like Google is confused. Let me see. Uh, let's go to X. Let's go to my actual Twitter account because Okay, give me a second. Let me put that on the screen. Where are we? So, um, let's go to X. And what's happening here? Let's say you transatlantic transatlantic UN vote. What's it say? This is from March 26. So, so what was the thing? What was the vote about? The resolution wasn't just a condemnation of the slave trade. It also called for reparations and described slavery as the gravest crime against humanity which some countries rejected as creating a hierarchy of crimes over genocide and so on. So Israel was against it, Argentina was against it, US was against it and who voted for it? India voted for it. So India said that this was the greatest crime against humanity. Okay. So you are clearly correct and uh Google's AI is trying to mislead us. Well that's fantastic. Fantastic. Okay. Pratip Kumar Roy says India can never be Iran because they have their own oil. We don't. Well, we should look for our own oil. I'm sure it's not impossible to find large quantities of oil in India. India is so large. We have such a huge exclusive economic zone in the ocean. We need to look for it. I'm sure we can find more oil than what Iran has. Pratep Kumar says, "I have seen some US YouTube channels teaching how to make guns. One taught how to make thermite, fulminated mercury, military radio gadgets, etc. Why is this allowed?" Why is this allowed? I have seen a YouTube video that teaches you how to operate stinger. missiles, anti-aircraft missiles. These are man pads, man portable missile defense missile systems. A Stinger missile system is pretty dangerous. There's a full tutorial on YouTube. So, I don't know why these things are there on YouTube, but yeah, it makes no sense. You shouldn't have such dangerous things on YouTube. So, if you know how learn how to make thermite, fulminating mercury, etc. So, you can essentially learn how to make bombs, right? I don't know why it's allowed. should not be allowed. Jazz says why no updates on WhatsApp channel. Is it important to have updates on everything? So I have a WhatsApp channel. I had a couple of guys working for me who are operating that and uh they are no longer working for me and I think the the the credentials remain with those people. So yeah, anyway that's not that important. Maybe I can start a new WhatsApp channel perhaps if if required. We'll see. Soldier boy says, "Search FC bill. It will please you even more." Okay, let's search for FC bill. Uh, okay. Let us see FC bill. FC bill. What's the new bill? Okay, let's see. PRS India, whatever that is. What is this? Okay, let's see quickly. Foreign contribution. West vesting of foreign contribution assets in certain cases. Return of foreign contrib. Okay. Appeals. Okay. I don't know. This is pretty legalistic stuff. Uh pretty dense legal text. Implications. Implications. What are the implications? Let's go. Implications. Firm directives, stringent compliance, enlarge government control over foreign funds and assets include mechanisms for detailed oversight, etc., etc., etc. Okay, it's pretty lengthy stuff, so I will not look into it right now, but looks like it could please me. So, thank you for letting me know. I'll look into it later. Adita says, "Can India help end the Iran war? Your thoughts?" No. We didn't start the wars and we are not in a position to end it. Okay. We need to stay out of it. India cannot help end the Iran war. The most we can do is offer our good offices as mediators. Nothing more than that. When did YouTube etc. When did YouTube add handles? If India was to take over parts of Pakistan, how successfully could it integrate the absorbed population into the wider Indian identity? unsuccessfully you can't the majority of the people of Pakistan are highly radicalized against India and you can't integrate those people with the wider Indian Indian population and identity so see eventually Pakist see Pakistan is an artificial temporary nation it will eventually break down break up okay there's too many centrifugal forces in Pakistan eventually it'll break up the only reason Pakistan doesn't break up is because it has the the support of foreign nations mainly the US right the US doesn't want Pakistan to break up that's why Pakistan remains together in one piece so once that support goes away Pakistan will naturally spontaneously fragment once that happens India needs to somehow find a way to dradicalize the people and that is a process that takes decades so it's a 50 year or 100year project after that time we can reintegrate them. Can't do it right now. It's madness. It's suicidal. You can't. Okay. 24 says, "Modi has met she most number of times than others. 20x." Okay. All right. Okay. Thank you for letting me know. Okay. Adita Achara says when it's said a planet or star is x amount of light years ahead how is it actually measured and how accurate is it? There's a concept of habitable planets one of the biggest lie sold to mankind. Okay. So how do we know how far a planet or star is away? How far it is from us? How far is a star away from us? So let's say you have a galaxy. Okay, let's say you have Andromeda galaxy and you want to find out how far that is from us. How do you do it? In see there are various kinds of stars. Okay, there is a certain kind of star that's called a standard candle and it's not a star, it's a supernova. How and we know exactly how much light it emits. How does it work? You have a neutron star which is orbiting it's a it's a double star system. You have a red giant and you have a neutron star or orbiting each other the common center of mass or it's maybe not a red giant a standard regular star and a neutron star together. Now a neutron star. No it's a white dwarf. What is it? Neutron star. White dwarf. Sorry. Maybe it's a white dwarf. Standard. I Let me just Google it. Okay. Standard candle. It's a white dwarf. Probably standard candle. It's a white dwarf. Most likely, not a neutron star. Da da da da da da da. Safi variables. Type 1. Type 1 a supernova. White dwarf. Exactly. White dwarf. So what happens is you have a white dwarf with a regular star. The white dwarf is absorbing material from the regular star. And if the white dwarf exceeds a certain limit of mass because it absorbs material, it explodes with exactly the same amount of brightness as every other such type 1A supernova. Okay, that's a standard candle. So if you know exactly how bright that light is and you know the the correlation between distance and in and luminosity, then you can calculate exactly how far away that thing is. And that's how we can find out the the uh um the distance that a certain galaxy is away from here. And similarly there are different uh you know techniques used for uh finding out the distance between us and various galaxies, various star systems and so on. Different techniques for different objects. Uh right and it's it's pretty accurate. It's pretty accurate. Now the concept of habitable planets is it one of the biggest lies sold to mankind? No, it's not. It's not. Planets can be habitable. If you have a planet in a different star system, okay, that has roughly the same mass as our planet Earth and it has a nitrogen oxygen atmosphere that's similar to ours and it has water, which is liquid water. It's a habitable planet. You could theoretically send human beings there and they could you you could send human beings with uh um you know seeds and all those things you could plant those seeds there and I suppose you could have life there. So so what is the definition of a habitable planet? It's a planet that can sustain human life or life as we know it. So it needs to have roughly the same gravity as our planet which means the same mass roughly. It needs to have you know an atmosphere similar to ours. Uh the density the pressure of the atmosphere doesn't matter but it should be an atmosphere similar to ours. Hopefully at at one atmospheric pressure of earth it should have liquid water and those are the three major basic components of what makes a habitable planet. It typically should be in the Goldilocks zone around its parent star which is the the distance around the star where you have the temperature that is you have the right temperature for liquid water to for water to exist in liquid form. So that's not a lie. It's it's true, right? It's true. But thus far we have not been able to travel anywhere. We were stuck on our planet. Okay. Yeah. Nabil Sarkcar says, "How to dispose of carbon dioxide from exhaust sustainably and safe?" I think you need to ask the experts. I am not an expert in this matter. Sorry, sir. Sorry, I'm not an expert in this. 24 Bat says in UNG vote to make food a right only US and Israel were against. The these nations seem to have very strange voting patterns, right? Strange indeed. Quite strange. Pritik Pawar says in a completely hypothetical situation if both the Indian army and public support is behind me can I carry out a coup in Delhi and take power into my hands? Hypothetical situation the Indian army and public support is behind you. Can I carry out a coup in Delhi and take power in my hands? Difficult. Why do I say so? Because in India, you are right. The what you're implying is that political power like Mao said flows out of the barrel of a gun. Yes. But who has the most guns in India? Is it the military? Nah, it's the police. If you want to do a coup, you will need support from the police. Who controls the police? It's the politicians. It'll be difficult. Okay, you have to understand how power really works. Power power power comes from the streets. Power comes from institutions like the police forces and so on. Uh Tommy Veretti says, "Was demonetization the biggest blow to Pakistani terrorist funding?" It was a massive blow to Pakistani terrorist funding. For sure it was. And only now people are beginning to realize that. Yeah, it was indeed it was I don't know if it was the biggest blow but it was a major blow. Yeah. Anik says J20 Wang way young way found dead after removal. You can Google. I heard about this. I heard about this. Uh I'll look into the details later on because it's uh I'm sure it's a rabbit hole I will dive deep into. But yes, I have heard about this a couple of times in this live stream itself. I will look into this. Saw says why do some people in LGBT community in India oppose BJP RSS when RSS has been open on gay marriage but Congress or other parties never have? I don't know. I I don't get it. I don't get it. It was the BJP under Prime Minister Modi that uh decriminal decriminalized homosexuality in India. Since 1947, since before 1947, since the British imposed British laws on India, since that time, homosexuality was a crime in India. It was legally punishable by with whatever punishment. It was Prime Minister Modi's BJP. It was his government that decriminalized homosexuality, right? The BJP who decriminalized homosexuality and there are some people in this community LGBT community that oppose the BJP RSS when it's the BJP that has finally given them the right to be equal citizens. I don't understand why it is like this. What is the case? Why it is the case? I don't understand the politics behind this but it makes no sense sense to me. It makes no sense to me. Sidi says, "Was Nehu allowing a separate Sharia civil law for Muslims after 1947 a terrible civilizational mistake? How can we enforce UCCC now? Is it possible? A separate Sharia civil law? I I think there should be just one set of laws for the for all the people in the country. You can't have different laws for different religions. Then you have essentially different nations within one nation. So I think that was not a good idea. It was not a good thing. I mean look at Turkey. Turkey also has you know they don't have Sharia law uh they don't have what triple talaq and they don't have polygamy and all in Turkey so why can't India be like Turkey yeah learn from Turkey I suppose so I think that was a definitely a mistake right uh how can we enforce UCCC now is it possible I have no idea I don't look into these matters I look at geopolitics history and science these internal matters I don't look into them so I I can't possibly comment about that because I'm not aware Yeah, IPK1s says alt theory on UN sec that gave up. USSR forced India to give it to China because in the 1950s USSR thought India is still an extension of the crown. No. No. The USSR offered the seat to India. Okay. The USSR was already a permanent member of the UN Security Council. On three different occasions, it was offered to India. once by the USSR, once by the US and USSR together and second, third time also together I suppose. So at least on one occasion it was the US and USSR together that offered the seat to India and it is well documented. It's not some theory from some from someone's imagination. It's well documented that both nations US and USSR wanted India to have it but Mr. Neu said no give it to China. So that was that that's what really happened. Aniket says but decentralization gave birth to warlordism can give birth to warlordism. What is this in reference to? Is this in reference to mosaic warfare? Look, there are risks with everything. But if you have a unifying civilizational identity or religious identity or ideology or something that properly unifies you, then there will be no world orderism, right? So there has to be a solution. If you don't have a common identity, then decentralization will give rise to fragmentation, which could could give rise to give rise to warlordism. Kumar Moria says, "Will India become like Pakistan due to corruption?" No. Nope. Nope. Nope. Tommy Vchetti says, "Why is open corruption normalized in the US? Trump making billions." I think it's a new US now. It's a different kind of US. It's a more imperial US where the emperor decides what happens and the emperor can, you know, that the rules that that apply to others don't apply to to the emperor and his minions. I suppose that's what we are seeing actually right now. Yeah, Subadep Subadepari says, "Why does the US consider Israel such a key ally and how does how so much influence does Israel have on the US decisions? Why US attack Iran just because Israel I discussed this multiple times today, so I will not repeat it over and over again, but I already took this question like at least two or three times today." Yeah. So, I've answered it. Achara, thank you very much. Very, very much Adita Achara. Thank you very much. Yashnagar says, "How given how divided and conflictdriven humanity still is, would the confirmed extraterrestrial contact change that or just intensify rivalry?" It depends on whether the extraterrestrial contact is just a contact, whether it's just an observation or it's an extraterrestrial invasion. If it's invasion, it could change things and and temporarily drive humans to to cooperate irrespective of whatever. But even that is not guaranteed. If there's an extraterrestrial um invasion of of the earth, let's say hypothetically, do you think the Jews and the Palestinians will work together? I I am skeptical about that. Yeah. So, yeah, even that may not solve the problems that we face in India. Aditia says, "Please answer my question." What's your question, sir? What's your question? The question about Israel. I answered it like three times. Was that the question? That question I've answered like three times. The US is royal thing. It's answered. If there's some other question then you can type the question instead of saying Singh. Please answer my question. Okay. Uh Godliness says my apologies for taking stating the take of Israel has been sold illegally on cheap rates while in reality they were sold legally but but legally but in cheap. No issues. No issues but something is looks like it's fishy which is what you were actually trying to point out which looks like it is fishy looks like based on the government of India report I mean selling a technology for 5,000 rupees 6,000 rupees what are you selling potatoes or what so yeah something seems to be potentially fishy and that's what you were trying to point out and I appreciate that Herman Bohoa says how should India deal with a dual front shaitan bur leftist within India Yeah, leftist within India soft power hijack and shaitani Akbar Pakistan overt external hostility. How should India deal with this? When India needs to clean up its act internally, the first thing India needs to do see these internal issues which are which are orchestrated by outsiders, right? India needs to clean up its act internally. First thing, expel all illegal infiltrators from Indian territory. There must be tens of millions of Bangladeshes within India. Everyone knows where they are. You can see them every day. But the government of India does nothing about them. I wonder why. Expel them all out of India. All illegal infiltrators. Whether they are Bangladeshies, whether they are Pakistanis, whether they are cookies, whether they are Rohindas, expel them all. That way that internal fifth front or whatever it is will will not long will no longer be there. Secondly, crack down on all missionary activity in India. If somebody wants to convert to a foreign religion voluntarily of their own inner desire, let them do it. Nothing wrong with that. But this artificial industrial scale demographic re-engineering you know project or projects that the foreign powers are running within India those have to be stopped when it come so these are some of the things we can do about shaitan bazorg when it when it comes to Pakistan we just have to stockpile our missiles and drones and when the time comes blitzkrieg 72 hours wars maximum. Pratep Kumar Roy says, "Sometimes I feel like I'm watching a test match while watching your live streams. Early 2000 memories." Yeah, I know. A test match generally lasts six hours, right? A session. I mean, a day and you have a lunch break and tea break in between. Lunch break is about 45 minutes, 50 minutes. Tea break is like 20 minutes. So, it's about 7 hours long. And this live stream is already 4 hours 37 minutes long. So it's approaching test match test match magnitude now. Okay. IPK vaness says YouTube channel le real talk expose that CCP asset Jang Lelay real talk. Okay. Okay. Jang you mean the the professor the professor that professor who is very famous these days. Okay. All right. I'm not aware of that but all right. MK for MKkesh Kumar says Jahind Ukraine Russia war best struggle Israel US Iran Asia suffers winters versus summers LPG shortage and imagine inductions join ACs this April okay if there's an LPG shortage you'll have induction heaters that people will have to use right electricity so this and this summer there's going to be everybody will be using ACES obviously because it's hot in summer so there's there's going to be a surge in demand for electricity which is going to you know put additional stress and and and additional burden on India's electricity grid. So the demand for electricity will rise and I hope that doesn't uh cause problems. So yeah yes yes these are real issues we're going to potentially have to face very soon. I hope the government is prepared for it. Pratep Kumar Royce says Pratep Kumar says how to create a black hole. No YouTube videos found. It's very simple how to create a black hole. You take an object. Okay, let's say it's 1 g. Okay, 1 g. You calculate its schwatz shield radius. The swatch radius is given by R is equal to 2 mg by C^². R is equal to 2 mg / C ^ 2 where M is the mass of your object. G capital G is Newton's gravitational constant. and C is the speed of light. 2 mg by C² is R the short radius of your object. So if it's 1 g, what is the short radius? Let's let's calculate the short radius of a 1 g object. Let's ask Google. I'll not calculate myself. I'll ask the AI. What is the short shield radius of a 1 g object? Calculate. It's about 1.48 * 10 - 30 m. Okay. 10 to -30. So that's definitely bigger than the plank length actually, which is nice. Um, yeah. So all you have to do is you take your 1 g object and you cram it into a space of smaller than 10 - 30 m. That's how you create a black hole. As simple as that. If it's 1 kilo 1,000 g, it's going to be you have to cram that 1 kilo object into a space of of roughly 10 to minus 27 m in diameter. You can do that. You're going to have yourself a black hole. As simple as that. The the the trick is to find the the strength to squeeze that 1 kilo thing into that small space. Yeah. Okay. Mavin says BJP doing great in geopolitics but terrible internally. I could not comment about what's happening internally. So, okay. All right, sir. Men, good to see you. Okay. Sayan Majublar says, "Your thoughts on the proposed national aero test center. Can it end reliance on foreign testing of coverage jet engine in high altitude trials?" See what we need is a dedicated test bed which is an aircraft on it's it's a test aircraft on which you can attach engines that you're testing. So typically that sort of aircraft will have four engines and one of the engines is the one you're testing. So even if it fails or whatever the aircraft will keep flying because it it's got three other engines. That's what you do. So that's the kind of aircraft we need so that we can actually test our jet engines not in a lab but up there in on in altitude to take it to whatever altitude you want, whatever speed you want and test it out there. That's what we need right now. We are I think we are relying on Russian um you know Russian help for this. So if we have a propo national aero test center with these facilities, it'll be fantastic for India. It'll be great. Pratipar Roy says what is more dangerous black hole pulsar neutron star or exoplanets like wasp wasp 1b what any of these things see a black hole is dangerous if it's in your vicinity and you have cross the the event horizon then it's then it's curtains for you but if it's lurking somewhere nearby it's not going to be dangerous for you it's not a vacuum cleaner that is going to you know re reach out to you and suck you in it's not like that you replace the sun with a black hole the only thing that will change is that we will have no more light here it'll freeze but the planets will not be sucked into the sun into the black hole if the black hole is exactly where the sun is. So black holes are not inherently dangerous as such. Pulsars not dangerous unless they you're right next to them then it's going to be a problem for you. Uh neutron stars once again not dangerous unless you're right next to them or you collide into one exoplanets. Don't go to one of these exoplanets and you're fine. I don't know what was 1b is, but 12b is, but I'm sure it's pretty interesting. Shall we see? Let's see. What is this exoplanet? Wasp 12b. What is that? Extreme hot Jupiter. Okay, it's a hot Jupiter. That's a certain class, a certain category of exoplanets which is a gas giant which is orbiting very close to its parent star. So, one side is super hot, other side is super cold. There's tremendous hurricane level winds going on over there and it's evaporating rapidly. So that's a hot Jupiter. See don't go to any of these places then you are perfectly safe. Okay. Polomial says cousin in 30 is alcoholism. Any advice from Hinduism? I I don't know what advice to give from Hinduism. I don't know. Uh, I would say take your cousin to a to a reputed detoxification center and and and make sure that he or she goes through the whole course and uh and I don't I don't know how to deal with alcoholism. I and so yeah, I don't know. I I think you will need advice from experts in this matter. I am not the right person to give any kind of advice in these situations. Okay. Um and I don't know I'm sure there is good advice that comes out of Hinduism but I I'm not aware of it. Yeah. So I can't say I'm very sorry to hear this. Please take care of your cousin and take him or her to the right right expert and seek professional help and yeah hope I hope it turns out well for your cousin. Okay all the best. Pratipar Roy says is life possible on exoplanets like Kepler 453 look I don't know let me see one by one what these things are Kepler 452b so 452b I said B a super earth okay how large super earth means it's a earthlike rocky planet but it's much larger than the earth and no no I'm not watching this it's about 1.5 5 1.6 larger in diameter. Okay. Uh is it in the Goldilock zone? Yeah, habitable zone where liquid water could could exist. So potentially, okay, it's 10% older than Earth. It may be potentially it looks like there is a chance that there could be life on Kepler 452b. Okay. What is key to um 18b super Earth? Once again, it's a super Earth. It's larger than the Earth, but it's rocky. It's 8.6 times as massive as the Earth. So the gravity is way way more powerful on this planet than Earth. Carbon bearing molecules they found methane carbon dioxide it's a it could be a water covered highen world. There could potentially be life on this planet for sure. Absolutely sure that there could be life on this planet. Very interesting. It's a water world but it's super earth. So it's not rocky. It's a water earth and it's very very large but almost nine times as large as our planet. massive as our planet. Okay. Proxima Centtory B. Proxima Centuri B. Let's see what's this like. Uh Rocky super Earth 1.27 Earth masses orbiting within the within the habitable zone of its red dwarf star. H good. Yeah, it's a good candidate. We don't know if there is water. It it we don't know if it has an atmosphere there. But Proxima Centtor is a flare star which is a problem. So yeah, I think it's less likely for life to exist on this planet because it's host star is a player star. Okay, what about Trappist 1e? What do we have here? Rocky earth-sized exoplanet. Wow. Goldilock zone of the red dwarf star Trappist one. I think it's a prime candidate for habitability. It's an earth-sized guy. It's in the Goldilock zone and it's Oh, it's tidily locked. It's tid tidily locked with its star, which means it's a little trickier there, but still think it's a good candidate. Kepler 62F potentially habitable super Earth. So, how 40% larger than Earth. It's rocky most likely and it's within the habitable zone. So these are all good candidates at least decent candidates for a potential the potential existence of life. Pratep Kumar Roy says hydration reminder. Good night everyone. Good night. Thank you very much for the reminder. I shall soon end this now. Djamat says Bobby Epen says hundreds of millions killed throughout history in the name of Christian teachings are due to imperfect humans. Why didn't imperfect humans do so in the name of Jane's? Janism, Buddhism, etc. Um, I wouldn't know. We know that um there were no killings in the name of Hinduism, Jinism, Buddhism. There was no oppression or persecution or colonization in the name under the under the pretext of following Hinduism, Buddhism, Janism, Sikism, Shinto, Tangism, Zoroastrianism, right? Never happened. So that's a good question you were asking, sir. Dirk Kamad, good question you're asking. Rahul says why and how Christian texts are used to justify crusades. Look, I am not an expert in Christianity, but I think Christianity believes that they their God is the only God, the only true God and everybody I think that the church, the Catholic church has in the past said that you know any human being who does not worship Jesus Christ is destined for hell and is is an inferior human being and is is a non-person or something and you know it's it's perfectly just justified to to enslave them, behead them, kill them, steal their land, steal their property, all of that. So because they don't worship the true god that sort of thing. I think that was the justification. Aida Singh says we don't want everything at the same time. We want things over time gradually. So please take care of your health and sleep on time. Maybe postpone the super chats to next stream. Well, this is the last super chat for today. So thank you very much. Thank you very much. Yeah, I agree. It's it's uh it's 4 hours 50 minutes almost. So I shall now take your leave. Thank you Abida Singh for this and this is the last supercharge for the day. No more for today. Thank you very much everybody. It's been a very long live stream almost 5 hours. Thank you so much everybody. Take care. I will see you in tomorrow's live stream. We will discuss more of what's happening. Until then take care. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. Keep learning. I'll see you very soon tomorrow. Take care. Good night. Good day. Bye-bye for now.