Heat. Heat. N. Hey, hey, hey. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the latest episode, the 253rd episode of the Ask Kabida show. Hope everyone's doing great and let us see who all is there on the live chat. Let me see. Let me greet greet you all. Man and bike GK Kulpip Chawan uh Jitesh Bhardwaj Info King Una Bunga Samarati Vin Esman Pachit Agarwal Anand Chandak Geopolitic Dubai from Indor Prenal from Kolkata Kumar Kanish MM Papu Pizza uh Subramana De Vakonda Shankit Adman uh who else we have Rahu Rahul Dak and who else do we Vinay esman again. Abham Chryalla Anu Deepta Bonjour Khal Bay Capil Singh Love Achara Putin Samatriati uh Sumitagarwal Sel Sharma Nishant Ti Anand Chandak um event countdown mlevin God was alive Suraj Binit Abhishek Shivastav Kaizen 007 Hunter Kenway Sam Kapalin Harsh Kapoor Duvya GK who else do we have Shri Ramachandra Maha Uh Prul Ra BG BCG Saranga Ninlay Nutan Roshan Vnav VI Watermelon Wkada Kalbearov Kapil Singh Love Achara who else? Tanmay Chakraorti Ankita Goautami Aoto Satapati Prit Agarwal Harsh Kapoor Bri Amit Jooshi Rohan Vinod Omar Omar Kamikar Prul Ra Shin Ramchandraan Naha again uh Sarang Dinali who else uh Nishad Nishant Mohit Yashika Spade Tanoy and everybody else all right thank you so much all of you for being on live stream. I really appreciate that. We'll take some questions as many as Quen as we can in the next hour or so. And let's get going. I will first take the super chats and then if they get over in this still more time, I'll take other chats as well. So, let's go with utkash lats to have max impact on 500 to in 500 50 to 100 years economic cultural objectives. Where should I put money as a donor as an investor? any specific sectors, companies, organizations. Look, it depends on how much money you want to put. If you want to have a real impact, then you got to put uh millions, maybe billions of dollars. So, if you are a donor as as if you're an investor, I would I would recommend you first invest wherever the return on investment is the highest and let the money grow. Let the money grow and then when you have substantial amounts of money, you can invest it somewhere. If you want economic cultural objectives, um, if you want economic growth for India and cultural growth for India, where would you invest as an investor, right? That's a good question. Let's say I, let's say I have a billion dollars. What would I do? Um, I would probably not think as an investor, as an investor. I would think as a philanthropist. I may start a university of my own in which I would have things taught the right way. I would do that. Uh what would I do? I would I would I would fund temples perhaps. I would fund a world yoga standards institute. What would I do? I would I would uh maybe if I had a billion dollars, maybe more than that, I would start an Indian version of SpaceX. So these are the things I would do. Now if you obviously I'm sure you don't have a billion dollars here but if you were to invest some money maybe you can invest in some something along the same lines but I'm not sure what return on investment you'll get as a consequence. I I said that I am thinking not as an investor I'm thinking as a philanthropist right now. Of course if you start a successful company like SpaceX it's that's not a philanthropic work that's that's that's good entrepreneurreneurial work. So yeah, it depends. It depends on so many factors. Um I would say that that put money wherever your heart is aligned. But if you want to think as an investor, I would say first of all, put put money where there's going to be the best possible return on investment. Then when you have more money, then you can do something like this. That's what I would say. Udb Sharma says, as for your analysis, do you suspect are the members of the actual deep state of the US? Why doesn't Bat or India have it? See every every nation has an extra electoral extra democratic center of power. But in a weak nation you have a weak weak deep state. In India you have people who are powerful without being part of the system. Right? Without being elected there are people who are powerful. They in India they what in Bollywood they call them king makers and all that. And there are some people who are super rich who have inherited money from the British times the days of the British occupation. So those you can say are India's deep state. But are they aligned with India's national interest? I'm not quite sure. So India doesn't have it. Now is the so-called deep state of the US aligned with the US national interest? I'm not sure about that also. Maybe the US itself is a tool they are using for global domination. That sort of thing. So who do I suspect are the members of the actual deep state of the US? Yeah. People with really old money perhaps. H whoever is the stakeholders shareholders of the Federal Reserve Bank and we don't quite know who they are. Of course the Federal Reserve we said will say that you know other banks are our stakeholders and so on so forth. It's a very very complicated web of obfuscation but whoever is behind all this is the members of possibly the deep members of the deep state. Who are they? Can I name them? I don't know the names. So can't say that's why it's hidden. Otherwise if if if I would know about it then how will it be hidden right it's got to stay hidden Kumar Kaneska says what would what could be the reason for the past incident especially the condition the bodies were found avalanche can't be the reason can this be a USSR cover up so there's this very fascinating incident that happened sometime in the 1960s a bunch of hikers went into some Siberian pass called the Datlov pass the leader of the group was his surname was Datloff and then they disappeared and then later their bodies are found in very strange conditions you It was freezing weather, snow everywhere, but they were found with their undergarments on and some people had organs missing and some absolutely weird stuff was there and uh yeah, so there's no explanation. No one's been able to explain what happened and there have been rumors of uh supernatural causes and alien abduction kind of activity and so on. Uh so what could be the reason? I have absolutely no idea. It's a mystery. That's the reason it's a mystery. It's definitely really fascinating, very mysterious, kind of creepy, kind of scary. And I don't know what happened. Maybe aliens came there because there are no footprints of somebody who did something violent to these people which caused their deaths. There's no they could not find any evidence of a shred of evidence of other people. So maybe these people were perhaps killed because they they discovered some USSR state secrets perhaps and then the USSR authorities covered up. That could be a possibility. But there's no evidence either way. Whether it's a USSR cover up or it's an alien abduction or aliens came and did something or there was some some supernatural entity. Absolutely no idea. Big mystery and it's an enduring mystery. Kumar Karnish says how does uranium react with dark matter in research? Uranium is regular matter. Regular matter doesn't interact with dark matter. That's the problem. Dark matter is supposed to be at least cold dark matter is supposed to be purely gravitating which means it will not react at all with any electromagnetic force object any object that interacts electromagnetically and uranium is just regular matter. So there's no interaction beyond the gravitational interaction which is super super super super incredibly weak like 10 tous 30 something orders of magnitude weaker than the weak force which is shocking. So no reaction. Mm says, "Your first beer biceps show changed my life." Thank you, sir. I moved from manufacturing to it at 30 by applying first principles also started running my agency. U Thank you so much. I it's it's so nice to hear the these stories. So, I really appreciate that and thank you so much for your contribution, sir. I really appreciate that. And once again, we have MM who says, "I have a one-year-old daughter. How can I raise her with Indian values and high standards knowledge of Indian history knowing the conditions of the Indian education system?" Yeah, that's a great question. How do you raise your kid with Indian values and high standards? You can expose your kids to to to the Rama and the Mahabharat ideally in your own mother tongue. You do that, you spend an hour a day, half an hour a day, uh going through this with your kid, you're going to that kid, the kid will have Indian values and the kid will have a higher standard than most kids. And if you want to have real high standards, you need to you know inculcate uh scientific approach in the kid. Best way is to make sure the kid is very well grounded in mathematics, basics of mathematics and understands science well. If you understand science well, you automatically will have the scientific method ingrained in you which is you know all the all the things that come with the scientific method, first principles analysis and so on so forth. Knowledge of Indian history, well that's a whole different thing. You need a lot of reading to know know Indian history properly and then there's a risk that you're going to get misled by Indian history because most of the books have distortions and kids are just so trusting it's not their fault they will read and they'll believe most of the people in India who are misled by our historians are completely innocent. It is not their fault at all. So you can't see them as enemies. My point is you know that learning Indian history properly is it's difficult that takes time that takes experience but Indian values Rama and Maharat teach that in your mother tongue ideally if possible Sanskrit that's even better uh and and yeah and and inculcate the scientific approach that should do it all the best all the best sir Kumar Kanesh says why does why is radioactive uranium abundant on earth compared to other rocky planets as it is not formed on planets does it have any relation to the origin of life. I'm not sure what the origin what the abundance of uranium is on Venus or on Mars. I'm not sure we have done any study cuz we hardly have any access to Mars. We have a couple of instruments over there, American instruments. They are not equipped to search for radioactivity as far as I'm as as I'm aware. I'm not sure they're equipped to search for uranium. So how do we know that there's more uranium on earth compared to rocky planets like uh like Venus or Mars or Mercury? Mercury we have absolutely no idea. So as far as I know there's no evidence that we have more abundance of uranium than Venus or Mars or Mercury. Right? So I'm not sure where you got this information. I am not aware of this information. Um now how does uranium form is the question. It forms in disastrous very very high intensity astrophysical events like the merger of neutron stars. Two neutron stars collide and merge that sort of thing. Then you have extremely heavy elements being formed like gold, lead, uranium etc. Right? So these uranium generally forms through these extremely energetic astrophysical events. iron etc forms during supernova explosions or it it is the precursor to the to a star going supernova and so on so forth. So the heavy elements they come into existence through very violent astro astrophysical events. So we inherited all this metal or whatever we have on the planet which came from the destruction of ancient stars. The sun our sun is about 4 something billion years old. It is a second or third generation star. The gas that it contains, the hydrogen, mostly hydrogen, 90% plus hydrogen, it came from other stars that had gone supernova before it. It's like the reincarnation of the reincarnation of a star. That's what the sun is. And everything on our planet was formed during supernova explosions or neutron star collusions. So the blood, the iron in our blood, you see the pink in in my palm, that's iron. That's hemoglobin. Hemoglobin, it has iron. The iron in our blood came from a supernova explosion from the death of a star and so on. Calcium. Calcium in our bones. All of that. So that's where we have it. Uranium is not related to the origin of life. It's not. Rohan says, "I hope you uh read my yesterday comment. Harsh truth by me." Um I get a million comments a day. I haven't read your comment. If you had to tell me a harsh truth, you could have put it over here instead of putting this. I I I'll try and look for it. Okay, I'll try. I I'm not able to read all the comments. I would love to read everybody's comments. Believe you me. Initially, I used to do that when I had like 10,000 subscribers. I used to read all the comments. Now it's not possible. Now, as long as I was taking questions for Ask Kabijit from the comments, I used to look at the comments and search for the Ask Kabijit hashtag. I used to look for all of those. has to read all of those like it it would take me hours but today it's simply impossible. I'm so sorry. Okay, please don't take it personally. So if you had to put a comment you could have put that comment instead of saying have you read my comment? You know think logically sir. Uh anonymous human says maybe a dumb question. No no no there's no dumb questions. Please ask. Why doesn't light have infinite speed? What's stopping it? It doesn't have mass so technically it should be infinite. That's just the laws that have been coded into the fabric of the universe. Maybe we have a multiverse and you have other universes with different speed limits. So there is something that has been somehow predetermined. See why is the universe the way it is? We don't know why it is like this. Why do the universal constants the the constants the physical constants why do they have these values? That's a big gigantic gaping hole in our understanding of physics. Why does the gravitational constant big G have that value? Why is plank's constant whatever whatever time 10 - 34 whatever word why is it like that? Why not a different value? Why is the speed of light so many m/s? Why is it that? And and so many other questions. all the physical constants. You can very easily Google the list of physical constants. Shall we do it? Let's do it. What's the list of physical constants? I'll give you a whole bunch of examples. List of physical constants. Here we have it. Let's look at an image. J E good example. Speed of light plank constant. Um minus Yeah. Why is the gravitational constant what it is? Why is the bolt span constant there? Um why is the charge of the electron whatever it is in terms of u kulums or electron walls or whatever. Why is the kulum's constant what it is? Why is the stfan bolzman constant what it is? Why are the constants why do they have these values? That's a big open question in physics and we don't have the answers. So your question is part of that. Why doesn't light have a different uh speed? Why is not why is it not infinite? So well I can give you an answer from the perspective of relativity that uh if light has infinite speed then yeah then you will have everything will have to have zero mass and that sort of thing. The point is we don't know the point is somebody coded these these constants into our universe. It's like there was a programmer okay there was a programmer who hardcoded these things. If you know programming you'll know what is hard coding. It's not a good practice but somebody hardcoded these parameters into the universe and we are stuck with them. Who is this pro programmer? So either we're living in a simulation or maybe who knows what else. Uh Vidic post says what about Islamic conversions analogous to Joshua project in India? You mentioned earlier is there a data I sir I am I don't look into these matters. I don't look into matters of religion and religious strife. I look at geopolitics. I look at science. I look at history. that's uh already a huge amount of stuff on my plate. Uh I cannot fight every battle, you know. I would love to I would love to have like three different heads and three different brains and six arms. Then I could do all this. But I am not aware of this. I'm so sorry. I am not I'm not aware of any data about uh the quant numbers and uh velocity and dynamics and whatever of various conversions to various other outside religions. Not aware of this. I'm aware that you know all these things are happening and it is being done orchestrated essentially I'm sure but it's not something I keep keep track of so I I I don't have the answer to your question. Um did I mention Joshua project? I don't think I've spoken about the Joshua project either. I'm sure there are lots of people who discuss these matters and maybe you thought that I discuss this. I do not discuss this. I don't discuss issues of religion. I'll talk about geopolitics. I'll talk I'm happy to take talk talk about science. I'm happy to talk about history. Beyond that, I don't get into other things. So that's not my my battle. There are other people, other warriors who will fight the battle, the good battle. So you can, you know, look look into what they have to say. They they are experts in these things. I have no idea whatsoever. Sorry about that, sir. Very sorry. Arun says, "Was she hassa evil like the students claim?" What students? Uh the students are misled. You see, was she necessary evil which was holding all the bad things of Bangladesh? So you have fallen victim to propaganda or maybe you're not victim to propaganda but you are seeing what the students are saying. Look students are what kids right? I was there. How was I when I was student and a clueless naive boy. I can look back at myself the way I was when I was 1920. I was super clueless about the world. I had a lot of book knowledge. I had no real world experience. Absolute naive. Everybody at the age of 20 is like that. At the age of 20, you think you know everything about the world. But you're super clueless and super naive. And it's very easy to mislead young kids. Young kids as like 18, 19, 20 years old, 20 year olds. So they have been told Shikas now was this evil dictator. India is the evil enemy, this evil Hindu nation. And they want Bangladesh down. They they are the enemies of Bangladesh and Shik Kasina was their puppet. So these students they believe it. Is it their fault they believe it? It's not their fault. It's very easy to mislead them. So they believe she she was evil and this this is a great change for Bangladesh. Mr. Muhammad Yunos the great Nobel Peace Prize winner. I mean who can be better than that? Dr. Muhammad Yunos he is the Bangladeshi Dr. Manm Singh. But at least Dr. Man Singh kind of was elected in some kind of roundabout way not really he was a member of the what Raja Sabha from not from Punjab from from Assam somewhere I don't know what what kind of thing it was so yeah Dr. Muhammad you know is kind of the Bangladeshi Dr. Mon so look it's very easy to mislead students she was not evil what did she do was she elected her she was elected multiple times by the people of Bangladesh they claimed the elections were rigged what evidence do you have the elections were rigged you are being rigged so she was not evil my friends she was not this is all propaganda which is amplified by the west by the way spade says Assar in the previous stream you said there were there are nuclear American nuclear warheads in Pakistan Is that true? I think it's a possibility. I think there's a non-zero probability that some of the nuclear warheads are American. Okay. I haven't been there. Uh they haven't invited me and given me access to check that see see a sar these are not American warheads. These are genuine Pakistani warheads. They have not allowed me to see. So I'm I'm just using some logic and common sense and saying that it's possible that the Americans have given their warheads to Pakistan as leverage against us. just a just a hunch and there is a non-zero probability that this could be true. Maybe this is there is a 35% probability that it's the case in my assessment. Uh Abishek says where is Elon Musk? Why is he sidelineed? Who is the deep state? The deep state is this invisible group of shadowy people who allegedly run the world and are the masters and owners of the United States. Allegedly. Where is Elon Musk? He is back in his office either at Tesla or SpaceX or wherever. He's back among his minions. He'll launch launch a few more rockets. Why is he sidelineed? Because look, he has served his purpose. Uh foreign policy that publication they are saying that he was a useful idiot for Trump. A clown they call him. The guy who has been intelligent enough to amass the biggest fortune in human history according to foreign policy is a clown but yeah he's inexperienced in politics and maybe Trump took him for a ride so he was used I think Vive Krai was super intelligent he got out of doge at the right time and doge doesn't seem to have made much of an impact and it's over now so I think Elon Musk is out and he's back running his companies but he's you got super deep pockets so he's going to be useful to Trump is going to remain useful for Trump for a long long time. So he's not entirely sidelineed but for now he's kind of uh no longer in center stage. All right. He's manticor says the only way radical abrahamic beliefs can be damaged or defanged is by good rational education, excellent per capita income and removal of blasphemy laws plus removing all kinds of misguided funding thoughts. Once again question about religion look what you need in India is everybody should be taught India's culture. No question about it. Everybody should be should be taught India's culture and we need to have why should we not expect to have the world's best education system. We invented education, didn't we? We had universities when the world was crawling. I mean was was living on trees. So we need to have good education. I don't like this word rational because rational is like you know the atheistic people in the the rationalists. There are a bunch of crazy crackpot loonies who like to use the word rational everywhere. So I'm kind of when I see the word rational go whoa whoa you stay away you you know rational. I'm so rational. I'm an atheist. All religions are irrational and this and that. All religions are the same. Irrational. So look I don't like this word rational but I'm I'm sure you mean it in a good way. Okay? So I'm not targeting you by the way. Um so we need good good education. No question about it. We need highest quality education. We need education that is focused on science, technology, education and math. Uh STEM, right? Whatever the STEM, science, technology and math, math, math. Uh that's what we need. And uh we need everybody to be grounded in Indian culture, values, morality, ethics and civilization. And obviously we need high per capita income. We need good living standards. We need good uh uh good governance. We need zero corruption. You do all those things in India will be heaven once again. So I agree with you. What you're saying makes sense. Yes, Vidimar is asking the same question again that she asked earlier. Well, it's okay. I can ask answer you again. Best source of veg protein without fats and carbs. No, it's a different question. It's not the same question. Last time Vi said, "What's the best source of veg protein without carbs?" Now she's asking without fat and carbs. Um, if you remove fat and carb, you're left with protein. But there's no wedge sauce like that. There's none. See, that's the ideal protein. It's just protein. There's no fat, no carbs. That's what you get from whey protein. So, I think veg protein is I think whey protein is veg protein, but it doesn't grow on trees. It's it's a dairy product. So what you do is when you when you're making curd when you're making curd you whey is that watery byproduct which contains a lot of protein. So you then somehow process it and you get this powder which is whey protein powder which is mainly protein. Now it depends on the brand. Some brands put a lot of sugar in that and they say it's only 10% carbs but there's 10% of sugar in there. You should go with the clean flavorless whey protein just white stuff. No flavor, no added anything, just protein. So I think there would have 20 25 grams of protein per scoop or something. That's the best source of veg protein, non u non cruelty protein, right? With no fats, no carbs. But if you don't want any processed stuff, whey protein obviously is processed, then you're left with paneer, which has a tremendous amount of fats. So that's all I can offer you. There's no other answer beyond that, sir. Um ma'am right Gagandepid Dutta says why is while China is supplying weapons to Pakistan why aren't we countering China by giving Taiwan supersonic weapons or giving them nuclear warheads because we're not children you see if we start uh giving Taiwan stuff then China will no longer hold back in giving Pakistan all the advanced stuff. They will give the J20 um quasi stealth fighter planes. They will give everything that they have at their disposal to Pakistan. They may even send their army into Pakistan to to bolster Pakistan. They can do it. So we don't want to escalate things. We'll keep things the way they are. The world is already at unstable enough place, tense enough place and whatever we want to do with Taiwan, we can do it secretly instead of doing it openly. Maybe we are doing stuff with heaven. But maybe maybe the citizens and civilians are not supposed to know it. See everything is not like what happens on the TV news debates and so on. Things happen quietly behind the scenes. So please let's not have all these expectations that everything will be done in public. There are relations between India and Taiwan by the way. by the way. Yeah, but we don't talk about them, so I already said too much. Hush, hush. Okay. Arian says, "If we send one entangled particle into a black hole and keep the other one under observation, would information still be conserved?" Is a good question. Yes. Would information still be conserved? No. That's not what I care about. I want to know what's the state of the other guy inside. Information conserved. The information is all right. So I have two particles. I I've created a pair of entangled particles. Okay, photons. Oh, whatever with they entangled. So what's entanglement? It's like we have two gloves. It's a very crude example, not a very accurate example. Let's say you have two gloves. A left-handed glove and a right-handed glove. You pack them in two packages. I send one to Nairobi. I send the other one to Moscow. My friend in Moscow, Mr. Putin, opens it. He says there's a left-handed glove. Is yes is left-handed glove. So it means that Mr. or whoever it is in Nairobi has received a writing glove that is so far away but immediately Mr. Bin knows what the other guy has. That's entanglement kind of. It's a very crude way of putting it. So let's say you have two photons which are entangled. It means what does it mean to be entangled in the at the quantum mechanical level? It means that their state can only be described by a single wave function. Okay, it's a composite system with a single wave function. So then you have this pair of particles that are described that are intrinsically connected to each other. And let's say I send one to Andromeda and I keep one here. Andromeda is a billion plus light years away. But still I will kind of know what's the state of the thing despite it being so far away that I can't access it through light speed travel for 5 billion years or something. So that's what entanglement is. So now let's say we take one of these entangle entangled particles and send it inside the black hole. There it goes. So will we know What's the state of the particle? We may actually that's a good thought experiment. We keep the other one under observation. What information still be conserved? What happens? Will we actually know? We will know what happens to the other guy as long as the other guy exists and doesn't become pure energy. Um so this is the question you're asking is not actually related to conservation of uh um the the information thing. It's uh more about quantum mechanical entanglement. So as long as the other particle remains in existence inside the black hole and doesn't get for some reason converted into pure energy then yeah you may kind of know what's happening inside. That's what I'll say. Rotan Roshan, thank you very much. Thank you so much. Diva Sharma says Vietnam, Indonesia, Singapore, Israel still sovereign. Singapore, Indonesia, Vietnam. Well, I have news for you. We got to study some history. Moit says, uh, that's why it's said that we all made of stardust. We are all made of stardust. We all made of star stuff. They made of stuff that was that was forged in these stellar furnaces, nuclear furnaces. All the stuff within us, it was created in the incredibly hot nuclear furnaces that are stars billions of years ago. And all of that is within us today. Just imagine that. So yes, uh Rohan Zurja says Trump's communic commerce secretary says India Russia relations hurt us. I just did a half an hour uh segment on that. So watch that. Watch that in the second episode of geost strategy with Kabijit with Aijit Cha in which I just covered this thing that you're talking about for about half an hour. Watch that please. GGZs says, "Can India become a presidential form of government like the USAFA in the near future?" No, not happen in near future. The current politicians will not allow that to happen. I feel the US UK system of democracy in a large country is pointless. Well, you're saying exactly what I've been saying for a long time. So, I completely agree with you, but it's not going to happen anytime soon. The current political system is deeply entrenched entrenched. All the current politicians have come to power and they have all benefited from the current system. Why will they allow the system to go away? Not going to happen. Even if it's good for the country, they won't allow it to happen because of their personal vested interests. So, it's not going to happen anytime in the near future, unfortunately. And it's sad. Uh Senpai says, "Are foreign powers undermining a Hindu family unit?" I think it's the maybe there are foreign powers doing it, but it's the uh it's the overall system that's doing it. I'll I'll tell you what the economic system it's in India the economic economy is such that you can do well in your life only if you move to a major metropolitan city. If you live in a major metropolitan city generally what you need to have is both husband and wife need to work full-time in order for the family to have a good salary and to have a good income. Now if both husband and wife are working then who's going to pro procreate? Who's going to produce kids? And if you have kids, who's going to take care of them? Maybe you can bring in your parents, the kids grandparents, but then who will who will provide for them? It's expensive. In big cities, very small apartments exist. And how can you keep so many people in the apartments? So both husband and wife have to work and all. So it's the system, the economic system that is undermining the Hindu family unit. Imagine in India where you can earn a great income no matter where you are. If you go to the if you go to European countries, if you go to Switzerland, you can have a great livelihood if you're living in a reasonably big city. You can have a great income and livelihood if you're living in a small alpine village. But in India, if you're in a village, you are in poverty. Imagine if you did not have a situation like that. Imagine if you could earn the same amount of money in a city and a village. Then what it would do is that the Indian traditional family system would continue the extended family which was very good. Then you could have kids even if you were working full-time and your parents or grandparents would take care of the kids. There would always be somebody to take care of the kids. So that was a great system. It's it's being actively destroyed right now. It's not foreign powers. It's the current system that is doing it. Our own system geopolitical dub. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Thank you sir. Mahesh Rani says do you do we know if the Indian government is investing in AI? We are we know that and the Indian government is investing in AI and I am way more in way more positive and optimistic now after seeing recent developments. Uh really now says would one like living in China Tan Square massacre. Today is the 4th of July 2025. What happened 36 years ago? If you ask somebody in China, they say, "What?" Nothing happened 36 years ago. What happened 36 years ago was a Thean Square massacre. Brutal massacre. Would one like living in China? Well, if you like an authoritarian nation, genuine authoritarian nation, sure, you'll like it. Look, they have better living standards than India. If you live in cities like Hong Kong or or Shanghai, it's first world standards. There are other places where it's still like India and so on. But the system is authoritarian and if you walk just one inch on the wrong side of the law you'll you'll face the full brunt of it. In India you can get away with anything. India India is a very very uh relaxed country that way. Yeah it's it's a real democracy and you have real freedom in India. Believe you me once you go out of India and live in some of these countries then you will know what real freedom is. So it depends on whether you are okay with such things. then you may just if you're okay with living under a dictatorship as long as the living standards are good then you may enjoy China perhaps but the culture is different so Priy Chakrabati says why are tailless fighter jets considered difficult to pilots to pilot yet China continues to develop models like the J36 and J50 look aircraft has traditionally have had a certain set of uh certain kind of design that ensures stability So if you look at Cessna aircraft, old ones and all, you can cut off the power but they will still keep on gliding under their own power. You take your hands off the controls, the aircraft will take care of itself. It'll just glide. It'll just glide. It won't become unstable. But when it comes to fighter planes, you deliberately in you deliberately have a design that is unstable because that is more maneuverable. But then for maneuverability and control, you need a computer, a high powered computer with thousands, probably hundreds of thousands, millions of lines of code to control the aircraft properly. Otherwise, it'll just tumble, right? So, and and some of these fighter jets are tailless and yeah, tailless ones because they don't they lack the hor they they lack the vertical stabilization. That's why they are even more difficult to control. For example, the the stealth bombers, the big ones, they they're shaped like boomerangs, like bats, right? They have no tails. Super unstable aircraft. They have very powerful computers that control the flight every millisecond. Uh so yeah because of the physics because of the the um because of the the way the the you know what do you call it fluid dynamics aspect that's why they are so unstable but they controlled by computers and that's what and and because you can't have such characteristics like a vertical stabilizer when you want to have stealth characteristics also so you got to dispense with that but that makes it more unstable. So that's why you will need to develop more models like this, more advanced models like this if you want the stealth characteristics and the other characteristics you want. So there you have it. Uh Ritikani says Russia being the closest ally for us but do they still have a spy network in India and vice versa? If yes, then what for? Even France and Israel too any major self-respecting nation will gather intelligence about its friends, allies and enemies. Everybody look why do you have embassies in other countries? One of the main purposes of an embassy is to collect intelligence in Israel. If you are an Israeli armed forces soldier, it is a court marshal offense for you to accept a ride from a vehicle that has foreign diplomatic plates because all foreign diplomats are regarded as spies including Indian Indian diplomats. So, Israel regards our diplomats as spies. What does it mean? It means their diplomats are also spies. By the way, excuse me. Hello. Wake up. So, my point is if you look at it from a certain perspective, all diplomats are spies. All diplomatic staff and personnel are spies. They all have different functions, different specializations, but they're all spies. They're all collecting intelligence. Some overtly, some legally, some illegally, some covertly. So, everybody does it. That's just the way the game is played. Even your friends do it to you and you also do it to your friends. And that's all I will say about this. All right, that's welcome to the real world people. Let's open our eyes. Let's dispense with the naive. The real world operates in this manner. Rahul Lakshmanan says, "What's the status of the river in third linking project? Is it a good idea on paper? When will it be completed with a probability estimate?" I have no idea. I look at geopolitics. I don't look at what's happening within India, whether we are linking the rivers. Is it a good idea? I'm not sure if it's a terribly good idea. I'm not sure if it's a horribly bad idea idea. It's a reasonably good idea. Look, one of the issues with river river inter is that you know you may cross-pollinate species that in some cases in some rivers you have species that are that are found only in that river. Maybe it's a gigantic river so it's big enough to have species that exist only in that river but when you start interlinking rivers you may have that crosspollination which may not be a naturally occurring phenomenon. So you're kind of tampering with nature but for the nation it may be very valuable that sort of interlinkage. Um so I think from a national strategic perspective it it's I think it makes a lot of sense probably. Yeah. But I am not aware of the status of the project. I know it exists. I've not looked into the status and I don't know whether it will be completed with probability estimate. I have no idea because I know nothing about it as of now. I would give a 50% probability it'll be completed in the next 10 years. I'm just saying because I don't know. I think overall it's a good good uh idea. Bharava Pakum Pakamuri says India boasting without shielding all scientists. I don't understand the question sir. What's the question? India boasting what exactly? Are we boasting that we have UFOs? Are we boasting we have stealth submarines? Are we boasting we have hypersonic aircraft? Are we boasting we have the world's best AI? What exactly are we boosting? If you could be a little more specific, sir, I could actually be able to answer your question. Uh, but I appreciate the fact that you've contributed. So, you know, next time please give a little more details so that I I understand what you're saying. Uh, Arun says, "My dad always said that if Indra Gandhi was alive, she would have annexed Sri Lanka. Is it true? Having Sri Lanka as a state sounds good." Well, she was alive, wasn't she? She was alive for a long period of time and for a long time she was prime minister. Did she enex Lanka? Did she try annexing Lanka? So look, I have not seen any evidence of that. And if she did not do it during her, you know, lengthy life life lifespan, uh, how do we know that she would have done it today? And does it make sense to annex Sri Lanka at this point in time when when the world is already on edge? Why not just have economic and cultural integration, reintegration with with Sri Lanka? Kind of what we have with Nepal without annexing it. Why do something violent? Why not achieve the same objectives in a very nice, peaceful, mutually acceptable manner? We should have the same arrangement with Sri Lanka that we have with Nepal. They are our own people. They look like us. They speak like us. They talk like us. They eat like us. They have the same ancestry as us. Culturally, we understand each other very well. We're the same people. Just open up, right? No visas required. Just walk in if you want. Just the way we have with Nepal. I think we can do that with Sri Lanka. Then what's the need to annex the nation? It's a wonderful, nice, beautiful nation, wonderful people. Why scare the hell out of them? Why make them feel upset? Why make why give them a grudge to hold against us? Just open up, integrate the nation economically and other ways and let them have their sovereignty, but let them also be part of us. That's the right way to do it. Really? now says when no was it the absence of divorce that prevented polygamy to promote promiscuity in ancient India or just innate values or both what actually matters it was our cultural values that pro that that prevented promiscuity in India we do not have that and we had provisions for everything so um usually most people did not practice polygamy first of all right most People just would marry once one person in their life and that would be it. It was generally kings who would practice polygamy usually because it was imperative for them to have many offspring male offspring generally because that's how it works. So it was generally practiced only by kings. The regular person would not have multiple wives, spouses etc. Right? It was just and it was a cultural thing. It was a cultural thing. It's it's in value. So it's allowed but it's not really done unless you're a king and you need multiple offspring because you know it's a geopolitical thing. It's a question of succession. You need to have multiple options from where you can choose the best possible successor. In that case you can do that. That's how it was. So it's or cultural values and so on so so forth. And promiscuity was completely unheard of in India. Of course you had texts like the Kama Sutra and all. You also had the fact that you know prostitution was not illegal in India but it was frowned upon very badly. So it was not illegal it was but it was regarded as immoral but it was still allowed by the state. It was taxed heavily and so on. So everything was allowed in India but most people would not do it because of our cultural values. Okay. Uh Vic post again says why don't schools teach Achara Profulachendra a great chemist. Achara Prulachendra a great chemist. his students contributed to modern chemistry and physics. Can you highlight his best teachings? I'm afraid I can't I I'm not aware of his best teachings. First of all, I am I don't know much about chemistry and I'm not really aware of this gentle because I have never really studied chemistry. I have not bothered to uh know about India's great chemists. The one great chemist I know of is Dr. Gotham Diu who has the highest number of published papers and citations in India. uh but let's okay I don't know nothing I don't know anything about Acharia Prulchandra but let's Google him and let me do my best to quickly learn something about him so Acharia acharandra roy Indian chemist and educationist now I always say don't look at Wikipedia because it lies to you okay let's look at West Bengal tourism what do they have to say about achara roy Okay. Okay. Indian government sites don't open. That's lovely. So I'll have to go to Wikipedia. Please remember Wikipedia is not a reliable source of information. I'm just doing a first pass over here. He was an Indian chemist, educationist, historian, industrialist, philanthropist 1861 to 1944. The father of Indian chemistry, Royal Society honored his life because we need white validation of course, right? Um etc. He was the founder of Bengal chemicals and pharmaceuticals. uh family background, childhood education, student in Britain, scientific research, mercurous nitrite uh for he for discovering nitrite chemistry extremely effective etc. crumbled this field for several years. Long discipline etc etc etc. Various chemical reactions that we have. Okay. Revolutionary in the go of a scientist deterioration. Okay. Social reformer etc. Literary works. Okay. Looks like a person who had multiple interests. That is what you the the term you use for that is is polymath. So looks like it's somebody that is who has done a lot of u interesting and probably important work. I was not aware of this gentleman. So thank you for bringing this to my notice and I hope that through through this medium more people will go and look him up and maybe learn about him and in case he's genuinely a great uh Indian scientist then then schools should teach about him. Schools absolutely should teach about him. This is the problem in India. We don't value our people. We don't value the people who have spent their whole lives serving the country and and bringing bringing a good good name for the to the country. That's that's the sad thing about India. viron school teachers because in the schools the education system's objective is to make people ashamed of being Indian and to and to you know give a big inferiority complex to people. That's the that's the objective of of the education system. That's why it's that's why the situation is the way it is. Uh Kiran Mida first of all thank you so much. That's a very generous contribution. I really appreciate that sir. So the uh okay what's please e please please ask your viewers to watch his story of itas well-made movie about how Indian his history and education was destroyed it's suppressed by the leftist gang it needs support I'm not related to the producers in any way sorry for hack no that's all right please ask your viewers to watch the the history of a well-made movie. Okay. So, yeah, certainly people should check it out. I'll check it out. What is the story history of itas? Let me quickly Google it. Uh let's let's quickly take a do a Google search. What is history of? Let me find out. Uh history of it. What is this? His story of Ithihas. Okay, this is the IMDb thing. It's a true story about a physics teacher who stands up against the system to question the wrong and distorted history of India taught to Indians for generations in the schools. Well, sounds familiar somehow. A physics teacher who stands up against the system. It's got a 9.9 rating out of 10. That's outstanding. 2 hours 24 minutes 2025. And u what's the review? Obviously the reviews will be good and so on. And who are the the actors? Arun Arun Vikal Yogendu I think I've seen him before uh Subod Bav Namya Saka Sachin Jaral and other other people don't have images and so on. Was Dama discovered India. Yeah, I know this. Okay, sounds like an interesting movie. So uh thank you sir for for your contribution and I certainly will check out this movie. Is it available on in cinema houses or is it available online? I'll find out and I would recommend everybody do that. I'm sure it's a great initiative uh to to to bring this fact to everyone's attention that our history has been so so badly distorted and so on. So yeah, thank you for bringing us to our notice. Kiranji, thank you sir. Spade says Sar, shouldn't India increase its nuclear arsenal just like China which has announced plans to add a 1,000 nukes to add a,000 nukes by 2013? We should increase it but we need not necessarily announce it. Some things are best left in the shadows. So yeah if the Chinese are you know first of all how many nukes do we have? The western media says we have a what 170 nukes and they say Pakistan has 165 or maybe we have 180 they have 170. They always want to hyphenate India Pakistan. How do they know how many nukes we actually have? Have they come and checked or what? Maybe we have more. There have been studies done in the past about how much file material India has and it turns out that we have sufficient file material. I mean we had until around 2020 sufficient file material for about 4,000 nuclear warheads. Now some of it is locked up in nuclear reactors. Some of it is locked up in submarines. Some of it is locked up somewhere else. But we still would have sufficient facile material for at least a thousand warheads, maybe more. So look these things we don't discuss these things the government never announces the military never announces these things are done are kept under wraps but yeah if the Chinese are increasing their arsenal there's no question we should also follow suit um really now says who has is who has is who has is tougher in the world today okay who is tougher in the world today India or China look who's stronger in the world today China tougher. We have existed for more than 10,000 years. We are tough. We are tougher. But they are stronger right now. Got it. Arismanticor says according to the science, absence of evidence does not mean evidence. Absence of presence. Okay, let me just wrap my head around that absence of evidence. The evidence is not there. Does not mean absence of presence. You're right. Yeah. So why do atheists then say that God is not real without proof? The the their imposition of this belief on others seems religious. It's it's ideological. It's it's almost religious in nature. Atheism itself is a it's a religion. Atheism itself is a religion by the way. Um it's it's just another movement. It's another religious movement of some kind. But in this case, the the non-existence of the non-existence of God is their creed. It's their belief system. You can't prove that God doesn't exist. The same way that you can't prove that God exists. Listen, you can't mix science and religion, science and theology. What is science? Science is based on empirical observations and physical objects in phenomena. Now when it comes to God, when it comes to the soul, atma, these are nonphysical entities. The atma, the soul doesn't have a physical shape or size or weight. And God is also not a physical object. It it's something else. So it is not part of the physical world. Right? So then if it's not part of the physical world, how can you apply the laws of physics and the laws of the universe to these things? That itself is is super stupid. But they are not intelligent enough to understand how super stupid they are that they're trying to disprove the existence of God through the physical laws. Super stupid. That's why I say I've said this and I I apologize to those who are offended, but atheists are super stupid people. incredibly stupid people. I mean, how on earth can you make the claim that I know everything in the universe? I know everything about the universe that I know that God doesn't exist. How on earth do you know that? How do do you even know what's beyond the universe? of there is something beyond the universe. Making the claim that God doesn't exist is essentially making the claim that I know exactly what's happening all across the universe and beyond it which to my for me for a very small small intellect by like me it's very stupid really. Okay. Grock says universities are producing mostly left youth left youth leaders. Why? Because they're designed to do that. It's by design they're doing this. All right. Um, Vidi says, "I Vidi says, don't trust internet as much as I trust you. So ask." Thank you, ma'am. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that and I gave you the best answer I had. Gra says, "Please search China non-uclear hydrogen bomb and explain." Okay. Okay. Let's do that. China non-uclear hydrogen bomb. China non-nuclear hydrogen bomb. What is this? China tests non-uclear hydrogen bomb. Science paper blah etc shows white hot fireball 15 hydrogen- based explosive. It's a hydrogen based explosive device. It's not a thermonuclear bomb. 2 kilogram bomb etc etc. More than 2 seconds 15 times longer etc etc. key and magnesium based solid state hydrogen storage portal. The silver powder is magnesium hydide stores contributed more hydrogen than a pressurized tank. Okay, good. It was originally developed to bring the gas to off-grid areas. So, it was originally developed as a storage system for the gas because it it stores more hydrogen than a pressurized tank. But then you can use it for other purposes like making a bomb. So, when activated by convention Okay. Fine. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, fine. Okay, I get it. Okay, long story short, very very interesting, very long. The main main thing is there is a material called magnesium hydide that stores considerably more hydrogen than a pressurized tank of hydrogen. It was originally developed to transport the gas to off-grid areas by storing it inside this material, the silvery white powder called magnesium hydide. But then geniuses thought, "Wow, we have so much hydrogen, such a small thing. Why don't we try setting it on fire or exploding it? And then he discovered, wow, superb. So that's the deal. It was supposed to be a means of transporting hydrogen, but then they turned it into a weapon. Every technology has multiple uses, different kinds of uses. It depends on who is using it and what their per objectives are. There we have it. Real analysis. Could the big bank have emerged from a singularity? Well, that's the standard uh scenario, right? If we we know that the universe is expanding so we know what's going to happen back you know far in the future but if we just reverse the time and play the tape backwards it means that we are all contract the universe was contracting so it it means the universe was much smaller in the past and it kind of implies that it started from a singularity we don't know we don't quite know if it was a singularity or maybe it was something else but it started from a very small almost pointlike structure that's what it looks Like Gagandit Deepa says, "H is useless when it comes to building aircraft and engines. We are 30 years behind China when it comes to building fighter aircraft. Shouldn't we privatize H?" Um well, that's for the government to decide. Maybe maybe privatization is a good idea. Maybe it's a bad idea because now then the government no longer has control over it. Maybe we should have public private partnerships in which some things stay in the hands of the government. some things become uh are are done by private players. Generally p private players they achieve better results, faster results. Uh so maybe the government doesn't want to give up control over this entity. So maybe encourage private players to to enter this industry, the arms industry and so on. I think it's happening kind of. I'm not sure if it's entirely useless, but yeah, there are significant issues. No, no question about it. No question about it. Um when it comes to fighter to aircraft engines it's the GTRE that does it right the gas turbine research establishment Bangalore bang Bangaluru um and they are developing the caviri engine and they have done reasonably good progress in that but we still have waste coal Ankita says doesn't Russia's slow war strategy hasn't it been hasn't it been proved to be severely counterproductive giving Ukraine a plant to such a devastating operation on Russia when it could have flattened Ukraine quite early in war. It doesn't make sense to me what they're doing really. Uh if I was Mr. Putin, I would have finished the war in two weeks. But then Mr. Putin knows better than me, right? I think they have taken it they they've let it let it meander for too long and this has given Ukraine the opportunity to because Ukraine is not being uh taken over. It means that Mr. Zilinski is now seen as more legitimate despite him now being a dictator because he is no longer the elected president but he has imposed martial law and because he has been in power so long he has learned the ropes and now you know Ukraine is able to use these asymmetric beans to strike deep and hard in into Russia thousands of kilometers away. So if the Russians had overwhelmed Ukraine in the first few weeks of the war and in the first year of the war or by 24 2024 then these things would not have happened. So it looks like it has proven counterproductive. It looks like the Russians want to just grind grind Ukraine down and slowly steadily reduce Ukraine's ability to fight against Russia. But then these things happen and the west keeps on supplying weapons and they have given Ukraine the authorization to use long range weapons now which again could cross significant red lines and so on. So I think it's not a good strategy. I think it's been counterproductive. It was okay for a while but at the end of the day if you have military objectives please go and object achieve them. Your military objectives and political objectives are kind of tied together. Achieve them and get on and move on with life. So I think it's not been a good strategy and it's it's yeah it is what it is. So I agree with you it's it's it's been significantly counterproductive. The losses they have sustained now I mean if it is true that they lost more than 40 aircraft is it's a disaster. It doesn't mean that they cannot they can no longer deliver nuclear warheads wherever they want but it's a disaster anyway losing 40 high I mean you know high value aircraft bad very bad. Saranj thank you so much appreciate it. Thank you sir. Arismicores what grade of AI do you think was used in opind military grade AI? That's what I would say. Uh Tjasma thank you very much sir. First of all a while ago after Ratanta died you asked for you were asked for your opinion on Mr. Tata but you said it was too early to comment. Can you please share your thoughts about him now? I think it's too early to comment. you know when um when Mr. Zia lie of China he was asked by I think kissing Mr. Henrik Kissinger or somebody about his opinion on the French Revolution. Mr. Chamom said I think it's a little too early to comment about it. So I think I will I will I will should I employ that strategy? It's a little it's still too early like the French Revolution. It's still too early to know how how well it went. Look, what do I have to say about Mr. Utata? I think afterwards I spoke about it. What did I say about Mr. Tata? Let me just quickly see my own channel. What have I said in case I have said it then I don't need to repeat it over here. Uh let me quickly go to uh let us do a search on my channel in case this is okay. So let us search here. This is how you do it. Ratant Tata. Did I speak about Mr. Ratant Tata? Views on Ratant Tata five months ago five months ago. So I I would s suggest you watch this and uh that would be it. But overall I mean why would I ask you to watch that when I'm over here live? So let me look Mr. Tata was a great uh industrialist entrepreneur all that uh etc etc never married that's his personal life I don't give a I don't I don't care about that [Music] um but there are some problematic issues he is known to have uh funded uh academic research in the west that is very strongly pro- India he is known to have funded other uh organizations media organizations possibly that have been disfavorably inclined towards India etc. I don't remember the specifics of it right now but yeah I the legacy is mixed and kind of clouded in my opinion what exactly were the things which organizations did Mr. of fund. Um let's let's go and uh let's go and Google let's go and Google this. Okay. Ratan Tata funded anti-India uh organizations today um Tata tapes controversy philanthropic Tata trusts caught between SCM Tata group funding anti-Hindu activities in India and so on. Po says Tata group is international. So if you look into these matters, you will find out that there are issues. There are issues. Okay, I don't remember the specific details right now. I had looked it up about 6 months ago. But there are issues unfortunately. So yeah, people like to glorify individuals without studying their activities in detail. Just because the media is glorifying somebody, it means it doesn't mean that you to jump on the bandwagon and start saying ah yay great sir, great sir, great sir. There are issues with many people. Jugen says the economic trajectory of India and China was the same up to 1991. Yes sir. But after 30 years China is manufacturing cup of world. Do you think it's because of the one party system whereas democracy is messy in my opinion? Uh yes it is indeed the case. When you are a dictatorship you can get things done immediately or almost immediately. You are obeyed when you're a dictator. In a democracy, there are checks and balances and there is federalism and there's a separation of powers between the center and the state and a state has a different political party. The center is a different political party and they're opposing each other and all kinds of complications and messes. In China when Mr. Xiinping says do this everybody everyone does it then you have a much more agile system much more responsive system you can implement your decisions quickly. In India it takes a lot of time. There's a lot of friction. There's a lot of inertia in India. China it's smooth. That's why they are ahead of us very clearly. So I agree with that. Yes. Dext Dexter Laboratory says do you listen to Achara Pashant? No sir. Never never listen to him. Wooden Armory PK says I have an internet IT working in a fang company. What should I do to ensure livelihood 10 years down the line when AI eats up all the jobs? The only way you will you will thrive in the age of AI is if you learn how to become AI's master. How to use AI instead of being afraid of it. So, uh look, you're in a fang company, right? So, you you're going to learn how to use AI in in what let's say let's say you're a programmer, okay? It cool, you say. Um let's say you are not a manager but you're a programmer. So you are probably developing or maintaining some software. So what are the roles as a pro as a IT You have a programmer or coder who either creates new software or does maintenance or you are a business analyst who will talk to the business folks and get the requirements and create requirements documents, design documents and so on so forth or you are in the testing uh you know QA quality assurance which is testing which means you take the newly developed software or maintenance software and you test it against the client's requirements and so on so forth. Now if you were think like a founder, okay, think like a founder. You as a founder, you have a number of employees who work for you. Now when AI becomes good enough, you will want to replace the employees who are humans and who have deficiencies with the AI which is more predictable and powerful. So the question is if you were a founder, how would you use AI? How would you use AI to augment your work and make it better? If you can learn these things then you will be one of the managers of AI in a future company or in a future uh time period. You will know how to handle AI and how to manage it. Then you will be one of the few humans who has a job in an IT company but you are managing AI employees. That's the kind of thing you have to do. Japan if offers jet engine for AMCA. Will the US allow it? Maybe the US has asked Japan to do that so that they can insert some problems for India. Uh Rohan Suna says, "Your views on the Rosschild family, how powerful are they?" I haven't studied these people, so I don't know. U clearly they're an old old money family, but I haven't had the time to study their their family history and uh they seem to be pretty wealthy today. Also, it is alleged that they are part of the what Illuminati and deep state and whatnot. I don't know about this. I haven't studied their history so far. I haven't had the time. So sorry Ryik says why are Indians so gullible and can be manipulated by anyone easily and love getting validated by west can they how can they come out of their mental colonization it's this inferiority complex thing right Indians have a tremendous inferiority complex because of so many things because of the education system because of the media because of the the role models they look up to when the when your role models are all sar of the west you will also feel the same way and The education system doesn't teach you how to see how to decide what's right and what's wrong, how to do critical thinking. So you're gullible. You're going to be you're going to believe nonsense. Then you're going to be easily manipulated. So because of these things, Indians are gullible. Indians can be manipulated easily. And Indians need they crave western validation. How can you come out of mental colonization? By learning the truth, by by learning the true history of India that we were never second to anyone. we were the number one economy and so on so forth and if if you develop some self-respect and so on you will not have mental colonization I personally have never suffered from this problem for whatever reason but I it pains me to see Indians my fellow Indians uh be like this it's painful sorry Barav says India touts tech war but ignores scientists okay that's the question you were asking okay thank you so much for giving details let's let's see India touts tech India touts war technology technology but in ignore scientist safety with private firms in what precautions is India taking to protect them 50 characters limit okay okay I got it so we have war technology but we are ignoring scientist safety I've heard in the past that Indian uh nuclear engineers or or scientists or whatever some of them allegedly it seems there were deaths suspicious deaths and Um I'm not sure what how true it is but we know that Dr. Homie Baba was killed in mysterious circumstances. Not a natural death. His plane was crashed into the into the Swiss or French Alps. It was not found for 40 50 years. So yeah, these things have happened uh with private firms in what precautions is India taking to protect scientists? Well, whatever precautions we may be taking or the government may be taking to protect our our key scientists, uh those will not be announced and those will not be publicized. So I can only tell you this that I am hopeful that whoever the key scientists are, we are taking all the precautions we need to ensure their safety. We've had things happen in the past. For example, General Bipin Raat, he was a key uh military person and we know how he how he died. We still I mean I'm not sure if the report has come out and it doesn't really matter what report comes out because the real truth will stay secret. So yeah, we got to be careful about this. This is all all I can say. I'm not in the government so I'm not sure what precautions we are or are not taking. I cannot tell you because I'm not privy to that information but I certainly hope we are. I certainly hope we are. Uh Captain says are doing anything on non-parmanu hydrogen bomb like the one China tested recently. Don't you think that would be more practical to have than the classical ones? No. The classical the classical ones cannot be replaced by the one that the Chinese tested recently hydrogen nitride or something. The class the classical ones especially the the thermonuclear ones nobody can replace them. Uh so I'm not sure if India is doing anything about the non-nuclear hydrogen bombs. Uh the technology seems to be pretty straightforward. You have this chemical which stores a lot of nitrogen uh sorry hydrogen and you can set it off with conventional explosions and then the output is very nice very strong but I'm not sure it can go to kilo to megaton ranges I don't think it's going to go to megaton kind of kind of yields so that's why you can't replace the thermonuclear bombs says followup what's your opinion on Hindu lankan refugees immigrants they don't hate us and are integrated when compared to hateful ones from the East. I have no issue with Hindu refugees from Sri Lanka. Anybody who doesn't hate us, doesn't want us dead, who is okay, who is who is um who is civilizationally and culturally compatible with us, I'm okay with that. My problem is with those who want us dead. The 100 million Bangladeshes in India, they they are not our well-wishers. They have no allegiance to India. They have no allegiance to our culture or civilization. Those are the ones we have to evict and deport. Lankans, they're not going to do anything bad to us. It's okay. We are the same people anyway. So, I have no issue with them. As Manteor says, I don't get I don't really get with right-wing or leftwing split. Why can't leaders think about society's problems and find a solution without locking their flame frame of thought? Is it that hard for critical thinking? That's the problem with the political party system that you are that you once you enter a political political party you're forced to align yourself with a certain ideology. Maybe you you found that ideology attractive initially you join the political party but if you are a well if you're a thinking person you'll find that at least in the case of some political parties the ideologies are international then what do you do if you have any sense you leave but I don't know how it works. So the problem with the political party system is that you ali you're you expected to align with a specific ideology. Maybe the ideology is good in some cases but let's say you are let's say let's say you're elected to the parliament of India from so and so con constituency. The people of your constituency voted for you to represent them in the Indian parliament. So you are supposed to go to the Indian parliament and represent this group of people and you have to take care of this group of people and whatever their aspirations are, whatever their problems are, you have to be able to solve them from the parliament of India. That's why you've gone there. But because you are in a political party, you have to ignore your constituency and do whatever the political party's leaders say because of party discipline. Is it good for your constituency? You're going to end up ignoring them. So that's the problem with the political party system. It's not ideal. You see, Yashika says, "Is there a real link between LOA and the cosmos?" Now, what is LOA? What is LOA? Let me Google it. L O A. A god in the voodoo religion of Heiti. Look, this is what I Googled, right? L O A. Okay. LOA and the cosmos. Eloa law of attraction the belief that our thoughts change of shape our experiences by influencing the energy of the universe. Look this is al what you would call pseudocientific. I I personally am am not aware of of any link between the law of attraction and the cos cosmos. Sorry sorry sorry. Uh Spade said says did Neu Chacha push bach doi a for Hindus by allowing Muslim polygamy suppressing Hindu traditions to undermine Hindu population. Should we allow polygamy polyandry again? Is it possible? Look Chacha Neru I'm not sure I know about his geopolitical blunders. I'm not sure about other things. What he did internally and what he did about the Hindu Muslim dynamics and all. This is something I am not aware of. I don't study this stuff. I study geopolitics history, the history from a global perspective, not from the religious perspective. There are many other scholars who do that. I am not the person to ask this question. So I don't know what Mr. Nu did about the birth rates of Hindus versus Muslims versus any other religion. I'm not sure about that. He was not fond of Hinduism. We know that. We know that for sure. I I would that much I know. Uh and I'm sure that he would have loved to undermine the Hindu population. That also looks pretty u plausible based on his uh proclivities and his uh perspectives right uh should we allow polygamy polyandry again look our civilization our culture says that has has nothing against polygamy or polyandry I would say leave it to the individual I I would say don't ban anything just like we have unbanned LGBTQ stuff whatever that is right we culturally have never had anything against LGBTQ people who ever existed. Similarly, we have nothing. We have had nothing. We've never had anything against polyandry or polygamy or whatever. We are a very relaxed civilization. We said you do whatever you want. As long as it doesn't bother me, I don't care. So, I would say that's the right way to that's the right approach. Allow LGBTQ. Why? What's wrong with it? If somebody wants to do it, it's their problem, right? It's their life. There's no right or wrong in that. Similarly, if somebody wants to do polygamy, let them do it. If somebody wants to do polyandry, let them do it. How does it harm society? It doesn't harm society. So I would say allow allow everything as long as it doesn't infringe on anybody's rights, anybody's life should be allowed. It's okay. Air is manticores. Our focus on multivariants of nuclear reactors. Why depend on US and EU when they clearly have no intention of allowing us progress in this field? sodium, sodium and other fusion reactors, variants, etc. I think we are behind in our three-stage nuclear program. We are at the end of the first stage and the very beginning of the second stage somewhere like that. Um, and I'm not sure what what the plan is. We should have a completely indigenous system and the end stage is we want to have thorium based nuclear reactors and we have the world's largest reserves of thorium. So I don't think we should depend on the US on EU on their technologies. They obviously you are right they have no intention of allowing us to progress in this field. So we should not depend on them. We should have our own completely indigenous program. If we can get some technology here and there which will accelerate it great but we should not be dependent on anybody. Spade says please make ask to ask sir. See this is why I've switched to super chat so that I don't get such silly questions. But you managed to do it. Yes, I appreciate I I applaud I applaud your initiative. Naven says, "Is karma real?" It's said to be real. Could be real. I don't know. Maybe. Why are some people born super intelligent? Why are some people born superior athletes? Why are some people born handsome and some people not handsome? Why are some people small and weak? Maybe it's karma. What did they do to deserve it? Not maybe karma. So maybe karma is real. Who knows? How do we know? It's possible. Manticor says considering the US the FE 404 may have must have been tampered. It's possible. The engine possible. Okay, I'm going to end this very soon. So please stop with the super chats. Please stop it. I'm going to end this after two three questions. Jugen says, "Should India consider to come out of the UN, IMF, World Bank? These are just useless submissive organizations. In UNCC, Pakistan is a vice chairman to counter terror organiz organizations and sanctions. Look, there's no point coming out of it and withdrawing. Be everywhere. It should be part of every scene. Be inside it whether it is productive or not. As long as it doesn't hurt you, be part of it. If it starts countering your interests, then you can leave it in protest. Otherwise, be part of every scene. Be part of every room, every hall where everybody else is there. There's no harm doing that. I know these are useless organizations. The UN is useless. IMF and World Bank are just US puppets. They are just used for dueling out rewards to the to those who provide services to the masters and all. No, no, no question about it. UNCC Pakistan vice chairman of this terror thing. What the very funny? There's no point uh leaving it. Stay, stay, be part of it. Nikil Shivasav, thank you sir. Why is Europe called a continent even though it clearly doesn't satisfy the continent's definition? It's not a continent. It's a joke. Calling Europe a continent is a joke. Why is it still called a continent? Because white people think they are superior and they are separate. So Europe has to be a separate continent. It does not satisfy any criteria of of the definition of a continent. It's not a continent. So let us not call it a continent continent. Let them keep on harping about it. It's clearly not a continent. It's a small part of Eurasia. So let us not call it a continent. Pravin, thank you very much sir. Thank you very much. Captain says there would be no radiation problem like the classical ones and world sanction would not apply on classical ones. So we can't use it on neighbors. Look there are there are issues. You're talking about the nuclear. Sorry. The nuclear versus non-uclear hydrogen bomb. If you want to deliver a megaton class weapon to a location, then it has to be packed in a very small volume, right? It should fit into a nuclear warhead. It should fit into into a missile fairing which has an MIRV system which mean one which means that one missile will carry five or 10 warheads and each of them has megaton megaton kind of output. You won't be able to achieve this with your hydrogen non-uclear thing with hydrogen nitrite. You will need much more like hydrogen nitrate the powder. It won't fit into this small fairing. The amount of energy that can be output by a nuclear weapon exceeds anything a chemical weapon can do. That's why that's why otherwise you can use regular weapons, right? Uh Spade says uh chat and s keep smiling. It looks Yeah, thank you. I love smiling. I'm a very smiley smiley guy. Thank you. Thank you. Arun says I think Indians replace sab with sar when talking in English to British accent. Sab sab sar. Maybe it sounds similar and it's used in a similar context. Very interesting point you bring here. I have not thought about it. Sab became s. All right. All right. All right. All right. Okay. Okay. I think we are at the end of today's live stream. I have far exceeded the amount of time. I was supposed to do it for 1 hour but here we have it. We are done and I guess I will end the live stream over here. So once again everybody thank you so much for the questions. I really enjoyed this. Going to have another live stream tomorrow night and then one on Saturday. So uh please ask please please please keep asking questions. Please keep learning. Never stop learning. Keep raising your standards and I will see you soon enough. All right. Take care. Thank you everybody. Bye-bye.