Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to This weekend's ask show the first one of this weekend. This is episode 326. Today we discuss geopolitics and history. I will take questions you all have asked in the comments. And before we do that, let's see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Shri Rama Chandraa Namaha. Thank you sir. Geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor. Anonymous R7U5T. Good evening. My actuarial sessions is also here. Gajapati Dave is here from Odisha. Good evening Ashwani Badam indeed. Thank you Jam ma'am. Mary Kane hello good to see you ma'am. Uh real vadirudin Ram everyone GK GK87 good morning well good morning to you V4 for valor Ram Ram G u Sumit Agarwal Ram Ram G indeed uh Omnak Namaskar Shivanch Swami Aush Singh Praan G uh field strong man hello hello everybody hello to you as well Krishna of the Suriname Netherlands good to see you sir good evening and good morning wherever you are uh IPK1s says kouten aband land to you as well. Geopolitical once again from Indor Vladimir Putin. Are you singing? Feel strong man. Swami is here from Jaipur. GK Namaste G. Sumit 4 Z4 I9X. Namaskar. Anka Kachab. Good evening ma'am. Nirwana Shanks. Kodi Chiva. Kodi Chiva. Uh feel strong man once again. Nabit Tadas. Namaste. Mlevin 69. It's over Sar. What is overs? Uh Sid toxicratos, hello. Uh random skull jri krishna indeed. Patilty namaste g nam ma'am. Bishek shukla live trump in new epste files. Well yeah well what can I say? Manhattan nak namaskka rishikesh das Gupta. Hello Swami 0709 nirvana shanks slash hello 8045. Good evening Amisha Mishra good evening ma'am. Anime Manish Kardosu. Namaste ma'am. Namaste. Good to see you ma'am. Uh Abishekl Shukla live good evening sir thank you and Abhishekli is here from Kpur. Uh who else do we have? Anonymous scientist Bonjour and hello indeed V for Valor Ash King 2 OP Sedant is here from Mumbai. Priyanka Javalia Namaskar ma'am. Um Manhattan Surya Pratab Namaskar from Bhat real painter. Okay. Shalom. Shalom. Real painter G. Uh, CEO of Sigma Grindet. Hello Manhattan and so many other people. I won't be able to greet you all individually. Uh, Honey, where what was that? Lero online. Good to see you sir. Good to see you indeed. Uh, Bupes Condell, hello Raj Rani Joy Singh Balir. Hello. Bonjour to Sedant from Mumbai. Geopolitical once again. Who else do we have? Uh, Sumit Agarwal, Abhinav Singh, Akash Banerjee, KJ Wonders and everyone else. Okay. Uh, Imran is also here. Imran 178. Good evening, sir. Okay. Uh, anime lover 6 honey badger of Kolinga. Well, that's great name. Good to see you. Uh, so anonymous scientist says Epstein files. Damn. What can I say? What can I say about what has come out in the Epstein files? I mean, it's a who's who of the fantastic people, the great people of the United States, a nation that is ruled by perverts, criminals, and pedophiles. The nation that seeks to teach the world about human rights and democracy and all that. I mean, see what they have been exposed doing. And they're going to continue tomorrow morning as if nothing's happened. No one's going to be prosecuted. The same people are going to continue ruling the world. I mean what about Trump? Donald J. Trump the president of the United States. Is it allegations we are making here? It's whatever has been released. I will not even list out the things I have read. Makes me want to vomit. But all of this that's been revealed, the Epstein files, it has been revealed by the government of the United States which reports to Donald J. Trump and they have exposed him. Not just him, Bill Gates, uh the previous presidents, whoever they are, uh Shri Elon Musk G, I mean so many of these people have been exposed. Uh this this guy this fellow Howard Lutnik creep monster. These people are ruling that country. These are apparently western values. This is western culture and civilization. And they're going to tell us what human rights are and what democracy is. They're going to preach to us how to improve our our backward culture. You know, moral high ground. That's what they've always had. I mean, what are we seeing? The question is Trump has been thoroughly exposed. It looks like he has not been totally exposed this far, apparently. So, why has his FBI, his government, why have they released all this stuff that that exposes Donald Trump? Is he not in control of the US government? Is he not no longer in control of the FBI? What's going on? Is somebody else controlling the US government FBI? Who knows? These are legitimate questions. When you had the previous speed pedophile, Biden who was ruling the country, he clearly was in no in no shape to be in control of the of of the government. Someone's someone was ruling the government. Someone was running it. Someone was was operating the government and and ruling the country. So, wow. I mean, what are we seeing here, right? Yeah. Damn. Indeed. Damn. Okay, let's get going with the actual questions I've selected from the comments. What what what are the questions that we have? Um, give me a second. Okay, what's the first question? The first question is by Somi. Trump's approval rating is at a record low of 37%. Uh, IC is terrorizing its own people. The US economy is not doing well at all. Even the grocery prices are very high. Trump hasn't been able to end the Russia Ukraine war. His tariffs are just passed on to the American consumers. Apart from Venezuela, the abduction of the Venezuelan president and his wife, and apart from the attack on vocism, whatever that is, Trump hasn't been able to achieve anything substantial. Do you think Trump is a liability to the US establishment or what is traditionally called the deep state? Well, first of all, let us list Trump's achievements or or nonachchievements thus far. So, if you remember all of you, while he was campaigning for the presidency, Trump repeatedly promised to end the Russia Ukraine war within 24 hours of taking office. He even claimed that he will have it settled possibly before the inauguration. Right? It's been over a year that he has been president. The war is going on. And no peace deal, comprehensive peace deal or partial peace deal exists. Nothing exists. Terrible failure, miserable failure. You know, back in the 2000s, there was a president in the US called George W. Bush. And those were the the early days of Google and search engines and all that. And no one knew what SEO used to be. No, at that time nobody understood SEO, search engine optimization. And there was a time when if you went to google.com and you and you typed in miserable failure and hit enter the first result would be George W. Bush. So somebody had used SEO techniques which was a very new set of techniques at the time, very new concept to uh you know ensure that Google gave you George W. Bush as the first search result when you when you searched for miserable failure. Well, today's miserable failure clearly is Donald Trump. When it comes to the Ukraine, Russia Ukraine war, he repeatedly promised he will end the war within 24 hours of taking office. Miserable failure. What other achievements can Donald Trump boast of? I mean, he has successfully undermined decades old security partnerships with his own allies, especially Europe, the EU nations and the NATO nations. He has had this highly transactional approach. He's telling each of his allies that you are a financial burden on me. He has been giving his allies the third world treatment that the allies are not accustomed to. The allies we're talking about here are the nations that are part of the EU and NATO. They are used to being treated as equals by the US. They know they're not equals in terms of hard power or whatever. But the the approach, the treatment is that of equals, right? Polite, courteous, diplomatic treatment, respectful treatment and so on. Trump has been opening openly telling them on their face that you all are financial burdens to me. He's been treating them like third world nations. Well, that's terribly disrespectful. And Trump's approach has been incredibly transactional. He has uh focused. He's fixated. He's obsessed on short-term deals. is obsessed on tariffs and public attacks on all his partners, North American partners, Central American partners, uh European partners, whoever. And uh this has essentially actually had the effect of increasingly isolating the US, right? And this approach neglects the major strategic challenges the the United States faces. And as we remember last year, you know, what April or something, 2025, he imposed the highest US tariffs since the great depression, right? And he called the he called this liberation day. He said that jobs will come roaring back and factories will come roaring back to the US. What's happened every month after that? Manufacturing employment steadily fell. It decreased in the US. So his actions have had the exact opposite effect compared to what he had claimed it would have. And then we have mass deportations. We have these detention camps of of people. Humiliating treatment given to people who are non-citizens. You know um Trump has expanded the use of police even soldiers as immigration enforcers and all the IC brutality that we are seeing around all around the place. Right. And Trump has been trying to uh restrict birthright citizenship. That's been part of the US ethos for the longest time. Right? Birthright citizenship has been what it's been it's been kind of sacrosanked in the US. So that he's trying to restrict. Right? So overall Trump has been apart from the abduction of Maduro a miserable failure. I mean look at the treatment he has meated out to India and what is the outcome that he has achieved? India said okay you don't want to deal with us you want to adopt maximalist positions we'll go and deal with the EU with the EU we'll we'll do trade deals all over the place we'll just ignore you and the EU has done the exact same thing the EU went to India India and the EU have signed the mother of all trade deals what did Trump achieve isolation Trump is isolating the US the thing is that nobody can ignore the US it's so powerful but nobody wants to deal deal with the US everyone's looking for alternatives Right. So that's the situation. I mean, miserable failure thus far, Trump. So I is Trump a liability to the deep state? Well, is he a liability to the deep state? Uh not thus far. >> Uh Trump's see why has Trump been allowed to become president? He has been allowed to become president so that he can reshape the global world order and that he is in the process of doing. He his job is to acquire for the US control over all the major energy exporting nations. He's done that with Venezuela. He perhaps may do that with Iran. And the objective is to isolate nations like China and Russia and even possibly India and exert more pressure on them. Hard pressure. You know when you have a nation like China, when you have a nation like India, these two nations depend on other countries for their energy supplies and if the US controls all those countries well then they can exert tremendous pressure on China and India so those things he's able to possibly he could be able to achieve Venezuela already has happened um he's also cut off Syria from Russia and China could do that with Iran possibly so he's doing all those things but at what cost at the cost of isolating the US at the cost of drawing all you know pushing all his allies away pushing a nation like India away. India has cultivated a great relationship with the US over the past 25 years and this guy in a period of a couple of weeks ended all that. There's no trust now. India doesn't India simply can't trust the US anymore after the their antics during operation and so on. So overall he's he's doing what he has been brought in to do but the cost is is substantial. Maybe the the deep state is okay with u the cost that the US is is incurring right now. Vidyman says if the European Union is not fully sovereign, how does it have the authority to negotiate and sign a trade deal with India? Has the US exerted any indirect influence in this process? So I keep saying that the EU nations aren't really sovereign. Uh they don't have territorial sovereignty, right? Because they can't they don't control their borders. They don't control who comes in, who goes out, right? Uh they don't have economic or financial sovereignty because none of them have their own currency. They depend on the the EU on the on the euro, right? None of them controls the EU. So they don't they don't have financial sovereignty. And those of them who are members of NATO don't even have military sovereignty because from time to time their military or parts of their military come under foreign control. So clearly the EU nations are not sovereign entities. But the European Union as a as a whole is sovereign. So none of the nations is sovereign. But the EU as a whole is a sovereign entity. It controls its territory. It controls who comes in or goes out of the Shenin area through visas and all all that enforcement. It controls its economy. It has its own currency, the euro. And from the military perspective, let's keep that out of the out of the thing because the EU doesn't really have a proper military of its own. It depends on NATO and so on. But apart from that, from the economic perspective, it is economically sovereign. So it is economically sovereign. That's why it has the authority to negotiate on its own a trade deal with India and sign this this said trade deal. Um so that's that's the situation. It's not like the EU is non-s sovereign. the individual nations that make up the European Union, those aren't sovereign. The EU is indeed economically or financially sovereign, legislatively sovereign and territorially sovereign. Military issue, the military issue is a whole different story. That's that is not the thing we're discussing here. Has the US exerted any indirect influence in the process? Well, I suppose the US has not done that thus far, but they may try and interfere. That's always a possibility going forward. Okay, questions about the India EU trade deal. Real Radi Pudin says, "Is the India EU trade deal going to have significant opposition coming from the US?" Aayush Singh says, "Please share your analysis of the recent Indo-Uropean FTA free trade agreement. Who is on more receiving terms compared to who benefits more compared to which side benefits more?" essentially that's what he's asking. And Rush Tar says, "Your take on the recent trade deal between India and the EU. This didn't get coverage due to other issues in India like the UGC fiasco etc. But why is it being called the mother of all trade deals? The US is upset with Scots Bessant even calling it hypocrisy. China, Turkey, Bangladesh, Pakistan are all not not very happy about this deal. Moreover, we are signing a framework for a major defense equipment and intel sharing deal. So h how is it going to impact our economic and defense uh standing in the world? So let's first talk about the economic aspects of this deal. I mean the deal that's been signed is the economic deal the FDA the free trade agreement between India and the EU. So what are the contours the parameters and so on of the FDA between India and the EU. So this FDA it gives preferential access or zero duty access to more than 99% of India's exports to the EU by value. Okay. And this is far far higher than what India has in uh the other markets. We have FTS with other markets like Australia and um the UAE and so on so forth. Uh but we don't have anything like this like what we have achieved with the EU right so EU duties are being eliminated on about 70% of tariff lines immediately. So whatever tariff tariff line is a tariff line is is a set of tariffs or it's a tariff that's imposed on a certain category of goods. So you have a bunch of tariff lines. Okay. So these duties these tariffs are being eliminated on about 70% of these tariff lines uh which cover about 90% of India's exports and uh the remaining ones will see phased cuts. phase by phase the cuts will happen uh and and uh so that that's that's one thing about and for the EU so about 90% of the goods that India is exporting to the EU will have faced zero tariffs eventually and the remaining goods will face about I mean lower tariffs than what we were facing when it comes to the EU's goods that they are exporting to India about 86% maybe almost 90% of those will see zero tariffs in The rest will see decreased tariffs and maybe phased implementation and so on. For India, you have sectors like textiles, like pharmaceuticals uh like uh you know engineering goods uh agricultural products and so on. These goods will get almost zero almost immediate zero tariff or zero duty access to the European market. And the EU EU is already India's largest trading partner in many of these sectors, right? Uh so that's fantastic and we're going to get excellent commitments for services exports for mobility of skilled professionals. So Indian skilled professionals who will get to um will have easier access to work in in the European Union, right? And this is something that India has kind of not really got other free trade agreements. So this directly supports the Indian IT sector, right? Our IT sector mainly services the US. Now we're going to do that. We'll have the opportunity to do this for for Europe also. And the US is clamping down on immigration and what not. So it's it's it's harder for Indian professionals to go and work in the US, but it's going to be easier now for them to go and work in the EU. So it's going to support India's massive IT sector. It's going to support India's business services sector. And obviously it'll be great for highskilled employment in India. And essentially it it gives India access to uh 27 nation single market. So India has 1.4 billion people. The EU has 450 billion pe million people. It brings together almost almost 2 billion people in a single market. Right? That's fantastic. And both nations want to diversify away from the US and both nations want to diversify away from China as well. you know, we don't want over dependence on China, right? And we want to hedge against the American tariff volatility, whichever which you know, you never know what kind of tariffs the Americans will push on you depending on what side of the bed Donald Trump woke up on today morning, that sort of thing, right? So, overall, it's it's great. It's kind of win-win whatever I've seen thus far. I'm not doing a detailed pointby-point analysis here. Um, it's it's a broad analysis I'm giving you. Uh so see India wants to become more of a manu manufacturing power make in India at barbarat all of that right and a lot of this manufacturing labor intensive manufacturing that happens in south in in East Asia if if India can capture even a fraction of that market right and and sell it and sell the goods tariff-free in a high income market like the EU view it's it's going to support making in India it's going to support Amanda Bharat it's going to support export-led growth of the Indian economy and that's fantastic it's something that no other single FTA or any other agreement anywhere else offers for India at this scale so it's it's massive it's actually massive for India and uh of course it it brings India and the EU closer together this will make it less likely for EU nations to interfere in India's internal affairs and mess around with the issues you know regarding sovereignty or support Pakistan or support China or even support the US because they benefit from a stronger more stable and more robust and faster growing India they they benefit directly from this so why will they do anything to undermine India right so this strengthens India's position as a key partner for the European Union in in the current world order it it strengthens India's geopolitical position significantly. It will reduce India's vulnerability to US sanctions, US tariffs and India's overd dependence on the US, right? And and a and a few Asian markets as well. So it it diversifies risk for India. It increases leverage that India has on various EU nations including diplomatic leverage and other kinds of leverage. Right? So overall it's fantastic. Overall it's great. I'm sure there are there are some things that need to be looked looked into and so on. But overall from a big picture perspective, it's fantastic. You know, um you could have uh tens of billions of dollars of additional exports going on from India, going from India to the EU. And uh overall, I I I see that it's it's a fantastic development for India and for the EU. Um so I think it's kind of a win-win situation, right? Uh the US is upset. Yeah, the US will be upset about this because you know they thought they they're going to bring India they're going to drag India back to the negotiating table that India is going to come and say sorry to the US and agree to the US to the trade deal on American terms. Well, that's not happening and India's got this big trade deal with the EU. We don't need a trade deal with the US. It can can keep it in the in the freezer in in deep freeze if they want. So the Americans are upset and they are moaning about this and complaining about the EU and and so on, right? Um bless calling it hypocrisy. Well, he is the hypocrite there. Uh China, Turkey, Bangladesh, Pakistan, not happy. Who cares? I mean, who cares about Turkey, Bangladesh, Pakistan, how do they matter? Insignificant nations. China, China hasn't said anything about it as far as I know. Uh you know, China hasn't expressed displeasure as far as I know. But yeah, obviously they will not be very pleased about this. It is what it is. Um is the is this trade deal going to have significant opposition coming from the US? So this trade deal is signed. The FDA is signed but it has to be ratified by both sides. And this process could take several months. Possibly it could be operational you know in maybe 6 months maybe by the end of this year. So it's a process that takes time. Okay. There's a process it under goes after the signing. So in the meanwhile will the Americans pressurize the EU? They may. I'm sure they will, but it's not in the EU's interests to walk away from this trade deal, you know, or try to dilute it or whatever. It's not in their interests. So, I'm sure they'll the Americans will exert some kind of pressure on it. I'm sure they will, but I'm pretty sure this will go ahead. Um, what about the defense uh defense framework? Framework for major defense equipment and intel sharing deal. Intel sharing is fine. both sides obviously will curate the intel they share with each other. So I don't see any major issues there. When it comes to defense equipment and all that, we're going to have to be a little careful because see our our strongest and most time-tested geopolitical relationship is the one that we have with Russia. Russia is is a trusted partner. India and Russia have never done anything that significantly you know undermines the other's interest. Yeah, there may be some irritants here and there whatever but nothing major. India and Russia have no major disagreements and the track record is such that we can trust each other within parameters right within the parameters of the of each nation's national interest. So whatever we do with, let's say, the EU or whoever else, we will not do anything that jeopardizes our tried and tested relationship with Russia, our privileged strategic partnership with Russia. We won't do anything that jeopardizes this. Now, let's say we are selling defense equipment. It's it's buy and sell. Obviously, we'll buy stuff, we'll sell stuff. So, let's say we are selling defense equipment to the EU nations. What if it gets used by NATO? I mean what about that? What if we sell Akash surfaceto-air missiles to the Europeans? The Akash SAM system performed admirably during Operation Sundur. It probably it's one of the components of the best battle tested air defense system in the world. Better than the Israeli Iron Dome thus far at this point. So if we sell that to the Europeans and what if they use it against Russia or they what if they provide it to Ukraine to use against Russia. I mean those are the things that we'll have to look into. Obviously look once you sell something it's out of your hands. You never know how it's going to be used. So we're going to have to be very careful about that. But as long as we are careful about what we sell and how it is going to be used and so on, I'm sure we can make it the defense framework also very strong and mutually beneficial and win-win kind of thing. So we'll have to see about that. But the FDA is just fantastic overall. Rushup Tare says CCP Chinese Communist Party purged Yang Jang Yusa, a top general, the top general in China. Is it true that Jang Yusia sold nuclear secrets to the US? Was it because Xiinping feared a coup come to other things? The demographics are collapsing and the economy is not growing as earlier with only rising tech plus AI and a huge trade surplus saving them. China will China become a one pony trick of exports is in such a situation can can they do something against India, Russia or Taiwan? Please tell your overall assessment. Okay. So yes, the CCP has indeed purged Jang Yua and another general. In the past two years or so, they've purged more than 13 top ranking generals and accused them of various things such as creating chaos and being in disciplined and and whatnot. You know, essentially nasty stuff in Chinese Communist Party taglons. Now um if you look at the official uh reports coming out of Beijing, the official Chinese Communist Party communicates about this event about the ouster of Jang Yushia. They don't mention anything about selling nuclear cigarettes or whatever. I haven't seen any of that. I'm saying what I have seen is that he um trampled upon party discipline and trampled upon something else and so on and greatly harmed you know Chinese Communist Party interests and national interests and military interest and that sort of thing. Long long wall of text with all those things which typically are code for something else but there's no mention of uh selling nuclear secrets. So the Wall Street Journal claimed that uh he was he has been accused of selling nuclear secrets to the US. But there's no uh such claim or statement in the official communications from the Chinese Communist Party. So what is the Wall Street Journ journal inventing news out of thin air? What are they doing? On what basis do they make these claims? They have sources. What sources? Yeah. You think you have sources in the Chinese Communist Party who will tell you these secrets? Really? The western media, it it often manufactures this fake news, blatant fake news, right? I mean, the claim that uh 30,000 people have been killed by the Iranian government in Iran. What's I mean, I'm not saying people haven't been killed, but how do they know it's 30,000? Earlier, it was a couple of weeks ago, it was 12,000. On what basis do they do they create the do they they make these claims? I I see no factual basis to the claims they make. It's just propaganda. The western media is a propaganda arm of the US and NATO. That's what it is. U there's also been this claim that there was a shootout in a Beijing hotel where Mr. Xujin Ping was staying. Apparently Mr. Xinping changes hotels every 2 three days because he's worried about there being a coup. That's what this story claimed. And then uh the this Chinese journal general Jang Yushia apparently was about to launch a coup. And uh Xiinping came to know about the coup just two three hours before it happened and he quickly left the hotel and then Jangu Jang Yusha and his men they came they come in and they find Xinping's bodyguards there there's a shootout and then eventually Jang Yusha is is is is arrested that sort of thing that's another story that's been making the rounds in social media or wherever it is. I mean on what basis do they make these claims? Nonsense. All I can rely on and all you should rely on is the official communications. Of course, you can pay attention to the little rumors flying around. Sometimes there may be some kernel of truth in there, but overall, you know, don't rely on you you can look at the rumors and so on, but don't start believing rumors which lack any substantiation. Now coming to the other stuff, the demographics are collapsing. Okay, that's fine. But it's going to take 20 30 years for that the effect to be really visible. The economy is not growing as earlier. True. The economy, the GDP seems to be stuck wherever it is the last past three or so years. That's weird, right? Rising tech and AI, huge trade surplus saves China. It's it's a good thing for China. So, uh, in this situation, overall doom and gloom situation. Can China do something against India, Russia or Taiwan? Taiwan, they can't take. China is very, very, very scared of a military confrontation with the US. They know they can't win it. Now at least some of you should be able to understand how powerful the US is after the developments of the past few weeks. Right? The Chinese can't do a thing. The US is just too powerful. The US is too powerful. Even in China's own backyard, Taiwan, China can't do a thing. If they try to take Taiwan, not only will they fail, if even if they succeed, they will take an island that's in ruins. Nothing of value in there. But if they go to war over Taiwan, they're going to lose a lot of their infrastructure. they're going to take a lot of damage because the Americans will will press into action the Japanese military and the South Korean military as well. Okay. So, it's it's it's going to be a disaster for China if they try to take Taiwan. Can they do something against Russia? They depend on Russia increasingly for oil. The Americans control so many of the sources of Chinese oil. The Americans, well, they can tell the Saudis to shut down exports of oil to China. the Saudis will have to do it. The UAE will will also do it if the Americans request them to do so. What about nations like Nigeria and whatever Indonesia etc. They will also do what the Americans tell them to do. What about Iran? Well, Iran Iran may also be pressurized into a deal with the with the US. It is we will not bomb you to the storage if you stop exporting oil to China. Then Iran may also take a deal like that. Then what does China do? It has to depend on Russia only then. Right? So China can't do a thing against Russia. What about India? I mean when China is under increasing pressure China is under increasing pressure is getting isolated. Do you think it makes sense for China to go and do some some some stupid action against India? Makes no sense. it actually makes sense for for China to improve its relations with India. So that is the overall assessment. Right now China is under tremendous pressure and multiple constraints of various kinds. Right now China just wants to weather the storm if it can. That's where we are. Sam Pmanik says, "Day by day, it is getting very clear that China is afraid of any military confrontation, especially with the United States. Despite growing the economy and the military for decades, China is not able to take Taiwan, which sits in China's own backyard. What are the constraints that China faces despite growing itself so big? And why is China afraid of any military confrontation?" Okay, what are the constraints that China faces? One constraint that that China faces is that it has almost zero power projection capabilities. It has almost zero offshore or extr territorial military bases or naval bases. The Americans have more than 800 extr territorial military bases that essentially span the entire world. They can intervene anywhere militarily in on the globe at about let's say 60 minutes notice. How many extr territorial bases does China have? It has Djibouti which there's a US base also on Djibouti. So that kind of balances things out. And there is one or two on Madagascar small. There is Guadada which well now it's under Pakistan is a US facile now. So China can't do a lot in Guadada anymore and that's about it. What else does it have? Nothing really. So China can't project power. The Americans can project power all the way into China. They have Guam, they have the Garcia, they have so many, they've got Japan, they have South Korea, they have so many other relationships. They have great relations with the Philippines. Chinese have been bullying the Philippines. The Chinese are digging a hole of their own, you know, they're in a hole of their own making essentially. So there is the lack of power projection capabilities that the Chinese face. The second thing is that the second constraint is that they have cultivated hostile relations with all their n neighbors. They nearly went to war with Russia in 1969. The Russians have never trusted China for that. Um they have the Chinese have been claiming territory from all their neighbors. Nobody likes them. Nobody trusts them. Everybody fears them. The Chinese have deliberately refused to demarcate the India Tibet border for decades. Maybe now slowly India starts getting the advantage because we have an undemarceted border. All this time it's been China, China, China with the advantage front foot. China slowly goes on the back foot. Now you see so the hostile relations with all its neighbors, all of its neighbors. Not one good relationship apart from North Korea which is it its own story. Then another constraint is that China is not a net exporter of energy. It's a net importer of energy. China may uh import I mean China produces about 60 to 70% of its own energy. But when it comes to oil and gas it has to import that. So China depends on other nations for its critical vital energy supplies. It's been building up strategic reserves and all that but you know that's a stop gap measure. China doesn't have its own oil and gas res reserves that can you know uh take care of its of its demand. So it depends on nations like Iran, like Saudi Arabia, like the UAE, like um Nigeria, like Indonesia, like Venezuela, etc. And all of these nations, most of them are on excellent terms with the US or even if they may not possibly be on excellent terms with the US, they can't deny US let's say requests to let's say stop hypothetically selling oil to China. If this US request comes in, these nations have to agree to it. So that's a big constraint that China faces, right? So there's a bunch of constraints such as these that the Chinese face. Then then you have the fact that the Chinese navy is is hemmed in by three island chains. Which are these island chains? Well, let's crack out the map. We haven't opened the map and thus far. Let's open it. What are the there are three island chains that that uh encircle China. So the first the first island chain is essentially you know Japan. The Japanese islands come all the way here. Okay. By the way, Yunauni Island is is right next to Taiwan. So all these islands, it's an island chain. You see here, these are Japanese islands. Okay. Okinawa, Okinawa, so Okinawa is there. And then all the other islands all the way to Taiwan. And from Taiwan, we have the Philippines and all the other islands, these island nations and all. So that's one island chain that hemps or ring fences China and Japan is well under US occupation. China, Taiwan is a US ally. When it comes to nations like the Philippines, they are bullied by China. So they are also on excellent terms with the US. Uh Malaysia, Singapore, um Indonesia, all these nations that depend on on the US for protection against China. Vietnam also has good relations with the US. So the Chinese Navy is hemmed in by the first island chain. Then you have a second island chain and a third island chain which is which are you know further rings of islands. And then you have Guam here which is a major US military base. You will see two airports on Guam. One's going to I know three three airports at least three. Yeah. One of these is a I don't know is there a domestic I mean is there an actual international airport here or is it all military military bases so you have military bases here you have naval bases and so on and it's a major place from which the US project power against China so you have three island chains that ring fence China and the Chinese ships whenever they want to pass out into the Pacific Ocean they have to go through rings of US allied nations and their assets and essentially they can't do a thing without the Americans observing exactly what they're doing. So that's another constraint the Chinese face. So all these constraints come together and of course uh they've been trying to catch up economically which they have done a great job of with US help. Yeah. And they've been trying to catch up technologically and they've done a fantastic job of catching up technologically. Primarily the primary driving factor was the Chinese rejuvenation and reformation of its education system. They poured in trillions of dollars into their education system and have made it world-class now. Some of the best universities in the world. Our Chinese universities, they're all focused on research and development and and technology. That's why China is pretty powerful as a technological technologically powerful nation. Um, you know, but they're still behind the US in in AI. They're significantly behind the US in in space and so on. So, these are the constraints that China faces. Some of the constraints real painter says why is it that China why is China not interested or not investing in its power projection capabilities I mean China's national interest is to become a global power and eventually beat the US but to become even a regional power you need power projection capabilities but it seems China is not interested or is it part of a big plan or a fatal mistake so real painter rightfully says that it is in China's national interest to become a global power and eventually beat the US. Well, the truth is it applies to all nations. It is also in Bangladesh's national interest to become a global power and beat the US. Yeah, it's in Bangladesh's national interest. But can Bangladesh do that? No, Bangladesh can't. They can't even dream of it, right? It's not their fault. they simply don't have the capabilities. So why is Bangladesh not interested or investing in power possession capabilities because they they don't have the resources to do that. They have too many constraints. Let's say Bangladesh wants wants to build 10 military bases outside of Bangladeshi territory. Who will give them the territory to build mazes? Will India give them land to build a military base? India won't give it. Will uh Sri Lanka give them some land to Bangladesh on Sri Lankan territory to build a Bangladeshi naval base? No. Sri Lanka won't give it. Will Myanmar give that to Bangladesh? No. Nobody is willing to give anything to Bangladesh. Right? So how does Bangladesh even if it wants to how even if it wants to invest in power projection, how does it do it? It can't force anybody to do it. it doesn't have enough money to interest people to give up some land to and and nobody considers Bangladeshi you know thinks that having Bangladeshi military bases on their territory is a good idea and what do you get nothing now when it comes to China okay you understand why Bangladesh can't do it now let's ask China let's let's talk about China let's say China wants to build 10 naval bases outside of its territory who will give China the territory or or some land. If China, if Indonesia gives some land to China on Indonesian territory to build a naval base, who does it serve? It serves China. It's it's dangerous for Indonesia. So why will Indonesia do that? Why will Malaysia do that? Why will the Philippines do that when China already claims claims Filipino territory? Why will Philippines do that? Will Japan do it? No. Will South Korea do it? No. Will India do it? Haha. Nobody will do it. Pakistan gave some access to China to to Guada. Let's see how long that lasts now. Now that China Now that Pakistan is sitting in the US lap, China has Djibouti some part of Djibouti, you know, Djibouti. Uh let's see. Djibouti. Um Djibouti is right here. Okay. Uh Djibouti Chinese Naval Base. Djibouti Chinese base. Zoom in. Here we go. Okay. So, um here we have it, the Chinese base. It's not telling us exactly which one it is. Um yeah, once again, I'll not go and zoom in and and try and figure out which is Chinese, which is whichever. But the Chinese have some access to this Djibouti port, but so does does the US. I mean, see, look here. This is Djibouti, right? Let's see. We have some interesting We have an interesting air base here. Let's try and see what what exactly do we have here. This looks like radars and whatnot. Um but what kind of aircraft do we see on this air base? Do we see any aircraft? Look at that. Is that a Reaper drone? American drone. So this is a US air base. Clearly they are using it for drones. or those nasty Reaper or whatever drones. So if the Chinese have some facilities here, they are right under the nose of the US. So once again, the Chinese can do a lot with this uh and so on. So the thing is nobody wants to give China access to their territory. So even if China wants to do it, even if China is willing to give a lot of money, nations are afraid of China. Afraid of China. they don't want to do it. So it's not like China is not interested or China is not investing. It's that there is a tremendous lack of trust when it comes to China. Nobody trusts China. Okay? If India asks for a naval base to in Indonesia for example or Vietnam, they don't fear India. They know that India is not going to turn up next tomorrow morning with 20 ships to take over the country. For Ind Indonesia, it happened a thousand years ago which was a different story. But nobody's afraid of that, right? India is not going to behave that way. These nations know India doesn't do that. That's why if India requests Indonesia or the or Vietnam or or Thailand or whoever Cambodia, Cambodia, not Cambodia, but if we ask these nations for for some kind of relationship where we can have a naval base or whatever, they will consider it seriously. But China, no question of it. So it's not like China is not interested. They are interested. It's not like China is not investing. They will invest. If somebody says yes, but nobody will say yes. Everyone is scared of China because China has cultivated this image through their own misdeeds and actions of a bully of a dangerous hgemonic nation that does not wish well to anyone. That's the problem for China. Biswas says, "Can we seriously consider the possibility of a Venezuela style targeted attack on Kami given the massive US naval buildup and carrier strike groups heading towards Iran?" Right? So, the Americans are building up. They're creating this massive naval buildup in the western Indian Ocean near the near the Persian Gulf. Let's let's take a look at the map. What exactly are we seeing? Give me a second. Let me um Okay, so we are seeing a US naval buildup. There are aircraft carrier strikes strike groups that are loitering in the western Indian Ocean. This region here, the region that's called the so-called Arabian Sea, the western Indian Ocean region near the Gulf of Oman possibly not far away. maybe uh you know western India, southern Pakistan that region possibly the the Americans also have you know military bases in u the west Asia region whether it is uh Saudi Arabia, whether it is um Qatar, whether it is the UAE, even Iraq um and these nations. So Iran is essentially um encircled. Pakistan is now a US asset. The Americans can use Pakistani airspace for whatever they want. Pakistan wants no. Uh Afghanistan also is well for whatever reason on America's payroll right now. So Iran is kind of you know encircled and the the Americans have sent these aircraft carrier strike groups uh in the region proximate to Iran. So the Americans are building up the building up a milit they are creating a military buildup that can be used to let's say either invade Iran or possibly launch strikes at Iran. Now what's the point of launching a strike on Iran? What's the objective? The there has to be a clear objective. Um Trump has claimed that he has taken out Iran's um military uh sorry nuclear program. Um so then if it is if that is taken care of then why would you do a strike on Iran? uh you can't just effect a regime change by doing a few uh air strikes on a country a country of Iran size with an entrenched uh government. So then if you do an air strike or or a targeted strike it could possibly be a decapitation strike which would target the top leadership of the Iranian government possibly possibly. Yeah, that's that's obviously all speculation here, but it is certainly a theoretical possibility. So they so what does the US see we have to first understand what does the US really want when it comes to Iran? Are they interested in freedom and human rights and democracy? They couldn't care less. The Americans could couldn't care less about freedom and human rights and democracy. All they are interested in is Iran's oil, its energy resources. That's what the Americans want to control. So they may, you know, do back channel negotiations with the Iran government that we will not do a regime change, but in exchange for us not doing a regime change, you guys need to sell all your oil to us or let us control the oil. all the oil you sell it to the US and the US will decide what happens to the oil. Don't sell it to China. Don't sell it to anybody else. Sell it to us or sell it to nations that we approve. That is actually the US will be happy with the third of a deal. Uh they may also demand that Iran stop supplying Russia with various military components and all. Iran may or may not agree to it. And let's say the Americans make these demands primarily about oil and energy and Iran says no. Then what could the US do? They could do a decapitation strike on on Thran and take out Mr. Kabi. It's very difficult for the Americans to go and abduct Kobeni the way they did with Mr. Maduro in Karakas. But they may do a decapitation strike if there is collateral damage. Human beings. Well, who cares? It's Iranians, right? Brown people, not white. Uh so that could happen. that could happen and then you after after taking out how many whoever is left of the Iranian leadership they could once again repeat those demands okay now let me ask you again will you agree to what I'm saying or do you need more punishment so that's something the Americans could do right so obviously the Iranian government will be aware of this that the Americans can carry out such actions and they will obviously take uh take uh measures to ensure that the top leadership isn't taken on by the Americans it could a game of cat and mouse, right? That sort of thing. Uh and if the Americans do strike at Thran and fail to take out the leadership or top leadership, the Iranians won't sit back and just wait. They will launch counter strikes at various American assets in the region. So u that could lead to a long drawn out conflict, an increasingly escalating conflict that could be disastrous for the entire region, right? Uh so whatever the Americans do, whatever actions they take will have to be really well calculated. But yes, we can certainly seriously consider the possibility of a targeted attack on the on the Iranian government's top leadership. We can certainly consider the possibility of that happening. The Americans are are putting together a major military buildup and naval buildup in the region which obviously um you know indicates that they are considering uh the possibility of taking such actions. Um and yeah it it all all depend on how how much pressure Trump is under uh whether whether Israel is able to successfully pressurize Trump into doing this whether other nations in the region like Saudi Arabia, Oman um UEIE etc are able to tell Trump not to do this because it could hurt those these nations as well. It depends on multiple factors. At the end of the day it depends on what's Trump. If Trump decides it has to happen, it may happen and then once a chain of events is set off, you never know what direction it goes in. So you can only control whether you start the process or don't start the process. Once the process starts, you never know what's going to what's going to happen, what direction it takes. So yes, I think uh the possibility does exist that America may do a targeted attack on the Iranian government's top leadership, including Mr. Kabani. It's possible. It's certainly possible. Rushab says, "What is happening with Canada? Reports say that Trump allegedly met separatists who want to separate Alberta from Canada. Quebec is known, but how come Alberta has come into the picture?" Mark Carney called out the rules-based order in Davos. He went to China and signed a trade deal with Xiinping. Trump said 100% tariffs and it ended. Why is the US doing this to Canada which can't survive without the US and is this the reason of uptrend in India Canada ties and a potential uranium deal and trade deal? So when it comes to Canada and separatism what Indians think of is this Kalistthani nonsense that the Canadians have been have been cultivating for decades. The Canadian government has been cultivating and and and promoting Kalistthani terrorists and separatists on their territory for decades. A lot of these Kalistani separatists are Canadian citizens. Some of them are outright terrorists, anti-India terrorists. They don't do terrorism against Canadian citizens or or citizens of any other nation. Only against India. They blew up a 747, a Boeing 747, the Kesan. Which year was it? 1986 and this killed a large number of Canadian citizens but those Canadian citizens were brown Indian origin so it didn't doesn't matter right so Canada for the longest time has been harboring and encouraging and protecting Kalistthani terrorists and separatists on its soil right now see see the irony today Trump wants to separate Alberta from Canada the Canadians have been protecting separatists who want to break India Khal the so-called Kalistthan out of India right today Canada is facing the very real prospect of getting bulcanized by Trump so what's his deal with Alberta right I mean we obviously those of you who are who have some understanding of Canada will know that you know when it comes to separatism in Canada it's typically Quebec Quebec is a French-speaking territory is the capital Montreal right and the rest of Canada is English speaking then it's this uneasy union of this French speakaking territory then this English speaking territory very different histories right France and England not not the best of friends at the best of times uh so Quebec has uh seen multiple calls for independence there have been referendums that have been narrowly defeated referendums for independence uh so when we think of Canada and and separatism we think of Quebec what about Alberta so let's go Go to the map. What? First of all, what is Alberta? Let's see. Okay. Um, Alberta, Canada. Alberta, Canada. What part of Canada is this? This part of Canada is Alberta. Pretty big part of Canada. And two of the big cities, major cities in Canada, Edmonton and Calgary, are in Alberta. So, um, and then you have the western region, which is British Columbia. But what is special about Alberta is that it has it it is home to the majority of Canada's oil reserves. Canada is an oil rich nation and a majority of these reserves oil reserves are in Alberta. And now most of these most of this oil goes into the into the US. It's sold to the US. So uh now Trump says that you know because Canada is showing signs of dissatisfaction with the US and it is not happy with American bullying. It is not bending low enough for the US and for Trump's pleasure and so on. So Trump seems to be threatening Canada with bulcanization. Earlier he had been saying that he will make Canada the 51st state of the US and if the US so desires they can do it. Canada has no defense against the US. Canada depends on the US for so many things. If the Americans want to take Canada and make it their 51st state, all they have to do is walk in and take over. There'll be almost no resistance. They won't even need an army to do that. They'll just need cops perhaps. Just walk in and take over. That's it. And uh Trump has been well when Justin Trudeau was still the prime minister he used to call Trump used to call Trudeau the governor of the state of Canada right that sort of thing. So Trump has been making these these remarks for quite some time and now he apparently he or some of his minions held a meeting with Albertan separatists. So you see we in India we are aware of American attempts to bulcanize India from time to time from the uh 20th century onwards. I mean the Americans funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India. We know that uh some of this financing and funding went into the Kalistthan movement, the 1980s, the Punjab insurgency and terrorism which uh which we had to fight and bring to a hard fought end right the Americans funded and finance that um the Kashmir issue that again the whatever actions Pakistan has taken the terrorist actions and all that you know terrorism in Kashmir for decades spilling out of Pakistan all funded and financed by the US. Right? Right now we are facing a major major crisis in Manipur. Right now the news media is not reporting it but Manipur is under foreign occupation. At least half of Manipur is under foreign occupation by cookie infiltrators who have walked in from Burma. And the objective is to create this artificial fake nation called Cookie Land for Christ. Cookie Land for Christ. Who is behind this? It's one once again the US. When the Bangladeshes claim that they will make India's seven sister states in the far easting states part of Bangladesh, who is encouraging them to do this? It's the US. So all of this bulcanization these all these bulcanization projects about versus India. The Americans also play this game of subnational diplomacy in India. Once again that the objective is to balconize India. So we in India, India, some of us are aware of the American efforts and attempts to play this game of bul bulcanizing India. But Trump, he's going to do it even to his own allies. He wants to balkcanize Canada now. He wants to take Greenland and balconize Denmark. So um yeah, that's that's the US. The US has no friends. The US has no allies. The US only has disposable assets who must be useful or they will be reconfigured until they are useful. Right? The US is an empire. An empire has no friends. So that's what the US is. I think it's very clear now that this is the game the US plays. Um now what about the India Canada relationship? Well, Karan wanted a deal with China did not quite happen, right? If Canada wants a deal with India, will the I mean even if you side it, will the Americans allow Canada to operationalize it? Uranium, uranium is a pretty it's not oil, right? Uranium has other uses too. Um, of course, India will be happy to buy Canadian uranium, Canadian oil, Canadian whatever. India is the world's largest nation in terms of population. India wants everything. India wants to buy everything from whoever has something to offer. So, we'll be h happy to um have a trade deal with Canada, FT of some kind. We'll be happy to have a uranium deal also with Canada. Will the Americans allow Canada to do this? The Canadians, especially and the the Carney government, they are clear that it's beneficial for Canada to have better relations with India, perhaps mend fences with India. But will the Americans allow them to do this? That's the big question. I think uh well I'll be actually surprised if this happens this this set of deals with Canada and even if it happens will it actually go ahead will it be ratified even if it's ratified will will we still say the operation operationalization of the deal for example we have this deal with the United States for the sale for the sale of fighter jet engines to India what F414 engines of whichever it We have signed the deal. We have paid the money. The Americans aren't really delivering the jet engines and that's why the program is frozen right now. So even if you sign a deal, everything is operationalized and so on between India and Canada, the Americans could still step in the way and stop things from proceeding. the Americans have hard power and they can't the Canadians can't prevent the Americans from from uh you know disrupting a deal. So that's why I think uh we can go ahead with the deal with Canada and so on but the Americans may come in the way and disrupt it. That's a strong possibility in my opinion. Arya Vashisha says, "Despite being despite Russia being so powerful, how did the US develop so much influence in Russia's neighborhood, the Central Asian nations and in the Caucasus region? Did the US do this through military might or economic power or something else?" Okay, so first of all, let's go to the map and talk and take a look at what nations we are talking about. Give me a second. Okay. Uh where is map? Map is here. Okay. So let's uh talk about Russia. Russia. So what are the nations we're talking about? After the break up of the USSR, you had all these central Asian republics that became independent. Kazakhstan, Usbekiststan, Turkmanistan, Azarbaijan, Tajakistan, Kyistan. We also have Armenia that became independent and Georgia. This is the Caucasus region we're talking about. And obviously we have the the uh uh Ukraine became independent, Belerus, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and so much more, right? I mean that's about it. Not really so much more but that's about it. So now the thing is the US has developed a significant amount of influence in this region whether it is the caucases region whether it is uh the stans Kazakhstanistan Turkmanistan uh Kyrgystan and so on let me give you an example for okay let's go to the capital of Kyrgystan bishkek for first of all Kygystan is essentially literally a stones throw away from India literally I mean, see what's the distance from, let's say, Mumbai to Lei? What's the distance? It's about 1,700 km, right? What's the distance between Lei and the capital of Kiran, Bishk? It's about 1,000 km. You see, it's it's much closer. Um, and and the border, it's it's even closer between India and Kystan. So let's go to the capital of Kistan, Bishkek. Okay. And uh let's see. A UA B I S H K E K. What is AUA Bishkek? What is it? There we have it. AUCA. What is the AUCA? Um where is it? Okay, let us see what AUCA is. Um, it's the American University of Central Asia. So, the Americans more than 20 years ago set up an American University of Central Asia in the capital of Kyrgyzstan, Bishk. And that's just one example of the American penetration in the region. So, the question is how did the Americans uh, you know, how how did they succeed in penetrating Central Asia? to this extent when Russia is so powerful and so on that's the argument or that's the question right the thing is this how powerful was Russia in the year 2000 first of all let's see when was AUCA founded okay established uh when AA bishke um American university do you have okay Wikipedia does it say when it was founded established in 1993 the USSR broke up in what 199 1999 91 couple of years later the Americans have established an American university of central Asian Bishek the Americans move fast past fast so in 1993 the USSR had been dissolved and Russia was in a shambles Russia its economy was on its knees. Russia was beset by problems. They had a drunken president in power, Boris Yelen. When did Putin come to power? Late 1990s, right? 98 or 97, whichever year it was, that's when Putin comes to power. And he first comes into office. He only later gets power. He slowly is able to acquire power slowly slowly. and he slowly drags Russia back from the brink. In 2005, Russia was still not regarded as a major power. Around 2010, that's when the West started, you know, getting wary of Russia once again because Putin had spent a decade remodernizing the Russian military. So until 2010, Russia was not really really powerful and it's it's its uh influence in Central Asia and it's it's the the fact that it regards Central Asia as its exclusive sphere of influence. It was like India's claim that the Indian Ocean is our strategic backyard. It's a slogan. It's not operational in reality. H Yeah. Right. So that's why Russia is very powerful today. But look at how Russia was in 2000. In 2005, in 1995, it was nowhere compared to what it is today. And that's why the Americans were able to penetrate these Central Asian nations deeply. And that's what the Russians are trying to undo right now. Yeah. real painter says how can we assume that India after hitting a reasonable GDP or military growth in the next 5 to 8 years won't become an American vasal or whatever kind of vasal because we still will be having the same inferior system that we have today and maybe possibly hypothetically a compromised leader may come to power after the 5 to 8 year mark how are we going to deal with it. What's the guarantee we will not become a vasal of somebody? There's no guarantee. There's no guarantee whatsoever that we will not become a vasal. So how do you guarantee you don't become a vasal? First of all, you need to have hard power which is you know GDP growth and military growth. Military power also should grow and obviously you need internal cohesion which means you need infrastructure and so on. All of that stuff and you need a robust economy. You need robust manufacturing technology all of that right so India we are our economy is growing sure we have a massive population we have massive massive land mass big resources and all that's why it's natural that our economy will grow and our military spending expenditure is growing proportionally to our economic growth right so let's say in 5 to 8 years we are 7 trillion economy or whatever it is $8 trillion economy Fantastic. But the but we have internal problems. Our system is rotten. It's a colonial system. Our institutions are colonial in nature. We have a governance system, an electoral system that is unnatural for us. Westminster style parliamentary democracy. a system that evolved over a few centuries on a small island in the Atlantic and it has now been forced upon a subcontinent-sized nation. simply unsuitable for us. And we have all these structural issues and whatnot. Things that compromise us, the alleged corruption all over the place, allegedly so many issues, a totally rotten education system that ensures that people don't know how to, you know, what is right from what's wrong. people people still divided increasingly on cast lines, reservations, freebies, unconditional freebies, not conditional freebies, unconditional freebies, all the problems, all these problems together, they they can create the perfect storm. You throw some money, some cash at somebody, they'll vote for you. You throw some alcohol at somebody, they'll vote for you. That's that's the kind of people we have in India. The quality of your population depends on the quality of the education system. And the Indian education system is trash. It is rotten. And no attempt has been made to to to reform it. Nothing. The new education policy 2020, it's a joke. It's not reform. It's just cosmetic makeover. That's it. So considering the fact that no no significant reforms have even been attempted in the past 12 13 years to clean up the system. Considering that there is no guarantee that even after becoming a larger economy and so on there's no guarantee that we will not be vilized. All it takes is one electoral result in a in a general election to have a complete U-turn in the story of India. The government had 12 13 years to reform everything to clean up the system. So yeah, there is no guarantee. It's it's possible in 5 years we could be somebody's vasal and that will send us back by 200 years another 200 years of slavery. It's possible. Yeah. Amisha says Kiran Riiju says Arunachal could become the Qatar of India. Is this a crazy take or do we have real potential for this? So um I'm not really sure what Mr. Riu meant by Qatar of India but let's think about so I'm not sure what exactly was the meaning but let's take a look quickly at Arunachal Pradesh and what potential it has so first of all those of you who may not be aware there are people in India who still don't know where Manipur Arunachal these states are many people still don't know this no so Arunachal Pradesh is the north it's the far easternmost state of India in the far east the northernmost state um it has it has a border with essentially Tibet right Tibet um northern border with Tibet it's a massive massive state okay uh let's see Arunachala Pradesh I just want to see the boundaries of the state um why is it not showing the boundaries of the state if I say let's say um West Bengal Will it show me the boundaries of the state? It does show me the boundaries of the state of West Bengal. Google Maps does. Okay. Let's say I say Assam. Assam. Will it show me the boundaries of Assam? Not quite. Okay. Let's say Bihar. Bihar. Well, it does show me the boundaries of Bihar. So when it comes to the states in India's far east, Google maps does not show the boundaries for some reason. Okay, let's say Manipur, Manipur, does it show the boundaries of Manipur? It shows the boundaries of Manipur. So when you have a state that has a border with Chinese occupied territory, does Assam have that? I'm not sure. What about Nagaland? What about Nagaland? It shows the borders of Nagaland because there is no common boundary with Chinese occupied territory. So it shows that what about Migallaya? Migallaya it does show this. Now what about Arunachal Pradesh? It won't show me the boundaries. So Google is taking China's side in this matter. Let's see if I place my pointer um in Chinese occupied territory. What what do I get? Okay, here it says Ningchi, Tibet, China. Okay, if I put it down here below the border, south of the border, Indian territory, it says Tibet China. In Indian territory, look at that. Would you believe it? Indian territory it says Tibet China. This is the game Google is playing. The United States is considers China to be a rival, but Google supports Chinese claims on Indian territory. Okay, look at this. Let's see what it says here. It says Tibet, China. In Indian territory. This is really interesting. Here, Tibet, China. In Indian territory. What about here? Unavailable. But closer to the borders, it will say Tibet China. Okay, here is Indian territory. Here it says Tibet, China. What about here? Unavailable. Would you believe it? So this is what Google does. This is what Google does. It shows Indian territory as Chinese territory. Now coming back to Amisha's question. Uh so so okay, Arunachal Pradesh is this big large state that we have in the northernmost part of India's far east. Uh now the question is um what are the resources that we have in Arunachal Pradesh uh that could make it make the state u valuable. So we have u massive forests first of all in Arunachal Pradesh we probably have a lot of natural mineral resources which would require mining for extraction but we have that in Arunachal Pradesh we have these massive rivers uh which could give us which would generate hydro power if we set up these hydroelect electric projects in the state over these rivers. Of course we would have to do it judiciously. We don't want to uh put dams all over the place which could be harmful to the environment and create all kinds of potentially seismic or tectonic issues. We we don't want that. Um so we have mineral resources, we have forests, we don't want to bring the bring the forest down for forward. We don't want to do that. We have mineral resources and we have a lot of water and a lot of hydroele electricity potential in the state. Okay. Now the state okay let's let's let's just do this Google search Arunachal Pradesh land area Pradesh Pradesh land area what's the land area 83743 square kilm okay 83,000 km population okay 1.58 million population density uh the lowest population density among all of Indian states 17 inhabitants per square kilometer that's the 2011 census badly outdated whatever it's still the last census we have 17 inhabitants per square kilometer so if we want to develop let's say we want to do some mining mining activities let's say we want to construct hydroelect electric projects ac or rivers or whatever we will need labor for that. The population of Arunachal Pradesh probably cannot provide all the labor that's needed for this. So we have to bring in labor forces from other states. If we do that it could work but politically it could be a problem. It could be problematic. We have this Christian conversion mafia that is operational in Pradesh. Right. I I hear that Pradesh is being rapidly converted to Christianity. So if you bring in migrant workers from other states to do this work, the local local Christian conversion mafia could create political issues. That's one issue. That's one possibility. Um there could be if we if we discover mineral riches resources and we start mining if we propose mining there could be uh protests from environmental activists and NOS's and all. So I would say look the potential is there but India in in India politically everything is can be can can be a minefield. There are all these vested interest groups at play and all the groups many of these groups have ties to foreign actors, foreign powers and the objective is to stop any kind of development from happening in India. So the potential I'm sure is there to become the Qatar or the or the whatever of India. Potential is there. But do we have the political fortitude to make this happen? If we do have the political fortitude to make it happen, is is it going to happen in the next one year, next 3 years, next 5 years, next 10 years, next 20 years? If it takes 20 years to happen, then what's the point? Let's make it happen next two, three years. When the USSR broke up, the Americans established an American University of Central Asia and Bishk in just two years. They make things happen fast. In India, um, we'll talk about things and all. I'm I'm I'm sure that you know the potential is there but then let's operationalize it right let's make it happen not over the next 20 30 50 years but now next 2 3 years 5 years so it could become the Qatar or whatever of India it has the potential but we like to talk a lot in India will we actually make it happen that's the big question Shanks says India, France, China and Russia hold large annual military parades such as Republic Day parade, Basti Day parade, National Day parade and Victory Day parade. 9th of May, right? Russia victory day parade parade. What do these parades achieve? Are they about demonstrating military power, cultivating national unity or projecting international prestige? In contrast, the most powerful country, the United States, does not hold such annual military parades. Why does this difference exist? And what does it reveal about government priorities, civil military relations, and the signals conveyed domestically and internationally? Right? Military parades, what do they achieve? So, we have annual parades in India, France, China, and Russia. And these parades, they achieve multiple objectives. These are like multi-purpose tools like you know one tool achieves multiple things. It's like a Swiss army knife. Lots of things can be achieved simultaneously. So these parades they simultaneously display military power. They they cultivate natural national unity. They project international prestige. Um they also are showcases for geopolitical connections and right and and and alliances and so on. And all of these things for each nation is done to different extents and different degrees. There's a balance. The these are the various goals of a parade. But the the the various components are balanced out in different ways for each nation. It depends on the nation, its historical narrative and the context and so on. So one thing these parades do is they showcase military power. They will you can use them to display new platforms whether it's missiles, new kinds of missiles that we display. Whether it is new tanks, whether it is new aircraft. You want to demonstrate modernization. You want to demonstrate to your adversaries the kind of deterrence capabilities you possess. You want to reassure your population that you know we have all these fantastic weapons that will safeguard our national interest, our territorial territorial interest and so on. So that's what you know military power. That's how we would demonstrate military power through the parades. And it's a high visibility way of demonstrating military power and doing strategic signaling. You know, you don't have to do mobilizations and deployments of your armed forces. You can just do a parade and you can showcase all of these things and achieve this objective, right? Um then obviously it's about fostering national pride, national unity um for nations like China, the legitimacy of the regime, the fact that the claim that we still have the mandate of heaven, that sort of thing. So um for India, it's the republic day, right? Uh January 26. So we are linking the armed forces to the the founding founding of the Indian Republic, right? We're linking these two things. for France Basti day it's about the revolution the French revolution 1789 right you're linking the armed forces to the revolution it's it's conducted uh for Russia um it's Russia's defeat of Nazi Germany that has been commemorated commemorated and the armed forces are are being linked to that achievement and for China it is the the the the power and the control that the Chinese Communist Party has achieved over its military um so that's that's what I do and obviously you You do this for international prestige. You invite foreign leaders. You sometimes even invite foreign contingents to march in your parade, right? So you use the parade as a stage for for creating alliances or showcasing alliances or strengthening alliances in major partnerships, right? Uh if you if if you have a guest from another country, you know, a president, prime minister, you can showcase your domestic defense industry, you know, indigenous systems. Whether it's India, Russia, China, right? even in France I suppose. Uh so you can use that to showcase your defense industry and maybe get arms sales to a nice export market. Yeah, you could do that. So So that's that's one thing you can that's another thing you can do. Um when it comes to nations like China, China is an authoritarian nation, right? It uses its parade for telling its population that the regime that rules you is has legitimacy. It has the mandate of heaven and it's also used for uh for frightening the neighbors or for scaring the neighbors for coercing the neighbors coercive signaling right so that's what the Chinese do u the Chinese use the parade their parade as as a tool of state craft um Mr. The Xinping is typically there, right? He's usually there. So, it it it is used to demonstrate that Shriinping is the man who controls this massive massive uh set of military equipment and all these men who are marching, they're all marching and saluting Xiinping. So, Xiinping is the legitimate leader of China, right? And obviously these parades have been happening for years and years and decades. So, historical continuity. Mr. Xiinping carries on the flame of the torch that Maoong Mao Maoong lit right so he that establishes Xiinping's legitimacy and of course you demonstrate advanced weaponry so that will reassure the Chinese audience it will it will deter foreign audiences um that sort of thing right um and so on that's the kind of thing you do so you have Russia also which has its own tradition France also has the basidi tradition Russia has the 9th of May tradition which which which connects today's Russia to the Soviet victory in 1945 over the Nazis, right? It honors the millions of Soviet and Russian war dead the soldiers who died for the motherland and it also emphasizes that we are currently combat ready. We can deal with any situation right and we will demonstrate our our military might and our military hardware on the red square that sort of thing. Um so that's about India, Russia, China and France. France also basti day right 1979 sorry 1789 it commemorates the revolutionary birth of the French Republic and it it in includes involves tributes to the heroes of France. Um so uh France uses the military format to to underscore underline under underline its its civic values and to repudiate the old monarchical values the monarchy right and France also has allied units who who march on the basti day parade. Now why does the US lack an annual parade? Why is that? So from the time the US So how was the US founded? The US was founded, you know, the US fought a war of independence against the British occupiers who were the same people. Yeah. Uh but but they defeated the the British and uh and that was the founding of the US 1776. From that time onwards when the when the United States was founded, American political culture has has typically regarded large standing armies with threats to the republican identity of the US. So this because of this the US is not very comfortable with these massive central parades that that have the effect of visually elevating the military over the civilian leaders. Okay. And the US already signals power through global deployments, through wars, through regime change operations, through alliances, through technological demonstrations, through its aircraft carrier strike groups, through bombers flattening cities and those so-called freedom of navigation operations in the South China Sea and whatnot. So the US demonstrates its military might in real world scenarios routinely. It routinely every few years there's a reg re regime somewhere. It goes into Karakas and plattens a few buildings and and kidnaps Maduru and his wife and takes them back to the US. There you have your military might demonstrated. You don't need a parade for that. Right? So a domestic parade is is not really a important as a credibility signal for the US and that's why the US doesn't it it dispenses with these parades. It uses the military in real world scenarios and showcases to its people. There we have it. We are the most powerful nation in the world. Done deal. Okay. Lego online says, "Bro, the hard power nations are some or the other way trying to strengthen their strangle hold over other nations. The tech power nations are in some way or the other other trying to make the world dependent on their technology and products. And why is our bhat still stuck in this jati this and jati that and cast cast cast? No difference between the ruling alliances or all the opposition combined. But the most crucial question mark is hanging over the UGC. It has been trending more than any other popular sports event for the past 24 hours. I understand you more or less try to skip questions that are attached with Indian politics. But how about I take this one? UGC the UGC rules or whatever it was of uh creating divisions in Indian society based on cast and laboring labeling certain groups within India's population as permanently oppressed groups and labeling certain groups within India's population as permanent oppressors. What was the objective of doing this? The Supreme Court has struck it down or or paused it or whatever. But what was the objective of this to create more divisions in Indian society? Haven't the British and the former Turk occupiers done enough to create divisions in Indian society? You're creating more and more and more permanent divisions in Indian society. creating a permanent sense of victimhood somewhere in a permanent sense that some people are are permanently oppressors. Isn't the job of the government to unify the country to to to to end whatever divisions and differences exist and bring the people together harmoniously? Isn't that the job of the government? But you see, we are a democracy. In democracy, you it it really pays to paint some people as permanent victims and to then portray yourself as the savior and those guys have been oppressing you for 5,000 years or whatever and then reap the political benefits of that rewards all the time. That is cynical politics that is poisonous for the civilization. I'm not sure the Indian government even recognizes India as a civilization anymore. We are not really a civilization in the real sense of the world anymore. We are a colonized nation. The politicians seem to be all they seem to care about is short-term benefits to hell with the civilization and long-term future. Right? Our politicians claim that cast is a very bad thing in in India and cast must be annihilated. Right? Cast is evil. Cast must be annihilated. I agree. Annihilate cast completely. So what stops them from doing it? Whatever reservations you are giving, give the reservations on the base of on the basis of a family's economic situation, financial condition, not so-called cast. What is stopping them from doing it? Remove cast from all official documents, government documents, whether it's a birth certificate or death certificate or school certificate or or or whatever certificate. Remove cast completely and permanently. End of cast unlation of cast. Do it right and then give reservations fairly on the basis of each family's economic situation. That's the end of your cast issue. But the government will not do it. Your politicians want to they claim that they are against cast but they are the ones who are keeping cast alive forever. Who who believes in cast today? You go to any city, go and sit in a restaurant. Do you care what's the so-called cast of the guy who's serving you? Do you care what's the so-called cast of the of the person who is the cook, who's the chef, who's handling your food and chopping your vegetables and and whatever else? Do you care? When you sit in an aircraft, when you sit in um in a bus or in a train, do you care what's the cast of the person sitting next to you? When you're traveling, when you're walking in a crowded street and you you're bumping shoulders with people, do you care what's the cast of anybody? It is these politicians who are keeping cast alive. The British made it mandatory for government documents to have cast. They did this more than 100 years ago. Today's politicians are keeping this alive for their own benefit, not for the benefit of the country. Annihilate cast. End it completely. What's stopping you? This is terrible. Absolutely terrible. And it's so incredibly disappointing. That's all I have to say about this. I've broken my rule of not discussing local politics of internal matters of India, but I suppose I should in this matter. Nirvana Shank says the Delhi Sultanit and Muggal Empire were foreign rulers. Yes, foreign occupiers of India. How did the indigenous systems of governance persist under these foreign occupiers and what does that say about um Indian cultural resilience? Thank you for your attention to this matter. See the Delhi Sultanate and the Muggal Kingdom which eventually became a Muggal Empire. These were foreign rulers, foreign occupiers of India. They were foreigners that tried to impose foreign systems of administration, foreign language and foreign religion upon the Indian people. And they were successful to a certain extent which is why we have the situation that we have in India today demographically and so on and so forth. So how did indigenous systems of governance persist under the muggles? Let's say the muggles. nothing persisted under the muggles or the Turks. The first thing they would do is if they won a victory, they would kill the king, behead the king, and do nasty nasty atrocious stuff with um with the king's whoever survived in the in in in in the king's family in the army and so on typically. Yeah. So, we know what they did. We'll not discuss that here. And then you have the population that is subjugated right by the by the muggles by the Turks. What happens to them? Uh did some kind of indigenous system of governance was that continued? Nothing. Nothing. They brought in foreign systems of governance. They brought in you know administration in foreign languages. First Chakatai Turk then eventually Persian. Right? So the entire system of governance was changed, the language was changed, the systems were changed, the titles of the officials were changed. U eventually the muggles introduced the Zabindari system which just stole land from Indians. Everything was changed. Nothing indigenous was allowed to survive. So and yet Indian civilization kind of survived somehow. How did it survive? See the muggles and the Turks what they did was they even destroyed all the temples. the major temples. So the Indian education system was destroyed, the universities were destroyed, the libraries were burned down. So in what way did India's culture demonstrate resilience? Well, people refused to convert. People were willing to die rather rather than convert. After Persia fell to the Arabs, Persia converted mostly most of the Persian population converted to the religion of the Arabs in 2030 years. in India didn't work that way. India was resilient. Um Indian the Indian education system survived. We lost all the great texts and all the libraries and millions of manuscripts and whatnot and the professors and the big universities. But at the lowest levels at the village in town levels those little temples that survived they continued the guruisha parumpara and the old old education system to some extent at least you know like primary level education that continued that's why the the the the you know the stories that went that had to be passed on orally those those stories continued th those memories of the old days continued. People still still taught the old stories Ramayan Mahabharat all that the Vedas all of that all the texts were destroyed most of the texts were destroyed but so the the oral tradition still continued so that is cultural resilience to some extent the Indian education system survived quietly they kept it quiet you're being ruled by foreigners they don't care about education anyway so you quietly keep your education system going on um Indian women had to cover up so that that permanent change came into Indian culture, right? Indian women were the freest women in the world. Now they had to cover up and they had to they had to become invisible. That ch that changed and that became part of Indian culture. Today women that's Indian culture kind of right. Um indigenous systems of governance did not persist in any way, shape or form unless you had a kingdom that was uh still independent and still not under Turic occupation. In that case, some system of indigenous governance could perhaps survive would have survived for some time. Um, yeah. So, it was it was that sort of thing and India's culture was resilient. That's why India still is a majority indigenous religion practicing region. Krishna of the Surin numbers Netherlands says do you think there will ever be a second partition of India? I'm asking this because there's a certain religious group in India that represents an incredibly large massive minority. It's not a minority. It's a second majority. Um will there ever be a second partition of India? No, there won't be a second partition of India. See today we I don't know how many Bangladeshes we have in India. There could be close to 100 million possibly Bangladeshes in India. I would say at least 50 million must be there. I mean if there are so many of them and there is nothing being done to deport them. Why will they ask for a partition of India? They'll just reproduce, multiply and then say that we are the majority and now India is is no longer what it used to be. That's what they do. India is Bangladesh part two they would say now in a few decades. So they don't seek a partition of India. the infiltrators. The infiltrators and whoever else they seek to become a majority in India. I don't think the aim is anymore to have a second partition of India. Not going to happen. Amisha says, "Why isn't King Leopold II who is responsible for the deaths of about 10 million Congalles? Why isn't he vilified on the same level as Hitler or Stalin? Why do Belgians say the atrocities in the Belgian Congo were Leopold II's fault and Belgium wasn't responsible for them? So you see King Leopold II of Belgium. He ruled Congo. It was called Belgian Congo from I think 1885 to 1908. Okay, that's what 15 + 8 is 23 years. And during those 23 years, he unleashed the worst of depraved barbarities on the people of the Congo. And u then after everything is done and dusted, he destroyed all the documents, most of the documents about what he had done. So today, that's why there is ambiguity about exactly how many people he killed. Some of the things he did was he created these child labor camps. They would kill off lots of congalles people that gave rise to lots of orphans whose parents had been murdered by the Belgians. And those children would then be taken as slaves and put into slave labor camps where they would be worked to death. Okay, doing whatever mining, digging, rubber rubber plantation stuff or whatever. Those children also eventually died and they, you know, they would they would have these daily targets for everybody whatever based on whatever work they were doing. And if they did not meet the daily targets, their hands would be chopped off. Okay? Their hands would be chopped off. black people's hands. And to commemorate that in Belgium there is this this uh Belgian hands chocolate. Okay. Hands chocolate. They uh still sell this. They still sell this. Okay. They still sell this in Belgium. It was based on what they used to do to these people. They used to chop off people's hands. They used to chop off children's hands. And the Belgians still celebrate this. There is something called tune. Okay. Which well it's it's based on the N word in French. Okay. And these are supposed to represent the heads of African people. And when I was a kid in Europe, it was still called tetan. Today it's called something else. I think they've changed the name to make it less offensive and to kind of hide their guilt. But yeah, uh so Leopold I was an utter brute, a barbarian, a genocidal maniac, but nobody talks about him. Hitler very bad. I'm not saying Hitler isn't bad. Hitler was a monster. Sure. But Hitler is said to have killed 6 million people. 6 million. This guy Leopold II killed at least 10 million. But nobody regards Leopold as a monster. When we talk about the evilst people of the 20th century or the past few hundred years, we talk about Hitler. We talk about Stalin. Maybe Mao. No one talks about Leopold. Why is that? Because Leopold killed nonwhite people. White people weren't affected. So it doesn't matter. Non-white people aren't equal to white people. They used to have human zoos in Belgium. Have you heard of the human zoos in Belgium? Let me show you. Human zoo. Belgium. Belgium has this horrific history, okay? No one talks about today. They used to put children in and people in human zoos and the white people would stand outside and watch. I mean, look at this little child. She's been is being displayed in a human zoo. Absolute monstrosity what the Belgians did. Absolutely monstrous people. Okay. And these human zoos they went on until I don't know 1958 was it? How long did this go on? 19th and 20th centuries. You even had this in the US of course. That's fantastic. The US also has its own wonderful history. But we're discussing Belgium here. The US is a fantastic nation by the way. They they lectures lecture us about freedom and human rights and democracy. So um so this is what Belgium did. So the thing is that they did not their victims weren't white. Their victims were blacks. Blacks don't matter. Uh there used to be this you know this this uh this this cartoon comic book series Tintin uh the the the creator was who was French Belgian. So Tintin in Congo Tintin in Congo. So this is a pretty racist and pretty nasty thing actually. I mean, growing up, I was a big fan of Tintin. So, most of the Tintin stories are still great, actually. But Tintin in Congo, there's a lot of racism in this. I I'll not go I I'll not bother you with the details. You can look it up yourself. What What kind of racism exists in there pretty Yeah, it was pretty normal for for those days. I think Tintin in Congo must have come out in the 1930s. It was pretty normal to be racist against black people at the time. So that that's what happened because the people weren't white. Hitler killed people who were mostly white. Even the the Jewish people at that time I suppose in Europe were considered to be white people. So Hitler evil. Um Stalin killed his own people who were who well today the Europeans regard the Russians and Russians as non-white I suppose Asians or whatever Asiatics. But back in the day they were I suppose considered white and stolen killed white people. That's why he's slightly bad. He's considered to be somewhat bad. Not as evil as Hitler, but still evil. And uh now no one cares. He killed Chinese, who cares? Chinese are not white, so it doesn't matter. So the thing is, if white people die, then whoever did that is super evil. If brown people or Chinese or Eastern Asian people die, then it's a lesser category of evil. And if black people are victimized, no one cares at all, especially in the West. So that's why no one cares and nobody bothers to uh you know paint Leopold II in the same light as Hitler. He just killed blacks. Who cares? Now why do Belgians say the atrocities in the Belgian Congo were Leopold II's fault and Belgium wasn't respon responsible for them? Because it's convenient. Just blame the guy. I mean all the Belgian officers and officials and civilian administrators and all who oversaw the the bureaucratic execution of these massacres and this genocide they don't matter right they were all just following orders didn't the Nazis say that we were just following orders of Hitler right so it's convenient and because there's been no pressure on Belgium right see Belgium did this until the 19 19 1908 1920s 1930s even and then you had the first World War, the Second World War, and Belgium then portrayed itself as this small European nation that was victimized in the world wars and they ran with that with that claim. And that's why they just either stayed quiet, kept quiet about Bel, about Congo or said it was the Leopold II's fault. It's only in the 1990s onwards that they kind of said, "Okay, maybe we may have been not very right in what we did." And yeah, it is regrettable blah blah blah. But they would never really apologized for this. So if you're a white nation, you can get away with with all these things. Okay, we still have more questions. Okay, what do we have? Rahul Dunak says, why does it take so much of intellect to step up from hunting animals to raising them for food or or graduating from fruit or vegetable gatherers to cultivating them? No animal other than homo sapiens has the ability to cultivate vegetables and flock animals. Why does it require so much of brain power? So look, if you're a tiger, you look around. Ah, go catch it. Eat. If you're a lion, yeah, there you go. Deer, go catch him. Eat him. No thinking required. Something moves, go and catch it and eat it. And yeah, that sort of thing. If you're a crocodile, no thinking required. whatever comes in the river, grab it, roll over and eat it. Uh, and so on. I could give hundreds of examples like that, right? Different species, they all do that. Hunting species, they hunt, carnivorous animals and predators. Now, we were like that. We were predators, but we were omnivorous. So, during our huntergatherer days, we didn't have to think too much, okay? We had primitive tools, maybe uh spears, maybe whatever else, and we would just go after mammoths uh in the ice the icy regions of the earth or small prey or whatever. Just hunt them, kill them, bring them back, maybe eat them raw, maybe roast them on a fire and eat it. And u you live from hand to mouth that way. Sometimes you would find some fruits or some roots or whatever, you would eat that. So you had to move last large large distances just to get some food and sometimes you would go hungry seven days of the week there was no week back in the day but let's say seven days maybe 5 days you would go hungry in two days you would eat as much as possible so whenever you made a big kill you would feast eat as much as possible then go hungry the next three four days and that's how we have evolved today we eat three meals a day that's why we are unhealthy fasting that's why is is good for health because we have evolved that way now so you don't need a lot of intelligence to do that. You just follow that that pattern. Just look for whatever you can find. If you can hunt something, kill it and eat it. And if you can just forage around and find some roots or fruits or whatever, you eat that. A lot of it depends on luck. But then what our ancestors started doing is they started observing patterns and cycles that you take this the seed. I mean I dropped some seeds there 3 months ago and today that seed whatever plant or tree it came from I'm seeing that little tree growing there it'll eventually become a big tree. So they started observing patterns and they started understanding that seed that the plants come from seeds. So if there is this this crop or this fruit that I like to eat, it's nutritious. I can just plant its seed and uh it'll it'll eventually grow into a plant and eventually if I tend the plant and water it enough then eventually it will give me more fruits. That sort of thing. So that requires long-term thinking. It requires you know a chain of thoughts. It requires the ability to plan and and foresee things and that requires more brain power than what um a cat would have I suppose right so that's cultivation now when it comes to cultiv cultivating different kinds of crops once again you understand each crop is different each crop requires different kind of climatic conditions different kind of water watering patterns different seasons they grow in different kinds of soils all that stuff that's pretty complex stuff Right? So that's why you need more brain power. More brain power. When it comes to uh animal agriculture, let's say you you see this bird that you like to eat, you know, this is wild bird in the Indian subcontinent and let's say you capture it. Instead of killing it, you say, "Okay, you now stay in this cage and I'll get you another mate and you going to you can have eggs together and kids together and I would like you to grow." And over thousands of years, it gives rise to the chicken. The chicken comes from the Indian subcontinent. And our ancestors domesticated the chicken, right? So for that you have to understand the life cycle of the bird and what the bird needs, what what is bad for the bird and so many so many more things. So that's why it takes so much intellect because it's not hunting is just you know it's it's very primitive but raising animals and raising crops and so on it it requires so much brain power. So that's why because of all these activities and actions and stuff we became larger brain over time. also because we are bipedal and we can see so much further than other animals. That's why you know we gather more information. Um so these are the things which made homo sapiens what homo sapiens is today. All right. Amisha says why were the Japanese extremely cruel to the inhabitants of the countries they invaded? If their plan was to have satellite states, why kill millions of civilians? Something that would obviously cause fierce resistance against the Japanese occupation. So it all begins with the Japanese uh um what they call the uh major restoration which was the destruction of the dharmic roots of Japan. So Japan was a dharmic nation for for almost 1500 years. The samurai were were practitioners practitioners of dharma. Today they are categorized as Buddhists but many of the gods they worshiped were Hindu gods. Right? And their way of life was called the bushido. That was the samurai way of life. That is well you could consider it to be something of a Japanese version of the chhatria or rajut way of life. That sort of thing. It was all about honor. It was all about duty. It was all about u you know being being honorable and all that. The way a warrior should live and the way a warrior should die that sort of thing. Um and the major restoration was all about destroying the samurai system, eradicating that destroying portrait attempting to destroy to to eradicate Buddhism, Hinduism from Japanese culture. When that failed, they portrayed it as a foreign religion and so on. And um the the the major restoration was about making Japan a clone of the western nations which are these immoral, barbaric, brutal nations that destroy entire genocide entire civilizations. The Japanese said that you know what we should become like that otherwise they they will do that to us. So better us do to everybody else. Uh so that's what was done and then the Japanese military in you know it it it kind of perverted bushido the samurai way of life. Obviously the samurai were destroyed but their way of life was kind of perverted and twisted. So in bushido in the samurai way of life you don't surrender. Surrender is shameful. So if you are captured alive, first of all, you should not be captured alive in in a battle. But if you somehow get captured alive, you have the right to perform separ which means you end your life in this ritualistic manner and by doing that you re you restore you regain your honor by you know killing yourself. So in in samurai culture, surrender was seen as the ultimately as the most shameful thing. You don't surrender. You die a good death in battle. Or if you're captured, your enemy who has captured you will give you the opportunity to commit say puku and regain your honor. That was the samurai court. Even among enemies there was honor. So surrendering was seen as shameful. So the Japanese military after destroying the samurai way of life in the samurai they perverted and twisted bushido saying that anybody who surrenders is shameful and doesn't deserve to live and they applied that even to civilians. Now how do you expect civilians to not surrender? Civilians aren't warriors, right? The samurai had bushido but only for the samuris. They never ever just like in India when when when when the warriors fought when two armies fought, they never touched the civilians, right? Even in Japan, you have the same thing. The samurai did not ever when they fought a war, they did not go and harm civilians. with the Japanese army after the major restoration extended bushido or that perverted twisted bushido to say that anyone who surrenders is worthless is dishonorable and you can do whatever you want with them. The Japanese army's discipline was brutal uh routine beatings and humiliation and all. So extending that to civilians they had subjugated was just natural and normal for them. So they were no longer dharmic. They had moved away from the original bushido. They regarded any surrender as shameful and the people who surrendered as worthless and they were they were technologically very powerful which means that they were able to conquer many nations going westwards um during the second world war. Their plan was not to have satellite states. Their plan was to have subjugated territories and whichever whichever nations resisted fiercely, the Japanese got more frustrated and eventually when they won they made no difference between civilians and soldiers and they just did all kinds of nasty brutalities. Uh so it was not like they wanted to have satellite states. what they wanted to have subjugated states and the more brutal you are the more you can subjugate brutality will not cause fierce resistance it will break the resistance that was the logic of the Japanese and so on so the root cause is Japan moving away from dharma moving away from their own culture their own moral and ethical values and adopting the morality and ethics of the western nations that is the root cause of all the Japanese brutality that we saw in the after during the second world war. Rahul Dunak says why is the American continent called the new world when we know that it was inhabited by red Indians since millennia? Isn't it a bit derogatory or belittling of the red Indians? What is Indian in the word red Indians indicate? Well, today you don't call them red Indians. It's called It is not a very polite thing to say. You call them Native Americans or indigenous Americans. But a lot of people still call them red Indians or Indians. Why are they called Indians first of all or red Indians? Well, see, first of all, there if you look at the uh native people of the Great Plains region and so on in North America, they have this uh ruddy appearance, reddish, no reddish skin tone skin tone. That's why they were called red red Indians. But why were they called Indians? It's because of Columbus. Columbus had had promised to his patrons, the king and queen of Spain, that he was going to discover India by going westwards. And when he ran into the Bahamas, he imagined he had discovered India. So he went back and said, I discovered India and these people are Indians. And then eventually the Spaniards and everybody else realized this is not India. This is a new place, new continent and so on. But that term Indians continued when Diego Armando Maradona played in Napolei Itali when he was still new when unknown people used to taunt him Indian because he had this you know native appearance Maradona it's only when he became a superstar that people stopped calling him Indian I'm talking about the about the 1980s here I think he was taunted as Indian even in Argentina the go maradona. Um so yeah so they are called they are still called Indians because Columbus initially believed that Columbus insisted until he died that it was it was India that he discovered by the way and and that term Indians just stuck. Today even the locals call themselves in Spanish Indos Indians um across the Americas. Now why is this continent called the new world even though it was inhabited by by natives for millennia? It's because when the Europeans discover something that's when it becomes new. I mean the Europeans discovered India also right? We have been living in India for I don't know 80,000 years our people but we were discovered by the Europeans. I mean I sometimes can run out run out of polite things to say about them. So when the Europeans run into something or or find something for the first time, that's when it it is discovered and obviously that's a new world that they discovered which nobody knew existed. So then Eurasia became the old world. Eurasia and Africa became the old world and the Americas became the new world. It's a all of this is from the European perspective, Euroentric perspective. Yeah. Okay. Amisha says, "Why is the Roman Empire Why is it the Roman Empire and not the Italian Empire?" You see, okay, that's an interesting question. So, in the Mediterranean region, let's go to the map. What's the Mediterranean Mediterranean region? The Mediterranean world. In the old days, in the Mediterranean world, which is this region, you used to have city states. Before Rome, you had Athens. You also had Sparta. Where can I Oh, here it is. Sparti still exists. The ruins still exist. You had Sparta. You had Athens. Uh what else did you have? I I I'll give you just two names here. In Greece, and obviously you eventually had around 700 BC or something around that time Rome. So those days you did not have nations or kingdoms or whatever in this region. You had citystates. Athens and Sparta are the two um you know famous ones from Greece and west of Greece across the Adriatic Sea across the um Ionian Sea you have this peninsula that looks like a boat. Um yeah. So so then you had the emergence of Rome around 700 BC around that time. So Rome became a city state and the people uh it it initially was just a small territory. The city the the the nent city and the small territory around it and that was called Rome and eventually it expanded and the the regions that were subsumed into it they became also part of the city state's territory that is the territory of Rome. So at that time there was no nation of Italy. There was the peninsula called the Italic peninsula or the it was called Italia. It was the name of the peninsula. It was not the name of the kingdom or the territory or the empire or whatever. So the empire eventually it became an empire. It was called the empire based out of centered around the city state of Rome. So it was the Roman empire not the Italian empire. Eventually what happens is that you know so during the imperial period of era of Rome it was always called the Roman Empire never Italian empire the Italian empire was just a geographical term. It was not a cultural or national or whatever term. It was a geographical term. Eventually um and and and after the demise of the Roman Empire, the Western Roman Empire, you had all these little principalities and kingdoms and so on in um in the region which is now called Italy and you never had an Italian empire. It's only in the 19th century when the uh when the kingdom of Italy was properly formed for the first time and they conquered uh let's say what is it Ethiopia and so on that's when the term Italian empire u came into being and today you have the nation state of Italy so that's why it was always the Roman Empire never the Italian empire it the Italian empire was that term was used only in the 19th and 20th centuries okay what else do we have uh do we have more questions. Um, okay, let's take this one. Ritik says, "How did the US so successfully occupy Japan militarily even when the US had just entered into the phase of becoming a superpower? So we imagine that the US becomes starts becoming a superpower after it defeats Japan in 1945 which is not the case. How did the US occupy Japan successfully militarily? So understand something my dear friends understand. I'm going to show you the scale of what the Americans did. The second world war started in 1939. It ended with the twin American nuclear tests on Hiroshma Nagasaki in 1945. 19339 to 1945. In 1939, American military production was very small. But then this they ramped it up. So from 1939 to 1945, the Americans produced approximately 300,000 military aircraft. Three lakh military aircraft out of which half were destroyed in the Second World War. How many combat aircraft, fighter planes, bombers, attack aircraft, etc.? More than two lakh fighter planes, combat aircraft including bombers. Out of these about one lakh fighter planes and how many bombers? About one lakh bombers, heavy, very heavy, strategic, medium, light, all that bombers. Three lakh military aircraft were were built by the by the Americans in just six years. It's actually in just 5 years about 90,000 tanks. They built 90,000 tanks out of which about 80,000 survived the Second World War. Okay. They built about 130 aircraft carriers. How many? They built 130 almost aircraft carriers. The Americans and more than 100 survived the war. They built between 1,200 to,400 major warships. And most of these warships survived the war. The Americans built more than 200 submarines. They lost about 50. But overall, because they already had submarines before, about 200 submarines survived the war. So imagine the scale of what the American military was capable of. It was already a superpower. It was a superpower long before the war ended. Okay. That is what the Americans did. That's what makes you a superpower. Obviously, you're going to conquer the world with that, with that kind of military might. That's what it takes to be a superpower, Vishwaguru, all that nonsense that Indians love to boast about. You don't become Vishwaguru and superpower through slogans. You have to do put in the hard work. The Americans did that, didn't they? Okay. Okay. Um let's take a couple more questions. Amisha says, "If what if India had chosen to become an autocracy like China instead of becoming a democracy?" Well, India would have been a visual guru and superpower. If India had chosen to be an autocracy like China, so who would have been the autocrat of India? It would have been Subashandra Bose. Subhandra Bose. The question people will ask that what kind of dictator would he have been? Would he would he have been capable of administering a great large nation like India? Subashundra Bose I think he came first in the Indian civil services exam which is the predecessor of today's IA is so obviously he was eminently capable of administering a nation like India he was eminently capable of commanding an armed force a massive armed force right so if he had success if he had successfully defeated the British and then he would have become most likely the dictator of India for about I don't 20 years, 30 years, whatever it was, they would have been great at that. And then none of this nonsense would have happened in India. This colonization, this this refusal to decolonize India, this all all this uh reservations based on cast, all this all these all this political nonsense. None of this would have happened in India. India would have industrialized massively. India would have been way ahead of China today if Subashudra Bose had succeeded and India had become an autocracy. India would have none of the problems India has today. Maybe India and and some people will say that what about India would not have been partitioned then would we not have communal riots and all that. You think Subashindra will would have tolerated communal riots there would have been no issue of Pakistan or whatever. You would have crushed any nonsense with an iron fist. Right? So if India had not chosen but if India had become an autocracy in the 1940s, India would be a totally different beast today, India perhaps maybe would have would possibly have been a vish guru and superpower. But here we are today, this mediocre little nation. That's where we are. Okay. Uh Amisha says, "Why was Christianity more successful than Roman paganism in the Roman Empire? Christianity simply outperformed out competed Roman paganism. Christianity had characteristics that no pagan religion or polytheistic religion has. Christianity was organized. Christianity was organized in a military fashion, top- down command and control structure. Christianity was a missionary religion. aggressively missionary religion and Christianity was an exclusivist religion and it eventually and it was a political religion. It captured the power of the state eventually. Right? Um so Christianity it it had a single universal god. My god is the only god. It had its own doctrine. It had a that sort of thing. And it had this very clear idea of what the you know personal salvation is and so on. And in in traditional Roman religion, paganism, you had all kinds of local gods and local cults that were all amalgamated together. Reminds you very much of India, doesn't it? That's what Hinduism is. All kinds of local customs and and traditions are all brought into one big major thing called Hinduism. uh which has so many different paths and so many different models of the universe, right? Christianity claimed to care for the oppressed which means that it had to create distinctions between the oppressors and the oppressed, create divisions in society and then weaponize those those distinctions. Right? This they they they appealed to slaves, they appealed to women by portraying women as oppressed. Eventually Christianity oppressed women way more than anybody else. But uh it they claim that we will uplift the poor. We they claim that we will oppress we will uplift any any people who are marginalized by the by the Roman system, the aristocratic system, this this unequal system, this classist cast system. H we're going to end it all. You know that sort of thing. And Christianity was like I said a missionary religion. aggressively missionary. Um the Christian missionaries traveled across Roman roads. They preached everywhere. They founded communities wherever it was possible across the empire. The the unified Roman Empire actually helped Christianity, right? They could travel all across the Roman Empire without having to you know having to face the problems and difficulties of of crossing the border of a kingdom and all all that. Nothing. excellent roads, excellent excellent uh communications, excellent transportation, a single market, a single entity, empire. So that they use that, they weaponize that. Um Christianity said that the worship of Christ is the only valid worship. Everything else is satanic and all that, right? Converts, people who converted were expected to abandon and destroy and burn and denigrate their old gods entirely. Right? um other other uh the Roman pagan religion it was completely soft it was completely non-m missionary it was non-exclusive you could worship new gods tomorrow morning you could add gods to the gods you worshiped you could bring in bring in a new statue of a god new morty of a god you do not have to drop the old ones let's say in your in your house you are praying to five gods and you said okay this new god I've heard about is nice so let's bring in a morti of that god we'll now pray to six gods you don't need to replace old gods, you can add more. In Christianity, you don't do that, right? And um so because you could add new gods and or interchange gods or whatever, the Roman polytheism did not have any mechanism to to aggressively poach souls, poach poach new believers to win new believers. Nothing. There was no such thing. There was no competition, right? Um and yeah the Roman infrastructure helped uh helped Christianity. Uh the Christian uh system it was organized in military fashion. You had bishops, you had councils, you had networks of churches. They all you know supported each other and they were rigidly disciplined and so on. And eventually what happened is that the the Christians were able to convert emperor Constantine. He converted to Christianity and this this gave Christianity imperial favor and he started pers then eventually the the Roman Empire started persecuting the pagans, the polytheists and all these Christian uh churchmen, bishops and whatnot. They started becoming politically powerful. Then all the money of the empire was was poured into building churches, giving more privileges to the to the cler to the clergy and so on. Eventually you had the council of Nika. The ning Christianity became the official religion and everybody else was was persecuted. There was no more official funding for for polytheistic practices. Polytheistic practices were forbidden. Temples were closed. Temples were destroyed. the statues of old deities were defaced and mutilated. Even some practices were even criminalized and all that. So that's how Christianity destroyed Roman polytheism. Cautionary tale. Yeah. Okay. So that brings me to the end of today's uh the questions I have selected. Now let's see. I have 25 super chats waiting for me. I can see that. Okay. My request to all of you please stop taking any more super chats otherwise this will go on for a very long time. I will now go through the super chats that we have. Um Vinit says was Udai Hussein once a peaceful nonviolent Gandhian man before power influenced by Saddam or is that rumor also why no why was he named Udai? Was he a peaceful nonviolent Gandhian? Well I am not aware of any peaceful nonviolent Gandhian phase of Udai Hussein's life. um influenced by Saddam because Saddam was a peaceful nonviolent Gandhian was he? Well, I'm not aware of that. Why was he named Dudai? I don't know. Um there are rumors that Saddam Hussein was of Alzat ancestry, Indian ancestry possibly. I'm not sure if it's true. So if there is some Indian connection, some Indian ancestry, then maybe that's why he may have given his son an Indian name. It's all speculation. I don't know. There have been claims that he had Saddam Hussein had Indian ancestry, alat ancestry, Jat ancestry. He did. It does look like a Jed guy, doesn't he? But we don't know for sure. We don't know for sure. Aayush Gupta says what all could be potentially wrong steps by the US so that they would start losing their power piece by piece in military and economic military and economically potentially wrong steps by the US. Alienate all your allies. Alienate all the people who used to be close to you. Um bully everybody. All that is fine as long as your military is powerful and you can you can enforce your will through military measures as as long as you can do that it's fine but if they fall behind in the technological race with China that could be an issue if China can become superior to the US in space for example that could become an issue because then you can project power above the earth's surface in from from earth's orbit that could be an issue but China is nowhere near threatening the US hedgemony in space and India is not even near China's position. Um so potentially wrong steps is being complacent in technology. Allowing China to win the AI race is a potentially wrong step. Another potentially wrong step is u you know um alienating all your allies and creating co you know forcing them into coalitions against you. This sort of thing could eventually down the road uh cause the US to start losing power. Not anytime soon. Sid Dave says, "I am a fan, but all evidence I have seen of Arian migration seems to be that it's true. Why should Hindus reject it? Indo-Uropean culture synthesized with Indis Valley culture gave birth to Hinduism." Well, that's your perspective. I have made entire entire live streams in which I have u in which I have explained why it is wrong. I have even written an article. Uh so I can give you evidence at the end of the day. It's up to you whether you want to believe or not. I will I'm not forcing anybody to believe what I believe. Okay. Or to even agree with the evidence I've shown, okay? RN invasion mates Java. Um, for example, V we V we V we V we V we V we V we V we V we V we V we V Ind India facts. This is the article right? This is the article from 2017. So it's an article that's 9 years old now. This is 2026. But the evidence I've put out over here it still holds. And all the new genetic evidence doesn't make any difference because genetics doesn't decide culture or language. And the core claims there are two core claims of the Arian invasion theory. The first claim is that Hinduism came from outside of India. And second claim is that Sanskrit came out of India. I don't care about genetics. We are all the whole human population has mixed genetics. I don't care about that. So can anybody prove that Hinduism originated out outside of India? That is evidence of arin invasion or migration is not you saying migration here, right? Not invasion. So at least you agree it was not not invasion. The claim the core central claim hidden in all this mess is not of genetic influx into India. The core claim is twofold that Hinduism is foreign to India and Sanskrit is foreign to India. These are the two claims. I don't care about the genetics influ genetic influence to India after 2000 BC or whatever. That is okay. That's fine. What's the evidence it brought Hinduism and into India? Anyway, look, I am not here to try and convince you or whatever. You can check out that article. You can check out the the ask kabajit episodes I've done on the arian invision myth. But uh if you have decided it's you believe in so and so thing good luck sir. I I I'm perfectly happy with you believing whatever you want to believe. Entirely fine. All I would say is try and think critically. Maybe some things have convinced you and if it if it's convincing enough for you well be happy. I wish you the best sir. Okay. Gora TV says, "Nations like China possess advanced recognizance and imaging satellites that can effectively monitor stealth vectors like the B2, F-35, etc. in almost real time from space. Does it make stealth assets obsolete?" To some extent it does. See if you have a network of satellites okay that give you real time imaging of all the you know aerial assets that a nation can deploy then even if your radars can detect the thing your satellites are detecting it and that does kind of to some extent make stealth less relevant. Obviously even if your satellite can detect the stealth aircraft coming in but your radar can't detect it then how do you lock onto it and shoot it down? You can't you can't right so it doesn't quite make stealth observatory. Once again if if it's in nighttime okay then maybe your satellites can't detect that at night time or maybe they they can see in certain in you know infrared bands or whatever it may in that case they may be able to find it but then once again they'll not be able to pinpoint it exactly and so on. So there are there are issues you see and China doesn't have anything like the kind of satellite coverage the Americans have. Um so it does not quite make the B2 and F-35 and other other stealth aircraft obsolete. It does give China let's say early warning. It does give China the understanding of where roughly the aircraft is and where what it's passing through. But the satellite can't can't enable the satellite can cannot enable the the air defense systems to lock on to the incoming aircraft, right? So they can't shoot it down even though the satellite can see it. So it does give some advantages but doesn't quite give the ability to to shoot it down. V4 valor says is cavary engine now ready for indigenous use? I have no idea. I have not heard any of any a major progress. I think some version some one of the variants of the engine can be used for drones uh but not for fighter planes. So I don't think it's ready for fighter planes. Gora TV says, "Can you share any recent military operation from any can you share any special military operation from recent history that you find particularly impressive?" For me, Operation Neptune Spear tops the list. Um, special military operation from recent history that I find particularly impressive. Neptune spear tops the list for you. Um uh recent history well recent history let's say past 25 years okay 21st century operations um not sure 21st century operations military operations what wars have we had in the 21st century we had the Iraq invasion 2003 we had the Afghanistan thing the occupation of Afghanistan for 20 years. Uh do we have any other wars? You have various conflicts in Africa. You have Ukraine. I can't think of any recent military operation that's particularly impressive, I'm afraid. Uh so yeah, it looks like I'm not able to think of anything. Maybe I'm missing something. Maybe my mind is scrambled right now, but I'm not able to think of anything. Sorry. Uh deep learner says, "I don't understand. And if Trump is aligned with the deep establishment's interests, then why did he shut down US aid? That seems counterintuitive. Well, it's not like the US had only one option. Please understand, my dear friends, shutting down one thing doesn't shut everything down. US aid was a tool of the US for interfering in the internal affairs of other countries. Do you think it's the only tool the Americans have? Have you heard of the National Endowment for Democracy? Endowment. What is this? What is the National Endowment for Democracy? It's another tool of interference in other nations internal affairs. The Americans have tens of thousands of NOS's they can use to infiltrate and interfere in other countries internal affairs. USA makes no difference. Maybe there was something in USA that went counter to the establishment's interests. The establishment has tens of thousands of other options. Okay. I see MB says on the Aar Musafer podcast you talked about lack of ambition in terms of space. I spoke about that in 2021 on Ren's podcast also. So it's not like this is something new that I've come up with. I have been saying this for years. So what do India and ISRO need to do differently in the domain? I don't blame ISRO at all for this. ISRO simply takes orders and does what it is ordered to do. ISRO can't decide I want to take these five take up these five new projects that are very ambitious. ISRO doesn't have the authority to decide anything. ISRO is a bunch of engineers who get orders from up top and they execute the orders with tiny budgets. That's what ISRO does. ISRO doesn't lack ambition. The political leadership of India lacks ambition. What needs to happen? More funding and more ambitious projects. We need Okay, concrete stuff. What is the GSLV's you know LO payload mass G okay okay LMV3 it's called now whatever it's called LMV3 what is LMV3 okay launch vehicle what are the characteristics uh heavy lift 4,200 kg payload to GS to geocynchronous or transfer orbit okay uh what about the Falcon Falcon Falcon 5 is it Falcon 5 uh Falcon Space X Falcon 9. Okay, Falcon 9. What is its payload capacity? One second. Falcon 9 payload capacity. Okay, I have to go into the Wikipedia thing. Quickly, quickly, quickly, quickly. Mass launch history, blah blah, etc. Payload to geo transfer. Okay, 8,300 for the LMV3 is 4,000 something, right? So, there's like almost double of that. So we need more powerful rockets. India needs more powerful rockets. India needs more satellites. India needs more space launches. We need to augment our capabilities. We need to be able to send Chundrean mission whichever it is next to the to the moon in like 5 days instead of taking three to four months to reach there. Right? Because the rockets aren't powerful enough. So much I can list out but looks like the political leadership doesn't have the ambition at all for for space. We'll launch five things a year. Two will fail now. Terrible. ISRO can be the best space organization in the world. We have the talent. We have the potential. We have the brains. We have everything. We lack the ambition. Godliness says, "China and the US are both going for sixth generation fighters. Japan and the UK are building their own stealth AI friendly drones, but we are still stuck with 114 files with no money left for AMC or the MK M2. Beggars can't be choosers. Yeah, ideally we should be developing our own aircraft. We should have been doing that long, long ago. Right now, we are where we are. We have this shortfall of fighter planes. We need we are way below the number of fighter planes we need to have. We are almost on par with Pakistan. Can you imagine that? A nation like India with a almost $4.5 trillion GDP. We are almost on par with Pakistan in terms of fighter planes. What a shameful situation that is. Is that who is to blame for this? The government of India. So now we are trying to make some kind of stop gap arrangement deal to get some Rafals but then there'll be no money left for AMC. is that I mean it's terrible. So this is this is mismanagement. This is terrible. This is terrible. We have to go all in on the AMCA on the mark 2. I think cut down the larly ba yoja or whatever freebie schemes you're running and put the money in this right to hell with your votes. But no, that won't happen. Brown Leprechaun says, "Do you think DJ has boxed him boxed himself into a corner in in Iran?" No. How has he boxed himself into a corner? He has options. He has the option to not strike and not do anything at all. Just pressurize. He has the option to take out potentially the Iranian top leadership. He has the option to launch a full-scale invasion. He has the option to to destroy all the nuclear facilities of Iran. He has the option to to to push in terrorists, ISIS terrorists, al-Qaeda terrorists from the west and Pakistani terrorists from the east. He has all kinds of options with Iran. He's not boxed himself into a corner. Uh died with Priosin says Omar Beer Putin was FSB chief in 1999 when he took over president as president of Russia from Boris Yelin. So was it a FSB coup against Boris Yelson? It was not of FSBO against Boris Yelin. Um Putin was chosen with the approval of Boris Yelson and Putin had this very steady and and you know uh unremarkable track record as a steady performer as a guy who was great at obeying orders and carrying out the things properly. So it was expected that Putin will be a great puppet for whoever is is pulling the strings. turned out to be totally different. So it was not a coup against Yelin. Yelin was way past his prime by the time. He was drunk all the time. He was not functioning properly. He was kind of on the way to becoming Joe Biden. So that's why they brought in Putin, a young man. And they expected that Putin will be a great yes man. Turned out to be exactly the opposite of that. Sam the Gamer says, why couldn't Europe colonize China like India? Takes time. Takes time. And China was much further away, right? The Europeans, when did they come to India? 1498. The Basod Gama. The English came to India in 1600, they were able to actually take India control of India when after the second second Anglo Maritime war, the first half of the 19th century, 18th century, sorry, 19th Uh let me just see Anglo second Anglo Maratha war. When did that happen? Yeah. Okay. 19th century. So from 1600 to 19 to to to 1810 that's 210 years the Europeans the British were not able to colonize India. Right? Do you understand? Look at history. Look at the chronology. From 1600 to 1810 the British tried after 210 years they were able to colonize India that just just the process of starting to occupy India properly that took 210 years they didn't have that sort of time with China so that's why didn't work struggler says thoughts of the new Epstein files disgusting these criminals these monsters these pedophile s rule the United States and the world and they lecture India about human rights and freedom and democracy. Trump has been exposed. Biden anyway everyone knows what he was. I mean these people are absolute monsters and they have been preaching human rights to the world. And I wonder what how come Trump who who is the president was not able to prevent this from coming out. His name is not redacted. It's open. Looks like he's not in control of his government. Looks like he's not really in power. Very interesting. Struggler says Dr. Bhat Karnad also Dr. Bhat Karnad says India lacks the will to power. He also describes how India should nuclear arm Japan or Vietnam to counter China. What do I think? what he has written in is in that book over here. That book here is the why India is not a superpower yet or something. That book is was written 20 years ago. Why I mean the US won't allow India to nuclear arm Japan. Does Dr. Barak Karnner not know that Japan is a US vasal under US occupation? Does he imagine that India will be allowed by the US to give nuclear weapons to Japan? And what does India gain by giving nuclear weapons to Japan? what leverage over China I mean sir Vietnam sure but once again if you give nuclear weapons to Vietnam can do you really retain control over them the objective is to give nuclear weapons to somebody and still retain control over how they used it to them and then then let them do whatever they want. What if they transfer it to China for some reason? So I'm not sure about all that stuff. India definitely lacks the killer instinct. India definitely has the wrong system in place. India definitely has unambitious politicians in place. India definitely you know what takes you from 1 to 10 will not take you from 10 to 100. That's where we are right now. The scorpion king says, "Did local Indian mumines ever rule any part of India?" Muslims, you mean? Did local Indian Muslims ever rule any part of India or did they simply or they are simply converted slaves or those who collaborated with foreign invaders? Uh if you look at the nisams, if you look at the the the muggles, if you look at the Delhi Sultanit, if you look at all these people, if you look at the the the the Gores, the Gaznavis, the only local Indian converted Muslims who rule India were the Gores around 1,0 AD or something. So Indian civilization was whole. When was the last time our civilization was whole and undamaged? It was 10,000 AD. It's been a thousand years. So the the only local converted Indian Muslims who ruled any part of India were the Goris who started ruling Gandhar and then they made foray into southern parts of India. The Gaznavids were Turks. The Delhi Sultanate were Turks. The Muggles were Turks. Uh the Bengal Sultanate and all were of course all Turks or Persian origin. The Nisams were of Turk origin. The Sha of Gujarat was I think Turic origin. So apart from the Goris um no real local Indian has ruled India. Uh one brief exception is Sher Shasuri who was of Pashon origin which is of Indian origin. So he briefly ruled Delhi for like five years before he blew himself up and then it gave he essentially gave it back to the Turks. So yeah, Sam the Gamer says, "Can Vietnam be your Eastern Iran? It's it's role, Vasal." Nah, it's too early for that. Why would Vietnam want to be your Vasal? Why? Nobody decides to be your vasal unless you give something very very enticing or you can you force them, right? You have to give something very enticing. If you want Vietnam to be your vasal, you have to guarantee them protection from China. Plus economic incentives and whatn not. So India forget about Vietnam. You can't even make Sri Lanka your vasal right now. You can't even make East Pakistan or West Pakistan your Wasal. We're talking about Vietnam. Step by step, right? Let's first take the baby steps of them all. We can't even make Nepal our Wasal. We're talking about Vietnam. Come on. Um Sri Ram infobe says why India did not select source code deal for Rafal. It was not on the table. They must have asked for it. See first of all the Rafal deal has not been signed yet. It's not signed. I don't know what your godamned Indian media is reporting and what your bloody YouTubers are reporting. No deal has been signed thus far. Nothing has been finalized. the Sukoy deal is still on the table. So let's wait. Uh there are all kinds of reports that the French are saying no to the source code deal or what source code or whatever. Let's wait and watch. India India should demand access to the source code. We already operate the Rafale which means it it makes sense to get more Rafals but we should say if we are buying 114 we also want the source code. We want everything. Push for it. see how far you can push. Let's see. So, it's not yet signed. Gorat TV says, "How would present day Bat look if the Morin Empire guided by Ashoka's mindset had not fallen and had thwarted the Mgul and British invasion?" Look, how long does an empire typically last historically, globally speaking? About 200 to 250 years, 300 years. Some empires last longer. The Chola Empire, the Chola dynasty lasted more than a thousand years, more than 1500 years actually. Uh the west the eastern Roman Empire lasted what a thousand plus years. Yeah. Some empires last long. The Moran Empire began 2300 BC roughly. If it had lasted until the British invasion, it would have had to last 300 more than 2,000 years. I would imagine that's that would be a world record. But if it had lasted and Ashoka's mindset had guided us and all that, how would Bat look like? Bat would look very free. Bat would perhaps look very Buddhist, which I'm not sure is what everybody wants today. But okay, better than something else. I suppose yeah, India would have been free. I was I suppose India would be civilizationally whole, undamaged, untainted by foreign nonsense. Definitely better. Shin Ram says which may rally platinum, copper, titanium, bodium. I have no idea. Can't say. Simply a weeb says did the first invasion happen before because we were too kind. First invasion. Which which first invasion? Invasions don't happen because because you're kind. Invasion happen invasions happen because you're stupid or you're weak. Right? That's why invasions happen. Well, kindness is a form of stupidity when it is applied to the wrong people. So, but I'm not sure which first invasion you're asking me about, so I can't say. You give me a specific invasion, then I can answer. Okay. Cyber SE alien has become a new member. Well, thank you so much and welcome to the membership of the channel. Thank you. Shriam Infoch Infobtech says, "Are British monarchy plus Vatican real deep state?" I doubt it. It may have some components but not the entire deep state for sure. Restore Barat says will India allow dual citizenship? OCI isn't enough. I don't think India will allow dual citizenship. I look dual citizenship is something you can allow only with vasal states. The US allows all kinds of nations to have dual I mean the US allows dual citizenship for all nations I suppose except for Russia or whatever right can you be a dual US-Russia citizen uh can you be a dual USRussia citizen can you it's possible is possible yes Russia is not official but the US allows that so the US is confident that if you have dual citizenship, you will always be um loyal more to the US or whatever. That only happens when you are the most powerful country in the world. If you're a nation like India which can't even vaselize its own neighbors and you allow dual citizenship, then that will be typically used against you. So I don't think India will allow dual citizenship, it would be great for the people but bad for the country. I know OCI isn't enough and you don't get enough benefits and all that but these are the constraints India is under. So I I I I feel you, but I don't think it'll happen. Um I'm not sure how to read that. My cirillic is tremendously rusty. So I'm not sure if if it's this is the right place to ask for self-help. I'm 27 and hate myself. I'm trying to quit bad habits and improve myself. I stay disciplined for only a few days. Then I fall back and feel discouraged. Need guidance. Okay, you're 27. you are not a very big fan of yourself right now because you are not disciplined. You're trying to quit bad habits. Yeah. The thing is if you have some bad habits, let's say some kind of addiction or whatever and you don't like it, you know it's not good for you, but it's got its claws deep inside you. It makes you feel bad about yourself. I'm pretty sure, right? You know it's a bad habit. Let's say it's alcohol or whatever. You know it's not good for you. It makes you feel terrible next morning. But you can't quit. So you're doing something that you hate the next morning. You know it's not good for your health, but you can't quit it. That's why you you hate yourself. I know. So um and you're able to be disciplined for a few days. I'm just giving alcohol as an example. There are all kinds of other things. No, it could be a bad habit. Uh so you stay disciplined for a few days. Then you fall back and feel discouraged, need guidance. I I think you need professional guidance actually because I don't know exactly what your specifics are. Um do you have family support? Do you have a good job? Do you have a good income? Um what your past life is like? What what what's your background? There's so many questions I would need the answers to before I can actually give any kind of advice to you. I would be happy to help you if but I don't know you personally without knowing you personally and understanding your specific story and the journey that you've taken I can't offer you any specific help at all I can only offer you generic help that don't help yourself that don't don't hate yourself okay hate the habit don't hate yourself it's not a character flaw maybe it's something else. Maybe it's the if it's a it's a chemical thing, it's a chemical that's got a hold of you or whatever. Uh and you if it's like this, I would say you need professional guidance and help. Maybe if it's an addiction, you need a addiction counseling or something or Yeah. So without knowing specifically what the thing is and your entire specific story, I can't really offer you help. So I would say don't hate yourself. It's definitely possible to get out of whatever it is and and get your life on track. I would only recommend this that you need to get professional guidance. All right, sir. All the best. Do well. I wish you the best. I wish you success. Okay. A Rahul says, "I read about a Buddhist deity Aokhwara. He or she multiple incarnations is popular in East Asia and is said to be the creator of Shiva, Vishnu, Sarasati, etc. subtle way of looking down on Hindus. I suppose yes. I mean how can a Buddhist deity be the creator of Shiva, Vishnu, Sarasati, etc. Buddhism came much later, right? So um yeah, you could you could be correct in what you're saying. Yes. Mcllin says, "Is the Modi brand dead now?" not quite dead not quite but uh there are issues for sure right the recent things and all UGC etc I mean overall geopolitically India is doing great India is making the right choices but internally there are issues so I think uh a little bit of changing up is needed and of course how long can a leader be the leader how long can you be useful to the country. It's all about the see leadership is about service. Leadership is about being useful to your people to your constituency. So eventually every nation whenever it is has to make the transition to a new leader. Is that the time now? I'm not sure if it is right now. I'm I would not say the Modi brand is dead as of now, but it definitely needs some work. Raja Lakshmi Dash says, "I have a question to which I'm not able to get an answer. My question is why are there no major temple ruins from the Morian period despite roy strong royal patronage of the region? The Morian period the temples would all have been in northern and western India and eastern India which is partly put through that region. All of these parts of India came under Turk occupation. The Turks, they are famous for destroying temples. Is there a single great temple that's still standing in northern western India or even eastern India? Everything has been flattened. That's your answer, sir. That's your answer. Okay. Pole says the UAE is making the partnership with India and also partner of Israel while Saudi Arabia is okay. it's inclined towards hostile nations like Pakistan and Turkey. Can you please explain why Saudi is going on this path? See Saudi Arabia um it underwent a leadership u leadership uh transition about a decade ago close to a decade ago uh when Mr. Muhammad bin bin Salman became the de facto uh ruler of the country. Prince Muhammad bin Salman and he had this great vision of a modern developed progressive Saudi Arabia that would no longer rely only on uh fossil fuels for its uh revenue and growth. and he came up with his big projects right the neom city the line city the the cubicle city and all those big big big fantastic projects those haven't worked out very well and uh he has tried to liberalize the population give women more rights and all but the population maybe is not very very strongly inclined towards those things so looks like these initiatives are not going well so what do you do you default to the nation's uh default settings. You align with Pakistan and Turkey. Those are two fundamentalist nations. Both are terrorist nations. I mean Turkey supports Pakistan which is which is a terrorist nation. And Turkey does fantastic things like aligning with ISIS which is terrorists and trying to wipe out the Kurs which is terroristic activity, genocidal activity, trying to wipe out Armenia which is again genocidal activity. So you could say these are both terrorist nations. So Saudi Arabia has decided that okay it doesn't work out. We'll align with the terrorists. That's what's happening. Those plans did not really work out well. Plans of modernizing liberalizing all that. They tried but that takes tremendous execution for such a big transformation of the country. Maybe the population isn't ready for that. The quality of the population depends on the quality of an education system. I'm not sure what kind of education system Saudi Arabia has. So yeah, that's where Saudi Arabia is today. Currencies is economic breakdown coming. Good assets to hold. I am not an economic adviser. I would not be able to tell you. I hope there is no economic breakdown coming. But there could be economic volatility coming up potentially. But this is not investment advice or any such thing. Okay. S the gamer says, "Explain geopolitics from Vietnam's perspective." That would take at least 15 20 minutes. I'll tell you in brief. Vietnam wants to remain this independent nation. It wants to remain a comm kind of communist nation with um capitalistic tendencies. It is very scared of China because China is very evil, very naughty, very hegemonic, very bullish. China claims Vietnamese territory and islands and uh Vietnam wants to remain as balanced as independent as possible. That's why it's trying to be friends with the US and also with India. The main threat from Vietnam's perspective is China. Vietnam just wants to mind its own business and live a nice life. But China won't allow this to happen. And China has a long history of interfering in Vietnam's internal affairs more than a thousand years old such history. So that's geopolitics from Vietnam's perspective. Rahul has become a new member. Thank you very much, Rahul G. and welcome to the channel's membership. Rahul says, "What's with Modi's alleged name in Epin files?" I haven't seen that. I'm not aware of it. Sorry. I haven't seen that. I'm not aware. Is it really? I don't think so. Okay. I could be wrong, of course, but I have not seen that. So, can't say I'll check it out if if it it it is indeed the case. All right, people. Thank you very much for all your questions. I think I've done dealt with all the super chats. Thank you so much. This was great fun and I look forward to seeing you in tomorrow's live stream in which I will take all the questions from the super chat. We'll discuss any topic that you want. Until then, please take care of yourselves. Keep learning, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards. I'll see you tomorrow. Bye-bye.