Heat. Heat. Good evening. Evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the ask a show. I hope you're all doing great. I'm going to take questions from the live from the super chat today and uh before we do that let me see who all is there on the live chat. So who do we have? We have Jayant Yadav X no holy banerjee Sri Ram Chundraa pranamutra birad minimalist maverick pascar bandit pascar bandit Sri Ram chundra once again u humanity survives an geopolitical dub from Indor Pascar bandit once again swatiku beckenbower general subatai hello um Yash Patel Adwit Ashani Sabarish Na Rohani Harum Raika Ham Ma'am Bascar Bandit once again Ritik Paw Rohan BD Apura Anupama Namaste SKR7733 Swami C0709 Aayush Singh Pranam Sarji Apurva Anupama SKR once again Sam the gamer good evening Avin Bascar Bandit is here from Moscow good evening good evening lucky Badwaj G78807 real braimir Putin Ram Ram Sarji Himmanu Rajurohit from Tamil Nadu, the land of Dharma. Well, yeah. Uh GK GK87, good morning. Good morning to you. Manhattan Swami is here from Jaipur. Himmanu Raj Rohit once again. Um who else? Um okay, happy defender of the fatherland Russian war war holiday today. Fantastic. Fantastic. Uh same to you. Ain is also here. Swami Hot flame edits Himmanshu Lag onlinear mahadev brave robot is cooking fish today. Meow. Okay, good for you sir. Good enjoy it. Random skull. Jes Krishna Swami. Uh who else? Raguir Soleni. Uh Amisha Mishra hello good evening ma'am. Mak 4 Jvu Hitman is also here with us. Gpat 79. Kahan is here from Delhi. Jascaran Singh good morning sir. Good morning to you. Toxic Krathos, fantasmic. Um, who else? Um, Sergeant Skylin is here with us. Good evening, YKK 3096 and and lots and lots of other people. Who else? Soldier Boy is here. Anime Baratia SP Arouch X Gamer Rule World Tasi Sajan. Um, who else do we have? Shreas Mitra is also here from Moscow. Okay, we have two people from Moscow here. That's fantastic. Uh, Ganesh Desh Pande, Gajapati Dave, hello and everybody else. Okay, Manisha Kardo, namaste, good evening ma'am. Uh, Ethim Sat, good evening Char and everyone else. Okay, let's get going with some questions. There's a lot happening in the world. Rashma Banu is also here who says, okay, Israel and Iran, Israel says they will use nukes against Iran. We'll see about that. We'll see about that. Yeah. Okay. Okay, so let's get going with some questions. First of all, Noli Banerji has become a new member of this channel. Thank you very much, ma'am. Ma'am, I think it is. Yep. And welcome to the channel's membership. Minimalist Maverick says Gore command visit. Okay. The US ambassador Sergio Gore visited the western command of the Indian uh army. So the Gore command visit uh Iran oil tanker seizure by India. Perplexingly, India seized three oil tankers belonging to Iran apparently. Explain this possibility hypothetical deal between India and US to invade Iran for pro-India government in Iran to make China and Russia Vasal. We currently have a pro-India government or at least not anti-India government in Iran. The current government in Iran, the regime of the Ayatas, it may not be entirely pro- India but it's definitely not anti-India. They are anti-Pakistan. Okay. So ask my question is why would we want to remove that government? Because if the Americans do a regime change and they bring in a pro- US government is going to be pro Pakistan. So why would there be a deal between India and the US to remove this government in Iran which is anti-Pakistan and not anti-India? Why? What sense does it make? Where's the logic? Think about it. Where's the logic? and India invading Iran. India is not going to invade even Bhutan. India is not going to assist the US and assist the US in invading Iran. There's no question about it. India doesn't do these things. Um and India will make China and Russia vasal. I mean even the Americans can't make China and Russia vasals right now. So forget about India doing that or India teaming up with the US in doing that. So the question is why did India allow this guy Sergio Gore the US ambassador to visit um India's the Indian army's western command. Obviously Sergio Gore did not go there alone. He went with a team of people which includes military personnel which will also include some of the diplomats who are simply diplomats in disguise. They're actually CIA agents. Military ataches and diplomatic atashes and cuisine attaches or whatever they are typically CIA agents. So these people accompanied Serjugore in visiting the Indian army's western command. A bunch of spies were allowed by India to enter the Indian army's western command. Why has India done this? This is typically never done. See in Israel if you are a foreign diplomat you are automatically considered to be a spy automatically you're a spy that's it that's how they see you so why did India allow a bunch of spies foreign spies to enter the western oil the western command of the Indian army makes no sense to me it sounds like a very vasal move from my perspective then India seizes three Iranian oil tankers What sense does it make? Once again, um I don't have answers to these questions right now. Why has India done these things? Why did we allow a bunch of foreign spies to to visit our western command? Think about it. American spies, you can call them diplomats, but diplomats are spies. Understand that very clearly. Okay? This is the real world of grown-ups we're living in, not the world of ethandard and seventh standard. Diplomats are spies. So, American spies. Now, understand this. America supports Pakistan. America saved Pakistan during Operation Sindur. America is using various proxies to arm Pakistan. Whether it's Saudi Arabia, whether it's whatever Munir visits Donald Trump very often, right? So, the US is a proakistan nation. The US has a strategy and a policy of containing India. The US is doing regime change all all around the subcontinent to ring fence India. The US is behaving like a hostile power and we are allowing a bunch of spies into the western command which faces Pakistan. So these spies will observe what our military posture is against Pakistan, a nation they support. What? What is this? It makes no sense whatsoever unless we are an American vasal. I am not still claiming we are American vasal but uh yeah this is a very strange move and then seizing Iranian oil tankers. So very strange what we are doing makes no sense from a sovereignty perspective from a national interest perspective. What is the Modi government doing? I wonder. Basar Bandit says Pyth great. Okay. Yes of course I'm doing great. how you doing? Uh we know the US allegedly gives protection money to Afghanistan to allegedly keep China and some others out. But why not lift and ease up the sanctions in Afghanistan? Well, if you ease the sanctions on Afghanistan, then you don't have leverage left in Afghanistan. Those sanctions are leverage. You want Afghanistan to behave, then you use two strategies simultaneously. The carrot and the stick. What is the carrot? It is this money, this weekly stipend in in cash that the Americans pay to the Taliban. Allegedly anything between 30 to 50 to$100 million a week in cash. So that is the carrot. But there has to be a stick as well. The stick is the sanctions and what not. And it's not just the US that has imposed sanctions on the Taliban, on Afghanistan. It's a bunch of US vasals, European countries, etc. who have also imposed sanctions on Afghanistan. So that's what they do. You use a dual strategy, parallel strategies, the carrot and the stick together to get the nation to behave. That's how you do it. Why ease up the sanctions? Why? Okay. Nazcar Bandit says, "You mentioned some weeks ago that you might consider bringing geostrategy episodes back. Should we expect them soon? I still haven't decided." Uh, let's see. Let's see. Yeah, I'll let you guys know soon. Basket Bandit says uh as an NRI anti-India stance online seems uh to be at at an all-time high today uh started around sleepy Jews time we discussed that having thick skin is important but a can can a common Indian counter this like on Instagram there is too much negativity now a common Indian can do what a common Indian does you know post on social media if you feel like beyond that what can a common person do a common person is one individual what you can do is you post on social media pro India posts that's the best you can do or you can get your friends together and you all build up a strategy of what you're going to do on social media you know uh three three people can be you know assigned the task this task of posting let's say 10 times a day on Twitter three people will do it on Instagram three will do on Facebook or whatever that's something you can do as as individuals but beyond that what can Indians do you know ordinary people uh so yeah This anti-India propaganda is definitely reaching all-time highs. No question about that. Online, right? All kinds of negative posting about India uh and and so on. And it all began during Sleepy Joe's time. It actually began around 2022. It began after India refused to participate in the American sanctions against Russia after Russia's Russia began its special military operation in Ukraine. That's when this entire uh barrage of anti-India posts began on social media. It was not just social media posts. It's also think tank articles uh you know news news reports and news articles uh in the western media on western television and so on. It's podcasts all that it's it's a concerted campaign. So that's what Indians can do as individuals. Uh okay, Baskar Mannet again says, "How did Russia acquire fifth generation engine? If the US developed their own by spending spending billions plus research and China allegedly stole the American blueprints, YouTube denied my super chat about this question earlier." Okay. Really? Uh see, China hasn't stolen any American blueprints of uh jet engines. China stole American designs of fifth generation fighter planes uh such as the F-35 for for example. So that's what's what China stole. U I'm not sure if they stole jet engine blueprints. Even if you have blueprints of a jet engine, you need to fabricate it. And fabrication is the is the big deal, right? You have to be able to fabricate those materials that can withstand those incredibly high temperatures. So having a blueprint isn't enough. It's it's it's nothing really worthless. What China did is China has been reverse engineing the Russian Saturn engines. Now the first So that's about China. Now about your question about Russia. How did Russia acquire a fifth generation fighter, a jet engine? Russia had a fourth generation engine. Then before that, Russia had a third generation engine. Before that, Russia had a second generation engine. Before that, Russia had a first generation engine. Russia has been designing and developing its own engines. It has never acquired technology from somewhere else. Russia's fifth generation Saturn engine Saturn 41 or whatever it is. It's a completely Russian design. They haven't acquired this technology from somebody else. They have developed over decades their their jet engine technology. So the Sukoy 30, Sukoy 27 etc. they have the Saturn 31N or whatever engine, right? That's a fourth generation jet engine. And now the Sukoy 57, the new one has the Saturn 41N or whatever it is uh jet engine. Let's let's quickly take a look at the the uh generations of Saturn engines. Uh Saturn One second. Saturn 41N jet engine. Uh okay. I to press enter. Okay. Uh yeah, it's AL41. It's not N. It's 40. AL41 F1. It's an Russian high performance after burning turboan engine developed by NPO Saturn for fifth generation stealth fighters. It's the primary power plant for the Sukoya 57 uh stealth fighter. So yeah, so the Russians haven't acquired this technology. They have developed it. Okay. And YouTube denied a super chat earlier about this question. Very interesting indeed. Basar says, "What scientific breakthroughs can we expect in the next 50 to 100 years in space exploration? Is humanity reaching closer to mining asteroids given we will exhaust or destroy earth reserves of rare earth elements and other stuff?" See, when it comes to space exploration, the breakthroughs aren't scientific breakthroughs. These are engineering breakthroughs. Okay? The breakthroughs are engineering breakthroughs, not scientific breakthroughs. Um so what can we expect? I suppose the first breakthrough which is kind of being being broken through right now is extremely heavy lift uh rockets like the uh Starship that that that SpaceX is developing. So SpaceX uh it has this uh very heavy lift rocket called Starship. The most powerful reco rocket ever built and uh it's going to be tested again next month. It's going to be launched again next month. So that's the first breakthrough that's kind of right right here right now. What else can we have? Uh we're going to have human a human presence on on the moon. So Elon Musk has now pivoted from away from Mars and towards the moon because it's way easier to get to the moon. And so the the mission is no longer Mars. It's mission moon now. And that's something that could happen in the next 2 three years. So we're going to have eventually in the next 5 10 years the first human bases permanent bases on the moon. By the 2030s we're going to have probably humans on Mars. So that's another uh engineering breakthrough, technological breakthrough and historical breakthrough essentially. Uh so you're going to have the first human human missions to Mars and eventually there's going to be uh uh permanent human settlements on Mars as well. Maybe by the 2040s, maybe by 2050 around that time. So that's about Mars. When it comes to U so that's the kind of thing you will going to you're going to have you're going to have more uh you're going to have more space stations in orbit around the earth. You also will eventually possibly have space stations in orbit around Mars and um the moon as well possibly but probably just Mars bases and moon bases starting with the moon. Uh about asteroid mining is not going to happen in the next 50 or 100 years. Asteroid mining may happen in the next maybe 200 years. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe AI and robotics will give us the technology. We need to start mining asteroids in this century itself perhaps. Right? Possible, but I would say still improbable because asteroids are really really far away. They are in the asteroid belt. So there are multiple asteroid belts but the closest one is the asteroid belt that's in orbit between u the orbits of Mars and and and Jupiter. So that's where you have this big big big field of debris which is asteroids and it looks when we when we discuss this it sounds like the the asteroids are all all grouped together very closely packed together but actually they are millions of kilometers apart. Any two given asteroids are millions of kilometers apart. The earth moon distances of what's the earth moon distance? Let's find out. Okay let's see what's the earth moon distance. See, it's not even a million kilometers. It's like 0.4 million kilometers. And asteroids are typically millions of kilometers apart from each other. And they are really really far away. So locating asteroids, detecting what you know minerals and and and other elements they contain, then reaching the asteroid, then actually starting a drilling and mining operation, then bringing the stuff back to Earth. It's going to be really difficult. Of course, it doesn't break the laws of physics. definitely 100% possible, but it's it's going to be a real breakthrough whenever it happens. So, if you let's say you want to mine gold or silver or rare earth elements, how do you know which asteroid contains that? You're going to have to send probes, autonomous probes to various asteroids which will then reach the asteroid, land on the asteroid, then start drilling there from various angles to figure out what the asteroid contains. So that's going to be a long process. It's not going to happen soon, right? So maybe it's something that will happen in the next 100 200 years. But AI and robotics, if we have major breakthroughs in these fields, maybe it may happen sooner, but definitely not in the next 50 years. So that's how I see things going. Okay. Uh Basker Bandit says, "Congrats on the 333rd episode." Thank you very much, sir. Grateful to be part of this journey. more power and support to you for raising for helping us raise our standards. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much to you and everybody else. I'm very very indeed very grateful. Thank you. Aniket says, "Experts say that the real population of China is 800 million based on salt consumption plus nighttime light. Satellite imagery shows inflated GDP person and population 10% of China's edible oil comes from gutter oil 2010 research while some people have raised these concerns if you look at the nighttime luminosity of the nation of China in satellite imagery in satellite images you will find that India is way more luminous significantly visibly more luminous than China. So, China is not that that bright in in nighttime satellite images. That kind of raises question mark, right? So, that's one, you know, that's one example of of uh you know, facts not matching claims. The claim is that China's population is 1.4 billion. Uh then when it when it comes to other things like salt consumption, etc., once again, it looks like China's population is lower than what is being claimed. um GDP also there's been this longstanding uh and persistent uh you know claim made by various people over time experts over time that China's GDP that the Chinese government has been inflating its GDP its actual GDP growth is much lower than what they claim and it's the China's China as a nation its overall GDP is lower than what China the Chinese government claims um I suppose experts will know about this obviously I haven't done you know statistical detailed research on this so I can't say but yeah these suspicions aren't random suspicions very very highly placed and very uh wellinformed people have been raising these suspicions and these doubts this you know uh so yeah it's it's possible that China actually is is hiding the truth from the rest of the world uh about China's edible oil comes from gutter oil okay I haven't seen Gutter oil. I didn't even know what gutter oil was was until I saw some videos from China in which you open a sewer and you apparently extract oil out of sewers and some restaurants use that you know to I mean for cooking. So um 10% if it's true that would be shocking but uh the point is every nation has issues every nation has problems. Yeah. uh since we are Indians, we know exactly what kind of problems we have. And I assure you that India's problems are much bigger than those of China's. So let's let's also remember that let's not gloat about China's problems. If if China has problems, of course they have. Uh the thing is we should focus on our own country. We know what problems we have. we know uh what what direction we have to go in and we need to focus on that more than uh China. Of course, we should know what's going on in China. No question about that. So, I'm not saying that these uh points you've raised are not valid. They are very much valid indeed. Okay. Swastik says if Chanaka was alive today, his vision for the country, what fields would he want Barat to dominate? Which leader would he approve to rule Barat from with absolute iron fist? And what elements get crushed? Okay. What would Chanaka's vision for Barat be if he were alive today? He would want Barat to excel in all fields, especially science and technology, especially technology. And for a nation to excel in technology, you have to excel in science. And for that, you need a world-class education system. Right? So Chanaki would want India to excel in technology because without technological excellence you are not any kind of power. You are you are a useless power. You are not even a power if you depend on other nations for technology. So what kind of technologies? Military technology uh civilian technology artificial intelligence uh semiconductors electronics aviation jet engines submarines everything all of that. So he would want Barat to be world class in all of these fields for sure. Right? Uh he would also want Bhat to be a net exporter of culture rather than being a net importer of culture like we are today. Yeah. He would want Bat dominate to be a dominant cultural power, a net exporter of culture. Which leader would he approve to Rud Bat? Someone who is not secular. He would not want somebody who secular. So I'll not start giving you names of what leaders he would approve because I am not Chanaka. But Chanaka would not want secular leaders. He would definitely not want that. He would want dharmic leaders. What elements get crushed? Well any anti-inational or anti-vilivilizational elements will get crushed thoroughly by him with an iron fist fist or by whoever uh he mentors and and uh you know appoints as the emperor. Obviously if if if he were to be alive today he would not approve of this so-called democratic system that we have and this so-called constitution that we have he would not approve of that. He would want there to be an emperor to rule Bat. That's what Chanaka would want. You think Chanaka would be pleased with this so-called democracy that we have today? He would be disgusted with it. Okay? This democracy with the upper house of parliament, lower house of parliament and a prime minister and a constitution that is not even ratified by the people of India. Do you think he'll approve of it? He'll be disgusted by it. So understand Chanaki had standards. We are we no longer are at those standards. He would be disgusted with us today. I mean is this Bharat vers today in the 21st century? He would be disgusted. That's the truth. Beckinbau says um big fan of your channel. Thank you sir. Have you heard about the Kodu Galore massacre of Jews by Zamarind kings of Kerala? heard the story from my grand from my grandpa. Kudu galore massacre of Jews. There's been no massacre of Jews in India ever by the Samudri kings of Kerala. The Zamorins this word Zamorin is a Portuguese word. The Portuguese obviously could not speak Indian languages. So they turned Samudri into Zamorin. The kings were called samudri kings. They used to be seafaring kings. Samudra right obviously so the kings of Kerala like the king of Kalikat hol was called the samudri in the Portuguese called them zamarans so essentially the kings of Kerala so are you saying that there's been a massacre of Jews by the Hindu kings of Kerala I have never heard of this never ever heard of this I don't think it can be true I don't think there's ever be any kind of massacre of Jews in India I mean what let's let's see Uh kodalore. What is kodalore? Kodalore. Kodungalur. Okay. Massacre of Jews by Zamuran kings of Kerala. Uh Jewish. Um okay. This is some nonsense that has been propagated by Reddit apparently. Muslim forces etc. Safe heaven, Jewish chronicle, massacre of Jews. Okay, I don't know. This is some new fangled new history. It looks like I don't know who has invented this new story. I've never heard of this. I've never I've never heard of this. Yeah, this is new. Okay, now we are inventing stories of Indians massacing Jews. That's interesting. I don't know. I've never heard of it. This is not real history the way I mean for from whatever I know. Okay. Sabarish says after following your insights for a long time now, Raj Shamani's podcast with Mako felt more like diplomatic nasties than a realistic talk where France is already America's vasal and we are on the verge of becoming a vasal. So I don't watch podcasts first of all. I don't have the time for that. I haven't watched u this uh podcast with Mu Mak. Uh so I'm I'm not aware of what uh was discussed, what was not discussed. Um see if Mu Mako agrees to doing a podcast in India, we will obviously do it on the recommendation of the government of India. So it looks like the government of India is recommending Mr. Raj Shamani for whatever reason. Okay, good. So in that case, the podcaster, the person who is the host will definitely not ask any tough questions or do any cross-examining of or whatever of the host or of the guest, right? When you're hosting uh the the president of France, you don't do that. So then obviously it'll be a podcast full of nisties, right? So okay. So I'm not sure what purpose it really serves but u maybe it's something the government of India wanted to do as a favor to Mr. Mak that you appear on an Indian podcast and we recommend this particular gentleman who is a fantastic podcaster. Maybe that's the case. Um France is obviously we know yeah from the analysis we have done so many times on this channel France is an American. It's a member of the EU. It's a member of NATO. that makes you the vasal and we India are on the verge of becoming an American vasal. Should I agree or disagree with this? I will say I will say I will repeat what I've said in the past the past few weeks that there is a high probability that India becomes an American vasal in the next 5 years. Are we there yet? I'll I'll not say that we are there yet but we may be perhaps showing signs of being on our way there. Yeah, Ritip says, "Are we still at the in the infancy of the AI revolution?" Actually, we are. We are. We are still in the infancy of the AI revolution. There's a lot that AI can't do. One example of what AI can't do is this. See if you give AI all the physics data, physics knowledge, physics information from let's say 1908, 1908, whatever was known to the world, whatever know was known to physicists in 1908. If we give all that information to AI, can AI come up with the general theory of relativity? Einstein's general relativity which Einstein worked on between 1908 to 1915. Can AI come up with that on its own and right now AI can't do that. So AI is still in its infancy. AI is still taking baby steps. AI still gets lost. It still gets confused. If the context window is too large I mean if there's too much context it gets bogged down. There's many problems with AI right now. But AI is evolving very rapidly. So we are still kind of at the infancy of the AI revolution. AI is still right now mostly chat bots and now we have things like co-work and code and command line interfaces and whatnot but it's still you could say in its infancy. AI hasn't been given real agency yet. What's agency? Uh the ability to do things in the real world. Right now it's just building software for people. Um you analyzing documents for people, building marketing plans for people. U generating reports for people. uh writing code like I said deploying app no not deploying but building apps and so on and so forth that's what AI is doing it's all software related stuff um some AI can edit videos and audio stuff and all that but once again it's software related stuff so AI isn't yet able to do things in the real world that agency hasn't been given to AI so I think it'll take another 2 three years maybe 5 years by 2030 we're going to have a whole different AI landscape so we are still essentially In the in the infancy of the AI revolution, Rohan Biri says negativity unites people more than positivity is it due to survival survival instinct of the reptilian brain? I think that's a psychological trait I think that humanity kind of seems to have. Negativity unites people more than positivity. See, negativity is obviously uh some kind of threat, right? some kind of threat. Negativity implies some kind of threat of some kind. And when there's a threat, your survival in instincts are triggered. Question, no question about that. And when you have a shared threat, you know, that's when your shared survival in instincts come together and that's how people band together. So when everything is fantastic, when everything is going well, everybody goes in their own lane and does whatever they do, everybody can be happy in their own way. But when you suffer, you suffer together in the same way, I suppose. So I think uh maybe it's a psychological thing, maybe it's about a shared common threat that you that you face when there is negativity. And that's why I don't know if is if it's the reptilian brain or some other part of the brain, but definitely it's about a shared thread. So yeah, when there's a threat, you are more likely to take action or at least uh have conversations about what to do about the thing. So maybe that's why negativity unites people more than positivity. Godliness says mha ministry of home affairs came up today with prahar anti-terror force. It's secular mentions terrorism has no faith ideology, religion or civilizational context. Secularism is good but this government is now becoming a joke. Okay. So I haven't seen this uh I'm not aware of this prahar anti-terror force. Let's let's see let's uh Google this. Okay. So prahar anti-terror force. Um now okay prahar it's a two it's two a's India's new policy prahar to bring down the hammer on terrorism and is there a circular okay is this the circular 8 hours ago will it open I don't know why the ministry of home affairs websites don't open very easily it's not opening it's loading loading loading and it won't open for whatever reason okay so the the thing is I haven't seen the circular. Um, now officially the government of India is a secular government. Officially India is a secular nation. Our uh constitution def defines India as a what? Secular socialist republic and so on. Right? So the prime minister of India, the government of India, they they follow the constitution. They worship the constitution. It is what it is. Right? It's the nature of India today. India is a secular nation and we have to be secular. So if that displeases you, maybe you should we should those who are displeased with this, they should perhaps do something about this. Is the government of India becoming a joke? Well, uh I shall not comment about that. Secularism is good. My question, my question is why do we need to be secular? Why can't we be dharmic? I think being dharmic is superior to being secular. Right? So it is what it is. This is the nature of India today. Standards are different compared to the days of Vishnu Gupta Chanaka. Very different standards. Very low much lower standards. Pratam Pratam Medar says what's happening in Guadalajara Mexico before FIFA World Cup. Is the next FIFA World Cup going to be in Mexico? I'm not sure. Let's see where is the next FIFA World Cup going to be held. Um, okay. Canada, Mexico, and the USA? The entirety of North America. Well, how nice. Okay. Uh, and when? Let's see. When? When? When when? So, which year? Is it 2026? Really? Is it this year? I wasn't aware. I remember doing um I remember doing a live stream during the final match of the 20 of the last World Cup uh where Messi I mean Argentina won right so is has it been is it has it been four years now I can't believe how fast time time flies okay so the 2026 FIFA World Cup will be held in those countries from June 11 to July 19 2026 well we have a world cup world up coming up. I was not aware of this. So what's happening in Guadalajara? Some kind of terrorist attack, cartel attack. Apparently the government of Mexico took down took down the leader of one of the cartels and the cartel has responded in full force and they are terrorizing a city and they have taken over parts of a city and there's like essentially civil war going on at least in some parts of Mexico. So in Mexico you in some parts of Mexico you have these drug cartels that are very powerful and there there exists essentially some kind of balance in some countries in South America and Central America between the government and the drug cartel. And when it comes to these drug cartels they're consumers their consumers. Where are they located? They're not located in Mexico or Colombia or whatever. It's usually the United States. The US is the customer primary customer. So in these nations like Mexico and Colombia and so on there exists some kind of balance some kind of equilibrium homeostasis between the government and the cartels and looks like there is some readjustment that's happening there. Yeah. So it's let's see what the what the latest news is like in Guadalara. Uh Guadalara let's see. So, okay, El Mencho was killed in in a military operation. Looks like he is a new fangled uh uh what's his name? Who was the great famous Colombian uh drug dealer? I forget his name. Anyway, uh Mexico cartel violence and so on. So, yeah, this this violence happening between the cartel, the cartel and the the government. That's what's happening. I was talking about Pablo Escobar here. Pablo Escobar. Okay. Gapati says, "Conspiracy theory for the day. Our ancestors use the word Mletch to refer to Malo worshippers. Insane censorship is happening." Okay. Uh look, this god called Malik, this god is referred to in the Hebrew Bible and he is referred to as a god that is an evil god or something. And it looks like this term mo it's simply a placeholder for perhaps Yahweh or perhaps mother god. Now the Hebrew people their history is about 3,000 years old. Okay 3,000 years old or 3100 BC or wherever the 3100 1,100 AD or something is the first mention of the name Israel. Let's let's find out. Okay. What's the oldest mention? What is the oldest mention of the word Israel in inscriptions? So that's in Egypt I think. Okay. Meahastil Israel still 1208 BC. So let's say the Jewish people, the Israelite people existed let's say 800 years before that. So that's 2,000 BC. Now when it comes to us, our culture, it's 10,000 years old at least. And the word Mletcha would have existed long before this Malo or whatever existed. So it's an interesting idea. It's an interesting theory, but most likely the word Mletcha predates the Israelite people. So, and perhaps it may have been used to refer to Malok worshippers or I don't know. I don't think I'm not sure if Indians back in the day 1000 BC or wherever would have ever taken note of Malok worshippers or whatever. We were trading with the with with Egypt. We were trading with the Greece I suppose to some extent with with the um with the with Mesopotamia with Babylon and so on with Assyria with with the Sumerianss and so on. Um not with the people in the Levant. So I'm not sure if we would have really bothered to trans you know conf you know transmogrify the name of this this uh fringe god into a word for all foreigners all uh foreigners who did not practice you know Indo-uropean vic customs I think it's it's an interesting theory but probably a little far-fetched but interesting theory nonetheless Sergeant Skylon says it seems that the Kadari engine has achieved 83 kon in trust. What does this mean for our jet engine program? So let's see let's take a take a look at the latest news about the cavary engine. I also have heard that the after burn of the wet thrust is is in excess of 80 kilon newton now. So let's see cavary engine latest news not calvary cavary. Okay. Uh cover engine latest news uh after burner breakthrough revives the thing and so on etc. So let's see what Z news has to say about this. The cover engine rose back with a big AI generated image reject. Uh after burner breakthrough revives India's 30-year dream inches closer to combat rule. Um so India will be partnering with Safo and Rolls-Royce to develop a fighter jet engines for the AMCA and so on. Amidst this stuff, DRDO has achieved what India has only dreamed of for decades is finally throwing. Yeah. Where's the actual thing? Um what do we have? The cover engine has not only not delivered that's old news that's fine. Uh it gives a thrust of 72 kilon newtons but we need a thrust of 83 to 85 kilon newtons. According to the latest finally they're coming to the point according to the latest information the cover engine after burner test success reportedly displayed increased thrust of 81 to 83 konton. This happened after the GTRE made significant technological changes in the engine. Notably, the dry thrust of the 49 kon cavary engine is now nearly equal to the GE404 engine. The engine being used for the air mass flow of cavary is higher. It's 78 kg/s versus 65 kg/s of the M882 engine developed by France. The only drawback of the Cavary engine is its weight which was around 300 kg extra compared to the other rivals and now the DU has reportedly reduced 100 kg in the latest upgrades. This means that the gap is now about 200 kilog. Um okay. So the news is that now the cavary engine the the dry thrust without the after burner it's essentially the same as the general electric F404 engine. And now with the after burner the new developments in the after burner technology the coverage jet engine now gives about 81 to 83 kon of wet thrust which is essentially very very close to what the American engine does. The American engine goes up to 85. The cavary is now at 81 to 83. Okay. And the foreign engines are about 200 kilos lighter than the cavary engine. I think India should really take this very seriously. I mean, okay, it's a couple of hundred kilograms heavier. Sure, I'm sure we can shave down the weight further over time, but we should not kill this program. It's it's almost on par with foreign engines. It's especially in terms of thrust. Some more tweaking with the afterburner will give the same thrust as the American jet engine. The only issue is then uh the weight. Well, that's okay. You have a jet engine that's essentially on par with an American engine. Now, it will obviously need more testing. Let's not jump uh to conclusions. It will need more testing, rigorous testing and so on. Maybe on a you know uh various ways of testing it in actual conditions. But it looks like they have made significant progress. The other question is what is the the life cycle of the of the lifetime of the of the engine? How long can it how many hours can it be operational before it the turbine blades have to replace and all that? That also is a factor that that's not being that's not being addressed in this news report. So there's multiple factors but it looks like we have made significant progress and looks like we are not far from having a jet engine that's uh you know on par with uh with leading jet engines. So I think this is great. This is a excellent work that that the GTR team has done and maybe in two three years we may have a jet engine that's on par with the rest of the world. So with not not the rest of the world but the leading jet engines in the world. It's fantastic. is great news and if this happens then we could have multiple families of jet engines in one the cavary the indigenous cavary engine the second one the engine we are developing in collaboration with safh of France and so on so that's fantastic that's great news I would say kudos to the team mac jvenu says when society falls wars important right now I want War VW when society falls wars important right now I want war view VW um I don't want war is terrible sometimes some nation needs war to to achieve certain objectives yeah it's true sometimes you need war no question about that but war overall is terrible war causes tremendous suffering war is horrific from a humanitarian perspective Yeah. Uh it's typically the the innocent who who suffer the most in wars. So I would not want war. Of course war is inevitable. War eventually happens sooner or later. That's true. But as far as possible as civilized human beings, we should not uh resolve problems through war. So um yeah, Mary Kane, good to see you ma'am. Mary says, "Core architecture in infrastructure of space stations will rely on STEM disciplines. Private sector could accelerate timelines. What would you suggest for avoiding fund hoarding string theory mafia?" Um yeah, you're right absolutely that the core architecture and infrastructure and and technological development of space stations and space programs will obviously rely on the STEM disciplines. Uh mainly physics, material science um and obviously engineering the the broad gamut of engineering disciplines. Uh so that's what u space exploration and and space stations will rely on. Now the private sector obviously should be involved in this. You can't leave everything to the government. So for example the US has has done a brilliant job of of having this this hybrid model. On on the one hand we have NASA which is a government agency. On the other hand, you have things like U Space X obviously Loheed Martin and so many of these other private uh players who are all working in parallel par parallel in in taking the American space program further. Uh for example, the Arteimus mission they have their own LVM or whatever rocket it is which is not developed by SpaceX. It's it's developed by um Loheed Martin and whoever else. Okay, let let's see the uh the Arteimus program. Arteimus rocket. Arteimus LVM rocket. Okay, I'm mixing things up. Okay, Arteimus rocket. Let's go for this. Oh, something has happened. Postponed. So, uh if you look at this Arteimus 2, the Orion spacecraft, of course, you get the Orion spacecraft. Now who has uh built who has developed this spacecraft? Uh SLS rocket. Okay. SLS rocket. Uh it's used by NASA. Who has developed it? Okay. Looks like it's been developed by developed by NASA. So the point is in the US there's this great hybrid model that you know you have Loheed Martin various other other private players including SpaceX the giant who all work in parallel to in developing various components of the of the jigsaw puzzle needed for the US to be the global superpower in space. So the private sector obviously does accelerate timelines. It's a great model to emulate for India. But obviously India doesn't have the sort of money, the kind of money the US has. The Chinese on the other hand have this uh this program that's that until recently was entirely government funded and governmentr run. Now I suppose private players must be uh participating in the Chinese space program as well. So uh India should also do this. Right now we have ISRO and we have some space startups but uh they haven't made any major progress for example sending a rocket into earth orbit that sort of thing hasn't happened as far as I know um so yeah India needs to catch up now what would I suggest for avoiding fund hoarding string theory mafia so the string theory mafia it's um that's in academia that's in pure physics research So in in physics we we you know we seek to discover this grand unified theory that explains everything. The ground unified theory that that is able to uh to combine or merge general relativity with with quantum mechanics and quantum field theory because the two thus far are are incompatible. The two best theories that we have, the greatest theories of all time, one is general relativity, one is u quantum field theory, quantum mechanics, these two don't work together. For example, you can't have quantum theory that works in curved spacetime, you know, that sort of thing. So, uh so the grand unified theory is is this this great dream that physicists have of unifying everything into one consistent theory that explains everything. And one candidate for that is string theory. So that's all theoretical physics. It's not applied physics. It's not engineering. A lot of and when when it comes to uh funding. See there's a there's funding that's given to pure science and there there's funding that's given to engineering. That's totally different funding. So when it comes to the string theory mafia, they have they have been able to capture most of the funding that's assigned to physics, pure physics research, theoretical physics research. And that's a problem. But it's not hindering or hampering the space program as such. Um so fund holding doesn't happen when it comes to the space program. I would say you know the private sector as long as the private sector gets more and more involved it's going to be it's going to run much leaner than NASA. It's going to run much leaner than u any any government agency. So my my point is the private sector should be involved as much as possible. That way you know uh money won't be wasted and all the operations will will run as lean as possible. Godliness says AI summit in Delhi had some very impressive domestic AI models but my concern is from chip designs to manufacturing real hardware. All of this is still in the hands of the US and we saw no update on that. So India you are right your concern is absolutely valid. No question about that. So India is India is doing good good work in in terms of domestic models AI models. Serwam is a great example of of uh u very good um indigenous model right so we have that now the concern that you have is is the hardware concern so chip designs a lot of chip design is done in India actually so we have the brains we have the people with the knowledge the knowhow and the experience and the skills chip design but we don't have any chip design companies in India indigenous chip chip design companies All these folks in India who work in Bangalore, Hyderabad, wherever on chip design, they work for these foreign companies, American companies. So, uh chip designs we can handle. We can do chip design. I'm sure we have the people who who have the knowhow. When it comes to manufacturing, semiconductors and all that. Well, all of that is still so in in semiconductor manufacturing, you first of all need to make those chips, those silicon wafers. That's easy. It's uh that's not that hard. Okay. But then you have to etch the designs, etch the circuits onto the silicon wafers and that is very very specialized technology. You need very complicated very expensive machines to do that. Uh these machines are called photo lithography machines and these machines are manufactured by ASML. ASML controls about 95% of the of the of the market in this in this field. It's a Dutch company and when it comes to manufacturing these chips about 90% or around that that that much of the market is controlled by TSMC. It's a Taiwanese corporation. So India is is now has now embarked on its own semiconductor mission and we are manufacturing chips of a certain caliber. I mean it's not like bullets of caliber but you get what I mean. uh but we are about maybe a decade or more behind the cutting edge uh chip manufacturing that's done in the world at least a decade behind so uh your concern that's therefore is very valid right um so this summit was an AI summit it was not a semi it was not a semiconductor summit so obviously there will not have been any update on that matter but uh that doesn't make your concern any less valid so yeah India is going to have to find uh solution solutions to this issue, right? Uh not just uh being able to manufacture smaller I mean I mean denser and denser chips but the photoiththography technology that's very important. Kakashi says if China is compromised so high up Jang Yushia how about India because most minister's families kids etc are in foreign countries in certain think tanks so in China has cracked down on officials who have relatives working who live in the US let's see China cracked down on officials with relatives living in the United states. Let's see. Uh yeah, they call them naked officials. Okay, the Chinese government calls these people naked officials. Officials who work for the Chinese Communist Party who are in government and whose family members reside abroad. So the Chinese government is is placing restrictions on these people and they're pressurizing their relatives including those in the US to return to China. And if these officials are unable to persuade their relatives to return to China, then those officials are removed from their positions, maybe demoted significantly further down where they don't really pose any any issue or maybe they're completely relieved of the duties. So these officials in China are called naked officials. Uh it's not about Jang Yushia, it's about other non-military people who are in the Chinese Communist Party high up in the government. Now when it comes to India, um I don't think it's some big secret that most Indian bureaucrats whether they are high ranking bureaucrats or lowranking bureaucrats, they have children and and rel relatives who live in the west children who study in western universities mainly US yeah also UK and when it comes to various Indian ministers and so on the same story applies some of them have children who work who study in a foreign country western country some of them work in western countries some of them have citizenships of western countries some of them think tanks whatever right so China considers ers people like these officials like these to be naked officials off officials who are compromised and who can compromise China. Is China right or wrong to do this? I think China is right to do this. See during the days of the Roman Empire, the Romans used to have this this this policy of keeping hostages. So let's say you are the Roman Empire and you have like 17 different vasals who are all kings of other kingdoms that you control. So you have allowed those kings to remain in power as long as they are your vasals which means they will obey you. But how do you ensure their obedience? You tell these guys, these kings, give me two of your sons and send them to Rome. we will take care of their education and everything. We will train them to be the best possible kings or whatever. Right? So every of these vasal kings would have multiple sons who would be studying in Rome, who would be hostages in Rome. That was the the way Roman the Roman Empire handled vasals. So this exact it's the exact same thing, isn't it? Essentially, it's the exact same thing. It's like having hostages but you know officials give up their family members willingly voluntarily to be hostages then they typically become citizens in these countries. So um so so the question you're asking is is India compromised? I I think I will let you all my viewers draw the conclusions for yourselves. Is India compromised because of naked officials like what the like the Chinese say. Sam the Gamer says, "Aditya Menan's alien invasion. Do Russia uni Russia US unite?" Is this a question for me or somebody else? If there's an alien invasion, do Russia and the US unite? I think it's unlikely even if there's an alien invasion that Russia and the US will will properly unite. Unlikely. Amisha says, "If Afghanistan shared a border with India, would relations be hostile? That's an interesting question. We could ask we could ask this question in a different way. If India shared a border with Iran, would relations be hostile? I think one of the reasons why India has good relations with Afghanistan is because we don't have a shared border. And even if we have a shared border, as long as the border is properly demarcated, there is no border dispute, relations can be pretty stable and pretty good, right? Um and as long as India is powerful enough, all relations will be good. So um just having a shared border with another nation doesn't make the relations hostile. As long as as as the border is properly demarcated and as long as India is powerful enough, the relations will be fine. Ganapati says maji restoration was the original deep state sanatan marriage that people like whoever talks about okay I don't know what people talk about um the original deep state sanatan marriage that some people talk about US won twice against Japan 1853 and 1945 Modi is trying to imitate in it in India insane censorship looks like YouTube is not allowing you to post certain things that's why you use these uh this workar around okay so the major restoration um it was all see it was not a marriage of sanatan or Japanese sanatan with the deep state um in the major restoration okay the major restoration did not go after Shinto see the the original Japanese religion or culture whatever you want to call it is Shinto and it is way more similar to Hinduism than to Buddhism. But eventually Buddhism reached Japan via China also Hinduism reached Japan via China and today and eventually all these different practices and paths synchretatized in Japan. Now during the maj major restoration 1853 onwards uh they tried to portray Buddhism as a foreign religion and they tried to eradicate Buddhism from Japan that failed but today in Japan Buddhism is kind of seen as a foreign import. Yeah. Um but was the major restoration a marriage of Japanese sanatan practices and the deep state? I completely disagree with that because if it was a marriage of deep state with sanatan, let's say Shinto is the Japanese sanatan. If it's a marriage of deep state with Pinto, then how did the Japanese soldiers practice so much brutality and barbarity during the Second World War? I don't think Shinto allows that. Shinto is way more similar to Hinduism than to Buddhism. And Shinto doesn't allow barbaric practices. All the things that happen in naning and whatever Shinto doesn't allow that sort of brutal barbaric behavior. So I don't see it as a marriage of uh deep state with sanatan. The US won in 1853. Sure they were able to influence Japan into wiping out the samurai traditions and becoming westernized. It was a reaction to western imperialism. The US did not trigger that but whatever you want to say. Um 18 1945 definitely the US won by testing two nuclear weapons in Japan. So you saying that Modi is trying to imitate something like this in India some kind of major restoration in India. Are you saying so in the major restoration of an element of foreign culture they tried to remove it from Japan? Which element of foreign culture is Modi trying to remove from India? I wonder. I don't see any of that. Are we seeing some marriage of deep state and sanatan in India? Uh it doesn't work. Either the deep state wins or sanathan wins. This there cannot be any marriage between between dharma and adharma. Okay. So I I don't can't be done. Can't be done. Yasharati says screened out of AFS AFSB today likely for obesity. What is AFSB? Uh can discipline and creativity painting I do coexist be using as excuse that they can't pathetic me? Okay, I don't know what is AFSB. Let me uh find out. AFSB. No, no, no. AFSB. Okay. What is that? Air Force selection. Oh, Air Force selection board. Okay. So, you wanted to uh go for this Air Force thing and you were screened out of it because uh your weight is okay. You're obese perhaps that's why. Uh so the question you're asking is can discipline and creativity coexist? Oh absolutely. Yes absolutely. Creativity thrives on discipline. So for example you are a painter. You you do painting. That's a creative endeavor. But how do you do how do you become a better painter? Let's say you want to be a full-time painter. How do you become a better painter? How do you become better? through discipline. So maybe as as a dilont painter, as as as as a hobbyist painter, you may paint maybe once a week or maybe once a month or whatever. But what if you force yourself to paint to create one painting every single day for the next year anyhow every single day one painting you to create. Let's say let's say doing watercolors or acrylic or not oil because that takes longer whatever. So that way you're going to have to put out more way more volume than than you were doing before. And if you practice so much creating one painting every day, your skills improve exponentially essentially. You see, discipline makes makes creativity better. Creativity thrives on discipline. So discipline and creativity certainly can coexist. Obviously discipline is not easy. It's easy to speak about these things. It's very hard to actually execute and implement but certainly they can coexist. P Mahas Sager says Sar 10 major points about how Gandhi was a British agent. Okay, listen that's a highly controversial topic. I have spoken about this in the past. Okay. So, let me instead of giving you a list of points here, uh let me uh show you one of the videos on my channel that uh I made a couple of years ago and maybe you can look into that. Give me a second. So, let's put my channel on the on the thing here. Okay. Gandhi. So you search for Gandhi and uh yeah this one this video on my channel that you see here was Gandhi really a Mahatma favoring British over India so you can watch that video it's about 21 or so minutes long and that video will give you a reasonably you know good idea of um of of the characteristics and and and the life's work of Mr. Gandhi. Prattana says, "Looking back at General Wesley Clark interview in 2007 or so about taking out seven countries in 5 years. It's scary. Everyone thought it was a joke or something. So what countries I I remember watching that video long ago. He says Syria. He says Libya. He even mentioned Iran, doesn't he? didn't he? So, what are the nations he mentioned in the in that interview? Let's let's find out. There was this interview by General Wesley Clark in 2007 about US regime changing seven countries in 5 years. What countries were these? Let's see. Okay. Iraq done. Syria done. Lebanon in work in progress. Libya done. Somalia, well, I suppose work in progress. Sudan, work in progress. Iran, right. Right. So, yes, it was definitely not a joke. It was very serious. No question about that. It was very serious. Okay. MKWN, etc. says, "Why did the Arabs fail in India? Despite having the same tactics as the Turks, like superior archery, light and mobile cavalry, retreats, fain retreats, and symmetric warfare. The Arabs did not have anything like the uh did not have any of the archery skills the Turks had. The Arabs weren't great at archery. They were great at at they were good at sword fighting. Um and they did not really after the the invasion by Muhammad bin Kasim, they did not really follow up those invasions and and try and make deeper inroads into India. So Muhammad bin Kasim was able to after the Arabic uh conquest of Persia, they discovered this place called Sind, right? And they wanted to see how far they could penetrate into Sind. So that's what Muhammad bin Kasim's job was to try and invade Sind and it kind of succeeded to a certain extent and that was about it. After that the Arabs did not really follow up too much. Um so they were not persistent enough. The Turks were persistent. They were persistent for centuries. That's why the Turks eventually succeeded. The Arabs after taking Persia and launching some foray, some expeditions into Sind they stopped. That was the issue. Pratt Dhana says India's stray dog problem. Does nobody like dogs in India? If each family or person adopts one dog, there will be no stray dogs or deceased. Let's do this. So, there are two camps in India. The more vocal camp is the one that hates dogs. They want all dogs to be massacred and genocided. The fact is that the Indian dog is the world's oldest breed of dogs. Which is the world's oldest uh dog breed? Let's see what Google say. Which is the world's oldest dog breed or land race? The Saluki Greenland dog. Uh dive deeper into AI mode. Let's see. It's the Indian pariah dog, isn't it? This is nonsense. Okay. What about the Indian pariah dog? Let's see what it says. Yeah, it's the world. There we have it. So, I don't know. It's contradicting itself. AI, you know, that's what AI does. AI still has a lot to do, a lot to learn, lot lot of improvement to do. The Indian stray dog is the world's oldest and most primitive dog type. It is it's the oldest land race of dogs in the world and it's been coexisting with us for at least 10,000 years. And today Indians want to kill it off. A lot of Indians want to kill it off. Obviously there are issues, right? We have this massive urbanization of India, massive urban population. Dogs obviously are there and u often you have these issues where dogs attack human beings. Another question is why do dogs attack human beings? It's because dogs are mistreated. It's because dogs are brutalized. That's why dogs become eventually cynical about humans and they start attacking people. Dogs aren't The Indian dog isn't naturally aggressive towards humans. The Indian dog is naturally very social and very friendly towards humans. It is some people, some lumpen elements in society who like to be cruel to animals, who see dogs as an easy target. They keep on doing this with dogs and then eventually dogs get fed up and then they start seeing all humans as as predators and enemies. That's what happens. Yeah. Um so what's the solution? The solution is to Well, the solution isn't easy. The good thing about the dogs have going in their favor is that the government of India is very inefficient. Otherwise they would have genocided dogs long ago. Recently they were even going after pigeons. Pigeons are actually victims. You know that pigeons used to be they used to work for humans. They used to be domestic birds. Humans used pigeons. Pigeons originally were wild birds. Humans captured them, domesticated them and used them for transmitting messages. And then after after we we had the telegraph and other the technology coming in, we just abandoned the pigeons. And that's why pigeons live in urban areas, but they are no longer that domestic anymore. And now humans hate pigeons as well. When we use them, then we abandon them. And there's a lot of people in India who hate dogs. What's the solution? I'm I'm I don't know. In my opinion, dogs have as much a right to exist as humans, and they have always coexisted with humans, at least the past 10,000 years, right? Um so I don't know what's what the solution is. The solution is for humans to be, I would say, less cruel to animals, less cruel to dogs. And uh and yeah, if there are dogs that are aggressive, well, I suppose they have to be dealt with. Of course, you can't have dogs uh biting humans and children and all that. So those dogs need to be dealt with in whatever way, whatever unfortunate way, but overall dogs, they are part of our society. Yeah. Pratar Dhana says, "You are no longer shadowbanned. Subs increased finally." Um the stocks are again once again slowly slowly slowly going down once again. So uh the policy of of YouTube continues towards this channel. A few days ago, four five days ago, my subs were I don't know 951,300 something. Now it's once again 951,260 something. So it's slowly trickling down once again. And and so I mean look, it's not my platform. It's a foreign platform. They can do whatever they want. And that's what they're doing to the channel. I mean, it's it's stuck between 949 to 951K for the ne last almost 1 year. That is so unnatural. That's so artificial. What can I say? Whatever. We carry on. If you can't control it, don't worry about it. Virtually present says Safong engine deal is still a awaiting final CCS approval. Has been the past 6 months. timelines have already shifted further into the future. Thoughts pure bureaucracy to blame. Big fan by the way. Thank you. Well, thank you so much, sir. This is the way things are done in India. I mean, we have this U MRFA program, right? The MRFA U program. Let's see this India MRFA program. Multi-roll fighter aircraft program. So, Let's ask a different question. Okay. When was was the um initiated? Initiated. Let's see. Not 2.0. 1.0. 1.0. That's not 2019, man. It was about 20, 30 years ago. MRCA, is it MRCA? What's MRCA? MMRCA. Okay. So, what's the history? What's the background? Okay. It's going to take Okay, it's going to take too long for me to look into this, but it's about 20 years old and it's still not finished, right? we still have this requirement. So in India everything is super bureaucratic this tremendous red tape everything takes way too long way too long and by the time you actually implement something it's become obsolete that's how it's done in India now my question is why has the government of India the Narendra Modi government not resolved these issues why do things still take so long I think it's a little too late to keep blaming the previous governments right for the problems we have in India today. Um so if you have decided to go ahead with the software engine please sign the deal and let's get going right let's start doing the engineering work. Um let's let's see what's the what's the status what is the status of the India saf engine deal has the contract been signed let's see they have finalized the landmark agreement um etc etc the deal is in its final stages moving towards cabinet committee on security status clearance. I don't know what sort of system India has and why it is like this extremely frustrating and extremely inefficient and why has the government not been able to solve these things after all these years. Why do things take so long? Is this how you become a superpower and visual guru? No, this is how you become a vasal. DSOTM says dark side of the moon. It says undergraduate computer science student paper got accepted at e access uh bleep professor just put his name. Me and my colleague did all the hard work. When is change happening? See when I when I say that the Indian education system is corrupt. This is what I mean by that. Some people get upset when I when I criticize the education system. Oh no, we have the new education policy 2020 or whatever it is is going to solve all the problems. It's not going to solve this problem. Your new education policy. So this person, I don't know his or her real name, but let's say it's a he. So his he's an undergraduate computer science student. um his paper the paper he and and his colleague worked on it got accepted at E what's E let's see what is E institute of electrical and electronics engineer engineers okay so your paper got accepted uh in in their I suppose journal or whatever and your professor put his name on the paper like he is the author and he did not allow you and your colleague to even be the secondary and second and third authors. So this is what happens in India and if a student dares to speak up against the professor they'll be failed. They will not get their degree that's why students keep quiet no matter what happens. This is the rot the garbage the corruption in the Indian education system and that's what I have been speaking about for years now. that this needs to be reformed. Has anything been been reformed? Anything at all? What is the government of India doing? It has had enough time to at least get rid of some of this corruption. Nothing. So when is the change happening? I would say the change is not happening. The the government is doesn't want to change any of this. That's where we are. Okay. Okay, Pratarana says my theory it seems the overlord allows India to make technologies but at a condition that India won't dare compete with them and use theirs instead. So see India has always loved you know doing the technology demonstrations. In 1974 India tested a nuclear weapon in Pokran 1 and then India said this was simply a technology demonstration. We are a peaceful nonviolent useless nation. We have we don't like violence. We don't like nuclear weapons. We just want to show that we have the technology. Now we will take this nuclear weapons technology. we'll put it on the shelf over here and we'll sleep about it. So from 1974 to 1998, India took that technology it had developed and just put it on the shelf in cold storage. That's what India did. So right now we are developing some AI technologies, some AI models or whatever. Private companies are doing that. I I wonder what problems these private companies are facing actually in doing all of this. But some of them are succeeding. Uh so overall what happens in India is that you know when there is an overlord a Kaiser Caesar somewhere okay then they are okay as long as India develops some technologies and uses them as technology demonstrators but doesn't commercialize the technology you know full-fledged commercializ commercialization. So there are so many pieces of news that come out that India has developed some um anti-mar malarial thing or some anti-tuberculosis thing but does it ever get commercialized? No, nothing. We just talk. We have our scientists do the work, our engineers do the work and then it never gets commercialized. Maybe the commercial maybe the technology that gets somehow transferred somewhere else by maybe hypothetically some some some bureaucrat or whatever. Who knows? Who knows? So the overload wants India to will tolerate India developing technologies and then perhaps transferring these technologies to them or maybe not commercializing them. So essentially India should not compete. You do your technological demonstrations, you do your homework and school work and all but don't compete with us. And at the end of the day when it comes to widespread adoption, use American technologies. That's what's happening in India in the AI summit. That's what the Americans told us that we want you to use our AI stack. Use our AI products. We see you as customers and customers only. Don't try to become competitors. Remain customers. Remain a nice good boy. And India seems to be going along that path right now. Sam the Gamer says, "Can Sam's surfaceto-air missiles like Nasam's S400 compensate for low fighter squadron strength? Is China's hostility to neighbors beneficial or a blunder?" Science episode next. Can surfaceto-air missiles compensate for low fighter squadron strength? Well, when it comes to it, it can. It can. So what do you use fighter planes for? See, India only has fighter jets, right? India doesn't have long range strategic bombers or any any of those things. India has historically operated for example on aircraft carrier C harriers and Mig 29s. The fighter planes, fighter interceptors or whatever. Then Sukhoys, Sukoy 30, 30 MKI fighter planes. These are heavy fighter planes but still fighter planes. We have the Jaguar, we have the Mirage, Mirage 2000, we had the MIG21 fighter interceptor, we have the Tjas similar role. So what is the role of these aircraft? Mainly taking out the enemy's aircraft and secondly doing some some light bombing. Light bombing. So you send a sorty of let's say five fighter planes and they will take out the enemies fighter planes and then you can do some light bombing and that sort of thing. maybe take out a few radars, maybe um you know hit a few uh installations, do some cratering of some runways and so on. Light bombing, the heavy bombing, you know, hardcore bombing is done by strategic bombers that India doesn't have. So if you have if if you if you don't have sufficient fighter planes, you certainly can use missiles to do exactly the same thing. So missiles can certainly compensate for low fighter squadron strength and not just surfaceto-air missiles but other missiles too. So SAMS can essentially take out the enemy's fighter planes like the Akash missile and so on. They can take out a demified planes and then you can use cruise missiles like the Brahos and other kinds of missiles even drones and so on to do the job of bombing the installations of the enemy just like you would do with fighter planes and you you do it in a risk-free manner because you're not risking human lives now. So missiles can certainly compensate for uh you know low fighter squadron strengths. China's hostility to neighbors beneficial or a blunder? Well, it depends if it China is strong enough. It's definitely beneficial for China. Otherwise, it's a blender. Science episode. Okay, I will consider that. I'll maybe put out a poll. Do people actually want a science episode? I there's no point doing it if like 20 people are watching, right? Uh Sanatani Dwanch says historical origin of gurj who are usually katrias and whether similarities with juts and rajuts comes with shared ancestry. I'm not sure about the historical origin of the guras. Um they definitely are a warrior cl warrior community. Today you have gourjs who are who are Muslims in Pakistan and gurjas who are Hindu in India right similarities with Jats and Rajputs. Jats and Rajput see Jats are farmers but historically warriors. Rajuts are Chhatria's warriors but royalty. Rajputs are descendants from kings descended descendants of kings. So um but what's the origin of the gur? Um I'm not really sure. I mean there's a whole state in India named after gurujars gujarat right so are all gujati descended descendants of gurj I'm not really sure gurjars gurjaresh uh gurjard used to be much much more than gujarat actually but I am not 100% clear about the origin of the gurj yeah can't say right now maybe I look into Gapati says wrong spellings ahead on purpose. Statue of Turtor founder OD Swatra party who wanted India to fight Anglo-Saxon wars. See Rajak Gopalachari unveiled in Rashapati Bhan. I have to do this to avoid censorship. Why would YouTube censor this stuff? Why? I don't get it. So statue of curator curator f founder of sautrauta part sautantra party who wanted to fight ind who wanted India to fight Anglo-Saxon wars let's see what is okay I'm not I don't know the history of this gentleman uh Swatantra party swatantra party uh Satantra party in English okay let's see uh Swatantra party and who is the founder of S Raja Gopalachare S Raj Gopalachari uh who is this gentleman he's last governor general of India I'm sure he was a Gandhian yes was he Gandhian let me search for Gandhiian Gandhian principles of course. Yeah. So this is a Gandhian person as founder of the Satantra party or whatever. Has his statue been unvealed in uh Rashtraati Bhawan statue? Oh fascinating. Okay. So this person's uh this fantastic gentleman's statue has been unveiled in uh Rashtapad. Now did he want India to fight Anglo-Saxon wars? I don't know about that. I don't know the history of this particular gentleman. I've heard the name I've heard the name associated with India's freedom struggle struggle which means India's nonviolent freedom struggle. But I don't know his history. I don't know what he did, what he did not do um and what he his actual contributions were to India's uh freedom struggle. So I don't know but clearly he seems to be a very well great person because his statue is there in the Rashtraati now must be a great person. Prattadhana says Ashwave coins of Guptas is equal to Harpan unicorn seal. Um I I have not thought about the similarity. Let's see. Ashwa made the coins of Gupta Empire. No, no, no. Ashwamed. Hey AI, come on. Ashwamed coins of the Gupta Empire. Let's see. Um um ah very interesting. Yes. So this is clearly a a horse. Yeah. Uh so this is the depiction of horses and ashwa possibly on coins of the Gupta Empire. Um okay. So we have the horse depicted here. Now let's see. Oops. Harapan unicorn seals. Does kind of look similar, doesn't it? Does kind of look similar. And I'm not sure if these are actual unicorns. Maybe it's the two horns seam sideways which make it makes it seem like one. But these are clearly boine animals. These are clearly bulls. These are clearly not horses. That much is clear as at least to me. This is clearly a bull. It's not a horse, right? It's the it's the Indian bull, the zebu bull. So, uh it's definitely not a horse. So there is similarity for sure but not sure if the bull depiction has any connection with the ashwa yagna because the ashwa yagna was centered around the ashwa the horse. So similar imagery but probably different different meanings and functions. Okay, Shibamhat Shibam Chhataraj says some say in AI will automate India's services others say that using American models this present growth in MNC's with collabs with US India is India safe what's my thoughts um see what's what are my thoughts about this first of all India is not a technologically sovereign nation India depends on other nations primarily the west primarily the US poor technology. India has the benefit of all these free services like Google search, Gmail and all and so on. These are American services. But the price we pay is that we give them all our data. So India is a technological vasal of the US. Okay. Now even the US is not 100% technologically sovereign because of various reasons. That's why I don't use technological sovereignty as one of the parameters in in calculating the overall sovereignty of a nation. But it is definitely a huge huge red flag for India that India is very very behind in all these technologies. Now when it comes to services, AI can automate a lot of things. No question. Now right now the rate of adoption, the level of adoption of AI in the world is pretty low. maybe 20 30% of the world's population must be using uh let's say free AI services like the free tier of chart GPD the free tier um of chart GPT or whatever else maybe a small percentage maybe 5% must be using paid services AI services and maybe less than 1% will be using you know using AI to build something real so AI adoption is still you know the world is still far behind AI adoption But eventually a lot of services can be automated. Uh maybe you know a lot of government services, a lot of government bureaucratic work can be automated. Um a lot of stuff can be automated. When it comes to India's IT exports, AI can essentially eventually replace that eventually. Not yet. Not yet. We're still not there yet. But it will happen. And there are people who who are saying it will never happen. They have no idea what's coming. Um so um and India is using mostly American models right chat GPT is American um Claude is American um Gemini is American so on most Indians use chat GPT so you're using American models you're giving them your data you're training them on more of your data that's the sort of thing so the question you're asking eventually is is India safe no India is not safe India is not safe in this India needs to have its own frontier models, its own sovereign models. The sovereignty is a words that that's that's thrown around very very easily these days. In the AI summit, there was this all these hoardings with sovereign AI, sovereign AI everywhere. But then in front of the hoarding, the Americas are saying use the American AI stack and that's what India is essentially doing right now. Sovereignty also has become kind of a slogan these days in India. Everything is a slogan. India is not safe. India is definitely not safe in this. Gapati says, "Why do so many Indian nationalists seem to simp for Israel? Israel and Pakistan are more closely allied than people think. Pull support SAR is embarrassing. Um why do so many Indian nationalists simp for Israel?" Well, Israel is a nation that is worthy of a lot of admiration for all they have achieved despite being so small and despite being surrounded by so many enemies, despite despite all the odds, Israel stands there and Israel is the most powerful nation in West Asia. That is certainly worthy of admiration. I will not discuss the what's going on in Gaza and all that. That's a different matter. So many Indians see that and they find that inspirational and they wish that India could do could have a similar approach. Of course, India doesn't have a similar approach despite being a gigantic nation. India doesn't have a similar approach. So lots of Indians wish that it was the case. Um another thing is that lots of Indians perhaps simp for Israel because Israel has a lot of Muslim enemies. That could be another factor perhaps and we are also surrounded. We have also been under Turk Islamic occupation for for a long time. We have Pakistan as as as an adversary and so on. So maybe they see something similar in Israel, a similar kind of situation for Israel and they admire the way Israel is respond is is responding and has traditionally responded to these threats as opposed to India. Right? India is a soft state. India, Israel is a hard state. So that's why many Indian nationalists seem to simp for Israel. But and lots of Indians have the Israeli flag on their on their on their social media profiles and all that. You know, it is from the way I see it, the only flag that you should have on your profile is your own flag. And it's fine to admire other nations, but you never give anybody your full support unconditionally. and the only nation that you should support fully is yours. Um, and then there are some people who pro probably could be on the payroll of certain countries. That's also a possibility. So, Teen Talks says, "Does Ragnar does Ragnar Lothbach Lobbrock really excited existed? Did he really exist is what you're asking. Did Ragnar Lutbrock really exist? Wikipedia says that he was a semi-leendary king, a combination of many kings. Was he related to Leif Ericson who discovered America? Well, we know for sure that there was this great heathen invasion of England. Okay, let's let's find it. Which was supposedly done by the sons of Ragnal. Great heathen invasion of England. Let's see the great heathen army. So this was an actual invasion of England. This is a historical fact. A massive coalition of scientists Scandinavian Vikings. Um and it was led by Ivar the Boneless, Uba and Halan Ragnaran. And these are supposed to be the sons of one single person, Ragnar Lot. um the tale of Ragnar's sons. So it looks like this person Ragnar Lro did exist. Um maybe there's no historical hard evidence of him but that way there is no historical hard evidence of Jesus Christ also. Right? So I'm not sure why Ragnar Lot is considered to be a semi-leendary king. We have the great heathen army that invaded England and transformed England. This was the beginning of the Viking age when the Vikings went from being small-time raiders to full-time occupants of England, northern England, northern the British Isles at least, and uh the beginning of Danlow, you know, the Danish occupation of England, which permanently transformed England, by the way. and uh and the the leaders of this coalition of Vikings were the sons of Ragnar Lothrock. So I'm not sure why he is considered to be a semi-leendary king. Um there may be some good reasons for it but I'm not sure. Was he related to Leif Ericson who discovered America? I am not aware of any connection between Ragnar Lothrock and Leif Ericson. I'm not aware of any connection between the two. Karan says, "I think there were multiple intricate domes in the Arabic world like Alabakirya mosque, Ashrafia mosque, Aya, Madrasa, Mudafar mosque, Yemen, Albbaki cemetery way before Taj Mahal etc. All right. So, thank you very much for your um comment. Rohanbidi says why did the Naji Nazis why did the Nazis choose the haken koit as their insignia and is its significance to the Hindu swastik only coincidental so this symbol the swastik which we call the swastik it's a symbol of auspiciousness it's a very holy very positive very auspicious symbol right isn't it that's what it is for us in our culture It's also the same thing in Japan. For example, if you go to Japan, Japan, Google Maps, swastika. So if you see Google maps in Japan, you're going to see swastikas for Japanese temples, for either Buddhist temples or Shinto temples. Can you see this? you will see swastikas the rivers swastika on Google maps which denote um Japanese temples so even for Japan it's a symbol of holiness auspiciousness and so on now what about Europe I'm talking about pre-Christian Europe okay gamadian okay doesn't know how to interpret that the AI or let us uh do the search again. So there is this thing called the gamadian which is once again the same thing the swastika it's kind of a truncated swastika if you see here and that's a European swastika what about the fiflot okay phil once again this is another word for the swastika so in Europe it was not called the swastika it was called the gamarian and the field for okay And you have you will see swastikas in in in in churches. You will see swastikas in monasteries. You will see swastikas all over Europe. And this was a pre-Christian symbol in Europe. And once again, even in Europe before Christianity, you had the same old religion, the old Indo-Uropean religion which was very closely connected to the Vic religion. And that's why in Europe also you had this symbol that was a symbol of auspiciousness and positivity and so on. So it's a very ancient symbol. It's a symbol of auspiciousness. Now why did Hitler choose the hacken the the hooked cross? So the hooked cross is the tilted symbol. It's got a red background and a black black thing. Right? The symbol is in black. The haken crates. Let's see what the hacken crates looks like. Haken crates. Oh, come on. Haken Cro, the hooked to cross. So, this is the evil Nazi symbol, the Haken Cro. This is the one. Um, so it's different from the swastika, right? It's got this red color and it's got the black black thing and all. So it obviously is based on the gamadian the the field forth the swastika etc. So why did the Nazis choose this? Because they wanted to have a symbol of their own that that was different from the communist symbol. Okay, communist symbol hammer and sickle. See this is the hammer and sickle of the communists. The Nazis wanted to have their own thing. So that's how they somehow came up with the field for the with the with the hacken cros have their own symbol that can oppose the communist thing. That sort of thing. Gapati says most uh many people think Washington is the capital of the deep state. Wrong. My analysis points out that Frankfurt is the real capital of the deep state. Wanted to give explanation but super super chat is censoring me. Are you talking about the Frankfurt School of Economics which could possibly have a connection? Let's see. Frankfurt School of Economics. Yes. Oh, sociology and critical theory. Ah, is very interesting. The Frankfurt School is a school of thought in sociology in critical theory institute for Yes. Who are these fine gentlemen? um whoever they are. So uh is this what you are perhaps talking about? So maybe it has some connection with what some people call the deep state perhaps. Noise says professor showed us discovery of India. So I asked the basis of the Arian invasion theory and why this theory is thought of as history. He did what they all do. Look down. Ignore this professor. These professors will always forever be stuck in those little desk jobs and they will not matter. Forget about that. Forget about it. Don't worry about what the professor thinks. India's professors are are trash. Not all. Most of them. Most of India's professors are they don't deserve to be professors, right? They're still hung up on ancient outdated theories and whatn not. These people don't matter. So don't feel bad about this professor looking down upon you. How does it matter? You're going to go on and do a lot of things in your in your life and that professor is going to remain stuck where he is. Ignore the professor to hell with him. Prayumar says is the whole point of education to raise standards. So the point of education that's a good good question. Great question. What's the point of education? It's not simply and only raising standards. The point of education is to acquire skills. The point of education is to acquire the ability to think in the right ways, to think critically. The ability to is to acquire the ability to solve any problem that life throws at you. The point of education of an education system is to give society every year a new batch of highly capable, highly skilled, highly confident young people who can go and contribute to society and change the world for the better. That is the point of education. Now the Indian education system does the exact opposite of everything I just said. That's the problem. Teen Talk says Greek and Normiths are inspired by us. Then why are their stories packed with adultery and gore without any philosophy like our opishations or Gita? Well, that's the reason we called these people matchas, right? They may have originally been like us, maybe originally of Indian origin, but they went away. They went far away. They they lost in the battle of the 10 kings and over time they strayed away from the path of the Vedas of the Vic principles, Vic Vic practices. So they retained their old language which over time changed. They retained their own culture. They remember the remember the old gods but their gods became twisted eventually over time a gore gore is a different story but adultery and all those things yeah for example Zeus Zeus and his adultery all the time and that sort of thing so that's why they are called mletches right understand that when a population moves away from the ancestral land and moves away thousands of kilometers on foot, on horses, whatever, and stays away for centuries permanently, maybe thousand years, their lifestyle changes, right? That lifestyle naturally, inevitably changes. So that's fine. King Ritik the Great says, "Super chat sessions on Monday due to World Cup." Yeah, yesterday there was some cricket match. I heard that we didn't do very well in the cricket match. Anyway, I thought, why compete with a cricket match in the world cup? That's why I moved this session to Monday. Probably this coming weekend I shall not do that. I don't know if there's a cricket match this coming Sunday but this coming Sunday I'll do the live stream on Sunday itself. So so that's the reason why I have I'm doing this on Monday at this time. Mac 4 Ju says beef eating history of Kerala Hindus when did it start? I have no idea. I have not studied the history of the beef eating Kerala Hindus. I have no idea. In Kerala we had the highest standards. The Kerala Hindus were had probably higher standards than Hindus in the rest of the country and today they eat beef. See how far we have fallen. I have no idea when it started. It probably had something to do with the introduction of foreign cultures, foreign people and foreign religions into India. Probably something to do with that. Probably something to do with Christian missionaries. Probably something to do with some other religion. Who knows? I I don't know. I don't want to speculate but I haven't studied this. Angut gal says do you think there will be war in 2026 or propaganda and I've heard of professor Jang and do you think Dawkins is right on God and I don't I mean how many questions do you have? Okay I haven't studied I haven't watched professor Jang yet. I've been many people have been recommending it. I haven't got around to watching professor Jang. Uh so I can't say about that. Will there be war in 2026? I think a war on Iran by the US seems pretty inevitable right now. Yeah. Which could happen in the next few days if not tomorrow morning or tonight. Who knows? Um why do I say it's inevitable? It's almost inevitable. Why? Why do I say that? Because the US is making maximalist demands on Iran. Right now there are some negotiations happening. The US wants Iran to demilitarize, disarm itself and denuclearize. So if Iran gives up its weapons, gives up its nuclear program and gives up its missiles, then what happens next? Next it is a setting duck and then the Americans can return with Israel and wipe out Iran. Once you are defenseless, the Americans are essentially saying that Iran should make itself defenseless. Now, do you think Iran can accept that? Of course, Iran can't accept that. So, if Iran won't accept what the Americans and Israelis say because the Israeli position is essentially identical to the American position. So, if Iran doesn't accept what America says, then Trump has already moved all this equipment to West Asia. About 40 to 50% of the deployable air force assets of the US have apparently been moved to West Asia. Two entire aircraft carrier strike groups have been deployed there after spending so much money deploying all this military force there. If Trump doesn't get what he wants from Iran, then he has essentially painted himself into a corner. And that's why I say it's likely that the the Americans will will target Iran, will will strike at Iran and that will lead to war because for Iran this is an existential threat. It's not like the 12-day war that happened last year. So I think it's very likely there's going to be war that America imposes on Iran and that could happen any time now. That's what it looks like. Uh I have no idea about Dawkins and his views on God. probably atheism or some something like that. Uh my opinion is that atheists are the biggest idiots in the world. I am not an atheist. I probably am some kind of agnostic. But you know what atheism means? If you're an atheist, you're making the statement making you assert if you're an atheist, you're asserting that you know that in the entire universe there is no god. I mean, who the hell do you think you are that you know exactly what's going on in the entire universe? And do you even know what's beyond the universe? So, it's like I mean it it makes no sense. It's like an ant saying I know everything about the planet Earth, right? That sort of thing. Um, so if you have any sense, you you can't be an atheist. But Mr. Dawkins, professor Dawkins apparently has understood ex everything about the universe and that's why he has made this claim. So I find that really stupid. So that's what I that's what my views are on atheism. It's it's low intelligence behavior atheism. Uh Pratam Medar says it seems like Mexico has better standards than India. uh the El Mancho was the next Pablo Escobar of Mexico and they took him out. But when it comes to India, why have we not taken out Haf say the felity? So yeah, Haf say the felity is in Pakistan. El Mancho was in Mexico. That's why the government of Mexico took him out. El Mancho was not in the United States or in some neighboring country of Mexico. You see, of course, India is a much more is a much larger country than Mexico, much more powerful country than Mexico. But India, India has different standards. So yeah, Shashank says, "Why did the Delhi blast disappear online? Is it natural or by design? Is it sc isn't it scary that something so serious can just vanish from public memory?" Public memory has always been like this. Public me memory is always fickle. Today's today most people won't remember what India was like 20 years ago. How how far behind India was compared to today 20 years ago. How bad the governance and mismanagement was. People won't remember that public memory is extremely fickle. Yeah. So that's how it is. I mean in a state let's say you have a state election coming up people in that state won't even remember how good or how bad the previous government was five six seven years ago right so public memory is very fickle people simply don't think people simply don't remember things that's how it is Angad Gal says if you watch football who do you support minus Bayern Munich who do you think will win win UCLA in this 2020 World Cup and sir, do you think Iran is nukes or just USA hypes? Hype okay like I don't watch football anymore these days. I I certainly try and watch the World Cup at at least the the important matches whenever it happens. Um there was a time when I used to watch a lot more sports these days I don't do that do it that much. So um I don't know even know who plays for whom anymore which EPL team or whatever. Uh UCL. What's UCL? Okay, UFAF Champions League. I am not sure who will win the UFA Champions League. I'm not following it. I am totally out of it. So, I don't know. Uh the last time I had I paid any actual attention to to to club football was when the Ori was playing for Arsenal and Rudan Roy was playing for Manchester United. That's a long time ago. Uh now, nowadays I have no idea who's playing for whom. So I don't know Bayern Munich was a good used to be a good team. I'm sure it still is. How is AC Milan these days? They're the three flying Dutchmen back in the day. Marco Vanbastan, Frank Reichard, Rudulit. That's a long time ago once again. So uh I don't know who will win the UF Champions League. This T20 World Cup looks like India is going to face a lot of difficulty in qualifying for the next round. It looks like that because India has lost yesterday apparently to South Africa and apparently the net run rate is very bad for India. So India may not qualify for the next round it looks like. So in that case who wins? My bet is on Zimbabwe. I would love for Zimbabwe to win or Afghanistan to win if India doesn't get through or even the West Indies. The West Indies need some need a need a revival don't they? The Aussies are out. England. I don't know what they're doing. So yeah, I I have no idea who's going to win this T20 World Cup. I hope it's India, of course, but I don't know. It looks unlikely perhaps. Uh do I think Iran has nukes? I think they have sufficient file material, highly enriched uranium for at least a few nuclear weapons. I'm sure by now, but they seem to be too scared to actually operationalize their nuclear deterrent. So I think they have sufficient file material for at least a few warheads. Aam senpai says big fan of yours for four years. Thank you so much sir. Thank you so much from Marunach. Now unity in diversity seems fake in Delhi. Be diverse but behave north. Slurs like massage pala momo security I'm fluent in Hindi. How much more to prove ourselves? It's it's terrible. It's terrible that that people from India's far east etc have to still face these problems. The reason for this is that a lot see the root cause once again is the Indian education system. If we are taught from childhood that we have these states that are part of our country and that's what the people of these places look like and they are the same as us. They are not these stereotypes like massage, pal, momo, whatever. So that's the job, the role of the education system to educate people properly so that by the time they're they're grown up, they know exactly what the northeast is and what people from the northeast are like and they don't, you know, resort to stereotypes. And we have these slogans like national integration and all but uh there are parts of India where the where where it's very hard for people to come and visit the rest of India. I wonder how many people from Arunachal have even visited other parts of India. Must be pretty difficult. Must be pretty hard I'm sure. So that's how it is. India has all these problems. So uh you know it's terrible that these such slurs are used. I'm sure a lot of people don't use it, but still you will have some people who who do that. So, um the the point is you don't have to prove yourself to anybody. Don't ever feel the pressure to prove yourself to anybody. You be you. And if somebody uses slurs, then just ignore them. Move on. Those people, they don't matter. Ignore them. So yeah, this shouldn't exist in today's India and it is a failure of the education system, the a failure of the government that these issues still exist. Quick S says going Germany for an MS in computer science. How to maximize return on investment? Okay, how to maximize your return on investment? First of all, get your degree with with high marks or whatever it is. Secondly, get yourself I mean you have to determine what is it that you desire as ROI. What do you desire? What is your desired return on the investment? Whatever it is, if you get it, you have maximized your ROI. If you don't get it or if you get only get it only partially, then you haven't maximized your ROI. So if you are an individual, you're going outside of the country for your you're going to Germany which means you you're you or your parents have spent a lot of money in doing this right unless you are going on a scholarship which is pretty hard to obtain. So assume you've your parents have spent a lot of money. So the first ROI is that you need to quickly get a job somewhere a high paying job such that you can repay your parents as soon as possible and uh so yeah a highpaying job wherever it is probably not in India in India the jobs aren't as high paying as in the west so how do you maximize ROI you get a job somewhere maybe in Germany maybe somewhere else in some other country and uh that's one way of looking at maximal ROI uh so you get a you get your degree and you get a good job and then so so that that essentially is your ROI as far as I see in brief. Skylight says been researching FRBs with a group of scientists fast radio bursts. H interesting basically we want to see if we can find an under 100 meghertz using the LWA data sets. Uh, do you have any insights that could help us in this endeavor? No, I am not into fast radio bursts. I am into pure pure physics. Pure theoretical physics. Fast radio bursts. Let me just check if it's FRBs are fast radio bursts. Fast radio bursts. FRBs. Yeah, yeah. Uh so what is the LWA data set? I'm not sure about that. LWA data set FRBs. Uh LWA. What's LWA? Long wavelength array. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Uh low frequency radio telescopes that provide unique data sets for studying FRBs. Okay. Uh yeah. Sir, this is not my my my field. So I am not sure what I can say to you. You're the expert, sir. You're the expert. You're doing interesting work. So you want to find an FRB that's under 100 MHz for Okay. Yeah. I'm not sure if I can give you any insights whatsoever. Uh this is very much u applied applied uh astrophysics. Yeah, I'm I'm a pure theoretician. So, yeah, I I don't have any insights to offer you, sir. Sorry about that. CS19 Jin says, "Uh, did you hear the news about India seizing three Iranian tankers in response to Iran detaining 16 sailors? What do you make of this?" Something isn't right, obviously. So, did Iran detain 16 t 16 sailors? Why would they do that? I mean India and Iran have a reasonably good relationship. So something has gone wrong clearly. Looks like Iran sees India as perhaps being on the side of the US. Maybe that's how Iran sees us sees India today. So the question is if they see India as being on the American side, why do they see it that way? Yeah. So looks like things are changing. Looks like India is being uh armed twisted by the US. into picking a side. I remember I had this live stream in 2024 after Trump won in which I said that that Trump will ask India to pick a side. He will say you can either be with the US or you can be against the US. There is no such thing as strategic economy. You have to pick a side. And when that pressure comes on India, I said India will have to pick a side and that side will be Trump. It will be US. So has it happened? I mean that is called isn't it? That's called being wasal. Has that happened? Does Iran feel that this has happened? So the indications we are seeing right now is that India is inching towards the US. That's the indications that we see. Whether it is India seizing three Iranian tankers, whether it is the all the all the buzz around the AI summit, whether it is India almost stopping or possibly entirely stopping purchasing Russian oil, whether it is other things, whether it is the American ambassador and ad navy admiral visiting the army, Indian army's western command, all these things if you put together, they seem to kind of indicate that India is going towards the US side, which is extremely concerning, which actually will prove me to be correct that I I've been saying for the past few weeks there's a very high likelihood there's a high likelihood that India becomes a US vasal within the next 5 years are we already on the on the road to that still too early to say but looks like there are indications dial with prios says thoughts on recent banan protest by INC in AI summit Look, this is a political matter. So I typically don't comment about this. I would say that see this the AI summit was a global international summit. Uh and uh when it comes to these things, you have to keep domestic politics out of it because it will otherwise affect India's image. So I would say whatever happened was unfortunate. Unfortunate. Fields strong man says you haven't opened Google maps today. Can you open and giving give us a mini interesting historical episode about the Serbian Bosnia region? Serbian Bosnia region. Well, I haven't opened maps today. That's interesting. Um, okay, let's open maps. So, uh, Serbian Bosnia region. You see this entire region that we have, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia, Hatsugina, Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, North Macedonia, etc. All of that used to be one country which is Yugoslavia. And Yugoslavia was broken up. It was destroyed in um the 1990s essentially by the Americans um after the disintegration of the USSR. The American rationale was that this was was a nation that was part which was a satellite state of the USSR. It was part of the wars of pact and now that we are the only superpower left in the world we're going to do what we want and we will do we will we will disintegrate the USSR we will disintegrate Yugoslavia. So Yugoslavia was broken up and then you had a civil war in the region, you know, Bosnians versus Serbs and there was the issue of Kosovo. Um the siege of Sarvo where is Novisad. I mean we had Yeah, it was pretty pretty nasty stuff that happened over here. Pretty nasty stuff. Yeah. So that's that's the Balkans region. Obviously you had the Balkan wars that were the prelude to the first world war which also went down in this region. And all the problems you face in the Balk that the people of the Balkans face they the root the root cause the root causes lie in the Ottoman occupation of the region. So that's the root cause of all the problems you face in the Balkan. The people of the Balkans face the Ottoman occupation of the region. Ottoman Turks. The Turks are the root cause. So hopefully that's a small little historical episode. Beckenbau says recently I read about the Indian mathematician Madhav of Samam sung who lived in the 14th century. Many of his works are renamed by Europeans have checked his works. Yes, many the Madava libnitz series. Why does Libnit have to figure in this? It should be the Madhava series, right? But they call it the Madhava Libnit series. Let me show you. Oh, give me a second. Okay, so Madava series Madava series, the Taylor series and so on. Okay, so it's called the Madhava series here on Wikipedia, but there's something called the Madhava Limnitz series as well. Let's see. Madhava Libnitz series. What is this now? Um okay so it's called by multiple names so who was Madhava of Sungam um Madav of SAM Graham. Yeah. So this is the guy who essentially came up with calculus infinite series and and essentially the precursors of calculus but a lot of the credit is now taken taken over by the Europeans. So u I would I would highly I would I would invite everybody to look up Madav of Sangam Graham. One of the great mathematicians perhaps one of the greatest mathematicians of of the Kerala school of mathematics. Um look up his life look up look up his work. Very interesting. Pratam Bedkar says in Guadalajara, Mexico was supposed to host the FIFA World Cup before the CJNG started the violence. Who are CJNG? Do they have operations in India also at one point? Really? I don't know about the CJNG. Let's find out. Guadalahara CJNG. Let's see what is CJ. The Kalisco New Generation Cartel. Okay. CJNG. That's the Khalisco cartel. Is it? Uh, that's a Mexican criminal syndicate. Kalisco New Generation Cartel. Uh, did they have operations in India? I wasn't aware of this. Did they have operations in India? CJNG involvement in India has been found in association with the meth lab. Well, well, in greater Nida. Well, well, okay. So, I was not aware of this. Um, I am not aware of the history of this Halisco cartel. I knew about uh Pablo Escobar. I knew about Carlos Leather. So, that's back in the 20th century. I don't know about the the the newer cartels and the newer leaders of these cartels and so on. So uh I'm sure Gualara can still host matches of the FIFA World Cup as long as the government of Mexico is able to bring this violence back under control. Yeah. Angad Gallal says do you think there's water on Titan Saturn and where did you graduate from the physics and why are there no laws favoring men seem unfair? How many questions in one place? Look, Titan is there water water in Titan. I think Titan is so Titan is this moon of Saturn, isn't it? Titan is a moon of Saturn. It's larger than our moon and it has a very thick atmosphere that's a haze of hydrocarbons and it's a very very very cold place but it has lakes and possibly even rivers. lakes and rivers made of hydrocarbons like methane. So that's like minus 200 or something degrees CCelsius or something like that. What's the average temperature on Titan? Around -200°C. What's the average temperature on Titan, the moon of Saturn? Um, okay. Minus 179° C, right? So obviously even if there's water there, it's going to be frozen solid, right? It's going to be ice. So as far as ice, as as I know, it's it's mostly uh uh it's mostly hydrocarbons on on Titan. Let's still ask the EI. Is there any water on Titan, the moon of Saturn? Let's see. I suppose there must be some water. Yeah, there's a significant amount of water, but it's going to be Yeah, it's going to be So, yeah, the surface lakes and rivers are made of liquid ethane, methane, and ethane. The bedrock is composed of hard frozen water, ice, and there could be a deep ocean of liquid water potentially mixed with ammonia. Okay, it's believed, but we don't know for sure if there is there. Yeah, so that's the deal. But Titan. Um, yeah. So, it looks like there's water in Titan, but it'll be it'll be frozen solid. Uh, where did I graduate? In theoretical physics. I graduated in nuclear physics from the University of Mumbai. Uh, why are there no laws favoring men? That's another of the issues that we have in India. you know see you know laws should be impartial laws should be gender agnostic genderneutral but in India we have all this stuff right so obviously laws should be completely gender agnostic or genderneutral they can't favor one gender over another but India is a fantastic country where everything is skewed so that's what we have gora TV says if nations like the US and China represent the peak of power and success. Why do their societies appear increasingly stressed and unhappy? If this is the end result of reaching the top, then what are we ultimately moving toward? That's a very good question. Um, if you look at the average population of China and the average population of the US, I would say there is more strife today, at least from what we see in the US compared to in China. Um things are really cheap in China. Food is really cheap in China. In in the US it's very expensive. So the government of China has essentially given the Chinese citizens a better social contract than what you have in the US with its uh out and out capitalism. Um now the US represents the peak of power and success. Not China. The US does represent the peak of power and success. for its success as a nation. Individuals in the nation may not be as successful. There's a tremendous amount of inequality in the US. Tremendous inequality. So that's not the US may be the most powerful nation in the world, the most successful nation in the world, but from a societal perspective, it's not that successful. There is tremendous inequality in the US. some people I mean it's it's a great country to live in if you are rich if you are wealthy if you have an income of over $100,000 a year even that's less actually if if you have essentially if you're a millionaire with a net net worth of at least $510 million then it's a great place to live in um otherwise I mean at the other end of the spectrum you have people who work three jobs just to put food on the table for their families so um that's not success. A truly successful nation would be not just powerful but its people will also have a great living standards and they'll also be very happy. That's not the US. That is not the US. That's the kind of uh societal structure the Anglo-Saxon world has. China is different and so on. So what so is this the end result of reaching the top? There are other ways of reaching the top also that we don't have examples of today. Right? So in the past India was the most industrialized society in the world. Let's say during the so-called Harapan period of our history 3000 BC at that time the so-called mature Harapan phase India was the most industrially industrialized industrially and technologically advanced civilization on the planet and the biggest economy on the planet and the biggest population group on the planet and I'm sure people in India at the time where there we didn't have that sort of inequality people would have been way happier back then. So there are different models of success and power and you don't necessarily need to uh pray on your own population to make this happen. Okay. Gora TV says in a hypothetical scenario if the Lotus Party were to scrap the constitution tomorrow and establish an authoritarian one party system in India what would be the likely domest domestic and global reactions? First of all, the Lotus Party will never do that. But let's say hypothetically, so it it does it. What will be the domestic reactions? Domestically, the reactions will be split. A large number of people will actually welcome this and a certain number of people will violently oppose this possibly. So that will be the possible response or reaction in India. I would say it's going to be a mixed reaction in India domestically. I would say not a large number but a sizable number of Indians will welcome this. A sizable number of Indians will be alarmed despite not being secular. There's a no no democracy is great and a sizable number of people will possibly violently oppose this sort of thing. Um but you can't establish an authoritarian one party system in a country by simply issuing a proclamation. You have to be able to enforce it and enforcing is a whole different story and that's why it doesn't happen in India. Um what will the will be the likely global reactions? All negative all negative from every side because that actually can make India strong right that's why everyone will will have a negative reaction whether it's the US the UK the European nations whether it's China whether it is uh Pakistan most of these reactions will be pretty negative Russia may not have a negative reaction to this surprisingly um Turkey will be very negative to to to this most European nations will have a negative reaction China will have a ne negative reaction. Russia may not. Several African nations may not and so on. But the nations that matter will have a negative reaction to this. Fields strong man says if you were to swap two countries present countries but old empires geographically then which were to swap would um if you were to swap two countries present countries but old empires geographically then which were to swap would have had the most impact in changing world history local internationally. I have no idea what you're saying sir. If I were to swap two countries geographically, then which two swap would have the most impact on changing world history locally and geographically, internationally? I don't know. Um, I haven't thought about it. If you place any of the old civilizations in North America, the way the Anglo-Saxons have taken over, that would obviously change world history in a variety of ways and so on. Yeah, but I haven't thought about it. So, so can't say really can't say. Abida Singh says, "Can't we use the surface area of naval ships and install solar panels there on the sides? Maybe will it be too insignificant to make any change? This the the naval ships they need to be made of a certain kind of material, pretty strong material and you can't simply attach solar panels to the sides. It's a pretty interesting idea. It's a good thought experiment but I'm sure this must have been thought of and obviously it would not have worked because if you have n solar panels on the sides that at any given time half at least half the solar panels are not being being used and uh solar panels don't really generate that much electricity comp compared to what a naval ship needs a military ship needs A military ship doesn't care about pollution or whatever. A military ship cares about power. You will never find solar panels on military ships. They will use the dirtiest possible technologies if required to gain maximum power output from their engine. So you can have these things, these experiments on cruise vessels and and civilian ships. On military ships, there's no experimentation of this kind done. Never ever. You want the most efficient and maximum possible power output from your engines and your engine gives you the electricity you need and every single solar solar panel you add to a ship increases the weight of the ship. Why do that? So you won't do these experiments on military vessels. Uh Mashov says how to stop overoptimizing when planning study. Well, I am overoptimizing Um how do you stop over it's called analysis paralysis right? You keep on analyzing, you keep on studying. I mean not studying, you keep on planning and making small changes, small tweaks. Uh I would say stick to what works. When it comes to the education system of India, it's an ancient education system. Nothing ancient as in like 100 200 years. You know exactly what succeeds, right? Exactly what what gives you success. study so many so many hours a day um while far from the exam once the exam exam is approaching solve question papers and so on. So stick to the routine stick to the stick to what works and that way you stop over optimizing I suppose. Ang Gal says where do you did you graduate? I already answered this question. Uh what do you think is the future of NATO and UNO United Nations Organization and do you think Jews are playing Dice in Trump's decisions? Um what do I think is the future of NATO? NATO will be allowed to exist as long as it is useful to the United States. So I think NATO will most likely continue to exist uh for the foreseeable future next 10 20 years. That's what I think will happen. it will certainly still be valuable and and useful to the United States. So yeah, now you know United Nations the United Nations is useless. It's it's it's of no use anymore to anybody. I mean not to anybody but to most of us it's of no use. It is obsolete. But as long as it serves some purpose for nations like the US or China, it will be allowed to continue existing. And there are some nations that see some kind of benefit from having these ceremonial organizations. So yeah, it may be allowed to continue existing but really it needs to be reformed or dismantled. But right now it will continue. So as long as the US is the most powerful nation in the world and as long as the US sees some value in the UN, as long as that happens, it will allow it will be allowed to continue existing. Do I think Jews are playing dice in Trump's decisions? I have no idea. Karthik Ayar says Elon Musk is a liar. He has been lying about Mars and Tesla for the past Tesla FSD for the past 10 years. He says he will focus on the moon first. FSD means this the self-driving system has more crashes. Um so we have to understand that Elon Musk is not an inventor. He's a businessman. Tesla wasn't founded by Elon Musk. Tesla was founded by two other gentlemen and then Elon Musk took over the company. He acquired the company. He did found SpaceX but he is not the chief engine. I mean he may have the title of chief engineer, chief everything but the actual work is done by other people by other people. So uh Elon Musk is a great businessman. He's not some great scientist or engineer or whatever. Okay. Now u he has been saying for the longest time that he that humanity must reach Mars. Humanity must become interplanetary and now he has pivoted in the past couple of maybe past one month or so and he he now says that they will now SpaceX will now focus on the moon and we will not focus on reaching Mars first. We'll first focus on reaching the moon which is essentially a U-turn. Right? So if you consider that to be an example of Elon Musk lying, well then I suppose it is lying. Maybe it's just a strategic U-turn. But why didn't they think of think of this earlier? Clearly reaching the moon is easier. You can you have multiple launch windows in a month. If you want to reach Mars, you have a once in 26 months launch window. So obviously reaching the moon is way easier. It makes more sense to reach the moon first. But he has been hyping up Mars, Mars, Mars, Mars for years and now suddenly it's the moon. Uh yeah. So that's that's true. Uh the FSD. What is Tesla? What is the full form of FSD? Let me see. Tesla FSD. What is FSD? Uh full self-driving. The self-driving system, right? Uh does it have a lot of crashes? I have not been keeping track of it, so I don't know. I've heard of crashes here and there once in a while, but I haven't been keeping track of how many crashes have happened. Uh so yeah, he has been saying I don't know for close to a decade that next year we're going to have full self-driving. Next year we're going to have full st self driving and we still don't have full selfdriving. Since when has he been claiming? Let's see. Since when has Elon Musk been claiming that full self-driving is just a year away? Yeah, exactly. So, Elon Musk has been claiming that Tesla's full self-driving capability is roughly one or two years away or feature complete by year end consistently since at least 2014 2015. And uh yeah, there we have it. Even today, more than a decade since he started making the claims, it is still not a fully self-driving system. So, is does it mean that he's a liar or does it mean that he's over optimistic or does is he overpromising? What's the deal? Well, I suppose I suppose you can make your own decision based on what we know. Okay. Karthik says NEA has advised Indians to leave Iran. Let's find out, shall we? Let's find out. Has the Indian MEA advised Indians to leave Iran? What happened? Let's try again. Has the Indian MEA advised Indians to leave Iran? India issues safety alert, urges citizens to leave Iran by all means possible, etc. 5 hours ago, 7 hours ago, 9 hours ago and so on. Yeah, it looks like this has actually indeed happened. Looks like uh stuff is going to hit the fan soon. Looks like that. Very unfortunate. Um it will be unfortunate for Iran if the Americans affect the regime change. Um but looks like it's almost inevitable like I explained a couple of hours earlier in this very live stream. Abishek Singh says can we make a move on P if China moves on Taiwan. See P is under occupation like it like it says by Pakistan. But who is Pakistan's protector? It's the United States. The United States does not want India to be able to take the the region of PK. So even if China makes a move on Taiwan, it will be difficult for us to make I mean we could make a move on the on P. We could even take it over possibly. Yeah. But the Americans will will impose a lot of pain on us for that for that. So we can make a move but will the government of India have the the fortitude to make that move is the question. We can we could make a move. Obviously the consequences will be will not be very very pretty. the Americans will take a variety of actions against us. But we can even make a move on Puk now and we can still definitely take it over. We have the military power to do that. But we aren't doing that, right? So Kanesh Koshik says, "Thank you, sir, for your consistent and precious insights." 33. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much. Thank you. Kanesk Palak thing says is chemtrails real at 18 it terrifies me. So I don't know I mean see since I was a little kid I've been seeing these contrails in the sky left behind by jet planes. Now these contrails that you see in the sky are typically water vapor that is released as part of the exhaust of a jet engine. What's a jet engine? It's the your turbo fine or whatever right in your Boeing and Airbus and other aircraft and the fuel is kerosene which is a hydrocarbon fuel and it's burnt it's combusted right and one of the byproducts of this combustion is is H2 or water vapor and that's what forms the majority of these contrails that we see as these yeah the aircraft contrails. So, I've been seeing that since I was a little kid. But there is this theory that it's actually chemical trails, chemtrails. And uh the theory is that allegedly some governments are are are are spraying certain chemicals in the atmosphere with the objective of making certain changes. Maybe I don't know what what the objectives are. Is it real? Well, it could be real. I don't have any evidence that it's real. I don't have any evidence that it's false. So I can't say theoretically it's possible. But is it truly the case that this has been going on? I don't know about that. So this is called a conspiracy theory. This is categorized by most people is a conspiracy theory. If you go go to Wikipedia, it'll say it's a conspiracy theory. I'm sure. But um it's possible, but I don't know if it's true or not. Sharma says the west that values independence, freedom and people that mind and people mind their own business is better to collectivist Indian Chinese societies that are obedient. Well then that's one perspective of that's one way of looking at the world. It depends on you what you value. If you are a person who values freedom, independence, then the west, the United States is a great place for you. the place where you can drive endlessly for hours on the open highways, right? You can drive for hours with nobody bothering you on the American highways. There's complete freedom in the US as an individual. So if you're that sort of person who who values that who desires that then the US is for you, not the West. You go to Europe, you won't find that. The Europe is a very nosy pokey society. Okay? I mean, not all of Europe, but Europe is different from the US. You won't find the same independence and freedom in Europe, by the way, that you find in the United States. People won't mind their business that much in Europe. In the US, yes, they will. And also depends on which part of the US you're in. So, it's up to you. If you are a person who who craves this freedom, who craves independence, then the US is the right place for you. I'm not sure if even the US may be changing a bit right now. Yeah. Yeah. It's entirely up to you, sir. You do you. Don't let anyone tell you what to do. Excuse me. Abishek says Afghanistan vowed to avenge Pakistan and give tears of blood. So, the Pakistanis launched air strikes on Afghanistan recently, like a day or two ago. Apparently, it's killed a whole bunch of Afghan civilians. The Pakistanis keep doing that. The Afghans will take some action against Pakistan and the Pakistanis will deserve every bit of it. I would say NPS says in my opinion the great filter, one of the great filters is efficient human time scale interstellar travels technology. If humans can't leave the solar system, they can't survive as a species for a very long time. What's my point of view? So when it comes to uh when it comes to the firmy paradox, the fmy paradox is can be expressed in in the form of a question where is everyone in what's the context? If the universe is full of alien life or or is if the universe is full of life everywhere then where is everyone? Why don't we see anybody? Why don't we see any evidence of life on other star systems? Right? Where is everybody? And one of the answers that could perhaps resolve this paradox is perhaps there are there is something called the great filters that ensure that you know no civilization becomes so advanced that it can start traveling across inter interstellar distances. One of the great filters could be nuclear war that every civilization eventually discovers every alien species eventually discovers nuclear weapons and leads to nuclear war and then that's why they can never go beyond that. That's one example of a great filter. So uh NPS is saying one of the great filters in his or her opinion is efficient human time scale interstellar troubles technology. If humans can't leave solar system they can't survive as a species for a very long time. Um it's not just about humans. It's about any species about any intelligent species. Maybe on Sabadan, maybe Taoai, maybe maybe uh Proxima Centtory, maybe some stars from the Andromeda in Andromeda galaxy, whatever. It's not just about humans. So it it's possible. But see the thing is there are so many different ways of traveling in space that we know of theoretically at least. Basard Ramjuts Ramjuts for example, that's that works according to physics. It's very farfetched but it can work if you can make it happen. Um antimatter propulsion that's also possible. I mean theoretically at least if you can harness sufficient antimatter. So there's lot of ways of traveling across interstellar spaces. We don't have it right now because we are primitive but we can conceive of the physics behind these technologies. So I'm not sure if if it's one of the viable great filters. I think nuclear war is a viable great filter and some other things as well. Okay. Godliness says does the cosmological timeline big bang to heat death conflict with the human experience of time as a continuous non-physical present? Even physics fails to understand conscious experience. Why? Why does physics fail to understand or describe conscious experience? It's not that physics fails. It's that our understanding of physics fails. Our understanding of physics has limitations. And our limitations prevent our physics models from being able to explain or describe or even define consciousness. That is the issue. My dear friends, our models of physics are limited. They are limited by the limitations of our brain. What's the most intelligent a person can be? I mean a intelligent person is 120 IQ, right? A genius person is 150 IQ. An alien level intelligence person is one maybe 200 IQ or something. But what if you need an IQ of 500 on this scale to actually be able to develop a physics model that can actually describe, define, and explain consciousness. So it's not a problem with physics. It's a problem with our intellect. We are a primitive species. We aren't advanced enough to be able to do these things. Right now does the cosmological timeline big bang to heat death heat death conflict with the human experience of time as a continuous non-physical present. See this cosmological timeline big bang to heat death it's theoretical. We don't know for sure if it is the right timeline. We don't know what the universe is going to experience in the future. Heat death is one possible future but we're not sure 100% that it will it will happen. We don't know what kind of universe we inhabit. Uh we don't know whether it it is a cyclical universe you know with with a big bang and expansion and a contraction in a big crunch. That's a cyclical universe. Then there is conformal cyc cyclical cosmology. the eons you know idea of Roger Penrose which makes seems to make a lot of sense. Um so that's a kind of cyclical version of the universe but a different kind of cyclical version. Then you have the heat death you the big crunch sorry the the big rip and so on big rip etc. These are different models of what could happen in the future. We don't know which which one is correct. We don't know. Uh our experience of time is constrained by so many things including the fact that we inhabit physical bodies and a lot of what we experience is is because of the the these flesh and blood bodies we inhabit. So um and the the cosmological timeline from big bang to heat death is one of the possible scenarios that we have been able to conceive and think of based on our very primitive and rudimentary understanding of the universe. Debojit says like George RR Martin's layered tales echo real history. What if our epics too were rich fictions inspired by true events? What are my thoughts? My thoughts, my belief, my the way I see it, our epics were actual historical events. That's how I see it. That's how I see it. Shu Zero says, "Do Indian government not care about anti-India cyber war and SCO up all over social media. It's so exhausting and disheartening being Indian on net. The anti-India content factory is self perpetuating and having real life consequences. But the government of India doesn't care to uh do anything to combat that." Well, I have never understood the government of India's approach and attitude towards this. If other countries look Pakistan and China use these big bot farms and whatnot to and even the west, even the western countries, they use all these underhand means to amplify this this anti-India hatred and these narratives. Why doesn't the government of India which also has access to social media platforms not use the same techniques and methods and and means? We just don't. We simply don't. And why don't we use propaganda? Every nation has their own propaganda outlet. BBC, CNN, uh, Dutch, well, uh, C, CCTN, every country has a propaganda outlet, multiple propaganda outlets. India has nothing. I just don't understand why the government of India simply doesn't play this game. I don't understand it. It simply makes no sense to me. So I don't have an answer to your question and I I share your frustration. Vir Kamut says isn't it abhorrent and disgusting that we've continued to play Pakistan? Imagine if Arab nations played with Israel. Why do Hindus have so little self-respect when they see no issue? See it's not about Hindus having no self-respect. It's about the government of India being a secular government. They genuinely see themselves as secular. that genuinely believe in secularism. Now I have been saying this for a long time. India should not just boycott Pakistan. India should ensure Pakistan can't play international cricket. India is the most powerful cricket playing nation, the biggest cricket economy. The BCCI is the richest board. If the BCCI pulls out of international cricket, then all the other boards will suffer financially terribly. So if we insist that nobody plays Pakistan, if you play Pakistan, we will not play you. If we insist on this, everyone will stop playing Pakistan. But we are not doing that. Now, who controls the BCCI? So why does India not push Pakistan out of international cricket? Why doesn't India do it? A terrorist nation, an evil terrorist nation. Why doesn't India allow push them out? I suppose India doesn't want to for some reason. Is this something to do with lack of self-respect? Don't don't blame Hindus for not having self-respect. Blame the government of India. Those people, do they really represent the the the ordinary Hindus of India today? I'm not sure. So yeah, once again, I don't have an answer why the government of India still allows these cricket matches to proceed with Pakistan. Juggernaut says, "Give me top two book recommendations on world history." Look, world history is a massive subject. If there is one book that teaches world history, it can't cover everything. It will not even cover 10%. It'll give you very high level overviews of whatever. And world history is so vast, so deep, so broad. There's the first world war, the second world war. That's only the past 100 or so years, right? There's 19th century history, 18th century history. this history of all these different civilizations. You can't give two book recommendations, my friend. How can you do that? I don't know. Um, I have a bunch of books here. I'm looking at them. I don't know. Book recommendations about world history. Two. You just want two. How does it work? Doesn't work like that. Doesn't work like that. And I don't know of any any one book that teaches that that covers the whole of world history. I think there's a book by Mark Twain or HG Wells. I'm not sure. Let's see. By the way, I'm not recommending this. I'm trying to find out. Mark Twain World History. Did he have a book on history? Uh, no. Or was it HG Wells? Let's see. HG Wells, World History. Did he have a book? Yeah. Yeah. He had a book called A Short History of the World. Well, I haven't read this. I've I've heard of it. So, I don't know if you want books and book recommendations on world history. I'm not the guy for that. I I don't know of any one book or two books that teach the whole of world history. Cosmic Cab says, "I'm an architect in Rome. You inspired me to start a channel on funny satire history, science, and politics. I'd be grateful if you check it and share feedback." Okay, I shall check it out and maybe I can comment on your channel in that case. Uh, so I'll not do the do a search right now because it'll Yeah, but yeah, I will check it out. Cosmic Cab. Uh in case I forget, let me do it right away because yeah, once the live stream is done, I may not be inclined to do that. Let me see. So it's what? Cosmic cab. Let me see. Cosmic cab. Okay. This is the one. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. Interesting. Uh who has the cards? New year. Okay. Interesting. I'll keep this open. I I'll check it out later. All right. Sure. And uh yeah, sounds interesting. Let other people also subscribe. Subscribe. Sure. Okay. NPS says, "Can an individual make a career in astrophysics if the person is weak in mathematics?" Uh typically no. Typically, look in any field of physics, you need to be competent in mathematics. Yeah. See, when it comes to astrophysics, you're going to need things. You're going to have to be wellversed in quantum mechanics, fluid dynamics, uh thermodynamics, and so many other things. For that, you need mathematics. You need a certain level of mathematics. So you can't really make a career in any discipline, any branch of physics if you are weak in mathematics. You have you will have to address that deficiency. And it's not like mathematics is some unnatural thing. If you are not good in mathematics, if you're weak in mathematics, it means at some level see mathematics is like a building. There are different floors. Some of the floors are weak. Go and address those def deficiencies and your foundations will get stronger. That's how we do it. All right sir. All the best. Adimish Bharti has gifted 10 memberships of the channel. Thank you so much sir. That's very kind of you. Thank you so much. Swastik says Chanaka would definitely approve of Yog Giji today. All right sir. Okay. Gora TV says is there a connection between the audience described in our Sanskrit literature Aryat in the Mahabharat and the arian of the so-called crappy Arian invasion theory in our Sanskrit literature. There is no description of Arians as an ethnic group. There is no depiction of arians. There is no reference to any ethnic group called arians. The the word the term arrya you'll find it everywhere in Sanskrit literature. Okay. And Arya in Sanskrit means a noble person, a person of good behavior and good uh refined good behavior. That's Arya. It means a noble person, a civilized person. That's what Arya means. It's not an ethnic term. Our Persian cousins, they used Arya as a ethnic term. Okay. Of course we have this term called Arya which means the land of the Arya people because we are civilized that way but that kind of you could say has some kind of ethnic connotations but that would mean that the whole of the subcontinent is Arya people. Now this so-called Arian invasion theory which is now migration theory etc that says that people from central Asia and Europe white-kinned people came and invaded or migrated to India and they were the ethnic arians which is there is no connection whatsoever with the area people described in our literature there's no connection whatsoever says the genetic article traces of middle eastern lineages in Indian Muslims says India Iranian Shia have 80% recent Iranian ancestry cluster with uh Europeans and Middle Easterners distinct distant from non-Muslims. What does it mean genetically? Traces of Middle Eastern lineages in Indian Muslims. So u it says Iranian Shia have 80% recent Iranian ancestry. They cluster with Europeans and Middle Easterners distant from non-Muslims. What does it mean genetically? I'm not sure what we mean what they mean by recent um Iranian ancestry. What does Okay, let's see. I'm not sure. Okay, let me see. Let me let me try and find out. What does the term recent Iranian ancestry mean genetically? Recent Iranian ancestry. Oh, 10,000. That's not recent. Come on. That's the Neolithic farmers and what what not. Um okay, I'll have to look at the paper. Without looking at the paper, I cannot tell you something that may not be correct. I have to look at the paper because in each paper there's a specific context. Recent Iranian my ancestry and they cluster with Europeans and Middle Easterners distant from non-Muslims. Genetically, it means they're part of a population group which has affinity, genetic genetic affinity with Europeans and Middle Easterners. That's what it seems to say. But I'll have to read the paper to give you a a proper interpretation of what it really means. But it looks like genetically they're closer to Europeans and Middle Easterners. That's what it looks like. Yashwan Sudir says, "Thoughts on Indian tourists to Jiju Island being detained?" Well, thoughts, you have to be careful with your travel. Don't blame, be prepared for all pro problems, all possibilities when you travel. Don't blame the host nation. No, look, it's possible it was because of racism, but be aware of the fact that certain countries have racism and be prepared for that. Don't make assumptions that for example so and so island visa fee travel is is allowed. Don't assume it means all all people. I mean, I would say the blame is 50% the the Korean government, 50% the Indian travelers because these problems seem to happen in Korea. There seems to be anti-Indian racism in Korea. So, it's it's a known fact, right? So, why can't you be better prepared? So, yeah, I would say you have to be careful when in trouble. Pratip Kumar Roy says about Bohemian Grove. What about Bohemian Grove? What's the question? What are my What's my opinion about that? I've heard of it as some kind of satanic ritual ceremony happens there. Apparently, the the evil pedo elite of the US participates in it. Apparently, allegedly connections with with Epstein. I'm not sure about that, but yeah, that's what I've heard. I haven't studied the history of the Bohemian Grove and all that in detail, so I can't really say, but I've heard the connections with the evil satanic American elite. Hanish says, "How do you remember so many things and their correct name and everything? I can't even remember what I had for breakfast yesterday." I don't know. Everyone's different. Some people remember stuff, some people don't. I forget more things than I remember, actually. Can I remember what I had for breakfast yesterday? um possibly but probably 3 4 days before a go what I have for breakfast if you ask me I may not remember so um yeah it depends everyone's different I kind of remember some some things at least some things kit Gupta says good evening sir can you please help me understand the cause of a conflict that is for that I love to bring in an expert I it's part of the of the of the Balkcon conflict of the 1990s for sure. It has something to do with the religion. Two Abrahamic religions in the region. One is Christianity, one is Islam. The root causes are the Ottoman occupation of the region. Uh the Americans definitely played a big role in this. But what were the specific details etc. I am not very clear about right now. Okay. So if you want to understand this, I will have to bring in an expert. maybe resume my podcast for a bit. I can think of the right expert for that actually. But yeah, so don't remember the specific details right now. Hanishama says this might sound stupid but why do Indian windows have grills in them and in western houses it's mostly open glass? Why is that? Um see in the west if somebody comes break your breaks your window and steal something typically the police will catch the thief and um and the insurance will take care of uh whatever you lost. In India nobody's going to going to bring you back what you lost. That's why in India we prefer to have grills in our windows. At least historically it's been that way and that's historically been that way and only after India came under foreign occupation right because in India law and order is it's not very very reliable justice is also not very reliable uh insurance is also not not very reliable so you want to make sure that you are safe as a teenager starting his career hookup culture is very tempting from inside I know it's wrong and animalike and I'm able to keep distance until now but I need solid reason to keep it that way. Solid reasons to not participate in hookup culture. I don't know about solid reasons for me it's it's never something that appealed to me. It's not part of our culture of our ancestral original Indian culture. Today anything is anything is fine. Uh it's very tempting. Yeah. rack up your body count or whatever they you call it. But what do you get out of it? What what do you I don't know. Um I don't know if I can give you a clear solid reason to not be involved in hookup culture. Um, a connection between two human beings has to be meaningful and substantial, right? Not just like transactional and animallike. Hookup culture is is is transactional, right? Isn't it? It's very transactional. It it I suppose if you participate if if I were to do that, it will leave me disgusted with humanity eventually. shallow, meaningless, transactional approach. I I I don't know. I'm not sure if I can inunciate and explain and articulate exactly why I dislike it. From my perspective, I'm very clear. First of all, it's not part of our culture. Secondly, um I am it doesn't give me any any there's no no meaning in it. Everything you do should have some meaning. That's how I see it. Um, I'm sure lots of people see it differently. So, I don't know if I can give you solid reasons, but my advice is don't do that. Don't get involved in that such things. Pratip Kumar Royce says, "Do you think the rich tech societies, the rich societies have secret knowledge about life? Ancient science, geometry, religion, finance, etc. secret knowledge about life. No, I don't think they have any secret knowledge about life. Ancient science, modern science is way more advanced than ancient science. Geometry, we do hyper geometry today, right? Um religion well religion maybe finance rich these secret societ so societies are about protecting certain individuals and protecting certain agendas they don't have any secret knowledge they may try and portray like that there they are really meaningful and all that but it's all about it's all about u serving vested interests that's what secret societies are all about it's not about it's not that they have some secret knowledge I don't imagine that's the case uh Pratip Kumar Roy says how to do business in India bribe politicians you never bribe a politician directly allegedly you allegedly only bribe intermediaries such as bureaucrats and so on allegedly you don't allegedly directly bribe politicians politicians are too careful these days they have intermediaries to deal with these Uh really now Miss Patel says are any of the nine school Hindu schools of thought atheistic? Yeah. The Charvak school of thought is is an atheistic school of thought. It's it's pure materialism. It says that everything you see that your senses can perceive that's the that's all that exists in in the universe. There's nothing beyond that. And it says that the there is no soul, there is no atma, there is no God, does nothing. And the only purpose and objective of life should be to enjoy life and enjoy material pleasures. That is the Charvaka school of thought. It is the atheistic school of thought. That's part of Hindu dharma. Okay. Pratipumar Roy says why aren't the Hindus at least the Brahmans not taught religion? No Vic studies, no laws of Manu, nothing. Everything is secularized help. Well, the government won't do it. The government is essentially an anti-Hindu government. Like I've said in the past, India, I've been saying this for years actually that India is the most hindophobic nation on the planet. India is a Hindu phobic apathide state. So the government of India will teach you nothing whether you're Brahmin or whether you're whatever. If you want these traditions to continue and not die out, you're going to have to do it yourself privately, individually or as a family. Everything is is secularized. Everything is anti-Hindu in India. V S says India recently joined the PAX silica group spearheaded by the US. Do you think this grouping would be able to counter success China successfully or will it end up like Quad or AUK US? It's structured as I see as far as I see differently from the Quad or AUK US. It's about securing supply chains, reliable supply chains for rare earth elements and uh yeah rare earths and and critical critical elements. Um and India obviously has been invited to join this. India has joined it because India is has probably the world's largest reserves of rare earths which are completely untapped. Uh so that's the thing that's why India has joined. Uh it's not about countering China. It's about creating supply chains that are independent of China. It certainly has all the potential to be able to become successful in that in a few years. Ab says in the last 2 three years there's been a change to the world order. Would we would it be fair to say that Indic religions are the last living memory of the old world? Yes. Yes. the Indic religions the the Dharmic the Dharmic um culture is the last memories of the old world. The rigida is the oldest literature known to humankind and it's it shows you a glimpse of a very ancient society the society of our our ancestors. So the Indian religions the indices are the last living memory of the old world. No question about that. Gor TV says why can't airliners be equipped with massive emergency parachutes that could at least reduce crash damage if not fully prevent it allowing a safer descent into in case of total engine failure. very impractical. I'll tell you why it's very impractical. Uh let's say an airliner has 200 passengers, which means you need at least 200 parachutes plus let's say seven or eight more for the crew. A parachute, let's say the whole package, it it um it it weighs maybe let's say 5 kilos. Let's say 5 kilos. So you multiply that by 200 that's a,000 kilos of weight increase right 1,000 kilos 1 ton imagine the the how much more fuel will have to be spent by the airliner and how how much the range will be reduced doesn't make any sense secondly even if you gave you allow everyone to have a parachute let's say something goes wrong how do you have people parachuting out in military aircraft. Okay, let's see military aircraft parachute jump. So, typically in military aircraft, you have this massive ramp that opens up. Can you see this? And the guys who are jumping out are very very well trained. You can't have civilians just jumping out of a aircraft when there is no such massive ramp ramp that's available. Right? See over here this aircraft has this massive door that opens up and that that's what allows people to jump off safely. If you have in in in commercial airliners you have doors on the sides. you try to put a finger out, your whole hand is going to get get, you know, knocked back by the speed of the wind. So, it's almost impossible for someone to jump out. And then there's the engines that are that are operational. They may suck people in. So, it doesn't make any sense. It just doesn't make any sense for u you know, civilian airliners to be equipped with massive emergency parachutes. Doesn't make It's not It's not practical. Not practical. Peacekeeper says a local politician in Dajuling is a CIA funded and he is aspire acting as an aspiring Zalinsky calls himself a social worker and is con converting people to a foreign religion. Well, yeah, it's it's terrible and it's not surprising. Dargiling, is it okay? I hope the government takes cognizance of this. I doubt if they will for some reason. Yeah, that's where India is today. But at least uh thank you for letting us all know. Ah Sarkcar says AI jobs are moving to low code better to be in social in SDE software de what is SDE? Um SDE software development s what is SDE? Oh software development engineer better to be ill software development engineer. AI jobs are moving to low code. Uh okay. Okay. I'm not exactly sure what you're saying but all right sir. Thank you so much. Pratip Kumar Roy says why don't we have private military contractors in India like Blackwater etc also why aren't we allow allowed to carry weapons guns etc people of good repute should be allowed the Indian government doesn't want to empower the citizens of India the the entire Indian state machinery and apparatus is is the a continuation of the British apparatus that saw the people as enemies Right. And that's why it's we're just continuing what the British did. That's why people aren't allowed to carry guns or or weapons of any kind. I agree that people of good reput should be allowed to carry weapons. But no, in India, this won't happen because we are still a colonized country. Uh why don't we have private military operators like Blackwater in India? I don't know. Maybe it's a good idea to have private mil, you know, these paramilitaries that can take care of Indian interests abroad wherever we have investments. Why not? It's a good idea, but perhaps because we don't have significant massive investments abroad like the Chinese are, they have investments and and and projects going on in almost like half of the African nations and they do need security and it's Russian parliamentaries that typically provide security at a at a price to the Chinese. In the case of India, we don't have such massive projects. We may have a few handful here and there but nothing massive, right? That's why we don't have private military contractors. Maybe maybe that's the reason why. Viri Vinchi WMA says, "Have you heard any songs of music master Ilia Raja? How do you like his songs? He's the best and he's a living legend." I'm sure I must have heard his songs, but I don't remember which is which are his songs. Um, I've heard that he's an absolute living legend. I'm sure I've heard his songs but right now I can't remember which which songs I've heard that are of that are his songs. So yeah, he's obviously very highly respected and regarded as a living legend. I'm sure with very good reason. Yeah. Pratip Kumar Roy says one of my friends Java developer recently changed his company. Coding they do that. He has no idea. AI does everything. Future of software engineers is doomed. It's possible. Yeah, it's it's pretty pretty clear that most coding going forward will be done by AI. Now, AI does write a lot of extraneous code. It's not very tight code and uh it's not the kind of tight, concise, elegant code that a senior developer would write. AI writes way more lines of code, but it works. It's it's going to be hard to maintain by humans in the future, which means AI will even do the maintenance. But yes, AI is is taking taking up all of the major coding work in the world today. And uh possibly the future of software engineers is doomed. Possibly. I I think the world will still need software engineers, but we will not need hundreds of thousands of software engineers anymore. Yeah. So, we're going to need few fewer software engineers and higher quality software engineers. GS662 says, "I had commerce plus plus mathematics in 12th, wanted to shift to STEM but was denied the exam due to lack of physics and chemistry. If I prepare yourself and clear the exam but not eligible but science students pursuing law vat without legal degrees in 12th this is the absurdity of the Indian education system this is the absurdity it's a rotten system it's pure garbage why can't people be given the option to change their stream let them do the preparation Why not? Why do you force people to remain at the same stream? Why don't you give people options? Why don't you give students options? Why don't you empower students? Why not? I just don't get it. The Indian education system is trash. It's garbage. So many stories come out. Horror stories. Just terrible. Absolutely terrible. I'm sorry this happened to you, sir. Anka Kachab says good evening ma'am your views on the mystery around Mount Kilash why no expedition team has been able to achieve the summit many other weird claims like alteration in the per perception of time sudden illness men aging faster etc what could be the reason so first of all let's address the question as to why has no team been able to achieve the summit it's because no team is allowed to even attempt climbing the mountain the Mountain is a holy mountain to three religions. Well, it's technically three now. Hinduism, Buddhism, and Bourne. Borne is the original religion of Tibet. Pre pre-harmic religion. It's also very polytheistic and also which means it is entirely compatible with Dharmic religion. So three religions technically regard Mount Kalash as a sacred holy mountain and today Tibet is under the Chinese occupation but the Chinese government doesn't allow anybody to attempt any climbing expedition on the mountain because of the holy nature of the mountain. So that's the first point. Um what's the mystery around Mount Kash? There are all kinds of claims that are made about about Mount Kilash that uh it's it's a hollow pyramid and there is some nuclear reactor inside and whatnot. People say all these things. U I have seen videos of of weird aerial phenomena like UFO like phenomena apparently around the mountain, you know, blurry videos of of that. So what is the deal there? Is it is it like someone I've seen people flying drones and and drone footage from the top of Kaash Mountain. So people do fly drones there. that could perhaps explain some of these um weird aerial phenomena. It's possible. Uh some people claim there's there are alterations in perception of time and people age faster or slower. Some people face face illnesses. I have no idea. I haven't visited Bash so I can't say it anything from my own experience. Uh people make all kinds of claims. People like to imagine that something fascinating, something something unusual happened to you when you visited the holy mountain. Um, of course it's a place where where Indians, Hindus and Buddhists and everybody else has been visiting for thousands of years. You have sadus who do sadna over there and there is this reputation the mountain has obviously it's the abboard of Lord Shiva. It's a holy mountain and it's a place of supernatural events. So yeah, that's why there are all these stories that are associated with the mountain. What's my view on this? My view is that I have no idea. I have no idea. I don't know what could be the reason. I have no idea. I can't give you any scientific explanation for all these claims. I don't even know if the claims are 100% correct or not. So my so I I what I can do is I can acknowledge the fact that there are these claims that that that are made repeatedly consistently about the mountain which could perhaps indicate there is some truth to it. Uh but what could be the reason for this? I could not possibly comment about that. Maybe see illnesses are a bad thing. I don't think people have illnesses there. Certain illness that would be bad. The mountain isn't an evil mountain. It's it's one of the hol it's the holiest mountain, right? It's the center of the universe essentially. Mount Meu, Mount Kilash. So illnesses are are are a negative thing. I have not heard of illnesses. I've heard of changes in the perception of time and whatn not etc. I can't say why that's the case. Right angle says if we deploy the strategy in Far East, we will launch scheme in which we will give women 15,000 per month. This will stop convert conversions. Okay, we will give women women 15,000 per month. This will stop conversions. The question is who will give this money 15,000 per month. Who? Let's say there are 100,000 one lakh women there. You give each woman each woman 15,000 per month. What is 15,000 times 1 lakh? 15 lakhs 15,000 lakhs. 150 crores a month you to spend. Who's going to spend it? I don't have the means to spend 150 crores a month on a on a recurring basis. Will the government do it? The government doesn't give a damn about Hinduism. Who will do it? The government will not give any money for stopping foreign conversions or or or helping or aiding Hinduism. The government will never do that. So it's a it's a good strategy conceptually. But who will do it? Who will give the money? That is the problem. Cipher Ash says if India does make a move on Pakistan and not just P but liberating liberating Bjasthan maybe in that case what happens to the land under Chinese administration on Pakistan land that are part part of Pakistan China loan deal that remains under Chinese occupation and because it is now according to China Chinese territory you have chi the Chinese army there nothing happens to that land unless you go and take it from the Chinese which will launch a war between India and China. So if you make a move on Pakistan Pok, liberate Balojasthan, liberate P etc. it will not change the status of the um part of Kashmir that is under Chinese occupation, the Shakgam valley etc. It won't make any uh change the status of that Chinese occupied territory. So there is P, there is also C. You're talking about C, Chinese occupied Kashmir. That won't change, right? Unless we go to war with China. Right angle says, "Can we pressure Israel to stop funding of cookies? What leverage do we have on Israel? How do you see Israel from Bat's perspective and Israel interested Bhat? That is something for the government to look into." Yeah. Yeah. So, what leverage do we have in Israel? Nothing. How do I see Israel from Bat's perspective? Well, Israel is a valued strategic partner. That's how I see it from Bat's perspective. A valued strategic partner. What is Israel's interest with Bhat? Well, we are valued strategic partners of each other. We have a lot of uh um shared interests, shared values. Um we have economic interests. There are that are mutually beneficial and so on to this. We have strategic interests, we have uh technological and military interests and so on. So that's how I see Israel from Bat's perspective. Pratip Kumar Roy says about 2015 New Year's Eve incident Germany. Uh are they idiots? No, they are barbarians. You're talking about what happened in Col, are you? Um 2015 Cologne New Year's Eve incident in Germany. Yeah, that so that was I doubt if anyone was punished for what happened. That's Germany for you today. Really? Now Miss Patel says yogis and agoris see through deep meditation what certain people on certain people on LSD or DMT see for a few moments consciousness levels that science can't explain fascinating yeah it is said that when you meditate deeply when you are deep into meditation there are levels of meditation the the deeper you go inside into meditation deeper inside yourself you you experience things and apparently at a certain stage of your meditation at a certain depth you experience and see things that people typically see when they're on DMT or LSD or whatever, right? Uh when people are on DMT, they say they see these these these u mechanical aliens or space aliens or something. Apparently, LSD has some I don't know fractal patterns people see and whatnot. So when you meditate, you do see things like that if you meditate deep enough. And uh yeah so the process of meditation seems to uh affect the brain in a way that's similar to what happens to the brain brain under the effect of LSD or DMT or whatever but in a purely natural manner without actually ingesting chemicals. So yes consciousness has levels that science can't explain no question about that indeed fascinating. Pratep Kumar Roy says racism against Indians was started by PewDiePie back in 2018. PewDiePie PewDiePie was one of the contributors, one of the perhaps principal um uh ring leaders possibly. Yeah, there was this thing right PewDiePie versus T-Series in which T-Series won and PewDiePie had gone on this uh on this on this campaign against T-Series by by asking people to uh subscribe to him to to showcase the superiority of Western culture or to save Western culture, civilization or something like that. Okay, we're back. There was uh yeah, so uh that was the deal. And yeah, so PewDiePie was one of the original instigators of anti anti-India racism. Pranjal Mishra says you once said that you practice vipasha meditation. How was your experience and do you still practice it? I have practiced it in the past. I am not a regular meditator any anymore today. Uh vipasha is very interesting and and yeah it's it's a very good form of meditation. It's about focusing on your breath. Focusing on the if the the you close your mouth and you breathe in and breathe out naturally. Okay. When you focus on how the breath feels on this region and I can't give you tell you more beyond that eventually you have to shift the focus somewhere else and that yeah so yeah vipasha can be done like 10 minutes a day 20 minutes a day depending on can be done hours if you want um my experience was very good I don't practice it because yeah I should but I don't but my experience was very good it does have very profound positive effects on you as a person. Yeah. Gajjapati Dv says please start taking UPI based questions. What's UPI? Unified payment interface. Um I don't know how to take those. This uh super chat thing is based on uh uh the YouTube functionality. I suppose you can do it by UPI also I suppose. Or is UPI something else? I think it's that right. So yeah, I I don't know how to do it separately differently. Hersh says your conclusion on Reanir's latest podcast on Maratas and Rajuts if you haven't seen it can give you a views on next cast. I don't think I'll be watching that. I don't watch podcast. I don't have the time for that. Let me let me quickly see what is this podcast about. Um give me a second. Let's go. Uh, let me put that on the screen. Reanir's podcast. It must be on his uh on his Hindi channel, right? Real podcast. Um, what's the deal? That's his thing. Um, history of Rajuts. uh two days ago there's a separate podcast on Maratai Street. Yeah, listen I am not going to have the time to watch this honestly to be very honest with you to be very frank. So I don't know I won't be able to do it. Sorry. Aravsha says I am a 14year-old kid. My recent recently my paper titled cosmology in the donder whale formalism of Einstein carton gravity got published in EPJC. Thank you for your guidance. Do check it out. Oh, fantastic. Uh, let us see. Let us, uh, try and look up the paper, shall we? Um, Aravsha. Let's see. Arav Sha, cosmology in the deep donder wild formalism of Einstein carton gravity. Let's see. Okay, it's on the archive, physics archive. And you have this on the CERN uh platform as well. It's there on on uh inspire HP research gate. Uh okay. Okay. Let's see the archive version. Ah Mr. Ulopov. Very nice. Very nice. Very nice. Fascinating. Fascinating. I will check it out. Let me see the PDF. Very nice. Awesome. I will check out the full paper. And uh until until then, congratulations. That's fantastic. You're 14 years old. Outstanding. Outstanding. I could not be happier. I could not be prouder of you. Great job, sir. Great job, Ara. Keep going. Viri VHMA says every country has an army but an army has a country that's Pakistan. Every country has some businessmen but some businessmen have got a country that's the USA. Because of them the world suffers what are my thoughts? Well, which country causes more suffering in the world is the question you to ask yourself. Does Pakistan cause more suffering or does the US cause more suffering? In the case of Pakistan, the suffering is who suffers? It's the people of Pakistan and the people of the neighboring countries that suffer. Um, in the case of the superpower, the whole world essentially suffers in some way or the other, but the the world also benefits from American technology and what not. It depends on how you see it, right? The technology vasalizes you, but you also benefit from it. Um so in the case of the US you are saying that every country has some businessmen but in the case of the US some businessmen have the whole country which is not entirely inaccurate which is not far from the truth actually it's a small bunch of businessmen who own the US essentially. Yeah. Yeah. Other says I saw an Indian vlogger show the tomb of Kajay Rabi and tomb of Piralandus. They resemble a famous Indian monument but monument but older than ours. What do you think sir? How is it possible? I have no idea man. What is Kaj Rabi? Um I think you're going to talk about the Taj Mahal I'm sure but let's see. Um tomb of Kaj Rabi. What is that? Saf 17th century Safavidid Molium. Okay. And what's the other one? Pier Palandus. What's Pirandus? Okay. So, yeah. So, how old is this thing? Per palandus. 1577 CE. Okay. What do I think? It's all u what is considered to be Islamic architecture, right? It is what it is. Yeah. Prod by Bisuj says should India put a military base in Singapore? Look, India should put a military base on the moon and also on Mars. But India can't, right? We all know why India can't put a military base on the moon and on Mars because we don't have rockets that can reach there and so on so forth all these logistical problems. Would India have a put a base on Singapore? Is it feasible for India to do that? Is it practical for India to do that? Will Singapore allow it? Will the US allow it? The answer is no. No, no, no, no. I should have my own military, private military base on Singapore, right? I should have my own private country also, right? Should I? But you can dream of all these things, but you can't do that, right? India can't have a military base in Singapore. Ideally, India should have a military base in every country, but we can't do it. Okay, Gior TV says, "I meant a massive parachute attached to the aircraft's body, not the passengers that so that that could deploy in emergencies to slow the aircraft's descent and descent and reduce impact in incidents like the recent AirIndia crash. You would need an enormous parachute. enormous parachute. Okay, like more than a square kilometer in size to be able to sufficiently slow down an aircraft's descent if it is falling, you know, without power. You would need a gigantic parachute and that will be very massive and and and where do you store it? And that will add so much weight to the aircraft. So let's see. Okay, let's let's try and say this. What's the weight of a typical parachute? What is the weight of a typical parachute that can handle a human being? Okay. 7 to 16 kg. Okay. And specialized military systems. So let's say it's 15 kg. And let's say the average human being is 70 kg 1570. What is the weight of a typical Boeing airliner? Okay. 79,000. So let's say a human being is 79 kg. This is 79,000 kg. So you will need a parachute. That's this is a very rough and dirty calculation. a parachute that will be about 20 tons in weight. 20 tons in weight. Enormous, gigantic. It will be too costly in terms of, you know, extra weight for the aircraft. It will um and and secondly, where do you store it? How do you deploy it in in such a way that it will, you know, stop the aircraft from from crashing? So theoretically you can do it but uh economically and practically highly impractical. Yeah. DD says critics say the UK education softens the harms of the British Empire in India. In a reverse timeline and dominant Indian Empire might likewise glorify gains and downplay atrocities. Look, every empire which has done nasty stuff seeks to whitewash its atrocities. No question about that. But a dominant Indian empire would never do such atrocities unless you call the Muggal Empire in Indian Empire which it was not. You've had Indian empires like the Chola Empire which conquered and vasalized the entirety of Southeast Asia. Do they did they do any of the atrocities the British did on India? The Cholas did not. You had multiple Indian empires that have conquered various parts of Central Asia and so on. Did any Indian Empire do any of those atrocities that the British did on India? No. So in a reverse timeline, a dominant Indian empire would not do such atrocities. It would not have to downplay what it doesn't do. Right? That's the point. That's the point. Honey Sharma says, could you what could you tell us about the Mayapur Delhi radiation accident? How could 16 cobalt 60 pencils appear in a scrapyard? I thought cobalt was safe. Cobalt. No, there's a radioactive isotope of cobalt. Okay. uh I am not aware of this of the details of this Delhi Mayapur Delhi radiation accident. What I can tell you about is about cobalt. There's a radioactive isotope of cobalt. So let's see the the the periodic table periodic table. Okay, we go to images. We uh search for large images and uh where is cobalt? Where is cobalt? Um, okay. Instead of doing that, let's just search for cobalt radioactive isotope. Let's go. So, cobalt 60 is a radioactive isotope of cobalt. It's a synthetic radioactive isotope of cobalt with a half life of 5 something days. So yeah, that is used in various applications and looks like that's what was found in possibly I haven't studied this incident so I'm not aware of it. Sorry. Actually Hanisha says I live in a small town so so there's no self-defense academy here. I asked about Krav Maga last week since you said it I love to join an academy. So what can I learn on YouTube which can help me on a bad day? Um I suppose there must be various videos about street fighting, how to defend yourself on in a street fight and so on. You can use learn various techniques, tactics, get a bunch of friends, two, three friends and practice against each other in a in a safe way, you know. So you can learn from YouTube also, right? Um various you could even learn basic Krav maga from YouTube. But Krav Maga is there are no rules in Krav Maga. It's about using whatever you have access to to neutralize your enemies in and actually neutralize people. Okay. Ramaga is all about eliminating opponents. Um so I I I suppose you could learn certain martial arts based on YouTube tutorials and practice with your friends. You can learn self-defense. You can learn how to, you know, protect yourself in street fights and so on. I suppose there must be playlists and tutorials. So find something that has high ratings and high views and learn that practice that with your friends. Yeah. Her says, "Is it okay to be misogynistic and toxic? Cause being good is not worth in today's time. What are my views?" My views is that it is never good to be misogynistic or toxic even if the world is evil. Even if the world is toxic and misogynistic, why why do you have to be like that? Uh don't don't let others change who you are. That's my view. You be yourself. Most likely you are not a toxic and misogynistic person but you are feeling frustrated and you feel like if everyone is be being like this I should also do that. Don't give into the temptation. Don't let others don't let the environment change who you are. Remain true to yourself. That's my advice to you sir. Ashre Han Sharma says, "What makes Bumrah the greatest? Is it just his bowling action or the fact that he can extend his elbow more than normally or is it is it just sheer hard work?" So Bumrah is probably one of the greatest of all time. If you look at his uh if you look at his test match record, his average even now must be below 20, which is shocking. I mean some of the all-time great like Glenn McGra etc have average of 22 23. Bley Ambrose average of 22 or 23 and Bumra is below 20 strike rate very high. So he's one of the all-time greats not the greatest of all time as of now he still has time but one of the unquestionable all-time greats. So what makes him so so tricky so difficult? Definitely his action is very weird isn't it? very strange action. He's really stuttering runup and very strange action. He's I suppose the ball disappears for a while just like Jeff Thompson used to do. I suppose if you're the batsman, if you're facing Lumra, maybe the ball disappears and then re reappears. Um his pace isn't exceptional. 140s. Yeah. Which is definitely fast. He's a fast bowler, not a medium pacer, but it's not express. He's capable of express pace. is capable of bowling in the 150s. I've seen him do that, but he typically bows in the in the low to mid 140s, sometimes even even 130s. So, it's not the pace. He does have a little bit of an hyper extension of the elbow, right? See my elbow, it's pretty much straight, but in his case, it can hyper extend a bit. So combination of these factors including and the most important factor probably his his is his his extremely unorthodox bowling action. So all of that that combination and his fitness and everything and his intelligence. He knows how to take wickets. There are people I've seen bowlers who can bowl fast but who don't know how to take wickets. You should you know taking wickets is an art. It's all about studying the opponent the batsman. studying the body language, what makes him comfortable, what makes him uncomfortable and so on so forth. So he should know how to take wickets and Bumrah knows how to take wickets. So and obviously he's very intelligent, he studies, he's he works. So all these factors together make him one of the all-time greats. I am too cool. Thank you very much, sir. I am too cool. Thank you. Uh Pratip Kumar Roy says, "What diet do you follow?" Also, Professor Jang's channel. I haven't still checked out Professor Jang's channel. What diet do I follow? I follow a regular diet. Nothing exceptional about my diet. A regular diet. Diddi says, "Critics say UK education softens." I I took this question a while ago, just a couple of questions ago. So yeah, I've already addressed this question. Hanish says from Joro, I work as a system admin. My manager is a smoker. Finally, I'm seeing people who smoke with him are getting benefits. Oh, and I faced some same issue in all my jobs lately. How to deal with this? So, Jo is is asking this question. I work as a system admin. My manager is a smoker. I am seeing people who smoke with him are getting benefits. So, you mean he's being partial towards his fellow smokers and he's being biased against you because you're non-smoker? That's terrible. And you faced the same issue in all my jobs, all your jobs recently. How to deal with this? Find a job where nobody smokes. Are all smokers like this? That they are biased against non-smokers? That's that's genuinely new for me. I have never imagined that really. Are smokers biased against non-smokers? I mean, I don't mean to make fun of the situation, but that's incredible. I've never this this is something genuinely new for me. It's the first time I'm I'm hearing this in my in my life. I had no idea that smokers were like that. So I would say if that's the case that you have seen this in other jobs too that smokers are biased against non-smokers then please find a job where nobody smokes. That's the only solution I can think of and don't smoke. All right. Sam the gamer says poll for no next science episode also can you explain the garbagginess of the Indian education system in Hindi for my father watching today. Look um I would say watch my the videos I have you know my previous Ask Kabit show episodes 28 what what were the episode numbers? Let me once again do that. I can they be played in in Hindi that would work in that case. So go to my channel uh go to oldest and uh yeah 28 30 and 31. These are the three episodes. I am not sure if that can be viewed in Hindi. If there is an option to do that, I will enable it so that you can watch in Hindi or at least watch with Hindi sub subtitles and then hopefully that will you know do the job that you seek. So yeah, please do that. I I I will see if if it can be enabled which will help you out. All right. Thank you. Java bro says, did you see Dundar? Can our spies not infiltrate CIA, Mosad, etc. Can a patriotic Indian billionaire infiltrate the deep state and share insider info with our government? Look, theoretically everything can be done. I've seen Durand. Yes, I've seen it. Good movie. Theoretically your spies can infiltrate everything. But practically will they practically practically does the in government want this to happen? If it wants it to happen, does it give everything the spies need to do these things? So theoretically everything is possible or spies can infiltrate CIA Mossad a patriotic Indian billionaire can infiltrate the deep state and share info with our government. But even if a patriotic billionaire shares info with our government, what will the government of India do with it? So theoretically everything is possible practically a lot of things don't happen. Fraud Bisj says should Indian education be more projectbased. The Indian education system should be based on achieving outcomes. What outcomes do we want? We want people who are highly skilled, highly competent as early as possible in life. Not at the age of 23, 24. Why not by the age of 16? So if can if it can be achieved through projects, sure we can have projects in the Indian education system today. You have projects in engineering and all but you know the quality of those projects and you know that these projects the students take them outside and have somebody else do the project for them and then they bring it back and show it and yeah you're approved. Everyone knows what's happening and no one cares. So making it simply project based will not solve the problems. The whole system has to be reformed. That's the deal. Ab Shukla says do you know about Om Valley of Bopal which is exactly Mshaped one side of Bopal at center thousand-year old Bjpur temple at other end vinda ridge. I think extensive archaeological study is required. Okay. I am not aware of this. Om valley exactly Mshaped it's at one side of Bopal let's see Bopal shall we let us see Bopal let us go to the map we have hardly opened the map today because I've not got questions that needed that but let us uh locate Bopal uh where is it's in MP isn't it Bopal Where is Bopal? Give me a second. I need to locate Bopal in MP. Indor is a major city in MP. The other is Bopal. Why am I not able to locate Bopal? Okay. Bopal, Madhya Pradesh. Ah, okay. So let's look at the satellite imagery. Where is this Om Valley? Do I see something that shaped like Om? Uh Om Valley Bopal. Let's see. Om Valley Bopal. Where is that? Okay. Om. Okay. I don't know. That's something else. So I'm not sure if I see something like that from from the satellite images, but I'm sure there's something. So yeah, so thank you for making me aware of this. I was not aware of it. And uh if there is some archaeological, you know, footprint or some something there, then maybe we should look into it. Yeah. Danny says, "If I want to study medicine abroad in this anti-immigration wave going on, which is friendly for Indians as medicine is long learning curve, I'm not aware. I have not studied or or or researched which nations offer good medical courses and are also not anti-Indian immigration. The USA is becoming more and more anti-immigration for sure. Canada, it's no longer a great place for Indians to go to as students. How is Australia's medical system? I'm not sure. I mean, medical education system, I'm not sure. So, I don't know. I'm not the guy to ask this question. Uh I'm not the guy who can answer this question reliably. I don't know which country offers you high quality med medical education and is not anti-Indian immigration. I don't know. You'll have to do this research. Don't know. Sorry. Honey Sharma says, "Is is it too early to ask you?" I've not watched it, sir. I've not watched Tumb. Please ask me next week. I've not watched it yet. Watched it yet. Sorry. Uh Right Angle says, "If we choose to build 1,000 nuclear reactors, US will try to stop or way may invade India to stop India's energy independence." Your view? Thanks. There's no country that look how many nuclear reactors does the does the US have? I'm not sure if if they have even a hundred. Let's see. How many nuclear reactors does the United States have? It won't give me the answer. The AI won't give the answer. How about that? Okay. The US has had 93 operational reactors. Okay. As of 2023. So, forget about a thousand. Even a 100 is a big deal. And if we are if we choose to build let's say 100 reactors the nobody will try to invade us. Uh they may try to perhaps find some ways of slowing things down and all but they won't invade India for that. Hers says which states TFR will go down in the future like Bihar will be last I don't know sir I don't know Bihar will be last. Why why do you think that? I think the most industrialized and developed states will have TFRs going down first possibly but which ones I am not sure. Pratep Kumar Royce is about the smoker thing. The fellow smokers generally are snitches and they do butter the manager for promotions. This is real stupid politics everywhere. Yeah, that's unfortunate. Fellow smokers are snitches. Well, that's smoker politics. I had no idea that such things even existed. Anyway, where you have human beings, you have politics. That's the general rule. Pratip Kumar Royce is your views about Langotia University. Very, very shameful, very terrible what happened. Um, very embarrassing and it's simply a system. It's simply a symptom that shows that that tells you that the disease that the Indian educ education system has. It's rotten to the core. It's corrupt. It's simply a system of the actual underlying disease. Kunal says is jantaar mantra observations really copied from ulugabig observatory historical sources and historians say it was hugely inspired by from those big observabs. Janta mantra is in Delhi isn't it? It's a place where people protest these days. Um I am not aware of the history of the jantaar mantra. It seems to be some kind of observatory. I have no idea of Ulbig Observatory. Astronomy came from India. Ulbig was a Turk. The Turks, what understanding would they have of astronomy? What his historical tradition did they have of astronomy? So, um I think if some historical sources or historians make this claim, maybe they're highly motivated. Abir Shukla says if you will search Om Valley Bopal on web let's do that Om Valley Bopal it's not Omali it's Om Valley okay what is this Omali images okay this looks like an Okay. Interesting. So, it's a geographical formation that looks like an M. Got it. Okay. Right angle says, "In my previous question, I meant government will fund like CM Bena scheme. If you were PM, what would you have done to stop conversion?" YouTube will not allow certain words. Okay. The government will use largely ba scheme thing schemes like that to to uh garner votes because these are inducements. You are paying people money using taxpayer money because you're paying girls using taxpayer money because they're girls. That way hopefully you'll get some more votes, right? So that's why the government does that. Now will the government use public funds to stop conversions? They don't give a damn. They don't give a damn. If I were the PM, what would I have done to stop conversions? Well, that is classified. I can't say it here. And I'm not PM, so it doesn't matter anyway. So, okay. D said, I just came back from Cambodia. I found it to be much cleaner than India despite having a lower GDP per capita. It's frustrating to see the lack of civic sense. Yet, it will take 100 years to fix this. The root cause of the problem in India is not a lack of civic sense. It's corruption. Allegedly, that is the problem. It's not civic sense. Civic sense isn't there because there is no penalty for littering and doing all that. The moment there's a penalty, everybody would be behave will be well behaved. The problem is alleged corruption. Gajjapati Dv says I meant amnant amount is sent through UPI note part can be used for question no changes by em but you need to turn on your UPI app notification on phone please consider it I meant amount is sent through UPI note part can be used for a question no charges by P.M. You need to turn on your UPI app notification on phone. Oh, when you send a UPI payment on the phone, you can send a note on the phone on on the the but how do I display it here? I mean I suppose it's theoretically possible but uh but then the viewers won't be able to see in real time the questions right like what we can do here right now so it it won't be very convenient for the viewers for the audience right that's the issue that's the issue I I really appreciate you giving this option and this recommendation but it's not very convenient for the viewers they won't be I have to read out the question and read out who it is that asked the question but you won't be able to see a So that will be less convenient for the viewers. That's the issue. Adjit Singh says 1940s Japan so smart that didn't need to amend constitution for next 80 years. I know what you mean. Yeah. Prod says should India use Singapore Singapore method for civic sense. Oh I absolutely agree with it. I absolutely am in favor of that. Use the Singapore method for civic sense. Absolutely. Discipline. hard discipline. Okay, that I think that brings me to the end of today's live stream. Almost 4 hours. Would you believe it? Almost 4 hours. All right. All right. Let's let's now end this live stream. Thank you very much. It's been almost 4 hours. Thank you so much for your viewership, for the questions, and I look forward to seeing you in the next one which will be very soon. Until then, take care. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. See you in the next one. Take care. Bye-bye.