[Music] Hey, [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] All right, here we are. Welcome to the Ask a Budget Show, episode 279. I hope everyone's doing great, fantastic, awesome. Um, we're going to discuss geopolitics today. It's a geopolitics only live stream and it's going to be a super chat live stream. So, let's see who all is there on the live chat with us. I can see Saga Torat Air Tuli engineer Apurva Rayan who is preparing for J mains Binitro Supria Tupri Swami Jane Shashank Koshik Jri Krishna Mystic SK J Shri Krishna Suhas Reddi Britan Jay Kalita Shashank Koshik once again a board soul Jade Sihar good evening engineer Sagar Torat Aayush Singh Ajinkawar from Mumbai Abir Tuli Supria Topri again Negro Shivam Singh aboard soul happy Janashtmi degenerate states all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right saga to sag to Rahul Lakshmanan animals for laugh devotey geopolitical dub in from Indor who else do we have Vladimir Putin says Jesam well Jashir back to you sir Sonia Sha gravity kah savory set Vikash PJ Makavin from Hawaii Ashna John Aninda Bachar Gi Sasmith superhero shanks Anura Ja Ketan Desai superhero Vikash Ashna John Abin of Ngi Miscellaneous Niha All right. Uh Shivas Sai Vishal Gohill Hersh Nayan Chhatan Aradya Suas Tushar SK Snaps. Okay. Mega tasita upad beneath Kamat Anand Singh Jikit Hola amigos says Amit Kumar Amisha Mishra good evening kaha gravity navindry anonymous air sugata saha from Singapore well good evening ma'am Rahul love praal guru Ataj Singh and so many other people like Yagami Aditya Punit Kumar Arun Prasad Jedikshit Bimmanyu Takur Rahana Nur and so many else so many else so many other people. All right. All right. All right. Let's go. Uh let's get going with the questions otherwise I'll be doing this all day. Let's get going with the questions. What questions do we have? Let's go with the first question which is by Katria Bal. What are your thoughts on the sinking western economies? New Zealand has got massive unemployment problem and people keep losing their jobs. the blame the blame is being put on the crazy spending done during COVID. Well, yeah, interesting that you mentioned CO here. So, let's take the example that you're mentioning. New Zealand, small nation, right? Off the southeast coast of Australia, right? Two large islands. I mean, two islands mainly, pretty small nation. What's the economy of New Zealand like? What does it depend on? Well, if I think of it, I can think of agriculture and and sheep. Yeah, sheep and agriculture. And secondly, tourism. Apart from that, what's the New Zealand economy going to depend on? I'm not really sure what what it's what else it has, what other other components it has. Uh, so there are these two things, agriculture and tourism, including animal agriculture. Now COVID, you had all this crazy spending and you had all these measures that essentially tourism died out for a while in New Zealand because of COVID. Um, and I suppose there must have been a lower demand for other products. So that would have brought the economy down. I suppose it went into a recession at least for some time. I'm not sure what the current situation is like. So that explains why New Zealand's economy is not doing so great. U maybe low productivity, maybe other factors also may be there. So that's that's the example of New Zealand. Australia I suppose may be doing better. I mean Australia is not actually part of the west but yeah politically it's part of the west. If you look at nations like Germany etc. Well we know what's what's going on there. Um Germany historically has been the economic engine that drives manufacturing engine economic engine that drives the European economy. And for an economy to do well, you need a copious amount of, you know, constant uh energy, cheap energy. And when cheap Russian gas stops flowing into Germany and they shut down their nuclear reactors, well, things are going to go bad. So, multiple issues depending on which nation we are talking about. COVID was obviously a big factor in things going down. I mean, for a while even India's economy went went backwards because of COVID, right? But we restarted everything as soon as it was possible. Western countries seem to have made some changes permanent and they may be doing some things that are not good for them. For example, Germany shutting down all its nuclear nuclear power plants. I mean, why on earth would you do that? Why? So, what you going to go back to coal? I think that that's what they've done. So, multiple reasons depending on which economy we're talking about. Um, and yeah, New Zealand apparently has massive unemployment, people losing their jobs. Well, that's terrible. So, what can New Zealand do to kickstart to rekickstart its economy? I suppose they need to focus on tourism more, attract more people into the country, maybe find more buyers for their agricultural produce and whatnot. Yeah, that sort of thing they need to do. Uh COVID was definitely a factor, but I don't think every western economy is sinking. Uh the US is doing okay. I suppose I'm not sure about the UK. Overall, they're okay. some of them and some of them are not doing very well. I don't think any any of them is really sinking as such. I don't know how many nations are in recession right now if there are any. But overall, yeah, that's that's the situation. I think the future obviously is in the east. The future is in Asia. It's in India and China and other countries in the region. And that's why, you know, the west is well throwing whatever tantrums it is, Trump's tariffs and whatnot. Okay. SFC says, "Will this current tariff war between the US and essentially the rest of the entire world eventually result in global recession? If so, how badly will it affect India?" So, will this cause a global recession? I don't think it's going to cause a glo global recession. It's going to cause a lot of pain to nations that have historically depended on, you know, exporting to the US. Now the US is going to impose these restrictions as at least as long as Trump is around and maybe those things may become a little permanent if it if this continues for long it's possible but it's going but these policies that Trump is employing they're going to force other countries essentially the rest of the world to look for alternatives beyond the US that is what it's going to cause so a nation like India will look at other markets a nation like whoever else whichever nations are have historically been exporting goods to the US will have to will be forced to look at alternative markets. It's going to cause a realignment, a reshaping of the global economic order. I don't think it's necessarily going to cause a global recession. I think the chances of that are low. Uh how badly will this affect India? Well, I think uh it could lower India's GDP growth for the next year by 0.2 to 0.4%. 4%. So the RBI I believe had uh forecast that the Indian GDP will grow at about 6.5% next year. So if it's 0.2% reduction, it'll instead of 6.5% the growth growth will be 6.3%. And if it's a 4% reduction, then well it it could be uh 6.1%. If Yep. So that sort of thing. So it's it's definitely not trivial. It's going to have an effect. it's not going to be a good effect and yeah we're going to have to take measures to take all of this into consideration. Okay. Rahul Lakshmandan says probability of probability estimate of India and China resolving border once and for all taking advantage of the current situation. The probability of that happening is about 1%. Okay, not going to happen. What it means is it's it's incredibly unlikely to happen. Why would a nation like China give up such a big advantage it has? It's much more powerful than India, isn't it? Economically as well as militarily. And it has this so as the more powerful nation, you are in a position to put a nation that's weaker than you under pressure, under multiple kinds of pressure. And how do you do that? Well, if you have this big long tremendous massive undemarcated border, then you can keep on claiming territory and keep on testing the strength of the of the adversary, keep on attempting to salvize territory, why would you give that up, right? Unless you're getting something significant in return, what does China get in return? If it agrees to demarcate the border, it gets peace. Well, India has any way never been a nation that's threatened to take parts of Chinese occupied territory. We have never threatened that we will retake Tibet. I mean, liberate Tibet or what Tibet or whatever. So, China doesn't fear an Indian incursion. China doesn't fear an Indian invasion. But it wants India to keep fearing fearing a military conflict with China. Right? So, when you are in that position where you have the advantage in that, why would you give it up? So even if there there is a better relationship between India and China, China will not agree to demarcate the border unless it is in some very precarious position and it it desperately needs India's support and help and all that in that case it may do that. Well, it's not in that situation right now and it doesn't look like it's going to be in that sort of situation anytime soon. So my probability estimate of India and China resolving the border issue once and for all is 1% over the next 365 days. Yeah. So what will happen? What's the best thing best case? The best case is see tomorrow Mr. Wangi is visiting India. Okay. He's going to be here for maybe he's going to be in Delhi for a day or two. After that he's going to Pakistan, Afghanistan, wherever he's going. He has his Yes. So the thorough visit. So this visit by Mr. Wangi who's the foreign minister of China it's obviously a precursor to Mr. Modi's visit to China for the SEO summit the that visit will be at the end of this month uh 31st of August or somewhere somewhere around that time you can look it up so Mr. Wangi will be in Delhi to lay the groundwork for a successful visit for Mr. Modi in China. That's what it is. And obviously there's going to be a continuation of the hundreds of rounds of negotiations about the border issue and all that. That that's a neverending merrygoround. Nothing ever comes out of it. So that's where we are. What's the best thing that that could happen? You know, Mr. Modi will probably have a pleasant visit to China. Maybe something constructive may come out of it and maybe uh China may try to engage India economically and offer some offer some kind of uh offerings something like that you know but beyond that I don't see anything major coming out of it. So that's where we are. Okay. Aninda Bachari says very big fan. Thank you sir. Thank you. Uh please give your insights on the recent developments between Russia and the US. Will Trump punish India? Well, we're talking about Russia and US. So, we'll keep India out of it for a moment. Okay, I I'll talk about India as well. So, Russia and the US. So, a couple of days ago, Mr. Trump uh hosted Mr. Putin in Alaska. Excuse me. So, Mr. Mr. Trump hosted Mr. Putin in Alaska. Mr. Putin arrived in Alaska and it was a reasonably brief uh meeting like 2 and a half 3 hours. That's the amount of time the two leaders and their entouragees had uh in face toface talks behind closed doors. And beyond the optics, the optics are wonderful red carpet treatment and um both the leaders uh traveling in Mr. Trump's limusine and the fighter planes and the B2 bomber, strategic bomber that fly that flew over the head of Mr. Putin. All of that stuff. That's all the optics. Mr. Trump's handshake in which he pulls the other guy's hand towards him and then pats the back of the hand. All of that is nice, okay? It's all symbolism, blah blah blah. I don't care about that. Let's talk about the real substance. What came out of it, right? What was the minimum that Mr. Trump expected? The minimum that Mr. Trump expected was a ceasefire, even a temporary ceasefire, some kind of ceasefire. That's what that's the least that he expected from the visit. That's what he wanted from Mr. Putin. A ceasefire, Ukraine war, obviously, right? Did he get that? He didn't get that. He got nothing from Mr. Putin. He got absolutely nothing. The two the two sides were behind closed doors for about 2 and 1/2 hours. And the expressions were very different after those two and a half hours. Before the both the leaders went in, both leaders were nice, smiling and happy, good body language. When both leaders come out, Mr. Putin is good. Mr. Trump is a little deflated. What what happened behind closed doors, right? Mr. Trump did not get what he wanted. Um, so the least he wanted was a ceasefire. Now, we don't know what what happened, what demands Mr. Putin made, what demands Mr. Trump made. But you have to understand what position both leaders are in. Who is in a position of strength? Who's in a position of weakness? We have to understand that. Who's in a position of strength? There's a war going on and the leader who has who who is in possession who is in occupation of the adversaries territory is Mr. Putin. The war is going well for Mr. Putin. Right. Ukraine isn't winning. Ukraine is losing. Ukraine doesn't control an inch of Russian territory. Mr. Putin controls about a between a fifth and a fourth of Ukrainian territory and his armed forces are doing well. Ukraine is being decimated. Ukraine's economy is in shambles. The moment foreign aid stops to Ukraine, Ukraine will will collapse, right? It's entirely entirely dependent on foreign aid on Western aid. Its population, its demography has has collapsed. All the young men are gone. That's the situation in Ukraine. Ukraine is a western proxy, an American proxy and Putin is doing well. So Mr. Putin is in a position of strength and he is happy to wait as long as it takes for the war to be over. He is in no hurry for the war to end. His economy is doing well. His economy is actually growing compared to the European economies that are going down. Recession, not all but at least some of them for some time were in recession. If you compare the Russian economy with the European economies, the Russian economy is doing good. Then what position is Mr. So Mr. Putin is in a position of strength. What position is Mr. Trump in he is waging this war of tariffs in the entire world. He is not popular anywhere right now. Trust me, I think we can all agree on that. The tariffs are going to start biting at his own citizens because they the American citizens are paying the tariffs, not the foreign countries. It's going to cause a backlash in the US. Prices will go up, inflation will rise. It's going to not going to be good time for Mr. Trump. Apart from that, Mr. Trump had made this promise. You as a leader, as a politician, you've got to keep promises that you make otherwise people don't people don't forget that Mr. Trump had made this promise that I will end the Ukraine day Ukraine war on the first day of my presidency. Well, he's been trying for trying for that. He's been attempting to do that but it's dragging on and on and on. So who's under pressure? Who is in a position of weakness? Mr. Trump is in a position of weakness. So you have Mr. Putin who is in a position of strength. He is confident. He is not impressed by all the fancy fancymancy stuff that Mr. Trump is showing him the fighter planes and all that. He doesn't care. Mr. Putin has his own stuff. So M Mr. Putin is a position of strength. Mr. Trump is in a position of weakness. He is desperate to get at least something out of this. He wants a ceasefire desperately. It's overdue by more than 6 months now for Mr. Mr. Trump. So who needs the ceasefire? Who needs something? Mr. Trump. And Mr. Putin is happy to wait as long as it takes for a ceasefire. If we don't get good terms, we will not have a ceasefire. Right? So that was the dynamic first of all the power dynamic and we don't know what happened behind closed doors but but but when we saw both leaders emerge Mr. Trump looked deflated Mr. Putin looked great and Mr. Mr. Putin in his address to the media he made it very clear what his nation's red lines are that the European security architecture has to take into account Russia's red lines and Russia's security interest national interests without that Europe it won't it won't work right and I don't know what address Mr. Trump gave to the media I heard it but he had nothing of substance to say so that is the recent developments so Mr. Mr. Trump got nothing nothing out of it. There will most likely be more rounds of negotiations possibly between the two leaders. The next time it has to be in Russia. It has to be in Russia. It has to be in Moscow like Mr. Putin insisted essentially, right? Publicly. Uh and let's see how it goes. But Mr. Trump is not getting what he wants. Yeah, he has been rebuffed and uh very nicely. So will Trump punish punish India? Well, let him do that. Yeah, they has been threatening 500% tariffs. I mean it was Lindsay whatever uh Senator Lindsey Graham who has threatened this who has brought in this this this bill that would punish nations that buy Russian oil with 500% tariffs you know after a point the tariffs don't matter anymore make it 3 million% right who we don't care anymore we're done so uh that's the situation will Trump punish India maybe he will raise tariffs to 70% maybe 100% maybe 150% % maybe to 500%. After a point it doesn't matter. It's possible this may happen. Yeah, they have canled the the visit of the US trade delegation to India which was supposed to come soon. Okay, so be it. Right. So that's where we are and we are purchasing more Russian oil apparently. Yeah. So that is the current situation and we'll have to keep an eye on this. We'll have to wait and watch and see how it goes. I expect that India US relations are fried for some time for the for the longest time now. Chandra, well thank you so much. Welcome to the membership. Thank you so much. Appreciate that. Pawa says, "How does China see the Alaska visit? Does has China lost leverage on on Russia?" Well, the this visit by Mr. Putin was well great for Russia. Yeah, it's it was great for Russia and uh the the whole world will see Russia as a much more powerful entity today after the meeting after the outcome of the meeting which was clearly one zero Putin won Trump zero clearly. Uh does this mean that China has lost its leverage on Russia? No, it doesn't mean that Russia will feel better. Russia will be more confident. Trump will be more desperate after this. They will be looking for someone to lash out at, somebody to blame. Maybe it's Zalinsky. Maybe it's India. maybe whoever. Yeah. Uh but China has not lost its leverage on Russia because Russia is still under all these sanctions and the US has excluded Russia, cut Russia off from the international economic system and so on. So Russia is still very dependent on China in a variety of ways. So China hasn't lost that leverage but we'll see. Yeah. If Russia can get a deal from the US or if Trump can get a deal can negotiate a deal with the Sabbutin which is beneficial for both sides then yeah then China will lose some leverage. If that happens and Mr. Putin, Mr. Trump will be cognizant of that perhaps if he yeah looks at it that from that perspective and maybe he doesn't want Putin to to you know lose his dependence on China. So it's it's complicated but as of now China has not lost its leverage on Russia. Okay. What this video WTV says how does a currency work? Can we use gold reserve as a reference? Okay. How does a currency work? A currency is a substitute for something valuable. That's what it's a proxy. A currency is a proxy for something of value. So in the past, there used to be the Bart system. Like thousands of years ago, I have two carrots. I want your apple. Two carrots I say is equal to one apple. But you say no, one apple should be three carats. And so so there's a negotiation. Maybe I will I will give you one carrot and I'll take 1/4 of your apple. That sort of thing. Or you know I have a handful of wheat. What can you offer me? Okay. I I'll give you a handful of wheat. You give me a cup of of ghee. Yeah. That sort of thing. So it used to be this rough reference system long long ago, thousands of years ago. Then people started issuing coins. coins. Coins usually were made of gold. If you look at ancient Indian coins, most of these are gold coins uh small coins, big big coins, whatever size. And gold obviously is an extremely rare commodity. So, it is very valuable. So, so kings start in and emperors and dynasties and empires started issuing coins of specific denominations, specific sizes with a specific amount of gold. and the gold itself was was valuable. Uh so the coins began to be used as a substitute for for the barter system. So a coin would be determined by the market to have a certain value. Let's say I have a gold coin. Maybe I can buy 20 cows with that. Yeah. Or maybe I can buy a certain amount of land with that or or whatever it was. So that's how a currency started working. Eventually in the in in in in the west in Europe they started issuing paper currencies. Paper currencies were a substitute for gold on which on those paper currencies it it was written that this is to be used in exchange for gold and when the bearer of this of this note demands a certain amount of gold equal to this it has to be provided on demand. Right? So it was then easier to car carry around than gold. So then people started but but the issuer of that paper currency I I suppose was legally bound to have that much the amount of currency they've issued that much gold they should have only then would a bank or or or an issuer of currency be trusted by the consumers so that's how a currency works and then eventually in the 21st 20th century the US uh so when the US dollar became the reserve currency of the world it was pegged to the price of gold and the US was supposed to have that much gold in storage equal to the amount of currency was US dollar currency was in circulation globally. But in the 70s I think it was Nixon Nixon and Kissinger Nixon who decoupled the US dollar the paper from the gold. It was now free floating. It was not dependent on the amount of gold because of a bank run on the US. That's a whole different story. We'll not go into the history. and and today the US currency is I don't know what it represents. It's it's it's a fiat currency. It's a currency that represents the power of the US to enforce the US dollar as the world reserve currency. So you know that's how a currency works. Can we use gold reserve as a reference? Well the Indian rupee is also I don't think it's tied to the price of gold. Uh but it would be ideally good if currencies were tied to the to to a certain amount of to the price of gold. That would be a that's a that's a more robust currency I would say. Amisha says, "Do you really do you really think that Trump can stop the Ukraine Russia war?" It doesn't look like that. It doesn't look like that. If I mean, he's been desperate to do it, right? But so many factors are are conspiring to come in his way. First of all, Putin is in no hurry to end the war. Why why should he? You people started this. He will tell the west you people started this you did not respect our red lines and then eventually you encroached into into Ukraine itself right that's why we had to we we we had to take first of all Crimea and then you did it further by you know by various means and that's why the war started now I am in no hurry to end the war I am doing very well Russia is doing very well right so if you want an end to the war it has to be on my terms I'm going to demand I'm going to make maximalist demands you either do what I say or the war continues and well the west may be tempted perhaps to stop funding the war because it's a you're burning your money but then Ukraine the whole of Ukraine goes so that's the tight spot that the west is in and Zelinsky who is propped up by the EU well if the war ends what happens to him so he's desperate for the war not to end so all of these factors are coming in the way to to you know prevent the war from ending so I don't think that Trump is Trump is in any position unless he does something about Zilinsky to end the war. Yeah. Hersh Nyan says one thing India has to be careful about China is based on previous patterns they have always tried to be aggressive whenever its thing doing good which thing good doing good. So, China has historically been a very aggressive nation. We know that. Um, 19662 is a good example. 2020, the g the Galwan clash. Well, that was perhaps accidental. Perhaps they tried to push too far, but they they yeah, they got a bloody nose. See, the Galwan clash is is not something that's comparable to the 1962 war or the 1967 war. No one knows about 1967, right? which we won or the 1988 87 clashes. The Galwan thing was much more oneoff and much more localized. But China has always been this hegemonic nation, right? Ever since the Chinese Communist Party came to power, they have always been this hgemonic nation. In the past also, they've always tried to bully weaker nations going back 2,000 years. Right? So, we have to be careful about China. the and what China respects is strength and what what they what and if you are weak they're going to take advantage of that. So I agree with you sir. We have to be careful about China. You can never trust a nation that uh with whom you have this sort of history. Uh you have to understand what kind of uh behavioral patterns they have ex exhibited in the future. Even if there is a even if there is a rapimo with China and things are good in the future let's say still India will always have to be super careful when dealing with China. So I agree. Yes sir. Rohan Sunija says, "How can Russia be more stronger be stronger militarily than China despite having a smaller economy than China as per my power index? Please explain." Okay. Uh the economy is smaller. Um see the power index that I have it's based on publicly available information. Completely public information. No hidden variables. So what kind of publicly available information do we have? What what data what numbers do we have that that can define a country represent a country? First is your land area. Your land area is a big factor in your power because that is the amount of resources that you have at your disposal. Secondly, population. The more your population, the more resources, you know, manpower, human capital. That is two things very simple that everybody understands. Then the size of your economy, which is your GDP, annual GDP. Let's take that as an indicator of the size of your economy and the strength of your economy, annual GDP. Then your annual military uh expenditure. So you always take the latest figures. Well, the latest figures is are that you know Russia Russia's military expenditure annually is in excess of hundred billion dollars now. It's so gone way past India and other nations. So it's the third largest military spend uh it's got the third largest military spending in the world, Russia. So that's another factor. Then you look at things like power projection uh capabilities which is kind of it's it's more of an art than a science to calculate that. But yeah, it's certainly something that matters. And then the number of nuclear warheads that you have. So you take all of this together, you calculate a score based on a formula, which is my formula. Well, and and that applies to all nations. Russia clearly comes out on top. I mean the major the major differentiator is the number of nuclear weapons and I am not basing the nuclear number of nuclear weapons on my imag imagination. I'm just taking what is the publicly available figures out there the best accepted figures which says India has what 160 or whatever so and China has 600 and Russia has the world's largest nuclear arsenal. Well, that itself makes Russia invincible, the nuclear arsenal, right? Because nobody will dare to mess with Russia. Do you understand? So, if you take all the factors together and you calculate the score, well, Russia turns out to be stronger. Now, that's the best I can explain. Okay. Tanahesh Pande says Pakistani media said that they lost 155 soldiers during Operation Synindu. Yes, the three-day war, but then they deleted the the article. Yeah, it's been deleted. I mean, so do you think another battle took place take place after Munir's threat? Okay, let's deal with the issue of the 155 soldiers. So recently like two or three days ago the Pakistani military announced that they had given various uh gallantry awards and whatever awards to their uh to their personnel military personnel based on their performance in their operation bunan manhus whatever it was. Yeah. Uh which is operation synindur. And they put out a list of all the soldiers who were given these awards. And in that list of soldiers, you had 155 deceased soldiers. Soldiers who died in operation. Right. So they they published the entire list nicely, properly. Very nicely. Very nicely. Yes. Nicely. And then the Indian well India's India has this gigantic population and people are very active on social media. So Indians caught it and they took screenshots and pasted it all all over social media. So then the Pakistanis realized that we are admitting what happened. We are admitting that we lost 155 soldiers. So they hastily deleted that article but while the screenshots will live forever. So yep it's clear that Pakistan you know it suffered tremendous casualties. 155 soldiers that's well that's the ones who have got those gallantry awards. I don't know how many else how many other soldiers there could have been that that may have died. We don't know that for sure. Um so yeah that's that's the deal. They admitted it then they realized what they did so they deleted that. Now do I think another battle will take place after Munir's threat? Well I think there's a there's a chance that there could be a new India Pakistan war soon. The US is is backing up Pakistan Pakistan to the hilt. Trump is backing Pakistan to the hilt. Right. And it looks like the west is now taking the US is now taking the containment of India very seriously. They don't want India to become a 10 trillion economy. Forget about 20 15 20 whatever. They don't want India to reach the 10 trillion economy mark. That's why these sanctions I mean not sanctions tariffs on India and all the hostile behavior from Trump and Trump backing Pakistan thoroughly clearly taking Pakistan's aside against India. Um and now the Pakistanis have some idea of of their of their strategic and and tactical military weaknesses against India. They took a thorough beating against India. So they would have done a proper assessment and given a laundry list of things they they want to the US and the US will try and supply Pakistan with whatever Pakistan needs to to ensure a favorable outcome in the next war. So it's very likely that the US will supply Pakistan with what whatever uh whatever Pakistan was missing during operation zindur. Uh and the longer we go without a war with Pakistan the stronger Pakistan will get. So I think it's it's possible I think it's likely that in the coming months or or you know not of in the in the short-term future maybe next 12 months there could be another war instigated by by a larger power between India and Pakistan the objective is to weaken India militarily and to weaken India economically especially economically India's economy is the only major economy that is well that has no chance of recession next 20 years and if that continues India's economy will No matter what kind of tariffs Trump Trump imposes, India's economy will do well and will grow and we will become more powerful. So the best way to damage a nation's economy is to is to drag it into a prolonged conflict, a Ukraine kind of situation, right? And for India, the best Ukraine is Pakistan. So it's it's I think likely that there could be in the in the short-term future another conflict with Pakistan. Saita Read says key agreements between Trump and Putin. Any guess? Zero. Zero agreements. If there was any agreement, even a shred of an agreement, Trump would have shouted it from the rooftops. Trump would have shouted it from the rooftops and he would have said, "See, this is one more feather in my cap. Now I definitely need no Nobel Peace Prize." He's desperate for a Nobel Peace Prize. He's craving a Nobel Peace Prize, right? So he wants more examples to bolster more more achievements to bolster his his claim on a Nobel Peace Prize. If there was anything that came out of the meeting which would have been favor favorable to the US, he would have been shouting it from the rooftops. Absolutely nothing happened. Okay. Pall says should India build an alliance with Cyprus, Armenia and Greece to counter Pakistan, Azarbaijan, Turkey. Well, we are already doing that by the way. We are already doing that. Uh, Mr. Modi recently visited Cypress. I'm talking about southern southern Cypress. Free Cypress, not the northern part which is Turkish occupied Cypress. Would you like to see? Let's let's open the map. It's been 37 minutes. We haven't opened the map. So, let's go. Let's take a look at Cypress. So, Cypress, it is located in the Mediterranean, the Eastern Mediterranean. Okay, this is the island of Cypress. It's historically always been a Greek island. In the 1970s, Turkey uh invaded Cyprus and occupied the northern third of the land. And as you can see, there are these dashed lines and there's this no man's zone, no man's land kind of thing. Yeah. Uh so yeah, and and the capital city Nikicoia itself is divided into a southern part and a northern part. Uh so Cyprus is under Turkish occupation and Turkey as we know is is a great supporter of Azarbaijan and they these two nations together want to uh erase Armenia from the map of the world. Armenia is a nation with whom we've had ancient ties. Uh and Turkey is is a major supporter of Pakistan in a variety of ways. So India we know that we have military cooperation significant military cooperation with Greece that's been going on for quite some time I mean couple of years at least you know serious military cooperation India is one of one of the the nations that supplies arms to Armenia very dangerous very powerful weapons right we have been supplying to Armenia and now Mr. Modi recently visited Cyprus and it was it was by all accounts an excellent meeting and so what India is doing is India is is essentially creating an alliance with Cypress, Armenia and Greece. So what you're suggesting well we are already doing that but it's a great suggestion and I have to commend you on that. So yeah it's an anti-Turkey alliance that's what it is and we are doing that. Geopolitical Dub says does climate affect geopolitics if it does how? Well, look, climate can affect geopolitics only if it changes very rapidly. Otherwise, climate is like a constant factor. Africa, northern Africa, temperate. The Sahara part of Africa, the Sahel region hot and dry. Uh Kalahari desert hot. Southern Africa cool. That's we know that the coastal regions so and so the interior parts of Africa the tropical rainforests tropical uh climate if you talk about India depending on where you are in India we know the what the climate is so if you are let's say going to do a military expedition or operation somewhere in the part in whatever part of the world you have to know exactly what the climatic patterns are and that does affect the kind of uh military operation and and military strategies and tactics you can employ and beyond the military realm If you just talk about the economic realm, well, climate affects the nation's economy obviously um based on what resources you have in the climate, you know, your economy can take various shapes and forms and that of course affects the nation's politics, the nation's culture. So, climate has a profound effect on the evolution of history, right? So, it does affect history and ge and what is history? What we call history is was once the geopolitics of that time and the geopolitics of today is tomorrow's history. So climate does indeed affect geopolitics. Vishall says if peace talks fail will breach Russian red lines well they can't afford to. They can't afford to otherwise they risk nuclear war right. Russia has very clear red lines and Russia's nuclear doctrine has changed a bit in the preceding couple of years two three years and it's become a little more ambiguous than before and u yeah so if this if they cross certain lines they and and you know actually they they did cross some Russian red lines that that what's an operation operation spiderweb that Ukraine undertook carrying out long range strikes on Russian strategic assets deep inside Russia that actually did cross that it did breach some red lines but the major red lines if the US breaches even if peace talks fail if you breach those red lines you're inviting a tremendous amount of trouble I don't think the US dares do that satellite says why are India Russia ties always strong will they remain so are India and Russia the most reliable long-term partners among major countries if yes why so historically if you look at the overall trajectory of the ties it's been pretty good. I mean the strongest partner India has had essentially. Yeah. For various reasons. So in in the 20th century India decided to become Soviet Wasal essentially. Right. Technically we were non-aligned. I know some geniuses will come and now lecture me that what non what was we were non-aligned. If all you do is read your history textbooks and listen to what your teachers say then you will never learn a thing. India was basically a Soviet satellite. in the 20th century. Uh and because of that that's why the US decided to make Pakistan their vasal right and strengthen that relationship. Uh but the kind of vasal relationship the US has with its vasals is very damaging long in the long run to those vasals when the USSR and the Russia has they that relationship isn't that damaging. Obviously they will spy on the nation and do things etc. But they don't damage they don't try to change the culture they don't try to change the various aspects of of governance and so so on in the in the vasal countries so for some time India was a soviet vasal okay um but the USSR supplied India with excellent weapons I mean the Mig 21 when it was supplied to India was the deadliest fighter aircraft in existence okay and the Mig 25 is it Foxbat what I mean they supplied the best weapons happens to India and they never laid down conditions and inserted kill switches and back doors and whatn not the kind of things the Americans do and when India needed Soviet help in 1971 the Soviets came to India's help and that's why Bangladesh was created so it's been a relationship that's been very robust it's a trusting relationship we India and Russia understand each other very well because of the long duration of the relationship trip uh when the USSR collapsed and broke up in the early 1990s 1999 ' 91 that's when India found itself a drift Indian politicians were used to having a big daddy now what do we do so that's why India started looking at the west yeah because of the Anglo anglicized nature of the Indian elites and all that um so for some time the relationship was essentially non-existent it was it was not great uh the Soviets, the Russians caved into American pressure and declined to sell uh cryogenic engines, rocket engines to India um or or and transfer the techn technology as was as was the agreement and so on. But things stabilized after Mr. Putin came to power and the relationship was again decent. Now if you remember in the in the 2010s around 2015 or so around that time the Russians sold military equipment to Pakistan helicopters and all and they they had these annual exercises between you know military exercises between Russia and Pakistan. The dujba exercises what does dujba mean in Russian? It means friendship. So we have to remember these things. We have to remember look no relationship is is set in stone. If India becomes irrelevant if India tilts very far westwards then Russia will stop regarding India as a valuable partner. If Russia starts playing games with Pakistan then India will stop regarding Russia as a valuable partner. I think there's a tremendous amount of potential in the relationship and uh as we know the the US doesn't the US has this now very clear policy of containing India if you look if you look at all the US actions in the past three years only just the past 3 years 3 years yeah the coup against Imran Khan yeah so regime change operation in Pakistan and Pakistan once again becomes West Pakistan once again becomes a US vasal then the regime change in in Bangladesh so east Pakistan becomes a US vasal then project K cookie land for Christ which is an you know an attempt to to it's it's a challenge to Indian sovereignty essentially in Manipur and so much more so if you look at all these actions the US has taken they they're aimed at containing India and destabilizing India right and the same thing is being done to Russia so because of that shared issue also India and Russia uh obviously are are on a very um convergent uh trajectory right now. So overall India and Russia have see major nations no territorial disputes no major disputes of any kind. So natural partners India and Russia are natural partners and uh I expect this to continue uh despite whatever small hiccups may happen here and there here or there those may be temporary right so right now we are hearing rumors that Mr. Putin may not visit India as planned in by the end of this year. It's it's a possibility. But if if that's the case, it may be a temporary thing because of various external factors. If that does happen, uh most likely he will visit, but we'll see. Uh so overall, I I I see this as a very promising, very robust long-term relationship. India and Russia are natural partners unlike Russia and China or or India and China which are natural adversaries. Okay. MK says, "In what ways are the US and the British Empire similar and different? Did the US make any serious attempts to make France its vasal like it did to the US Irish protest?" Ah, you Oh, you you've been paying attention, have you, sir? Look, the Irish troubles is something that the UK created itself. Okay. Ireland is under you under British occupation and that's why you had troubles in Northern Ireland for decades for decades all the way from the beginning of the 20th century because Ireland is is under British occupation. They want to be free from the British. They have never liked the British. The British are foreigners for the Irish. Right. So the troubles the the root cause of the troubles was British actions themselves. But it's it's very interesting like I've said before that the Northern Ireland insurgency ended just like that the moment Tony Blair became a made the UK an American vasal. Very interesting. Very interesting. Is it a coincidence? Really? Really? Uh so yeah. So the UK becomes a US vasal and the Irish troubles end just like that. No issues. All peaceful now. But I'll tell you that undercurrent still simmers. The people of Northern Northern Ireland are still under British occupation. It's British occupied Northern Ireland. Now coming to your question, has the US made serious attempts to make France its vasal? France is a quasi of the US. It is it is France is a member of NATO. Who owns NATO? It's the US that owns NATO by the way. Okay. Oh, technically it's a multilateral logger. Blah blah blah. Okay, go back to the third standard if if that's that's how you see it. The US owns NATO. France is a member of NATO. If you are a member of NATO, you lose military sovereignty. You lose sovereignty over your armed forces. Because if you are a member of NATO, you have to put your armed forces at times under foreign command under the command of a foreign foreigner. Yeah. at least some portion of your armed forces at any given point in time are under the command of a foreigner if you're a member of NATO. So there you lose your military sovereignty. Secondly, the the French are also a me are also members of the EU. Who owns the EU? It's once again the US. If you are a member of the EU, you don't have your own currency. You have to use the EU currency. So you lose economic sovereignty. Secondly, your borders are open. You've lost your territorial sovereignty. These are the hallmarks of a vasal nation. The only thing France has going for itself is um the nuclear deterrent which is entirely French and and other things as well. That's why France has a quasi independent foreign policy and is less of a vasal than let's say Germany or any other EU or NATO nation. The most quasi independent of the nations is France but it is still a US vasal. Okay. So yeah, how are the US and British Empire similar yet different? Very similar, very similar. But um the the US doesn't occupy other nations militarily except for a couple of cases. One case is Japan, another is South Korea and and Germany and Italy are also under some form of US occupation since 1945. But the British colonized extractively. See the British uh engaged in extractive colonization whether it's India which was the major target of extractive colonization or African nations or wherever else the US isn't uh doesn't employ extractive colonization it it is a hegemonic empire not not an occupational empire not an empire of occupation and it extracts value from the world through its reserve currency which is the US dollar. So they are they are similar and different in in a variety of ways but overall very similar same culture same Anglo culture and the US empire is an extension it's a continuation of the British Empire. Okay. Verun Baj says what would India be like today if India hadn't lost territories like Pakistan and Bangladesh to British wouldn't partition also where Afghanistan, Myanmar, Sri Lanka part of India before the British? This is a history question not geopolitics question but let's just briefly answer it. See I would request you all that please look at the pinned comment. We are discussing geopolitics today. If I start taking questions about other topics today then well it's disrespecting the audience right? What would India be like today if we had not lost those territories? We would be a more multi-religious nation. Maybe we would be stronger if we had strong leaders right. Um Afghanistan was Gandhar obviously part of India Myanmar it's questionable during the British Raj Myanmar was part of India it was always part of the Indosphere but was it part of Jamudi probably not I may be wrong but I don't see it that way Sri Lanka well Sri Lanka was always part of India overall okay always different kingdoms in Sri Lanka but Sri Lanka was part of the Chola Empire for example and it was also part of the Gupta empire. So two presidents over there. Naman Singh says why don't our people support Indian products and apps? Make a world-class product. Make world worldass apps that are better than everything the others have to offer. People will automatically gravitate towards that. I'll give you an example. We have an Indian version of Twitter called Coup, right? I tried using it. It was super buggy. It was so hard to use. It was a it was a pain to use it. You want an app that's a pleasure to use. If Indians make substandard apps and then they say that Indians should support Indian apps, well, it's it's not going to work that way. The market has its own dynamics, right? So, if it it I I agree that Indians should support Indian Indian products and Indian apps. But very often for for example, there was there was this product called Micromax. They used to make phones. there were Chinese manufactured phones with an Indian brand put on them. So Indians take these shortcuts, Indians haven't invested in research and development and creating a proper ecosystem and and products that are world class. So once India starts producing products that are world class and we are fully capable of that. Look at our defense equipment which we manufacture worldass better than world class. We have all of this. But the people who have money, the the the the industrialists, well, they they need to change their attitude and approach and and of course startup people who are in startups who are manufacturing stuff, they need to manufacture worldclass products. The moment you have something that nobody in the world has of that, if you have something of that quality, obviously everybody will buy it. So don't force Indians to buy substandard products because they are Indian. Make the best product products in the world or even decent products. Then many Indians will just buy the decent product even if something slightly superior exists elsewhere because it's Indian. But don't manufacture bad products. That's what I would say. Okay. uh as per mathematics and physics how does a range is how do you estimate the range of an ICBM uh test okay how there's an ICBM test and how do you estimate the range well I'll tell you how mathematics okay uh and physics so let us go to the map okay here we have map yes we can see map so where is the place in in Odisa Odisha that's this this island right from which we launched launch u is this the island not ka okay this one Abdul Kalam island uh typically you launch missiles from there and do rocket test from there so let's say you launch something from here we put a marker here Abdul Kalam Island and uh we do an ICBM test or some kind of test and we so before the government of India does a test it uh issues a notice notice to airmen nam Okay. Um and it says that no aircraft should fly in a certain part of the Indian Ocean region uh for on so and so date for so and so time maybe 6 hours maybe 3 hours whatever it is uh and that gives you an indication of the range of the test. So let's say we we have something so we have an upcoming test which will which is going to splash down somewhere here about 4.8 8 or 5,000 km. I'm not sure if it's that long. Maybe it is low less than that. Around 4,000 something kilometers is the the current no time that we have issued. Um so it would be an indicator that the Indian government military is expecting the missile to have at least you know maximum range of this much. So that tells you that the missile has a maximum range of 4,300 something km. If if that's the range maybe we've given a no time of 5,000 km then we would estimate that the maximum range of this missile as as calculated incorporating safety measures by the government and the military is 5,000 km. So that's just a straightforward assessment of what the range could be. But now now understand this. See missiles can be used in a variety of ways. A missile a ballistic missile it it It it has a parabolic bra. It has a parabolic path. Standard projectile motion which you will learn in your eighth standard or whatever physics parabolic path. It will take off. It will exit the atmosphere then re-enter the atmosphere and hit the target at re-entry speeds which is about 20 km/ second per hour second. Yeah, around that that sort of speed 20 25 km/ second. Now what sort of parabola is it? Is it a flat parabola? If it is a very flat parabola, it'll never exit the atmosphere. If it's a very loopy parabola, it will go kilo like hundreds of kilometers above atmosphere and return. Well, that tells you what kind of range it has. So, so the range that you the notam tells you is an is is is an approximate range. It's not really a true indicator of the range of the missile. So India generally what it does what India generally does is it under reportports the range of its missiles. So let's say we are doing a test of a missile and our no time is 5,500 km. So one could estimate that this missile is a 5,000 km range. But maybe we don't want to show the world what the real range is. So we are creating a variant of the missile with less fuel. Maybe the actual range is 13,000 km, but we we only put enough fuel in the missile for 5,500 km. So that way you don't you don't alarm certain nations who would then become the potential recipients of a package. Yeah. Uh that that is the thing. So I think India has very smartly done done this been very smart about this. We always under report we generally under reportport the true range of the of the missiles. so as to not alarm certain nations who anyway want to be alarmed and so on. Uh so that's how we do it. Ankita says why was Alaska chosen for the Trump Putin meeting? Yes, why was Alaska? Now first of all do we know where Alaska is? Let us quickly uh visit Alaska and see where it is. So we go north of India straight north. We cross Mongolia and we come to Russia. Okay, this is Russia. This is Russia. Now you go eastwards, eastwards, eastwards. Then you have the Kamchchatka peninsula. You go further eastwards, further eastwards and you have you have the bearing straight and you have two Damedi islands here. Little Diamedi is owned by the US and big Damed is owned by Russia and between I mean the two two islands are about 40 I don't know 4 km apart. Four yeah 4 kilometers apart as you can see here. So that's the distance between Russia and the US. And I once had a comment a few years ago from a lady who live whose family was from one of these two islands. Yeah. Uh so that's the bearing straight. And if you go further east from the bearing state straight, you reach Alaska. This is America's northernmost state. Straight lines as you can see. That's the consequence of colonialism. Colonization. And yeah, so this is the n the the state of Alaska, America's northernmost state state. And this was once a Russian territory. It was a Russian territory and it was sold to the US for a certain amount of money. The Americans bought it and at that time it was considered by many Americans to be completely stupid that America bought this big territory from Russia by paying a lot of money. But today it turns out it was a very valuable purchase and a very cheap purchase because Alaska is full of oil and gas and all kinds of resources. So it's a it's a territory that was formerly Russian. It still has possibly some Russian influence culturally, religiously, whatever. And it's now an American territory and it was acquired by America legally from Russia. Right? So that's the shared history of Alaska between the two between the two nations. So why was Alaska chosen for the Trump Putin meeting? Because it is something that both nations at some point in time had in common. It's also an example of uh a transfer of territory that that happened legally without the use of force. So maybe Trump wanted to remind Mr. Putin that you know if you want territory you have to take it legally without using force. Uh so it's it's a region that has multiple layers of meaning for both nations. Uh some people in Russia today may ru the fact that they sold Alaska to the US. They would have wanted to perhaps, you know, some people may imagine it would be so nice if Russia had this territory in northern North America, right? Um so that's one one layer of of symbolism. Secondly, uh from the Americans, it's now American territory but with a Russian influence, Russian past. So if if both leaders meet there and it's kind of equidistant in some ways from the main land land masses of both nations. So it has multiple layers multiple layers of meaning. Uh so it made sense for Alaska to be chosen. I mean it's it's far in the north of North America an almost desolate land very nice very rich in resources and all very small population. So yeah may people may ask themselves why did this why was this place chosen out of everything else why not Washington why not Moscow why not somewhere else but it's it's got this very interesting history it's very symbolic and that's why Alaska was chosen James says if India is so good why do Indians come to the UK yes why do Indians come to the UK you see today in West a lot of people complain a lot of westerners complain why do these hitty third world types why do they come and pollute our land why do they come and live in our lands stay in your third world countries right why you why do you if if your country your culture and everything is so nice why do you come and live in the west go back to your countries you see it's not that simple my dear James you folk Folks, you know what you did? You destroyed cultures. You destroyed civilizations. You took the world's I'll take the example of India. The world's most prosperous entity nation wasn't a nation. It was a kingdom, empire, whatever. You took this place with a with the oldest civilization that the world knows of and you destroyed it. You did not come to India for the sake of you know uplifting the poor downrodden people of India because they were so backward because we were so poor. You did not come to do social service. Columbus why was he looking for India for gold right? He stumbled upon something else but that's that was the intention. And why did the East India Company come to the come to India? Why was it formed? It was a joint stock company wasn't it? A lot of very rich people put money together, created stock and they set up the East India Company to trade with India. Why? Why? To become richer, to extract something of value out of India. Eventually, because of the political situation in India at the time, no political unity and so on, the East India Company was able to take over India gradually piece by piece and they proceeded to destroy the country, deindustrialize the country. India was the world's first fully industrialized civilization. India accounted for a third of the entire world's GDP. And what and by the time the British left, what happened? India accounted for less than 2% of the world's GDP. What happened? The British systematically de-industrialized India. The British systematically starved India. The British systematically conducted genocide. They imposed their language, their education system, their religion. They tried to destroy everything that India had. And by the time the British left, India's life expectancy was 31 years. Imagine that. That's what the British did. So these Indians who had been enslaved by the British for two and a half centuries. They then acquired the slave mentality that the white man is is best and the white lands are best. And India was a place of abject poverty. So they thought okay let's let's migrate to the land of the white man maybe we will have better lives there. So you folks came and destroyed everything and then and and took all the wealth away enriched yourselves. So then your place become becomes a place of riches and better lifestyle. So then people obviously will try their best to to leave the country you destroyed. So that's why Indians come to the UK. Even today India is suffering from the after effects of British occupation two and a half centuries. We are still suffering from that. We are still trying to uh stand up on our two feet. We were on our knees for the longest time. We are now standing up slowly gradually. It it could be faster. Why is it not faster? Because of all the corruption and decay that you dumped into India. 1947 was a transfer of power from one set of crooks to another set of crooks. Your handpicked crooks. And that's why the system in India was so bad. That's why you had Fabian socialism in India for decades and so much more. I could go on my friend. India used to be good good. India was the greatest civilization of all. You folks destroyed it and that's why Indians come to the UK and Pakistanis and Bangladeshies. It's called karma and you are paying the price for that. I wish you all the best sir. I mean what I what I mean is I wish you karma. May you pay the price. Punch says operation zind 100 days day analysis please. It boosted Bat's morale and deterred Pakistan but they did they did give China a weapons test lab and signal India as a US adversary. Overall net positive thoughts. Okay. Last last question is did it signal India as a US adversary? No. India was taking steps for self-defense. Whatever India did was in self-defense, right? If Pakistan has a terror factory next door which is pushing in terrorists and killing Indians, we've got to do something about that. It's called self-defense. That doesn't make India a US adversary. But if if the US chooses to to to side with Pakistan, that's then the US is positioning itself as as an Indian adversary. India attacking terror camps in Pakistan doesn't make India a US adversary. But we have to remember that the US has the track record of funding and financing Pakistani terrorism since at least essentially Christmas Day 1979 rights bin Laden used to fight on the west. He was he was a western creation. Yeah. So it's the US that has chosen to support Pakistan and thereby make India an adversary thereby designate India as an as an adversary implicitly right so there you have that now 100 days analysis has it been yeah it's been three 3 months plus so yeah it did boost Bat's morale it did hammer Pakistan but it did not destroy Pakistan Pakistan still exists and now Trump is is is supporting Pakistan he's investing in Pakistan. He is going to do his best to make Pakistan a very prosperous nation. Apparently, that's what Aim is promising the people of Pakistan, the the Pakistani dictator, Aim Mun. So, Trump is going to invest in Pakistan's so-called oil and gas sector. Trump is investing in uh Pakistan's uh rare earths minerals sector. Trump is investing in Pakistan's cryptocurrency market. And since Trump is so invested in Pakistan, it's possible that the whatever deficiencies Pakistan's military may have, those may be covered up as soon as possible by the US possibly. Maybe they will sell weapons to Pakistan. Who knows? We'll see about that. Um, so that's the situation. So the US is positioning India as an adversary now or they are positioning themselves as an Indian adversary. We haven't done a thing. It's their choice. It's America's choice whatever they are doing. Um, did Operation Synindur give China a weapons test lab? Well, the Chinese weapons that were tested in Operation Synindur, which which they were, were export versions of Chinese weapons. Those weren't the actual weapons that Chinese military uses. So, there are two grades of weapons. Okay? If you are a weapons exporter, you will manufacture weapons for your own own armed forces, which will be the best possible. But you will also put those weapons on the on the on the international market for whoever wants to buy them. And if there is a buyer, you're going to export something called an export version which is a slightly less capable version. So that if that weapon systems if that weapons system falls into the hands of somebody who is enimical to you, they will not be able to reverse engineer the full technology and understand your actual technological progress. So you give export versions. So the P so the Chinese so the Pakistanis used Chinese radars, they used Chinese missiles um and and whatever else and those and and Chinese JF7 fighter planes. Well, clearly the Chinese weapons didn't do well. That's that's clear. So it obviously will will give China some kind of understanding of the abilities capabilities of the Indian military and it will also it will also give China uh some data about the performance or or non-performance of their export versions of the export versions of the weapon. So it's it's good for China of course. So China would have been watching this with great interest and the data that that they would have received will be quite valuable to China. So the ideal outcome for India was to end the Pakistan threat once and for all. That did not happen because uh the Americans came in the way. Um so overall 100 days analysis it was good. It boosted India's morale. It gave gave us a it field tested battle tested India's weapon systems. And now it's very clear that India has the world's best battle tested air defense system in the world better than the Israeli Iron Dome which performed differently against the Iranian ballistic and other missiles. Right? So we have that we have very very dangerous weapons in our our our arsenal. So our made in India initiative has been vindicated. Our weapons are terrific but uh that's where we are. Ideally we would have wanted to end the Pakistan threat once and for all but that not did not happen. So at the end of the day Pakistan in a few months we'll be able to repair everything maybe buy more weapons from whoever China, US wherever and then we are back to square one. So overall we did not honestly to be very honest we did not gain anything. We did not gain any territory. U the damage done to Pakistan can be repaired. Obviously the the the assets they lost will be costly. Whether it is the Saab 2000 Awax aircraft, at least couple of those. Whether it is the JF70s or the five fighter planes that were shot down, the runways that were damaged, the hangars, the air the airports, air bases that were damaged, those will be repaired in a few months. Pakistan will be back to where it was. They'll buy new radars. They'll get some more fighter planes. Maybe China will sell J20s or whatever to ch to Pakistan, which will make Pakistan give Pakistan an advantage over India. Uh overall nothing much came out of it. Good. We taught Pakistan a lesson. A bunch of Pakistani terrorists died. Now the Pakistani terrorists know that they can be hit anytime. So overall it it and and it it uh one of the outcomes was that India has now officially changed its military doctrine. Any terror attack emanating out of Pakistan will be treated as an act of war. So that's another positive. But overall we have not we we treated some symptoms but we have not treated the root cause of the of the problem which is the existence of Pakistan itself. So these are my thoughts. Okay. Bharata says is it fair to say that it was always a USRussia fight with Ukraine for well I've been saying that for the past three years haven't I? It's a proxy war. It's a US uh initiated fight. Ukraine is the proxy and the objective is to destroy Russia hopefully. I mean that's that's the maximum they can accomplish. They haven't been a able to accomplish this. And Barat says it's even more obvious after Trump put in meet as Zalinsky was nowhere in the picture. Zalinski is a puppet. Zalinski is unconstitutionally the president of Ukraine right now. uh according to the Ukraine constitution there was supposed to be an election last year sometime in May or whenever it was May June whatever April May June you can look up which which month it was supposed to be the of course there is an emergency that Zalinsky is imposed in Ukraine and when there is an emergency uh an election may not happen but technically he should have there should have been an election so he is the emergency president of Ukraine according to the constitution I'm not sure if it's perfectly constitutionally valid. And anyway, he is a puppet. He is Ukraine underwent a regime change operation in 2014. That's where all the trouble started. So, Zalinsky is a continuation of that artificial regime that was put in in place in Ukraine by the West. Uh so, yeah, it's it's a proxy war. The objective is to destroy Russia or at least degrade Russia's military and economic capabilities. Hasn't worked out. The the opposite has happened. So Ukraine is the proxy. The Ukrainian armed forces are the current foder and the west is going to fight this war as long as the last Ukrainian is willing to fight or is is capable of fighting. So clearly it's it's a fight between the US and Russia instigated by the US not by Russia. The Russians had to do this otherwise all the red lines were being crossed. So they had to do this. Actually uh whatever the Russians did they should have actually done it in 2014 not 2022. 2022 was a little late to do that because it gave the West a lot of time, ample time to arm Ukraine and to bolster Ukraine's military capabilities. Anyhow, okay, what next do we have? We have Siddhant WMA says, "Turkey is hostile towards Kuresh refugees, but they are settling millions of sarcasian chants inside their towns. Isn't it strange?" Well, is it strange really? Is it? Well, let me explain how I see this. Okay. Turkey map. Map. Let's look at the map. Yes. Let me explain what the deal is with Turkey. Okay. So, this is what Turkey is. Turkey. This large nation, reasonably large. uh much of it is in Asia, Anatolia and a little bit of it is in uh what used to be called Thrace which is the European part of Turkey. Now what's the history of Turkey? The history of this geographical region is that it used to be Greek. The whole of Anatolia was Greek. There was zero Turkish people there a thousand years ago. Let's say then the Turks. So, so when do the Turks start intruding into this geographical region? It's in the 1200s mostly. Before that, there were no Turks there. The Turks, they lived in Central Asia. They were a central Asian bunch of tribes, the Turk tribes. Then something happened in the 1200s that shook up the whole of Central Asia. That was the rise of Shri Chingghistan. So the Turks Turks were fleeing from Changistan's forces. So by while fleeing from Changistan they entered Anatolia they came down south between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea and that's how they discovered Anatolia and that's how they occupied conquered and occupied Anatolia. Eventually 1453 Constantinople falls Byzantine Empire is dead and the Ottoman Empire starts rises. There was a deal. So this is captured territory. It has never been Turk territory. So that's why the Turks are super hostile towards against the natives of the territory, the real natives. So one of the native ethnicities, especially in eastern Turkey, is the Kuresh people. Who are the Kuresh people? They are an Indo-Iranian people. They speak an Iranic language. Do we know of any any famous Kur history? Well, Salahadin Saladin the magnificent or whatever he is. Saladin, right? The the defender of uh of uh he defended the Arab world, the Islamic world against the crusaders, right? So, he was a Kurd. So, the Kurds their homeland is split between Iraq, Iran and Turkey. A significant number of Turkey is actually Kurdistan. But the Turks have taken it over and they have been oppressing the Kurds uh for centuries. So the Kurds are actually natives of eastern Turkey but they are essentially foreigners and second-ass citizens in their own land. So that's why Turkey is super hostile against the Kurds and the Kurds have had a freedom movement which the Turkish have designated as as a terrorist movement. So that's why the Turks have been super hostile against the Kurds, but they are happy to bring in other foreigners like Chachens and Sarcasians as long as it's not the native people of the actual native people, the actual indigenous people of the land. So kind of explains things in short in brief that's what I can tell you. Um Rohan Allen says would a fully marketed bricks currency trigger World War II? It will trigger a massive retaliation, massive response from the US because it will be a genuine challenge to the US dollar's supremacy and hedgemony. Right? The BRICS nations put together, they are a larger economic block than the G7 nations. Now the G7 are all US vasals. US and its vasals. So BRICS is is now a major economic block. And if the BRICS nations can actually somehow come together and actually decide to to form a bricks currency, that would be a major major challenge to the supremacy of the US dollar and that could completely shake up the American economy without the US dollar the US economy is in shambles. It it it collapses. So fully a bricks currency that that that if it is actually formed created and all the BRICS nations decide to to exclusively use that well well that will create that will trigger an economic third world war for sure and maybe something else. So yeah that will that will be a it'll be a calamity for the US and the US will take very very strong and harsh measures um if this happens. Hersh Nayan says, "Why doesn't India mine its thorium reserves as as it can be used as an alternative to the uranium 233 in nuclear energy program?" Well, you see, India has a three-stage nuclear program and um before we can start using thodium, we need certain things to be there in place, a certain amount of uranium and so on. Without that, you can't really um uh operationalize the thorium reactors. So that's why we are still stuck at the end of the first stage and the second and the beginning of the second stage. U we have the world's largest thorium reserves. No question about it. U what about about a fourth of the entire world's thorium reserves mostly on the east coast of India the monazite sands and so on. So we have that all we need to do is to accelerate our nuclear reactor program and the thorium research program. Um, Prime Minister Modi said a couple of days ago that we are now going to, you know, go on mission mode and build more reactors and have a certain number of reactors by 2047. Um, I think the earlier India does that, the better it is because the moment we can start operationalizing thodium, the thorium reserves and start using those in reactors, well, we will have an essentially an unlimited uh amount of energy, unlimited source of energy. So we need to go through the second stage of the of the u of the nuclear program before we reach the third stage which is thorium based reactors. So we are not there yet unfortunately. So right now mining the thorium mining will be pretty easy I'm sure but right now it will be of no use until we reach the third stage of the nuclear program. Premier League says makavelian why doesn't Russia or China why doesn't Russia or China give Iran nuclear weapons if the US can keep weapons of mass destructions in NATO countries also Iran is a key ally for Russia and China while the US keeps nuclear weapons in Pakistan Pakistan I am certain doesn't have an indigenous nuclear weapons program most likely those Those nuclear weapons, those nuclear warheads are are American warheads. That's I have no evidence to back up this claim. But I am convinced that these are American nuclear warheads. And the American reaction to certain events in operation Synindur made it very very clear that the US has very precious assets in Pakistan. Not just those F-16s and and and the technicians who babysit the F-16s, but something else. Something else. something far more valuable than a bunch of 1980s F-16s. Uh so now coming back to your question, well Iran is a is a definitely a major ally of both Russia and China and China has this 25 year strategic agreement with the uh in which China will invest about I don't know $500 billion. I don't know what what the actual number was, but it's a massive investment in Iran and Iran will in in in return sell very cheap energy to to China. So, it's a great deal that Chinese have with Iran. Now, if Iran falls, let's say if Iran if there's a regime change in in Iran, that's a significant setback to Russia as well as China. So, neither nation Russia or China wants there to be a regime change in Thran. They want the current government, the current regime to continue, right? And Israel wants a regime change in Iran. The US wants a regime change in Thran. Both both both of them they want it. So what is the one thing that can prevent regime change? What what's the one thing that can guarantee that a regime change operation won't happen? It's nuclear weapons. Look at North Korea, how secure they are, right? Very poor nation, but they are super secure because they have nuclear weapons. the US won't dare bother them, won't dare cross any red lines with with North Korea. So the question then is so why doesn't Russia or China give Iran nuclear weapons? Well, one thing, Iran has its own nuclear program. It may not be a nuclear weapons program, but they are they have been trying to enrich uranium for the past, I don't know how many years, at least 15 years. Yeah. Um, and they probably may have enough enriched uranium today for a handful of nuclear warheads. They probably may have it. Uh, but are they afraid to to declare themselves a nuclear power? Are they afraid to do a couple of tests? I'm not sure what it is. I am pretty sure that by now they would have at least enough uh 90% plus enriched uranium for a few nuclear weapons. That's number one. Secondly, Israel is a nuclear power and it would not tolerate Iran becoming a nuclear weapons power. And if Russia, let's say Russia gives let's say 20 nuclear weapons to to Iran. I think that will be seen as a major provocation by by Israel as well as the US and it may create complications for Russia possibly. The same goes for China. China is trying its best to not attract more US tariffs. It still wants to participate in the in the world economic order in a variety of ways especially when it comes to trading with the EU nations and other things like that. And if China let's say supplies nuclear weapons to Iran then it would make China a pariah and all China's trade with the EU also will end and and it will face major consequences. So I think there are there are multiple hidden factors like these hidden second and third order and fourth order effects that these nations don't want to bear. Uh so that's most likely why these nations are not supplying Iran with nuclear weapons. Mr. Putin actually had offered to take all of Iran's missile material and store it in Russia in in case the west has a problem with Iran having uh enriched highly enriched uranium. So actually Mr. Putin was offering to do the reverse not to give nuclear weapons but to take away the file material. So clearly there are these calculations at play over here. Okay. Sai says how do gas routes shape Europe? I'm sorry, what? How do gas routes shape Europe? I'm not sure what the question means. U see Europe, it needs energy, right? And u it used to import Russian gas. So those gas pipelines were either overland, some of them were overland and some of them were undersea like the Nord Stream 2 pipeline which was destroyed by the US. Well, allegedly, allegedly. So, these are the gas routes that Europe had and they were supplying energy to Europe. Beyond that, I don't know how gas routes can shape a continent. I mean, an alleged continent. Europe is not really a continent. It's part of Eurasia, a minor part of Eurasia, but whatever. Gas routes don't shape a continent. The geography of a of a continent shapes the continent. Unless it's something else you are meaning. godliness says space war, AI, quantum computing and biotech will shape the new realities of geopolitics and human thought for the foreseeable future. Hence, which three countries you feel will lead the way forward and why? Okay, like I've said so many times in the past 3 4 years, um the two or three nations that will lead the world in space exploration in the 21st century will be the two or three nations that will decide and shape the destiny of the rest of humanity. So space a nation's space capabilities are a great indicator of its overall technological progress. Of course, artificial intelligence, quantum computing, biotech, these are all emerging technologies which are also like at the cutting edge of the technological realm and all of these technologies have side effects have have a military dimension which is why they are so important geopolitically. How? If you are a great space power, well, you can deploy weapons in space. Weapons that can't be intercepted. That's one very easy example. Artificial intelligence. Well, if you if you are at the forefront of AI, then it it it gives you the kind of intelligence your adversary can't have, right? Instead of searching for talent, you just use AI to do all the all the analysis and make predictions, make forecasts and and uh determine what's the best strategy for so and so military campaign in a way that no human being human being can. And if you can equip your weapons with AI, well, it makes them also smart. So if your adversary doesn't have the AI capabilities that you have then you have a clear advantage and you will win quantum computing once again encryption and so much more biotechnology well well you can decimate entire populations without firing a single bullet if you have bio technology. So all of these technologies are are obviously going to shape the new realities like you say goodliness of geopolitics and so on. Which three countries will will lead the way forward? The US and China are obvious answers. Now who else is there? Europe. You Europe is a bunch of vasal nations. They don't really matter. Will it be Japan? Japan is a vasal, unfortunately. Is it South Korea? South Korea is a vasal unfortunately. Australia. Australia is owned by the US. Who do we have? The two alternatives are India and and Russia. So, it's the US and China and maybe India or Russia or maybe both. We'll see. It all depends on so many factors. What does India How does India approach this? Does India take this seriously? I think the government of India is taking the these technologies very seriously. But will they be able to get get the results? That's the question. For that you need reforms in so many so many sectors. Shall I say it education and you need you know um reforms in in the sense that you know uh you need to cut down the red tape you need to cut down all the procedural nonsense the BS uh end corruption so many things you have to do. So will India be able to get it done? In Russia, I think it's lagging when it comes to AI. I don't see any AI coming out of Russia. They are obviously technologically very advanced in some technologies like probably bio biotechnology. So I think it's the US, China and one or both of Russia and and and India. Ajit J says Mr. Modi finally spoke about demographic change in the east. Well, I'm so glad. I'm so glad he did. Finally. He he so now it's what he announced on the 15th of August from the red fort is that India is going to undertake a major demographic mission or initiative and he said that the the Guspetier the infiltrators are a major threat to the country. Well it's so so good to hear this. Now we need to get rid of the infiltrators. we may have uh who knows maybe a 100 million infiltrators who are squatting in our territory and he spoke about the east so mainly it's Bangladesh but it's also the infiltration that's coming in from Myanmar right the cookie terrorists who are squatting in Manipur they also need to be thrown out right so yeah we have two major challenges one is the illegal immigration that's coming in infiltration that's coming from Bangladesh the second is the illegal infiltration that's a consequence of project K cookie land for Christ These two problems need to be addressed and Mr. Modi did not name any nation but it's pretty clear he was he was talking about both. So I'm hopeful that the government of India will take this very seriously as soon as possible and start taking action right away hopefully. So very pleased to hear what Mr. Modi had to say. I'm very pleased to hear that. Okay. Okay. Naman Singh says based on the rumors, do you think it's possible for the US deep state to change regime in India like Bangladesh and Pakistan also? You will avoid this but every day there's a drama in India. How will we grow? You will avoid this but every day there's a drama in India. How will we grow? It disturbs everyone. Are you talking about are you talking about political dramas or something else? I'm not sure. But yeah, I'm not I'm not sure. The look overall there's drama in India. There's drama in India all the time. Indians keep arguing with with each other. Indians keep fighting each other. There's always some some political issue somewhere. Sometimes it is pigeon, sometimes it is dogs, sometimes it is something, right? Always focus on the insignificant things and and so that you know people. So there's all kinds of political issues in India. I I will not comment on those. How will we grow? We can only grow if we if we are united and the entire system is designed to divide us to keep us divided. That's the problem that we are saddled with. the system that we have inherited from 1947. It's the worst possible system but it's the system that has given us the leadership that we have today. So that's the con conundrum. Now based on the rumors I don't know about the rumors but uh do you think it's possible for the US deep state to change regime in India like Bangladesh and Pakistan? Well they will try they will try they they are trying various experiments. They're already allying with certain they are already allegedly allying with some political parties in India. They are already clearly engaging in what they call subnational diplomacy which means that you you you try to create divisions in India by aligning with various local regional political parties and giving them special treatment and stops and benefits and whatnot privileges and then using that to create situations that are beneficial for US objectives in India. uh they are we know that uh we know how much well you may not know it but a tremendous amount of money has been flowing into India for Christian conversion activities industrial scale demographic conversion activities in India coming from the US you know possibly billions maybe even trillions of dollars over over many years to change the religion in India convert people to Christianity right it's it's a it's an industrial scale program u so that obviously see the thing about Christianity like the Japanese have written about it and the Chinese have written about it is that when people convert to this foreign religions they somehow spontaneously develop extra territorial loyalties not extraterrestrial ambitions extr territorial loyalties which means they start becoming loyal to foreign powers not your own country and so that's why conversion to this foreign religion is a very well it it it it helps you destroy a nation Um so they have the the American deep state let's say is putting all the pieces in in place in India to eventually someday effect a regime change operation. No question about it. The best thing for them is is that you know Mr. Modi is not in power and somebody who is about onetenth as capable as Mr. Modi should be in power. somebody who's an absolute idiot hypothetically hypothetical person right I mean if you want to vasalize the nation you want an idiot to rule the nation someone in Indian version let's say of Zalinski who will sell his country to foreign powers that's what they want um so right now it is difficult see in 2024 elections they they tried they tried to influence the course of the elections using propag propaganda media and all that and it is alleged it is alleged that various India Indian media houses are also allegedly aligned with the deep with with the US so 24 they tried maybe they will try in 29 maybe they'll try before that so yeah it's it's a great outcome for the US if they can uh effect a regime change in India just like what they did in in Pakistan east and west Pakistan I mean ideal outcome for them then India will be embraced wholeheartedly and completely vasalized and it'll be another East India Company kind of situation. So there you have it. Godliness says the swift the swift expansion of the Chinese Navy is scary. Their one destroyer carries more than 100 missiles. Uh 132 missile. No, one second. How much? 128 missiles. Yeah. Um so one Chinese destroyer carries more than 100 missiles equal to four Indian destroyers. The real threat will always be China and we need west at least for now. For what? What will the West do? If there's a war between India and China, do you think the West will intervene? They'll be happy to see both countries bash each other's brains out. What will the West do? You think the West is friendly to India? The West wants India to fail. The West wants India to be balconized. The West wants India's economy to crumble and crash and burn. And they want the same for China. If there is a conflict between India and China, the West will eat popcorn and and throw fuel in the fire. What are you talking about, sir? It's not Be a little more realistic, sir. That's what I would say. Uh I agree that the swift expansion of the Chinese Navy is scary. I completely agree. That's something we have been witnessing since the 1990s. So, what have we done about it? It's not something that happened now, right? They have been slowly, steadily, gradually, slowly building their capacities, their capabilities. It's been a very long, arduous, slow process. They did not build up this naval might overnight. In the 1990s, the Americans used to laugh about the Chinese Navy. Today, they don't now laugh at all. They're scared. Right. And yes, you are right. One Chinese destroyer typically has VLS tubes. What? 128 I think. 128 VLS tubes. The big ones. The big destroyers. 128 VS tubes. How many missiles do Indian destroyers carry? 16. 16. Is it or is it is it 32? I think the most is 32. I don't think there's any 64 VLS destroyer in India. So, what are we doing about it? That's my question. The Chinese Navy has been expanding since the 1990s. What have we been doing about it? How many more destroyers did we acquire in the past 10 years? How many submarines did we acquire in the past 10 years? If we do do nothing about it, we can't blame the Chinese for it. The real strength, the only measure of the strength of a navy is the number of missiles they can deploy at sea on a on any given day. Not the number of destroyers you have. Oh, we may we have these many destroyers. How many missiles can we deploy? So, these are hard facts for the Indian government and the Indian Navy. They need to do something about this. The Chinese Navy may be stuck in the east because of the Taiwan issue, the South China Sea issue and the threat that they pursue from Japan and South Korea and the US. But if they decide the Chinese to deploy 1/4 of of their navy to the Bay of Bengal, we'll be in so much trouble. We you you cannot imagine it. So India needs to do something about this. And and if there is an issue, the West will not come to India's rescue. Please disabuse yourself of this of this notion. The west will eat popcorn and enjoy enjoy and they will throw fuel on the fire. Okay. Deepakata says Bill Gates big farmer global war on public health like COVID inflated fear like swine flu in the past and road shield global control financial. What's your question sir? What is your question? Look we know the US pharma industry is a parasitical industry. They don't want to cure anyone. They want lifelong patients. They want lifelong customers. The entire model is is such that you they want to hook everybody on pills. You go to the US and see what these people have in their you know in their bathroom the mir the cabinet behind the mirror. Bunch of bottle after bottle of pills. Every American takes like 10 20 pills every day. Even healthy healthy looking people they take pills for what God only knows. You have this symptom take that pill. It created side effects take that pill. more side effects, take this one. They have hooked everybody on on these drugs and uh the US food industry and pharmaceutical industry complement each other. So there is this war on tobacco which is so evil, right? Tobacco is very we know that tobacco isn't good. So they have banned tobacco. I mean tobacco is is is now considered to be a well not a very very uh respectable thing to do, right? But if you eat their food, it's probably worse than than consuming tobacco. The food itself over there is so bad. So the entire US economy is based on exploiting people, their own people. The highest obesity rates in the world in the 1970s, nobody was obese obese. What happened? What happened after 1971? So they want to control the rest of the world in this manner. And that's why the Indian government is unwilling to accept US agricultural exports which is one of the major bones of contention because that will that way they will enslave India and we don't want that. Shubhham Kumbakar says Kumbhakar says let's assume the world war ended without nukes. Excuse me what let's okay let's let's read let's read let's assume the world war II happens and it ends without a nuclear exchange. Can that lead to a one world government? All the wars in human history, human greed for power, all of this is leading to one world government. Do you think it's happening? Look, interesting question by the way. See, human greed is endless. Human greed is endless. When when a person tastes power, you know, we don't know the full extent of our own human nature. We think we're all good people. But the moment you taste a bit of power, what is power? people obeying you without question. Unquestioning obedience. Get this done. It'll be done. Wow. That's intoxicating. And you want to expand that. You want more and more people to obey you unquestioningly. Right? Let's say you are an emperor. You are the head of an empire. You control let's say onethird of the world. Imagine how intoxicating that is. But then once you are are hooked to that, once you're addicted to that, you want more and more and more. it will never end. So eventually the objective of the great powers is to control the entire world and all the resources and uh have all the people obeying them. That's what it is. So yeah, the objective of the west is a one world government. They want to control the entire world. They want the entire world to come come under the control. That's essentially what one world government is. One world, one government. Um now the question is let's assume world war 3I ends without nukes. Okay, let's say there is a world war 3 in which all the major powers are all involved and at the end of the day when it's over one power comes out of that standing everybody else is gone and nukes were not used which means the world still exists it's not been destroyed will it lead to a world one world one government most likely most likely do I see it happening very unlikely world war II will mean a nuclear exchange nobody will yeah that's the unfortunate thing about World War II it will inevitably lead to a nuclear exchange, a massive nuclear exchange. So there will be no world, no government. That's what will be the outcome. Dave says, "Sar your views on high powered demography task force." Exactly. That was what I was talking about the high powered demography task force announced by Mr. Modi on the 15th of August and he urged Indians to make our own jet engine social media etc. Well, this is something I have been speaking about for the for the past four years since since the day the Ask show started, right? I have been speaking about that. I've been saying this is what we need in the country. So, Mr. Modi has said this on the 5th of August from the ramparts of the Red Fort. I'm so happy to hear that. Uh so, a high-powered demography task force to to to get rid of all the foreign infiltrators squatting in our land. Well, thank you so much, Modi G. Please get it done. Even if it takes a decade to get it done because removing a 100 million possibly infiltrators is not something you can do in a few weeks, maybe a decade, maybe two decades, I don't care. As long as the process starts and it's it's done properly, let's say in two decades all the infiltrators are gone. It'll be a huge relief for the country. So it's very good to hear the announcement of this initiative. Now we would like to see how it's executed. I hope it's executed well and I hope that other institutions don't come and stand in the way. uh he urged Indians to make our own jet engine social media. Well, once again very good uh very good thing to say and look Indians when it comes to jet engines the government has to be involved in that because it's a tremendous amount of money that needs to be invested in making a jet engine. So what Indians can do let's say you're an entrepreneur you want to make a jet engine you'll be able to make a 20 kon new jet engine which could be used for a drone perhaps but to have a 100 kon newton jet engine you will have to invest hundreds of millions maybe hundreds of tens of billions of dollars that is something only the government can do so maybe it indicates that Mr. Modi is very very uh he is determined that India will produce an indigenous jet engine. Well that that's that's brilliant. What else can we can we ask for social media? Well, I think entrepreneurs can come up with that you know. So overall it was a very very good speech very positive speech. So many good things to hear and one would like to see the execution of that. So overall it was great. Okay. Backbenture Academy lover says, "Is Italy better for tourism or Norway?" How is this a geopolitical question? I think it depends on you. Whatever you like. Okay, but let's let's stick to geopolitics please. Adipuru says in Punjab 10th May noon so movement of tanks and armored vehicles via via N national highway to borders towards boris towards borders. Was there a plan of government of ground invasion and Uncle Sam stopped us stopped us? It's possible because the the logical end point of a war is the achievement of your political objectives and national security objectives. That's the end point. That's the logical end point of a war. You don't start a war just to stop it without achieving the objectives. So if Uncle Sam had not stopped us, maybe we would have taken back P. It's possible. or maybe even bifurcated Pakistan. So yeah, Uncle Sam stopped us, Trump stopped us, otherwise today would be a different situation. So it tells you who India's real adversaries are. I hope that people make a note of that. MK says, "Is the US the dangerous empire given that it's okay with its own population taking GMOs, pharmaceuticals, narcotic drugs, demographic engineers to wipe its own religion in Europe through illegal im immigration?" Well, I just kind of spoke about this, but okay. Um, yeah, it's okay with its own population taking GMOs. It's ruining the health of its population. Its population is a set of bunch of 300 million guinea pigs essentially who are captive who are captive to the food industry and the pharmaceutical industry both of which are poisoning the people of the US. Every American knows this by now that it's the food that's poisoning them. It's the pharmaceuticals that's poisoning them. And narcotics narcotics in the US everybody takes drugs at some point in their life. I'm not talking about drugs as in medicines. I'm talking about narcotics, cocaine, heroinum, cocaine, heroin, what crystal meth like Breaking Bad and whatnot. Everybody does drugs at some point in their life. How are drugs so readily available? The US says that it's got the best uh homeland security and best uh um police system in the world police force. Why are drugs so readily available at every street corner that 15-year-old kids can get drug can can overdose on drugs? It's the world's most corrupt country, right? Uh demographic engineering to wipe Christianity out of Europe. Well, yeah, that's also happening. Yes. So, yeah, when when you are all powerful, you can do anything. And then it then one has to see whether the power is used for good or evil and the power is not being used for very very good purposes right now unfortunately and that pattern has continued for a very long time. So you are right sir. You are right. All empires are dangerous. No question. All empires are dangerous. If you if you fall a foul of an empire, you may have to pay very big price. Aran Singh says, "What's your view on the MK1A? Are they great great jets that the IF can use? Is it really capable against the quality quantity of China?" Thank you. Okay. I don't know. I am not a defense expert. So I have I I don't know how the the mark So right now you're mark 1 A right but here's what I here's how I see the the program. It is one step in a long process. Now we know how to manufacture our own fighter jets. The only missing component is a jet engine. So if you know how to manufacture a I think it's a good I don't know if it's a great fighter plane. I think it's a good fighter plane from everything I've seen. I'm not an illiterate when it comes to defense. uh since I was like 3 years old I've been as a kid I was obsessed with aircraft I used to make my own you know model aircrafts and all that so and u I have studied the history of war so I have some understanding of aircraft but I am I don't classify myself as a defense expert but I think that the is a good fighter plane I'm not sure if it's great maybe it is maybe it is but it's definitely a good fighter plane now we going produce more versions, different versions of the theas and the learnings we have incorporated from our experience in developing the theasis fighter plane after all the trials and tests and trials all those learnings are going to be incorporated into future fighter planes like the AMCA like the potential TB TE twin engine deckbased fighter and other fighter planes in the future. So it's a great learning experience. It's a it's a good fighter plane and that guarantees that the next iterations of the fighter planes we produce will be like excellent increasingly better quality. So that's how I see the the I think it's a good fighter plane. I think it'll be it's it's definitely most likely better than the Mig 21. The Mig21 took down an F-16. So that's a good comparison there. Right. So I think pages program is super valuable for India in so many different ways. AVM says uh it appears as if opposition in India is acting on on queue on foreign agenda coherent with regime change operations. How what can government do to contain this? Look I don't comment about domestic political matters but you have also a component of regime change operations that come from abroad. So I will not comment about any political party or internal politics. What can the government of India do to contain for an agenda that u about which is coherent with regime change operations? Yeah. So how does the government of India deal with that? Let's say you have the the embassy and consulates of a very powerful very major nations nation that are trying to further a regime change agend regime change operation agenda in India by let's say aligning hypothetically with allegedly hypothetically with various Indian regional parties or or other opposition parties potentially hypothetically completely completely allegedly what do you do about that well it depends right if that power is so powerful then what do you do with that? So I think this is a matter of dealing with with this issue at an internal political level and that involves dealing with local politicians. Maybe you have a local politician Mr. X or Mrs. X or whatever Miss X who is on the payroll allegedly hypothetically of a foreign power. How do you deal with them? Well, that's all internal politics. I'm sure there are ways and means of doing that. I mean let's say you take a 100 Indian Indian politicians I think it is pretty likely that more than 50 of them could potentially be corrupt people right potentially potentially hypothetically so if somebody is corrupt I think you have a tremendous amount of leverage on them if they have intelligent corruption so my point is this is all politics it's all dirty politics and it can be dealt Anonymous scientist says, "I joined a little late. What leverage does Russia have over the US?" A larger nuclear arsenal, the largest territory in the world. Um, that's two very obvious examples. Um, it has the upper hand in the Ukraine conflict. That is leverage. It has been able to withstand all all the US sanctions and still grow its economy. Russia's economy is growing. Russia's economy is doing well. Its GDP is growing faster than the other euro European economies. The millions of sanctions the US has imposed on Russia have failed to destroy the Russian economy. It's been super resilient. Russia's industrial base is doing well. All of these things are all of these factors are leverage against the US. When do you use leverage in negotiations? Right. So when Trump and Putin meet, Putin will say, "Look, look, Donald, I I currently occupy 1/4 of Ukraine territory. Tomorrow I take more. So why should you fight? Do you want me to go and take more? Let's just end the fighting and give me half of Ukraine." That's leverage. What leverage does Trump have? He's already imposed all the sanctions. What more will it do? What leverage does he have? So this these are examples of leverage that nations have and Russia has plenty of leverage over the US right now. Russia is in a position of strength. Now uh what leverage does the US have? Well, they own NATO, they own the EU, so that gives them leverage and so on. Rywick says how was she Hassina actually removed? Was it was it because of students or some other power? How was Hina beneficial for India? Can she or her kids come to power? Look, Shik Kasina was was was good for India because she ended Bangladesh's role as East Pakistan. For the longest time when when her predecessor Khaled Zia was in power, Bangladesh was used by the ISI to train uh terrorists who would then be infiltrated into India's far east into Assam into various other parts of India and they will wreak havoc. You had various separatist movements in India's far east that were all nurtured in Bangladesh. Those militants were given training. They were given supplies. All of that in Bangladesh. So many of these things activities were happening and overall Shik Hasina Khaled Khaled Zia's regime was extremely virulently aligned against against India with Pakistan with everybody else with whoever was anti-India. Now Shik Kasina comes to power and she changes the track entirely and she ended all these she destroyed she she had all these terrorist and and separatist training camps dismantled and all those people handed over brought to justice either incarcerated in Bangladesh or whoever was India was India wanted was given to India all of that ended and whatever issues we had with Bangladesh all of those were mostly resolved all those enclaves and exclaves that we had those were that issue was resolved. So many of these issues were resolved because of Shikhasina's willingness to um to have a positive attitude and and a good approach towards India and obviously that's not good if you are anti-India if you want to contain India that's why Shakasina was removed how was she removed it was not the godamn students who removed Shakasina where today if the students brought brought about a revolution then they would be ruling the country today it's some 89year-old gizer who's running the country Muhammad Right. And he himself is not ruling the country. He's just the puppet face. Who's ruling the country? It's the army. Why did Sri Kasina leave Bangladesh? Because the army gave her half an hour to leave. You leave in half an hour. Otherwise, we can't guarantee your security, which is a death threat. That's why she left. Where does the real power lie? Political power flows out of the barrel of a gun. It was the army that removed Shika Sina. Now noman Singh says uh is to be TBC to be clear is is regime change possible it's possible everything is possible that's why India has to be super careful sait says why is Voke culture mostly American not European well the origins are in Europe the origins are in Europe uh let you can trace back the origins back in time as as far back you want, as far back as you want. You could trace it to the to the 1790s. Possibly you could trace it to 300 AD roughly. You could trace it back to various eras. But let's let's talk about the 20th century. Okay? So there was this uh post-modernist movement in Europe. uh Jacqu Deida Fuko and various such so-called philosophers who wrote a lot of garbage that you can't understand but it sounds very intellectual and uh their their position was that you know was that it was a neo-xist position essentially basically to to keep it very simple it was a neo-xist position and they brought in Marxism by the via the back door and all of that was then propagated to the US where um the US education system took that up. Postmodernism, various various disguised forms of Marxism and all of that eventually transmorphed or transmogrified into what we now call Voke culture. So its origins are European but it's now mostly American and now America is exporting it to other parts of the world including back into Europe. Ra Ragul says, "Why does Israel and the US fear Iran so much? Is Iran that powerful? How is Iran so advanced in missile technology and able to develop strong defense systems despite it's a deprived condition? Look, Persia has always been a major power. Very ancient civilization, right? I don't know how many maybe 5,000 years old, at least 3,000 years old. And they have always been very powerful. And historically Persia always fought the west, never India. Never went eastwards. Always fought the west. And that's history. That's old history. Um today Iran, well they are resourcerich, tremendous tremendous oil and gas supplies. Yes. And uh good population, large population. And if a nation acquire if a nation like that with that large land mass with with tremendous oil and gas supplies acquires nuclear weapons, it transforms into a beast. It can transform into a beast. It can wipe Pakistan off the of the map of the world if it wants to. It can also wipe Iran the map of the world. Israel off the map of the world. And that's why um Israel doesn't like Iran, fears Iran. And also because the Iranian regime since 1979 has been very strongly anti-Israel and anti- West and they have well they have said that Israel has no right to exist. That's what the Iranian government's position has been since 1979. So obviously Israel will take it seriously and now if a nation that says you don't have the right to exist starts the process of developing nuclear weapons, you will take it hyper seriously and that's the situation. Okay. And obviously um Iran and the US since 79 have had a very fraught relationship. How did the 79 Islamic revolution happen? By out by overthrowing a US puppet Muhammad Rai. So the US had a great situation in Persia in Iran and the 1979 revolution destroyed that. So the US lost control of Iran and that's why they would like to regain control of Iran and that's why uh they want to do a regime change operation if possible there. Hopefully that explains the situation. James says, "Old European architecture much better than Indian." Well, you see James, back when you were constructing those men called the Stonehenge, we had a fully fully metropolitan urbanized civilization with architecture that you cannot contemplate. Anyhow, you may I I grant you permission to keep on believing what you wish to continue. James Curio literally officer K says, "Why do so many American politicians donate to EIPC? Shouldn't it be classified as a foreign entity? I would never imagine doing this to another for another nation." Okay, listen. I am completely ignorant about these matters. Okay, let me let me proclaim my complete innocence on these matters. Let's let's find out what is AIPAC. What is it? Uh let's go to Google American product, right? AIPAC. What? What is that? Yes. AIPAC. American Israel Public Affairs Committee. Oh, I didn't know. It's a pro-Israel lobbying group in the United States. Oh. AIPAC works to influence US foreign policy particularly regarding the relationship between the US and Israel. They advocate for policies that support Israel and work to strengthen the USIsrael alliance. Detail look AIPAC lobbying. It's a major player in the Israel lobby in the US. The Israel lobby where have I heard this? John Mirshimer somewhere. Okay. And it includes various groups and individuals who advocate for policies favorable to Israel. Well, well, well. It's considered to be one of the most influential lobbying groups in the US with a significant impact on US and Israel relations and Bob and broader US foreign policy. It's not a political action committee, but it does engage in political activity, including fundraising for Okay. It's faced criticism for its influence in the role in shaping US policy towards Israel. It p some people argue that it prioritizes Israeli interests over US foreign policy goals. It stated stated focus is strengthening the US Israel relationship but it's also been criticized for supporting policies that consider some consider harmful to Palestinian press and so on. Oh wow. Okay. So that is the AIPC American Israel public affairs committee and it looks like from what literally officer K is saying it looks like many American politicians so many of them donate to the AIPAC. That's interesting. Why do they do that? Maybe the US. So the US is a Christian nation. Look, how do I see this? The US is a Christian nation despite officially they may not have a religion but they are a Christian nation and Christianity has emerged from Judaism. So maybe maybe these US politicians who may have these very conservative vote banks etc. They and they may believe in Lord Jesus Christ and all maybe they they may feel that you know because it all came from Judaism we should support the Holy Land and support an organization that works for better relations between the US and the Holy Land. Maybe that's the reason why US politicians donate to the AIPC. I can't think of any other reason. Yeah. Should it be classified as a foreign entity? Well, if it's incorporated in the US or whatever, if it's uh based in the US, maybe it's not a foreign entity. Even if it lobbies for um the cause of better relations with a foreign country. Yeah. Uh would India do this for another nation? No. No. But India is an is a civilization. The US is an artificial nation by the way. True true fact. India is a civilization thousands of years old. We won't do that for anybody else. We have some selfrespect. The US is an artificial nation. artificially constructed nation constructed by a bunch of settler colon colonizers right who came from elsewhere so they they may have allegiances to other nations that that's you see that's the difference between the US and India very different kinds of nations we India are a civilization state the US is a settler colonial state very different situation and that's why maybe it's possible over there for for this sort of situation to arise that's what I can say sir Okay. Okay. Sarat Biswar says why what is our government or organizations in our country doing to absorb the Indian talent that measures what measures need to be taken compared to the west or China? First of all, make it super easy to do business in India. Cut down all the red tape. Secondly, end all the corruption. Launch a war on corruption, alleged corruption. Third, recognize merit in India. This reservations nonsense has to end at some point in time. Fourthly, reform the education system. Make it completely merit-based and make it an education system that nurtures, seeks out, identifies and nurtures talent instead of doing the opposite. You do all of this, India will be transformed, unleashed, unshackled, right? Uh but it's easier said than done. The whole system allegedly allegedly runs on corruption and red tape and all that. So how do you do that? Yeah. Solo Leveling says, "Can India remove all illegal immigrants completely?" Well, it's impossible to ever remove all illegal immigrants. But how about we remove 95% of them at least? That can be done once we are done with 95%. Then instead of let's say hypothetically 100 million, we'll only have 5 million. Then start the next phase of of of deporting 95% of those. You take it step by step. It's impossible to ever remove everything or all all the cancer but remove remove as much as you can. So I I am pretty confident it can happen over the next 20 years. Djamat says a new narrative about Modi BJP having rigged elections is being perpetuated. Is there a regime change being attempted by the US? What are the chances of it succeeding like in Pakistan or Bangladesh? Look, I don't I have not heard of this narrative. Maybe there are whispers and or maybe shouts of that somewhere within internal Indian politics. I don't comment about that. Could it have a US hand very much? Potentially hypothetically it's possible it's possible. So you know the objective if such a thing is true if if let's say a foreign country wants to create this this new narrative that Mr. Modi uh or the BJP allegedly according to these foreigners rigged elections if if so by just repeating a lie over and over again and having that lie amplified by opposition allegedly politicians hypothetically and just keep on doing it over and over again. You can convince a lot of idiots in the country that it's true. Not just idiots, a lot of innocent people who don't understand the these these devious tactics. It's possible to to convince a lot of innocent people that this is true by having this repeated in a chorus over and over again by various politicians hypothetically and having this amplified by various Indian media houses and foreign media houses. It it can be done. So that would not lead to immediate regime change but regime change could then be easier in maybe five or 10 years maybe 5 years maybe even 2 three years what are the what are the chances of something like this succeeding like in Pakistan or Bangladesh the chances in India are lower than in Pakistan or Bangladesh in Pakistan Bangladesh it's so easy just ask the army to do whatever you want and it'll be done it happens overnight in India you have to use the pro the the the system to do it so it's it's more difficult In India, it takes longer time. It takes patience on the part of the foreign entity. But it's possible. It is possible. So that's why you see India is in a tight spot right now. All these all these methods will be used against us. The objective is to destroy India's potential. The objective is to bring to power some hypothetical politician that I'm not aware of but somebody who will be incapable of of running the country properly and they will run the economy into the ground like what Mr. Borisen did to Russia and what Mr. Zalinski is doing to Ukraine that sort of thing. Okay. Saiti already says do US tech giants threaten India's sovereignty? Not directly but yeah technological sovereignty for sure. So if the government of India decides that why do we need our own search engine? Why do we need our own AI? Let's just buy it from the US. Let's just uh use that. Well that that very seriously threatens India's technological sovereignty. So indirectly yes it does threaten India's sovereignty. Paid says I recently heard from Mr. Pank Zaran exuty NSA uh on a podcast where that Russia has used Pakistan against us in the past. Is it true? Well, of course. I spoke about this about an hour ago in on in this live stream. I'll just give you some examples. I'll not talk about Russia using Pakistan against us, but I'll give you some examples. In around 2015, Russia sold a bunch of military helicopters to Pakistan. And around 2015 onwards for m for for a number of years more than five six years seven years possibly Russia and Pakistan started having these annual military exercises together where Russian troops and Pakistani troops would do military exercises together. These were called the durjba exercises. Durba means friendship in Russian. So that was there um and so on. Yeah, there could there could be more of these things. So that that's been there. Russia and Pakistan have tangled together, flirted together in the past. You have to always be cognizant of the these facts. You see my point is this my friends. This question I let me utilize it to make a bigger point. There are some Indians who imagine that some countries are our best friends. I'll not name the countries. There are some Indians who imagine that certain countries are our best friends and they put that those countries flags on their on their social media profiles. Let me tell you something. Nobody is our friend. Okay? You will have nations aligning with us when they're in where when it satisfies their interests. But the moment we are of no use, nobody will align with us. The only people who will stand with us are our own people. Us Indians. Remember that. So stop worshiing certain countries. And I'm speaking about at least one country apart from Russia over here. Stop worshiping certain countries. have some dignity and self-respect? Okay, Indians, enough of this. I'm I'm just sick of this. Arun Kumar says, "Is a regime change possible in Iran? Major foreign polls have concluded that 90% of Iranian youngsters support the Islamic regime and consider themselves as as religious?" Okay, see, let me address the second part first. Major foreign polls have concluded something about the population of Iran. Did they come into Iran? They come to Iran and and do a poll in the on the streets of Iran. No. So how have they concluded this? By by polling a sample of what? Expats. They don't represent the actual Iranian population. So my question is what was the methodology the statistical methodology used in these polls which I I am pretty sure will be very questionable. Anyhow that's the second part. But the first part is is regime change possible in Iran? It is possible. it is possible. um all you have to do well it's not it's not some small all it's a huge all you if if the US or or Israel or a combination of these two nations they significantly degrade Iran's military capabilities and make the government very vulnerable in in the sense that they cannot properly control their population then it's very easy to create revolts see Israel for example give me I'll give you an example Israel Israel consistently ly supports Azarbaijan in its conflict against Armenia. Why is that? So Iran, so Israel supports Azarbaijan while India supports Armenia. We are on opposing sides, right? So why does Israel support Azharbaijan? Because there's a significant Azari population in Iran in the east Azarbaijan province, right? And Israel would like to someday incite a revolt there against the Iranian government. So if the government becomes weak, if the government seems uh shaky, then you could see potentially revolts rising up in Iran because half the population of Iran is non-persion. So there are multiple ways in which this can be done. If if they assassinate various key figures in the government in military that also will make the government very unstable. There are so many ways in which this can be done. It's not easy but it's possible. So regime change is indeed possible in Iran. And then then if it's true that 90% of Iranians support the Islamic regime, then that could be a factor which would make regime change more difficult. So multiple factors come into this. But I'm not sure about these foreign polls. I'm not sure what method methodology they use to conclude whatever they've concluded. Uh Shivan says Shivanch Shivanch says do you think that for an alien looking from the top Russia would be the most powerful nation on the planet since it has the most land and hence most resources. uh aliens are sup look if aliens extraterrestrials can come all the way to the earth it means they are way more intelligent than us right like if if the highest IQ a human can have is hypothetically 200 then maybe an alien has an IQ average IQ of 2,000 or 20,000. So for them to be looking at us and examining us is essentially like us examining a population of ants. Okay. So that's how they will look at it like a bunch of ants and different colonies of ants who seem to be who seem to be competing for resources and they seem to have some dis colonies have that. So how do humans conclude which ant species is is more powerful? One factor you will see is how big is the colony? How much territory do they control and resources? Secondly, what are the weapons they have which is like uh how you know the pinsers that they have and whatnot. What kind of chemical uh secretions do they have and all so on. So yeah, if you look if you think of it from that perspective, they may perhaps conclude that, you know, Russia has the biggest land resources, but the Americans are far more poisonous possibly than Russia. But the Russians have the biggest claws or or mandibles because they have more nuclear weapons than the Americans. So for an alien looking from top, I think Russia and the US would be the most powerful nations. Yeah, maybe Russia perhaps, maybe. But if they then look at the details and they will say that the Americans those ants they control much of the world's uh trade routes and all that. So maybe that makes them more powerful. So maybe they will conclude that Russia yeah aliens are obviously more intelligent than us. So they will conclude the US is is more powerful most likely. All right. But very interesting thought experiment you're giving here. Very in very interesting Gdankan experiment. And that's about it. Young Sonic, thank you so much sir. Ma'am, thank you so much. Appreciate that. So, we are at the end of Okay, there's one more question. So, please uh stop asking questions because I'm going to end after this one. Rajat Chhatraji says some stats are saying that Russia lost 1 million soldiers in the war so far. As per the western media, as per my as per my analysis, what's the real number of pe soldiers they've lost? I have absolutely no way of telling how many soldiers Russia has lost because I don't have my ears, my eyes and ears on the ground in Ukraine or in Russia. But with that being said, let me say this. You can't trust the western media. The western, look, media is just propaganda today. Media in the past theoretically it was supposed to report the truth but today media is the most powerful source of propaganda of create of of creating narratives of perpetuating false narratives. So the western media we know it lies they consistently light up lie about us. So obviously they're also lying about this matter. Um they have been saying Russia has been losing millions of soldiers for since 2022. I remember Ursula from their lean she once said this and and it came out all over Twitter that the video that Ukraine had lost I don't know 300,000 or something soldiers and then the video was deleted but it's never deleted right so the truth is that Ukraine has lost far more soldiers most likely most likely I don't know if Russia has lost 1 million soldiers if that was the case then Mr. Putin's popularity would not would certainly go down if I mean 1 million is a large number for even even India. 1 million is a huge number even for India. So I think you have to take these claims with more than a grain of salt. Maybe a spoonful of salt. I don't think Russia has lost a million soldiers. Maybe I don't think they have even lost as many soldiers as as Ukraine. They definitely would have lost soldiers but nothing like what the West is claiming. So my perspective is that I don't know how many soldiers either side has lost but I don't trust the western media if they are giving a certain number we should maybe divide by 10 at least divide by five at least divide by two or whatever you want to do that's that's up to you so my main point is I don't trust these numbers not at all okay that brings us to the end of today's live stream thank you so much everybody for all the questions I really enjoyed this really enjoyed And we'll keep doing this next week. So next week we will do one live stream about history in which I will take questions from the comments and the second live stream will be about geopolitics which will be a super chat live stream. Thank you so much and I will see you next week. Take take care. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards and I'll see you if you choose to tomorrow 6 p.m. All right. Good night. Good day. Take care. Bye-bye.