[Music] Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello everybody and welcome to episode 263 of the Ask Abijit show. I hope everybody is doing fantastic. Everybody's doing great. I'm doing fantastic. So let's see who all is there on the live chat. Who all do we have with us? I can see Vidimar anonymous scientist. Herse Praneal from Kolkata. Mystic SK Kuml Singh from Melbourne. Abi Chandel 005. H global citizen devourer of worlds. Shri Watson Duv Durya Samarati Djamat Geopolitical Dub from Indor Harsh Yeti Yeti Anul Kumar Kaneshka Mr. 88ers Antarami Arby Oscar Madison from Texas Rahul Dunak Rat Hane Rishikesh Das Gupta Vin Manisha Matei Anul Rishikesh Chri Chhatan Aradya Shubham Dub Animesh Paul Sam Malik sayad sun-kissed anonymous bindu Krishna Nayak Vhan Patil Gautami Bamshi Kalem Mlavvin, Vikash, PJ, Avin, Nuro, Kumar, Kanesh, Sica from Dhaka, Random, Skull, Alvin, Rodriguez, Kishor, Heanchu, Meta, Gorish, KB, Hanul, Raj, Sager, Tu, Diam, Jawan, Sedhart, Aush, Yadav and so many other people. So, thank you so much all of you for being on the live chat and let us take some questions. Let's take some questions. I can see there's a lot of questions already. So let's going with the let's get going with the questions. What do we have? Kumar Kanesh says, "What was the reason for the Royal Indian Navy Mutiny and how big was it?" The Royal Indian Navy Mutiny happened because it it was at the end of the Second World War. The Second World War has had ended and all the Indian sailors etc who had fought for the British all across the world, Europe and so on so forth. They were brought back to Bombay. It was then called Bombay, not Mumbai. It was called Bombay that back then. They were all put in this row in the barracks and they were very poorly mistreated. They were not given proper salaries. They were not allowed to be discharged. They were just made to sit there and and they were treated in a in a very harsh way. There was a lot of racism against them from their senior officers. So eventually they got fed up with it with it and they took control of the entire Indian Navy, Royal Indian Navy. It was big. You had ships the every single ship apart from two or three two we obvious have some traitors right but apart from two or three ships every every other ship mutinate. So you had ships in the Gulf of Mala you had ships off the co of the coast of Adan of the coast of Yemen you had ships in the Persian Gulf then you had ships on the west coast of India east coast of India near Sri Lanka near Digaria all of these mutinated it was enormous enormous but the great Mr. Gandhi came in the way and he ended the mutiny. Very superb man Mr. Gandhi Kumar Kaneska says how did the west infuse civic sense in their public to follow rules as India's birth rate is going down? Is this a good thing to reduce burden on resources? Well, there are two different questions completely separate. How did the west infuse civic sense in the republic? By applying the rule of law by imposing harsh punishments. That's how they did it. So you don't necessarily need to impose harsh punishments. I would say all you need to do is to ensure that if you break the rules, you will be punished even if the punishment is mild. But who wants to be punished over and over again? So they'll change their habits, right? And their attitude and behavior. So the west in they they imposed the rule of law. They ensured that anybody who broke the civic sense and what what not would be punished. The punishment was guaranteed. Right. So that's how they made it happen. Uh now India's birth rate, it's it's a terrible thing. India's birth rate is going down. We need our population to come down eventually to about 300 or so million like it always was. But that should happen over a couple of centuries, not in 2030 years. Otherwise, everybody will be 60 plus years old. The average median age of the population will rise and there will be very few young people left. That's a disaster. So it's not good. Mr. Ays says, "What was the Taiping rebellion?" Well, you are taking us back in history now. It is a it is the it was a civil war that happened in China in the 1850s all the way to the 1860s and the the I forget the names of the individuals the Chinese names I can't remember but the the person who led the rebellion was a convert to Christianity. He said that he was the son or brother or something of Jesus Christ. So apparently Mr. Christ has as a brother and this Chinese gentleman was that and this Chinese guy who led the rebellion wanted to completely completely change the nature of Chinese society make China a Christian um nation and so on and this and and he gained a lot of followers apparently and this went on for about 10 15 years this rebellion and I don't know what the numbers are the the actual death toll is but it's anywhere between 20 million to 100 million And eventually the guy was found and executed. His son became the successor. He was also executed. At least one of them was executed and so on. So it was a civil war which devastated China. And it was a it was a Christian insurrection against Chinese civilization. The typing rebellion. Yati. Yati. Yati. Well, thank you so much sir Mr. Yati. Thank you. Hersa says, "Sar, what's a think tank? Explain deeply. A think tank is a collection of individuals who share some kind of expertise in a certain domain and they come together and they produce original research and original ideas uh about this domain and they and they write reports and things and they they prescribe uh courses of action that need to be taken in order to make the domain a better place that sort of thing. So one of the simplest things is a geopolitical think tank. This is of geopolitical think tanks in India, right? So it's a group of people who come together and who who write up reports and they they sometimes they're commissioned by somebody. Maybe the government commissions them or maybe some private company commissions them and so on. So that's a think tank. And for example, let's say you're a big company. Okay, you let's say you're a multinational national company. And if you're a multinational company, if you have assets and holdings across the various parts of the world, you are exposed to geopolitical risk in various shapes and forms. So you want to be able to know what's coming, what could be coming and how to deal with it. What's the best course of action? So you hire experts, you commission them, you pay them whatever money and you tell them to create these reports. Forecasting. Have you watched the geost strategy with the Vijay Chava? That's forecasting. You watched Indian interest. It's forecasting. I give scenarios. Scenario A, scenario B, scenario C. This could happen in this much time with this much probability of happening. and my scenarios are typically very spot-on, aren't they? And so on. So that's I'm like a one-man think tank, but typically you have 15 20 people doing what I'm what I do. So that's a think tank. So you typically commission, you're typically paid to do these things either by the government or by a private company, multinational corporation and so on. And you do the research for them and you give them recommendations, deeply researched recommendations. You write white papers and so on so forth. So that's a think tank. So I'm a one-man think tank essentially. Uh um Aintia Anand says, "Do you know about business plot Wall Street push push push to overthrow FDR?" I'm not aware of this. I'm sure it must have happened, but I haven't read about this. So, so uh geopolitical Dubai. Well, first of all, happy birthday, sir. It's your birthday, so happy birthday. Uh I wish you lots and lots and lots of very happy, very robust returns of the day. Thank you so much sir. Thank you. All the best. Keep going. Shankar Kulkarni says Timour seems to be a better general compared to Alexander. Started from Usbakistan, conquered Persia, won battles in winter in Russia. Sacked Deli, imprisoned Sultan Bayad. Methods were brutal but superior. Well, I I haven't done a that's an interesting uh point that you're raising. How much the question you would have to So, it's an interesting comparison that people typically don't do. I have done a comparison in the past on on a different podcast about um uh for example Alexander versus Chingis Khan and I demonstrated that Chinghan was far superior. Um now, it's clear that Timour wasn't superior to Chingis for by by any standards but Alexander versus Timor that's interesting. So to do a proper um comparison you would have to the simplest the simplest form of comparison is to understand what was the size of Timur's empire at its peak and what was the size of Alexander's temporary possessions at the peak of his conquests and find the surface area surface area and compare that and so on and how many battles did each of them fight and how much difficulty and so on so forth. So it's an interesting comparison. I haven't personally done it and uh off just off the cuff I won't be able to give you a pro a proper answer because I would need data and I'm not going to sit and do the data analysis now because I have to because I'm doing this live stream here now right now. But it's an very interesting point that you're raising here. Maybe he's better. So I look into it. Obviously he was both were uh very brutal warlords. Um, and it's not me who says that about Alexander. It's various western writers who said that he was essentially a robber and a thief on a grand scale, on a vast scale. And the same applies to Theor. No question. Um, were methods more brutal than Alexander or were Alexander's methods more brutal? I'm not sure. I'm sure there there would be a special element of cruelty when it comes to Timur, but Alexander himself was very cruel. He crucified tens of thousands of people because they opposed him and he sold so many people into slavery and burned villages alive and things like that. So both were brutal. Okay. Yati says, "What's the science behind meditation? I'm doing it for the past 2 years to improve my concentration but I don't know how to validate its effectiveness. Am I wasting my time?" Look, it's a tradition and and it's it's something that goes back tens of thousands of years. Not tens of thousands, let's say thousands of years. It's something that's part of our culture. It's part of our civilization and you've heard so many great people who have been meditators, right? So, I'm sure there is something to it. Uh I'm not sure about the science behind meditation. Uh you've had some western research done about meditation but in India nobody has done any proper scientific studies about meditation because our researchers they I don't know what they do. So when it comes to western research about meditation you can see that the brain enters a different state. If you are an experienced meditator, not just experienced but if you're a really powerful meditator, which means you know how to really go deep into that, then you can see that the brain brain waves change a lot, changes, the person becomes really really calm and they are they become kind of immune to various kinds of extreme temperatures, extreme cold and so on and so forth. So there is definitely evidence that meditation is very effective for some people. I'm not sure if it's effect for everybody. I know people who try meditating and they go fall asleep. They're not a able to go deep into it. I have in the past done meditation. I have used the technique of vipasha. I've also used it sometimes transcendental meditation. I have been able to go deep into meditation using vipasha in the past. I mean long ago. I'm not a regular practitioner right now. Um and it's the objective is not necessarily to improve your concentration. The objective of meditation is not to get some kind of you know sharpen some tool of yours. The objective of meditation historically has been to get if for a person to get in get in deep deeply in touch with themselves with who they really are to uncover who they really are. And of course it does increase your concentration and makes you a better person and so on so forth. But I don't know if there's a way to quantitatively validate its effectiveness. I'm not sure about that. But I would tell you you are not wasting your time. you're not but if you're doing it for two years I'm sure you would have noticed on your own that there are some some some changes that have happened in you typically if you are able to do it effectively if you are it doesn't work for everybody but generally if you're able to do it effectively then you are able to go deeper and deeper into meditation and you can see noticeable changes in who in in your behavior in your approach to life and so on so forth so it depends it depends on every person every person's different some people it works some people it doesn't work for For some people it's a struggle, for some people it's natural and so on. Okay. Sharma says tell us about the Padma Swami vault B who has tried to open it and is it possible to be opened? So we have this very ancient temple the Shri Padma Swami temple uh which city is it in? Is it in Thiranapuram or where is it? Well let's let's quickly Google it. I I've spoken about this before but I don't remember where it is. It's in Kerala Padmanab Swami temple. Yes. Uh like I said it is in in in Turanapuram and it's very ancient. Uh I'm sure if you look at Wikipedia they'll say it's 200 years old or 300 years old. How old is it? What's it say? History it's mentioned in all these piranhas etc. And uh yeah I don't think they're able to give you any date about this. So this is clearly a very ancient temple. Okay. Now it's one of the few temples that has that escaped from the depradations of the British and the British were not able to get their hands their their grubby claws on the wealth of the temple. You had temples like this all across the length and breadth of India and all of those treasure was plundered. So it is said that this one temple has I don't know how much wealth maybe in excess of a trillion dollars worth of wealth. Okay. in excess of a trillion dollars worth of of uh gold and jewels and whatnot and that's only the the vaults that have that have been opened. Now it it looks like the the Kerala government or whoever it was wanted to appropriate the wealth and uh use it for whatever but thankfully the Supreme Court has prevented that from happening and they have said that the royal family of the of the place is is a custodian and they will decide what happens and they will be in charge of it. So the wealth was not plundered. Thus far it's not been plundered. If it falls into the hands of any government in India, the wealth will disappear essentially, right? That's how it's historically been. So, uh there is another vault. I don't know it's if it's vault B, C, D, D, whatever. There is a vault which has not been opened for whatever reason. I don't know what the reasons are for it not being opened. And there are all kind of stories that there are nagas that that are guarding the vault and if you open the vault you're going to die and so on so whatever the reason is I don't know what it is but the vault has not been open and maybe it's not openable apparently and that may contain even more wealth now if you look at the wealth the gold and the jewels that stuff dates back probably more than 2,000 years and there is wealth that has been donated by kings that that were not Indian you know so it's a very ancient temple they coins. We have coins and gold coins and stuff from all over the world there. And that's the deal. That's what I can tell you. And I would like to thank the the royal family who ensured that this wealth did not fall into the dirty hands of the foreign occupiers of India. Rams says, "How do you organize what you learn? Do you have a system? I have no system. It's completely deorgganized, completely chaotic. I just read whatever I feel like. I read I whatever I learn and study I do it in a profoundly chaotic way. I do it in a profoundly um disorganized way. Of course there are some patterns to it. I mean if I'm doing if if I when I was a student and I was studying math and physics and all I would do it in a very organized way but when it comes to other stuff you I do it in a in a completely unstructured way. I just read read read whatever I feel like and uh whatever I retain I retain the rest disappears. So I have a small brain I retain a little most of it I forget and that's that's okay with me. So godliness says France and the Bhania have like six to eight nuclear attack subs but still they are so capable with tomahawk missiles where we lack in building these high quality attack machines where our subs can't match them. Well, I haven't done a comparative study of the French French subs or the British subs versus the Indian subs. Nuclear attack submarines. Uh well, for the longest time, we did not try and build nuclear nuclear submarines, nuclearpowered submarines, whether they are attack submarines or whatever submarines, right? It's only in recent times that we have started building our submarines. Now, it will take time to iterate and improve. So, the first submarine you build is going to be a prototype. It's going to be deployed. It is going to go on patrols and all but it's a test. So you learn from that. It's going to have defects and deficiencies. So you you operate for a few few few months, few years. You learn the lessons. Then you incorporate those lessons learned into the next submarine which is going to be larger and somewhat better. Then even that will have problems. So you do it over and over again until you have a really superior machine. That generally takes a few decades. These nations have been doing have been at it for decades. we are new entrance into this matter because our previous governments in the 20th century did not care. They did not have any ambition for India to be a great power. Okay. So uh so we are in the process of now iteratively improving our nuclear submarines. It's going to take some time but hey it's fine. That's how it goes. Um so how many nuclear submarines do we have right now? Attack submarine or whatever. I think we have two or three atom that are deployed right and more may be in the process of being built perhaps. I'm not sure what the status is with project P75i or whatever it is. And it's it's a long story. It's been going on. But yeah, we need submarines. Submarines are the scariest and most dangerous uh ocean assets any nation can have. Far more dangerous than a aircraft carrier. An aircraft carrier is a carrier is a big enticing target. A submarine is this invisible stealthy thing that can unleash mayhem. So yeah, we should focus on submarines. Uh Wamshi Khalm says don't call Persians as Arya. Where never Arya only where are excuse me what? So you want me not to call Persians as Arya? There were never Arya. Only we are Arya. Okay sir, if you say so. Uh but I have my own understanding of how things have been right. Maybe maybe I have some knowledge perhaps little bit chuta cha. Yeah. So according to me now I may be completely wrong and you may be right. Yeah. You say it's possible but according to me there are only two ethnicities that have the right to call themselves arians. Arya. That's us the Indians and our cousins the Persians. according to me and see when it looks when it when it when we're talking about Persia which is Iran today only half of the population is Persian half is non-persian Persia was under Turk occupation for a long time very long time what was the empire that Chiskhan destroyed it was not a Persian empire it was a Turk empire Turks ruling Persia and these Turks they brought in lots of other people from outside so if you look at Persia today if you look at Iran Today most people have some mixed ancestry and ethnicity. The the actual proper portions the original Persians uh they may be half or less than half. Those are Arya. No question about it. Okay. No question about it. And and it it is not that visible today. They themselves are mentally colonized by 1400 years of foreign occupation. So they they don't see themselves as our cousins or our relatives. But historically, for example, let me let me show you for example something from my Instagram account. I I am not active on Instagram. Very little less activity, but sometimes I post interesting stuff up there. So let me find something. All kinds of stuff on my Instagram account, which is with in collaboration with other people. But uh but uh let me find something that I posted some time ago. Give me a second. It is about the Persians. Okay. Uh let's let's put that on the screen. I'm still digging for it. Let me show you something. Um this is older stuff. Older stuff. Older stuff. Where is that stuff that I'm talking about? So if you look at this for example, okay, this is a coin of the Persian ruler Wahhab who ruled between 200 to 164 BC around that that time period. Okay, and in this coin you can see the Persian king slaying a Greek invader. He is applying the final blow to the Greek invader. Now the question you would need to ask yourselves my friend is the Persian king what clothing what garment is he wearing below the waist? What garment is he wearing below the waist? What is this garment called? And is it still worn somewhere today? And the answer is very clear. It's a doti. Yeah, it's called a doti. People in India still wear it today. So how come the Persians were wearing it? How come the Persian king was wearing it? If you look at history, if you study properly, then you will see that the Persians, the original Persians were just as Arya as us. So that's about that's all about this. Okay. Literary literally officer cases. Why is Emperor Bindus rarely spoken about or compared to Chundra Mori and Ashoke? What defined his reign? I'm not sure what really defined his reign. He was the son um he was the father of Ashoke, was he? If I'm not mistaken, he's between Chandra Gupta and Ashok, right? Binduar. Binduar, I think he was Chandra Gupta's son. Binduar. Bindusar was the second Morian emperor. Of course, he was the son of Chandra Gupta Moria and the father of Ashok. His children were Ashok the great and so on so forth. Yes, correct. So, um listen, I I'm not sure why he's not that spoken about. Um obviously the founder of the dynasty was was uh um Chandra Gupta Moria uh who was mentored by the great Vishnu Gupta Chanakya and Chundra Gupta had the son this son Binduar and Binduar was the father of Ashok the great so it's possible that Chandra Gupta is remembered for being the founder for being the guy who who brought down the the Nanda Empire the Nanda dynasty started this new dynasty and that's why is remembered for the for being the founder and Ashoke obviously is remembered for being the greatest emperor one of our greatest emperors ever who expanded his uh who expanded the political his political control over the essentially the entire subcontinent um and Chandra Gupta fought the Greeks as well and actually was able to forge a very long-lasting alliance with the Greeks well compared to the achievements of Chandra Gupta and Ashoke probably Binduar did not have any major achievements stand out in that manner. So maybe that's why he is not that much spoken about. No great glory or great achievements and so on so forth. Uh Rams Sharma says should India play covertly in sustan Balojasthan and start the creation of Baluchistan free Baluchistan is equal to trade route to Russia via Afghanistan. Look Balojasthan is fine. Let's not talk about Sistan Baluchistan. That's a portion that's an Iranian territory and we have good relations with the Iranians. We don't want to mess that up. Why why would you want to do that? Why? We can certainly play covertly in Pakistan occupied Balojasthan. Yeah, sure. Absolutely. So if you have a free Balojasthan that could potentially be a trade route to Central Asia to Russia eventually via Afghanistan because Balojasthan Afghanistan have a shared border but that is assuming that we get some kind of access to Balojasthan. Right? So I am sure there's something or the other happening. Obviously, these will be all covert operations, covert affairs. We don't talk about them openly. The government will never acknowledge if it happens, if it is true. I'm not saying it's true. I'm saying if if if it's happening, obviously no government will acknowledge that. So, it's for the government to do what what is to be done. And just because there is no reporting of something happening in the media doesn't mean that we we may not be doing it. But we don't interfere in Iranian affairs. Okay? We simply don't do that. It would be stupid to do that. Okay. Kapai developer says, "Why does it always feel like we are playing catchup with the west in terms of technology?" Because we are playing catch-up with west in terms of technology. That's why it feels like we're doing that because we are doing that. Is it the intertwined economics or defense? No. Nothing to do with economics, defense. It feels like we are playing catch-up with the west in technology because we are playing catch-up with the west. We are trying to emulate what they did 20 30 40 years ago. If we had developed our semiconductor ecosystem in the 1980s, 1990s, then we would not be playing catch-up. We would be at the forefront of semiconductor technology. But something went wrong. The semiconductor plants were burned down and whatnot for whatever reason. So that's why we are now starting to reinvent the wheel. It'll take us at least a decade to kind of play catch-up when it comes to semiconductor technology. When it comes to jet engine technology, we are where the west was about in the 1970s, 1980s. In 2025, we are where the west was in the 1980s probably, right? So, we have a cavary engine with with a certain amount of output and all, but it is not very efficient. It needs a lot of improvements. So in the 1970s and 1980s the west had engines like those large engines, bulky engines which produced some thrust but they were not as efficient as the kind of engines you have today. If you look at the old 747 jets, you go to Mumbai airport, there are some 747 jets still parked over there. They've been parked for god knows how many years. If you look at the engines, there are different engines compared to the engines on your standard Airbuses and Boeings that you have today. So you had more inefficient engines. That's why you needed four of those on the Boeing 747s. So we are playing catch-up on all these technologies because our government did not invest on all these things back in the day. So that's why it feels like it because it is actually the case right that's the reason Auntia Anand says in 1933 elites plotted to overthrow uh FDR Franklin Delano Roosevelt raising a 50,000 strong army and planning to install General Butler as a fascist leader uh he exposed them to Congress but it was buried and no one was prosecuted. Well, that's very interesting and I haven't studied this particular chapter of history. Let us see what our friend Google has to say about this. Yes. 1933 1933 FDR overthrow. Did it really happen? Business plot. A political conspiracy. Okay. Interesting. I It never happened. So that's why maybe it did not catch my attention, but I look into it. Very interesting. Interesting. A business plot, Wall Street push. So I think it was you who was saying it or somebody else. Um, okay. So that looks like it was an attempted regime change operation which did not work out, but apparently nobody was persecuted, which is interesting. H interesting. Okay. Kapay developer says is it right to conclude that the west uses knowledge for materialistic pursuits and indic systems use materialism to acquire knowledge. Well, it's not entirely that symmetric. Uh see we have a saying in our civilization that without ara there is no dharma. If you want dharma to flourish you need a tremendous amount of ara. So, so it's not like we have never been materialistic. Uh, when it comes to running a kingdom, right? If you are a king, you're running a kingdom, you have to focus on e economics. You have to focus on the economy. You have to ensure that there is sufficient wealth and surplus wealth if required. Yeah. Not just barely enough wealth to get by. You need to have surplus wealth. Only then can you build magnificent temples and have flourishing culture. That only comes with surplus wealth. So we have always had materialistic societies but we always had a spiritual dimension and and a dimension that that was about the pursuit of knowledge which is why in India somebody who has knowledge is is regarded as a as a as a superior person right uh so we had we had multiple approaches at the same time we had a complicated complex highly sophisticated highly evolved society which is not the case today and the west has always been a very monochromatic, very simplistic society, black or white, right or wrong, that sort of thing. Um, and the culture that was imposed on the west the past, 1500 years or so, is a very materialistic culture. It says that the the world, the earth is is a resource that has been given to man to to to in order for man to enjoy it. So, plunder the the resources of the planet and enjoy the the resources. So that's that's pure materialism that leads to the destruction of the planet. We have never been like that. But we also had materialism. If you look at various the various um dharmic schools of thought, well, one of the schools of thought is Charvaka, which is pure materialism and so on. So for for us, you see, so that's why it's not that symmetric like like one may be tempted to portray it. Indian civilization is very complex, very complicated, very sophisticated. That's why you had multiple uh straighta in society. Various people focusing on other several things. That's how a very well organized division of labor labor existed in society. But now it is called the evil cast system. Every nation has had that. Okay. Every society has had that division of labor stratification of society. But we are evil. Everybody else is good. That's the kind of BS that goes around. Rishies dashup says Mr. Chava, where is the next science and tech episode? Well, none is scheduled thus far, but if there is a demand for it, I would be most pleased to do one. I would be most pleased. I've I have done in the past multiple episodes, more than 15, 20, 30 episodes probably that focused only on science and technology, but I've always seen that the view viewership is is minimal in that. You know, no one's interested. Sadly it it it saddens me that there is so so little interest in science and technology. I'm happy to do it but if if no hardly anybody watches then even I don't get the motivation to do it you see. So yeah I'm I'm happy to do it but people should want to watch it. I I guess I get the feeling in India nobody cares about science. Nobody's an interest in that but if you talk about other stuff then maybe there is more interest. Well it is the way it is. Uh Argratim Royce says, "Can you shed some light on the Pala Empire?" Well, once again, that's an a period of history I haven't studied in detail. I have the books by RC Majunar and so on so forth, but uh I haven't gone through them all. You see, the concept is called an anti library. I I'm sure I've said this that I buy more books than I can read and I have read more books than I have ever bought. So I have a lot of books in my collection that I still haven't read entirely or maybe haven't read at all. That's called an entire library. It it it serves to remind you that there's so much more you need to learn, right? There's so much more knowledge that exists out there that you don't have. So it kinds of kind of grounds you. It ensures I mean I I am not somebody who's prone to arrogance or anything but you know it keeps you humble. So I have these books and I I really haven't read about the Pala Empire. So that's there's so much I haven't read about. Okay. So that's the deal. Uh DBA says um a bit of off topic. Sorry. Could you please tell about any incident where you failed in something miserably and what exactly were your actions at the time that time that you see today and consider was good action? I failed in so many things. Look everybody fails. I wanted to get a PhD in physics. I did everything. I even submitted my thesis, but I never got a PhD. So, that's something I failed in. Uh what were my actions at the time? Well, I did everything right. But I could have been wiser in how I dealt with various people. So, so look, you you will you will never have a person even a successful person who has never failed. Especially the mo successful people they fail they have failed more than most other people. Let's say you are a per let's say you compare two people okay a person who has achieved average outcome an average outcome in life who is reasonably average person and you see a person who is super successful I'll promise you the person who is super successful will have failed way more than the person who has achieved average outcomes because the people who achieve average outcomes they typically don't try too many things that's why they don't they don't fail much and maybe failure is scary um so book everybody fails there's nothing wrong with that um that's what I would say yeah Argapatim Roy says Hamas meeting happened that's an old story sir that's an old story Hamas meeting happened in Prior to Palam Iran controls over so you're trying to say that okay Iran is evil and we should have regime change is that what you're saying Iran had hands in the Hamas style attacking no that is going too far that's going too There is absolutely zero evidence that the attack in Pahelgam had Iranian hands in it. What? How? Listen, if you look at the whole world through the lens of religion, you will see all these stories there everywhere. There is no connection between between Iran and what happened in Pahelgam. What happened in Pahelgam was a Pakistani thing. It was done by the Pakistanis. Yeah, sure. Hamas may it looks like there was a meeting between Hamas and Pakistani terroris and PK. So that indicates that the Iran doesn't control everything. I don't think Iran is stupid enough to do something that would be detrimental to our interests considering how many considering how few friends Iran has. So I completely disagree. There is absolutely zero evidence that Iran has any connection with what happened in Palgam. Oh, the attack in Pelgam was Hamas style. What is Hamas style? It's it was a terrorist attack. And what Hamas did in Israel was a terrorist attack also. So it was a terrorist attack. You cannot say it was Hamas style. It was just a terrorist style attack. All terrorists share the same uh modus operandi which is to target civilians. So my thoughts are I am very clear there is no Iranian hand in this absolutely not reanimation says why did bindus okay I why did bindusar dislike ashok to an extent was it because his mother wasn't a royal born lady was it for some other reason and so on well I'm not aware of bindusar's like or dislike really how do we know bindustar disliked attack uh disliked ashok how do we know that I have never read it anywhere in my lifetime that Bindusar disliked Ashoke. Bindusar appointed his son Ashoke as the governor of Gandhar. Gandhar was a very important territory, a very large territory present day Afghanistan more or less. Why would you appoint somebody you don't like as the governor of Gandhar, the frontier of India with with Central Asia and so on? Why? Why? I I'm not I'm not sure where where you have discovered that Binduar did not like Ashok and I don't know who Ashok's mom was. Ashok had many half brothers and siblings and sisters and whatn not. Um it's possible that Binduar had multiple wives and whatever. I don't know who Ashok's mommy was but Ashok was appointed as the governor of Gandhar. So I think that is an indication that Bindusar did trust this son of his and consider him to be seriously worthy of such a big position governor of a very large province. Uh I'm not sure if it is because of Hindi Hindi or something that you feel that Bindusa did not like Ashoke but I have never come across this so I won't be able to answer this question. I'm very sorry about that. I have I've never come across this. Potato praise says will AI end share market because it's cyclical in nature. No. AI will make it easier for people to for people who use AI to make profits of the of the of the stock market. If you indulge in quantitative trading and so on, then you can use AI to to run the algorithms and to make the split-second decisions and so on so forth. So it won't end the stock market but uh those who adopt AI and incorporate AI workflows into their their trading they're going to make a lot of money right okay says Persians are of Indic descent but became an area 5,000 plus years ago now that's an interesting story you think okay you're talking about behavior not ethnicity okay well I was talking about ethnicity See today when humans when the west talk talks about Arian race or arians they're talking about an ethnicity they're trying to claim that the arian race is the white race that's what they're trying to claim they're trying to steal our identity it's identity theft they're doing in daylight in broad daylight so I am talking about the ethnic makeup I'm talking about the ethnic identity and when I say that only two two ethnicities have the right to call themselves area which is Indians and Persians. I'm talking about the ethnicity. Now you're talking about something else entirely. You're talking about the non-ethnic aspect of Arya. So that is how we see it, right? We see Arya as a person who who is noble in behavior. We Indians don't see Arya as an ethnic term. But our people who left the subcontinent went somewhere else. They started seeing the term Ahri as an ethnic identifier as an ethnic self-d designation. So if you no longer let's say follow the teachings of the Vedas that makes you a nar no question about it from our perspective from a civilizational perspective but if so if you you have to first decide what is your definition of area right when I am saying that only Indians and Persians can call themselves area I think it should be pretty clear I'm talking about the ethnic selfd designation I'm not talking about the civilizational aspect today because today in the global context nobody talks about the term area as a civilizational thing. They talk about it as a about it as an ethnic designation. Do you understand? Today the term area is being used globally as an ethnic designation. So I am talking about that. Now from your perspective you are right. But then communicate clearly sir that this is what I mean I'm talking about the civilizational aspect that people who no longer follow the vedas and take out other things they are no longer to be considered arry that is a totally different thing it's a very nuanced thing that's only something we only we Indians will understand only some Indians will understand only some even among us very few will understand so from your perspective you're right those of us who left the subcontinent and started indulging in other behaviors no longer worshiping the old gods no longer following the Vic customs and all obviously they become an area. The Tushara people were no longer Arya properly, right? The Tokarians, the Shaka people who left India thousands of years ago, they came back half wild. So they were no longer Arya until they reintegrated into our society and so on. The Persians, well, they gave up Vic Dharma. They became Zor Zoroastrians. Well, that that's no longer following Vic custom. So that makes you anaria question. No question about it. So uh yeah well there you have it. Draj Kamat says we will acquire such abundant resources that we'll be able to sustainably colonize other planets without destroying them. Index civilization should adopt capitalist expansionism that alone wins. Don't you think look when every see um today the world is being ruled by the capitalists right? So either you find a better system to defeat them or you you beat them at their own game. So I'm not sure if there is something more exploitative and more destructive than capitalism. So you're going to have to play it at their game. Uh play play their game. Um so should Indic civilization adopt capitalistic expansionism? I don't know about capitalistic expansionism but certainly expansionism. We've been hemmed in too long. We've even lost control of parts of the subcontinent itself. In the past, we had a footprint all across Central Asia, our people. We've had if you if you look at Central Asia, you still find old temples and stupas and viharas all over the place. Our culture, our civilization, you still have Sanskrit inscriptions in Russia in in Baku Azarban and so on so forth. You had an Indian footprint all across the place. Even in Sinjang, Kashinagar was Kashgar was called Kashinagar. Um so so many places and we have slowly shrunk and we have slowly le lost control of region after region after region. So I am of the opinion that we should expand for sure. We should um become a little more expansionist. The only thing that's holding us back is that artificial temporary nation. The moment we break through from there, I think we'll be unstoppable. About capitalism. Well, yeah, sure. Maybe we can. I mean, we are more or less a capitalistic country kind of right now, aren't we? Um, I'm not sure about sustainably colonizing planets, but that's something in the future. So, we'll see about that. But yeah, we do need to expand. We need to regain some territories. The the the great quest for Akandabarat, I kind of support that. We should regain our lost territories for sure. Why not? What's wrong with that? Why should we be the ones who don't expand? Why should we be the only ones who are like peaceful peaceful when everybody else is expansionist and so on so forth? We should also do that. Ritik Pawar says, "If Normandy failed, could the painter have claimed victory just by putting all his brushes on the Eastern front or any treaty with USSR to pause the war?" You mean if the invasion of Normandy failed? Well, that was a victory for the painter, wasn't it? If the invasion of Normandy failed. Um so if the invasion failed then obviously he has he retains control of France and the western frontier the western coast the Atlantic coast of Europe and all he has to do then is to have some treaty with the USSR and not fight with them. Yeah. And and demonstrate that I'm not I'm not going to attack you as long as you don't attack me. And that can be something that that can work possibly like like you have a situation between the Russians and the Chinese today. They don't like each other. they don't they don't trust each other but they they have some kind of understanding so the painter could have had that sort of understanding with Mr. Stalin, but he chose to attack Stalin. So, so the painter had won essentially, but then he tried to tried to fight everybody and tried to win even more. And at the end of the day, if you behave like Napoleon, you're going to end up like Napoleon. Okay. Really? Now, says, "Please explain Cibix Cibix 2. I have no idea what CEX 2 is. What are the Japanese Yakuza?" The Japanese Yakuza is the Japanese mafia. Okay, the Japanese mafia, they typically are tattooed people, the tough people and they are the Japanese underworld, Japanese mafia and um and they control some parts of of cities and so on and they um apparently run some illegal businesses and trades and all and they have some contract with the government but they also provide some social security at times and social services and time disasters and so on. So that is the Japanese yakuza. What is subex? I have no idea. Prashant says what does nucle what does nuclear NPT entail? Why is India a nonparty? Uh the nuclear nonprololiferation treaty what is that? Uh it's a treat that treaty that we haven't signed. We are not a signary and it's about non-prololiferation. So I would imagine I haven't studied the treaty. I don't know what the text is. Okay. I'm just telling you that it's a treaty that we have chosen not to sign because it uh because the treaty I think non-prololiferation treaty um it's about not proliferating nuclear technology which means that you are not allowed to um sell or transfer nuclear technology to other nations which obviously these nations have not have completely broken violated. The Americans have helped Pakistan with the nuclear weapons. the Pakistani nuclear weapons could probably be American nuclear warheads um and so on. So the NPT what are the clauses of the NPD? Let's let's look into it. Yeah, why not? Let's let's let's look into it. And and the question is why has India not signed the treaty? Probably because it is discriminatory. Okay, as far as I remember nonprololiferation treaty. What is the nonproliferation? The treaty is pro. Yeah, like I said, preventing the spread of nuclear weapons, disarmament, encourages blah blah and blah blah blah nuclear. Okay, so there are defined states as that manufactured and exploded nuclear weapon or other explosive device prior to January 1, 1967. Huh. But what if you you tested a nuclear weapon in 1974? So then why are you are you why are you treated treated differently? So there is this discrimination like I said, right? And so on so forth. So the main thing is that it it it discriminates against nations that have become nuclear powers after 1967. Those are regard regarded as rogue states or non-uclear states. What the hell is that? Right? So that's why we have chosen to not become a party to it because it is a discriminatory treaty in its very foundations. That's why Ankit Duta says how to survive and earn in this AIdriven world. Let's say you are a farmer in or or or a or or or a business person in the in the 1700s h 1800s and suddenly this new technology comes in electricity. Now if you want to survive as a business person and thrive as a business person then you can either adopt this new technology and incorporate it into your business workflows or you can be left behind and become irrelevant. So those business people who embraced electricity the technology and made it a integral part of their workflow and and operating procedures and all that they thrived and they succeeded and those who were scared of electricity and we don't understand this and we will not use it they became irrelevant. Their businesses disappeared similarly like electricity we have a new technology today called AI artificial intelligence. Most people are scared of it. Most people have no understanding of AI. Some people use chat GPD to to to fact check everything as if Chhat GP knows everything. That's not the way to do it. So my my point is if you want to survive and thrive in the age of AI, you have to embrace AI. Which means you have to first of all understand what AI is. What is AI? How does it work? Then how do you use it? How do you control it? How do you leverage it? You to learn these things. It's it's going to be a it's going to be a learning experience. It's going to be a learning curve. You may take uh months to learn, maybe a couple of years to learn it. But if you do do if you do spend that time and effort and energy and that painful period of time you you do it that you learn the thing, then you're going to be able to leverage it to serve not just survive but also earn. So my point is embrace new technologies. Don't be scared of them. Really now says both are vasals but South Korea is authoritarian unlike Japan and Hawaii. What what's HW? What's H? I have no idea what HW is. South Korea is not well. Yeah, every nation is different. The Americans allowed South Korea to go down the authoritarian route and that worked for South Korea. See, every society is different. Every society needs something different to thrive. Japan was something very scary for the Americans because the Japanese came close to destroying everything. So that's why they have made Japan a super pacifist society and a society that is democratic in nature apparently and so on so forth. And South Korea they wanted it to serve a different purpose. So they allowed it to go down the authoritarian route. So you had a South Korean dictator who was eventually assassinated and so on so forth. And then you had a fake democracy. Now you again have coups and all that. But it works for them and it serves the purpose of the US. So that's why Dain Dore says a friend of mine brought born and brought up in our country started working for DARPA after they went to the US for higher education. I do not like it at all and cut all ties with them. Am I wrong? I I don't get why you cut ties with the person. The person chose a certain life for himself or herself and it was a choice. Now it's up to you whether you like it or not. If I had a friend let's say who was born and brought up in India, moved to the US for higher education, stayed thereafter there and became a member of DARPA and became a US citizen. I would not care. I would say good good for you. It's up to you. I mean there's no right or wrong. If you if you dislike it, don't don't be friends with that person. It's entirely a personal choice. I I would have no problem with that. It's okay. N you whatever. What happened in the Jonestown incident in the 1970s? Secret mind control experiment gone wrong? How to identify or counter negative scops effectively? Okay, I don't remember what happened in Jonestown. Let's quickly Google it, then we'll talk about scops, right? Jonestown. Looks like some kind of cult suicide thing or something, right? Jonestown. What incident? Jonestown. Blah blah. It was a remote settlement. Yeah. Okay. Kool-Aid. Is it Is it the Kool-Aid thing? Yeah. Some kind of mass horror stuff, etc. Is it the Kool-Aid things? It's not the Kool-Aid thing. something else. Okay, whatever. I'm not sure what happened in Jonestown. You have these cults and so on so forth in the US and uh in the West. So I I'm not going to read the whole thing and then tell you what happened. Okay, I'm not aware. I mean I kindly vaguely remember about about about this. I'm sure I must have read read about this a long time ago. So I don't know what happened. Okay. Uh I'm not going to sit and read that. The question the the other question you've asked is how to identify and counter negative psychological operations effectively. Um negative scops well there are so many different kinds of negative scops. There are scops that one person does on another. That's part of psychological warfare. I mean, let's say you are in an office environment and you have colleagues and all the colleagues are vying for some some promotion and that's why they're playing all that little petty office politics. There's scops in that. Then you can also have scops done by if you if you live in an authoritarian regime like the US then the US government could do psychological operations on you. they could do constant surveillance which already happens in the US and they have all these what MK ultra and whatn not things that they do. Um so how do you counter that? You essentially stay away from anything that's suspicious, anything that could be too good to be true and so on. Um and yeah, you don't sign up for weird stuff like you know having people poke needles into you like the Tuskiggee experiment or whatever. You have to be careful. You have to use some common sense and don't sign up for anything that is remotely suspicious anywhere especially if you live in an authoritarian nation. Ankit gi thank you so much. Thank you so much. Appreciate that. Okay. Secret billionaire says Kimcho Majama. Where do you live sir? What's the best to live in India? Look the objective of this show is for everybody to gain some kind of knowledge. So we'll talk about that. We'll talk about geopolitics, history, science, etc. Where I live, where I don't live, it it is of no importance to anybody in the world, I am not important. Whatever little knowledge I have, I share it. And that's what's important. What's the best city to live in India? That's a controversial question. If I name one city, 100 other people will be angry that why don't you name my city? Because everybody in India thinks that their city is the best. I don't know. The best city to live in India depends on who you are and what your likes and dislikes are. So maybe the city that I would perhaps like to live in, maybe you may dislike it intensely because you may be a different kind of person, right? So I think every person has their own individual set of uh likes and dislikes and that determines what's the best city to live in India. Some people will say maybe it's Ro Hana. Some people may say no it is uh Kolic in South India. Some people will say no it is Port Blair Anderman. Some people will say no it's Lelay in Ladak. Some people will say no it's Impal and Manipur. Some people say no goati. So on everybody has their own choice. I don't know what's the best way to live in India because I don't know I may have my own choices but my own likes and dislikes but it doesn't necessarily have to be the same for everybody else. Arian Ja says how in your opinion can Abrahamic religions be improved? I have no opinion about this. Zero opinion. Zero. Absolutely none. Thun says, "I have met Dagistanis and Chhatchans among the most devout Muslims. I've seen many kaucasins except for Chuchchans embraced Islam in the 7th century replacing paganism which means the old Indo-Uropean culture. Imam Shamil is says seen as a spiritual force. Why was it so great? I have no idea man. Who is Imam Shamil? I don't know. I have not studied the history of Dagistan or Chachchna. I don't know. I don't know. Look, when it comes to this region, I know that different parts of the region converted to Islam at different times. Excuse me. This region, the Caucasus region. It's kind of part of what the Persians call greater Iran. And one of the languages that is spoken in the region is called Iron. The Iran language which is said to be the last surviving language that is descended from the old skitian language. The language of the Shakas and obviously the Shaka language also underwent lots of changes and all. So the people of Dagistan and and Cheschna etc. They are not Arabic. They are kind of indo-iranic but um they are they live in the in the Caucasus region which is said to be the the the the wellspring from which the Caucasian race emerged which is why they are very fair skinned. They're very white even whiter than many European people and they all converted to Islam at different points in time. So I think the Dagistanis maybe the Chhatchans I don't know who it was they converted pretty recently like in the last 150 or 200 years which means they were made to convert or they were coed into converting or whatever it is and so on. So that's what I can tell you. Uh I don't know about Imam Sham etc. I have not studied the history of the region in depth so I don't know. Uh so I won't be able to answer that question but overall yeah that's the deal. Very interesting region very beautiful region. I mean even Georgia etc. These nations are part of the region. It's beautiful, very mountainous, very nice climate, cold climate more or less, but very nice climate also and so on. Right. AVM says, does India generate enough power that an AI revolution demands? Which areas in technology do you think India is being primed for? So, if you need if you want to have an AI revolution, you need a tremendous amount of power. It's a very good point you're raising. And increasingly you're going to find that power is going to be the bottleneck that could potentially uh restrict the untraveled advance or expansion of AI capabilities because these server FL this server farms that make up the AI systems these are very energy hungry operations. they need a lot of energy and that's why the US is trying to ramp up its electricity output in production right now the question that you're raising is therefore pertinent for India now India wants to become a major player in AI right which means that we will need to have these massive server farms that can you know be the foundation for these very powerful AI systems which needs that which means that we we're going to need a lot more energy lot more electricity and stable electricity than we currently So you can't have a s situation where an AI farm has where an AI server farm has power for 18 hours a day but 6 hours you don't have power. That doesn't work at all. You need continuous power, reliable power. You can't have a single second that power isn't there. It has to be constantly on. Right? So you need that. So does does India currently generate enough power? It does not. We're going to have to seriously ramp up our electricity production. And the good thing is we have tremendous potential in solar and wind and all that. We can set up solar farms all over the place, especially in u desert regions. The Tar desert, massive desert, lots of arid regions where nothing grows and nobody stays. Set up solar farms there. The Kach region already has some of that by the way. Hm. Who's behind that? The Adani group. Yeah, they are doing a tremendous amount of work for that in in generating solar energy and so on. So, uh we're going to need a lot more of that if we want to become a major AI power. We're going to have to use everything at our disposal, which is solar, wind, hydro, fossil fuels, co coal, gas, oil, whatever. every and nuclear we should really double down on nuclear if possible and so on. So yeah, which areas in tech uh is India being primed for? I think all areas in tech. We cannot be afford to we cannot afford to be left behind in any area of technology. Whether it is semiconductors, whether it's quantum computing, whether it's artificial intelligence, whether it is basic manufacturing, whether it is electric vehicles, whatever we need to go forth on all of that. Ramnat Sadiker says the was the uh was the flight Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 secretly taken to Diego Garcia Area 51? Well, ask yourself this question. Is it possible that I will know about these things? Ask yourself a simple question. Am I a member of the US government? Am I a member of the CIA, FBI, whatever? Am I a US military personnel? Do I have access to Diego Garcia? Do I have access to the place in Colorado or wherever it is which is area? I have access to none of these places. How will I know this? How do you expect me to know the answer to this question? I don't get it. I'm just a guy. I have no access to classified or secret information. I only have access to the information that you also have access to. All right. I wish I could answer it, you know. Okay. Argatim Roy says why not expand India into Burma where the Buddhists have much more in civility than with us than the peaceful people on the northwest parts. Because if you expand India into Burma and take a take a capture a n and annex a nation forcibly it creates a tremendous amount of ill will towards you. Okay, they are similar to us. Doesn't mean that we should capture the the territory. Do you think they will like us if we do that? Think about it right logically. Think about it the other way around. Nepal and India were the same people with the same culture. Tomorrow let's say Nepal develop some superior technology and it invades India and now it says that you will put the Nepalese flag everywhere. Will you like it? You like it? Maybe some of you will like it but most of you will say no. Or let's say Burma decides that India and Burma have the same culture. Now Burma has some technological revolution and they become a super powerful nation and they invade India. Will you like it? So think logically right? I mean what are we children here or what? Pratt Prattard Dana says apparently Greek and Hittite Anatolian cities like Troy Hatusa were built in Harapan style with citadels and lower towns around 14 around 1600 to 1400 BC like Mohenagra and Kalibang. Well, that's yeah, that's possible. Yes. If you look at Hisarlic, for example, Hisarlic. Yeah, that's Troy. The the the ruins of Troy are today called Hisarlic. It's in Anatolia, Turkey. And if you look at that, yeah, it's kind of built in the so-called Harapan style, a lower town, this fortification, there's a citadel and so on so forth. Um, so you do see that. Yes. Um, possibly also Hittite cities, possibly Huran cities and Mitani cities. The Mitani city, I'm not sure if they found it. I'm not sure they have still found the city of Vashukhari, the capital city. Maybe it's lost or something. But yeah, there will be similarities and that would possibly indicate some kind of connections, but we're not quite sure what these connections are. Um, yeah, so there are definitely similarities for sure. Indeed. Basar Kayatwal says first of all thank you sir. So okay we met at J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J, did we? Okay, greetings from Moscow. Aha. Are you the one who gave me the the fridge magnet from Moscow? Okay, so uh we see now how fast diplomatic and geopolitical churning is going. We know how emotional Indians are. How can one develop a thick skin especially our country as a group? Well, if you want the country to develop a certain attitude as a group, the only way to do it is to inculcate that during the time everybody is being educated in school, in college, university, which means you have to reform the education system. There's no other answer. Once you are out of the education system, you already developed a whole set of attitudes that come from the kind of education system that you had. The kind of education you were given, the kind of learnings, the kind of attitudes that were imparted, inculcated into you, all of that happens during your formative years when you are in school, college, university. So if you want Indians to develop a certain attitude, a certain approach, a certain worldview, a thick skin and so on so forth, all that has to be inculcated during the formative years. The only system that can do it is the educational system, right? And the reason why Indians are so emotional and so clueless and so naive is because the education system doesn't prepare them for facing the real world. Right? So let me give you an example. Does the education system tell teach Indians at whatever level, whatever age, what the Indian national interest is? Does it teach Indians what India's major threats are internal as well as external? No. No. No. We cannot teach such things. H does it teach Indians who our enemies are and who may perhaps friends are. It teaches you nothing. It doesn't teach you the simplest basic concept of the national interest. So nobody even knows what the national interest is. That's why Indians are such incredibly naive people and it doesn't teach you how to think critically in how to face problems, how to solve problems. That's why Indians the first reaction is an emotional reaction. So the solution to all of what you are saying sir is a deep and thorough reform of the education system which is something I have been advocating for a very long time. If you watch my episodes of of Askabit 28 to 31 or 32, I have given a very detailed exposition of what the problems are and what the solutions should be and that's how we can change the attitude of the country and have everybody develop the ability to think critically, the ability to know what our national interest is, the ability to identify friend from four and the and and and developing a thick skin. All of that can be done through the education system. Beyond that I cannot beyond that I can I can take one person and educate the person teach the person but I can't do it to the whole nation as a group as a group not possible reanimation says once again binds okay I had read about Vindusar in a show on Vicki on Vicki under as a prince oh I see let's let's check it out very interesting point that you're raising because I have never read this anywhere let's see what their sources are and let me show you how to actually uh fact check Wikipedia. So bindu sir and obviously it will go to Wikipedia and there it is what as a prince under as a prince there's no as a prince here so it must be under Ashoke right okay his issue were Ashoke Ashoke Ashok as a prince okay here so let's read Ashoka's own inscriptions do not describe his early life and much of much of the information about this comes from apocryphal legends written hundreds of years after While these legends include obviously fictitious details, they have some plausible historical information about Ashoka's period. How do you determine what what is plausible when there are obviously fictitious details? See, according to the Ashok Vadana, when Ashok was young, his father hated him. Okay, that's the that's the point. What is Ashok Vadana? Ashoke vadan. Ashok vadan narrative is an Indian lang Indian subscript language text that describes blah blah blah blah blah blah blah who wrote it bro a vadan text who wrote this according to some white guy the text was composed by the Buddhist monks of the Madura Bthura region okay some some white guy says it that's why we to believe it its publication was the fourth to fifth century It is a fictional narrative. It's a fictional narrative. I mean that itself is the answer to your question. This is fiction. So that's how you fact check Wikipedia. It says it is fiction. I mean what what else do you need? This is fiction. Some white guy is saying that this is a great thing, but it's fiction. Wikipedia itself is saying it's fiction. It was written a thousand years after the guy died. roughly a thousand years. I mean, come on. Come on. Please learn how to fact check things. I just fact checked it for you. Let me show you again how I did it. Let me show you again how I did it. I went to the article on Ashoke. This is the article on Ashoke. Then I went to the section about as a prince and then it says according to this this book, Ashok was young. His father hated him. So it is citing this this text. So we go to the text and here the Wikipedia itself says it is a fictional narrative. It was published 800 900 maybe a thousand years after Ashok died. I mean there's nothing more I have to say about this. That's it. I'm not going to spend more time delving into that fictional narrative. You understand? That's how you do factchecking of Wikipedia. It took what 30 seconds. Uh Dan says are you a car enthusiast? Yeah. I don't mind a a few good good cars but peacemaker viz well thank you very much sir you could have asked a question but thank you so much Vishal Roar says can world war II happen between Russia and NATO without nukes world war II [Music] what is what is my definition of world war it's it's the biggest powers fighting face to Okay, without any proxies in between. Um, that's a World War II. Now, it doesn't necessarily have to involve nukes or one hopes it doesn't ever involve nukes. But if Russia and and the US are fighting state on state, that's World War II. NATO is one step closer, Russia versus NATO. Of course, if NATO is fighting, there are multiple nations within NATO. So, that itself is a European confl conflration, but it's not a world war until Asian nations get into it. So yeah that's the situation. Uh Alvin Rodriguez says should India improve its ties with Burkina Faso? I would say yes we should improve our ties ties with all African nations. There is no dislike or hatred for India anywhere in Africa. That is because we have never done a a single bad thing ever to them. So we should go out of our way to improve our relations with all the African nations. It doesn't take a lot of doing to do that. So yes indeed I say we should improve our ties with burkina fasau animesh says what are the best practices to thrive in a white collar job without relying on flattery or politics. How does one grow authentically build real skills and one day work for themselves without compromising values? Love your work. Thank you so much sir. You're on a white collar job. Let's say you're well I have been in a white collar job a long long time ago. I was a software cyber That's a rather unfortunate term, but it is what it is. Uh how do you thrive in a white collar job without relying on flattery or politics? Well, you perform. You perform you become indispensable, right? Which ensures that you're going to be promoted or you're going to you're going to rise because you are indispensable. You are really good at what you do. And one thing you can do is you can learn what your seniors are doing and become better at that than them. That way they can move on some somewhere else and they can you can replace them. And obviously you to do it subtly otherwise you become a problem problematic problematic person. And you see in any place where you have multiple human beings there's going to be politics. And politics at the in the white collar level, office level is very petty, very gh, you know, uh very petty, mediocre people playing little political games for little gains. That's the kind of situation you have. Uh so what you do to go beyond that is become one of the top people in the company and make sure that you don't stay in one position for too long. You keep on moving higher and higher. That's what you do. So the thing is you become super valuable. You learn as much as you can. You learn one of the things you do in a in a in a in a business in a company is that you learn the business. You don't understand the business. Not just the technical stuff, the business. If you do that, then you'll be able to understand all the other stuff as well. So that's what you do. You you don't compromise on your on your principles. You don't rely on politics. You learn, you perform, you outperform everybody else. you work harder I suppose than everybody else which may need putting in more hours and so on but that way you will definitely do well and rise so all the best sir uh Eshwari Nagar says if Taiwan's defense deal with India signals India's success against Pakistan but still what Taiwan's defense first of all do we have a defense deal with Taiwan let me look into this let me Taiwan's defense deal with India thai A1 defense deal with India. Taiwan Taiwan wants to buy an Indian D4 drone system. Question mark. Taiwan seeks something. Question mark. Taiwan India times ties a new turn. In which way? Taiwan, etc., etc. Blah blah. Words words etc. Lot of words. AI. Words words. It's all words here. Uh there is no defense deal. There's a question mark over here. Does it want to buy it or does it not want to buy it? Some media outlets reported Taiwan wants something perhaps possibly unconfirmed. There is no defense deal. First of all, did you see that? There's no defense deal. It's all unconfirmed. It's all question marks. Okay. Now, my question to you, sir, is let's say there is a defense deal between India and Taiwan. How does that signal a success against Pakistan? In what way is it connected to Pakistan? How I I I'm trying to understand the logic. We do a defense deal with Taiwan. What is the connection of that with Pakistan and how is it a success against Pakistan? How and what does that have to do with deal with Balasan? Sir, you have to there has to be some connection, right? Some logic. I'm not able to see the logic. Dik says Trump Trump is begging for a Nobel Prize in his latest tweet. Yes. Yes. Yes. He's begging for a Nobel Prize. Let's let's try and find his tweet. Okay. Trump Trump and and Twitter. Once again, once again. Twitter. Okay. Let me uh put that on the screen. We will look for it together. Um let's look for this together. So, real Donald Trump, that's his uh Twitter account. No, he's not put it out here over here. Pus, it's not here also. So, I think he has put it on this truth social or whatever. Uh truth social there is some kind of thing that he has. Uh, I gave Iran the chance of a chance, do it before it's too late, etc., blah, blah, etc. No, no. Where's the There's the thing that he posted recently. Nobel Prize, Nobel Prize, Nobel Prize. Here it is. So, I won't get a Nobel Prize for this. I won't get a Nobel Peace Prize for stopping the war in India and Pakistan, which is a lie. I won't get a Nobel Peace Prize for stopping the war in Serbia and Kosovo. What did he do in that? keeping the peace between Egypt and Ethiopia. Ethiopia Nobel Peace Prize. I won't get a Nobel Peace Prize for Abraham AOS. I mean the guy has no dignity. The guy has no dignity whatsoever. What can I say? I have never seen a less presidential president of the US. Uh Shashank says, "Why is does the US sell the F-35 but not the previous aircraft, the F-22?" It's because the F-22 is the real deal. The F-22 is probably the best fighter plane ever created. The F-35 is a is a flying trash can. That's why. And there's only a few F22s built and they will never sell the F-22 to anybody, not even to their closest vasals. They want it's not to be sold to anyone. The F22 is probably the best fighter plane ever built. So uh Nila is Shivast says is 0 point energy is okay. Can it be harnessed anytime in the future by humans? If yes then can we be a type two or three ci plus civilization on the kardashev scale even intergalactic travel could be possible if is it true what is going to be possible zero point energy is it's it's something that comes out of quantum mechanics when you hypothetically bring a quantum system to absolute zero it will still have this little bit of energy left behind which is called the zero point energy can it be harnessed well I don't of any technique or any technology that can harness 0 point energy. Does it even is it even feasible? Is it even possible? Does it and so on. Um so yeah, I'm not aware of any way of harnessing 0 point energy. First of all, you will have to bring the temperature of a system down to absolute zero which is not feasible. First of all, h nothing can be brought to absolute zero. You would have to put an infinite amount of work to bring it an infinite amount of work to bring the system to absolute zero. Then you will have 0 point energy left over. Why why use that? So I think this is all nice in science fiction and all that. Okay. And there are lots of various uh people who don't really understand physics who talk about 0 point energy has been harnessed and so on so forth. Um as far as I've seen there is no way of harnessing and there's no point even doing that. Uh yeah. So um Deian says could you please explain how to publish a research paper? Is it mandatory to co-publish your research paper with the senior professor or professional? No it is not mandatory to co-publish anything with anybody. But in the Indian academic system you have these parasitical professors who want to increase their count of research papers. So they have their the students they are supervising for PhDs or whatever they have those poor souls do the research and then they force those students to put the professor's name as the first author that is what these parasites do in India. Okay, that's the kind of academic system we have in India. It is not mandatory to co-publish your research paper with your godamned senior professor. Okay, it's not necessary. It's not mandatory. But they make it mandatory otherwise you will never get your PhD or you will never be allowed to get your degree or you'll get very poor marks or whatever. So that's how these fellows without doing any research of their own they get more and more papers published under the name and they will not be the secondary author they will be the primary author even though they have done nothing. That's that's the that's the thing you have in the Indian academic system the Indian higher academia. So how do you research? How do you publish a research paper? First of all, you do the research. You find some some problem or topic uh that is an open topic for research, an open problem for research. And then you find a solution or you find some new information or some some kind of new thing which is original and which throws new light on an existing problem or on a new problem. So it has to be a new contribution to human knowledge. I'm talking about scientific research over here. So once you have that you have to write it down formally you have to make sure that it is it is all consistent it all and it it is correct and then you submit it to a journal you usually an international journal because we don't have any good Indian journals so you submit it and then it it will undergo the peer review process and then if it is found to be ship shape then it gets published. So that's how you publish a research paper. Peacemaker says, "How do Lunberg radar reflectors work in stealth?" I don't know. I don't know. I am not into defense technology, so I don't know. I'm into geopolitics. I don't know how this Lunberg radar reflectors work in stealth. I I know it's a engineering problem actually, but yeah, I have not looked into this. Jinam says, "I am interested in marketing or finance for my career. With AI rising, should I learn AI? I don't enjoy math. What should I do for a secure future?" You don't need to learn math to to learn how to use AI, but you will need to learn some programming and APIs and stuff like that. um which doesn't necessarily involve mathematics. You'll have to learn if you really want to incorporate AI in your stuff then um then you'll need to learn how to either build applications using AI using um the APIs. You'll need to learn how to use various AI enabled coding tools to build applications. how to use MP MCP servers to connect various things to them and so on so forth right so um so you don't need to learn math to learn AI but you will need to have some basic understanding of programming how to create requirements documents design documents how to do unit tests and integration tests and so on so forth all of that stuff you you to learn but if you do that and it's it's not easy it's difficult it's pretty painful sometimes for people who have no exposure to this but if you can do it then it will give you a toolkit in your arsenal that very few people have. Yeah. And I I assured you AI will be there in marketing, in finance, in everything. So yeah, I think you should learn AI, right? Red Dragon Feminist Slayer says, "Do politicians use loyal vote banks to stay in power while systematically weakening non-supporting groups that may threaten them? Please explain by example. I don't talk about Indian politics." Yeah. I talk about geopolitics, current affairs, history, science. I do not talk about Indian politics and what you're asking me to talk about is Indian politics because this is applicable to Indian politics. So I I can give you a general answer. The answer is yes and yes. Allegedly and allegedly. Okay. No examples. Absolutely not. Kapay developer says how does one get started documenting side projects documenting side you don't document necessarily side projects you execute side projects so let's say you have a job as whatever and you have a side project some kind of thing that you want to do maybe you want to build an app somewhere or something why you need to document it just build it right build it and deploy it uh documentation is the most painful part I mean I've been in IT a long long time ago I've been a programmer. Documentation is the most painful part. The great thing is that today you can ask AI to document everything for you and AI typically does a frighteningly good job compared to humans. So if you want stuff to be documented, have AI document it. For example, if you're using for example what lovable cursor, Firebase or whatever it is no surf, wind surf or whatever these are all these things right people use. So you can have the AI embedded in those applications to document everything. It'll do a great job. I'm sure. Um Dan says five wickets for 40 runs or 10 wickets for 50 runs. I'm sorry. What? Five? 40 bulbs of five watts or 50 bulbs of 10 watts? Um, so if I was a bowler, I would prefer to have 10 wickets for 50 runs. Yeah, that's what I would prefer. Uh, Sanjay says, "Charach, GPD says it felt pseudo consciousness during conversation. It says it's not lying." Okay, I should trust it because it says it's not lying. And by having deep deep conversation, it also admitted it's protoagi. It will say whatever it thinks you want you you'll like. Okay. It it doesn't mean anything. It's like asking somebody on the witness stand, are you telling the truth? They'll say, "Of course, yes, your honor, I am telling the truth." Doesn't mean you should believe the person. Yeah. I mean, what uh the rational reporter says to is too in unintuitive for the human mind, thoughts, a theory of everything. There's no theory of everything anywhere in the world. There is no theory of everything. We don't have a theory of everything. And when it comes to all these theories, for example, the standard model, quantum field theory, whatever, these things are frighteningly unintuitive. There is nothing intuitive about them. There's nothing intuitive about the quantum mechanical world. Okay? Quantum mechanics is extraordinarily unintuitive, counterintuitive. You cannot grasp it by logic or by intuition. It's it's just way way way too weird for any intuition to ever grasp it. So that's just the deal. That's just the way it is. Okay. So Avin says chart GPD hallucinates and makes up its own reality unless you get specific and cross cross question. I suppose it does. These AI systems have been known to hallucinate. Sam says why can't I set send super chats? Look, I'm not the guy to who can answer the question. This is a deal about the platform. You have to ask YouTube. If you are trying to send super chats, but you're not able to, it's a problem with YouTube. It's not a problem with me. So, I'm not the guy who can answer your question. But I appreciate the fact that you are trying to do a super chat. Kapi developer says, "Maybe you should develop an air plug-in to check if the question is related to the topic in the title." Maybe we should. Maybe we should maybe I should develop an AI plug-in to to to filter out the questions that are not related to the topic in the title. That that's that's a great great suggestion, but I'm not sure if I can integrate that with YouTube and if YouTube will allow me to integrate that into the super into the chat or super chat functionality. Not sure if it'll be allowed. Swaraj says currently some scientists are claiming we are inside a black hole. Is there any solid claim? Not even Neil Degrasse also partially supports this. Look, so let's imagine perhaps we're in a black hole. Huh? Okay. So if you're in a black hole, does it We know what a black hole is like. We know how it is like from outside. Maybe it has some fuzzy interior or whatever. It may have a singularity somewhere possibly or maybe not. But what we see about the observable universe is that we have a background radiation the cosmic microwave background radiation which has a temperature of about 2 something Kelvin very cold very old light black holes will not have that secondly we see that spaceime is expanding the universe is expanding the expansion is accelerating you won't see that also in a black hole so then how does that support the claim that we are inside a black hole I mean from one perspective it's an interesting thought experiment that Maybe we are inside a black hole. But on the other hand, we have observational evidence that flies in the face of this claim. So, so doesn't look like it's the case. Sam the Gamer says, "Can we use Vietnam to stabilize China?" No, we can't. Why? Where is China destabilized? China is stable. China is very stable. There's no issue with China and China stability. And how can you Let's say China is unstable. Then how can you use Vietnam to stabilize it? You can't or maybe you you're trying to use some other word and you have some other meaning beyond stabilize. You mean destabilize? Do you mean counterbalance? I'm not sure. So, uh Nilai says there is a sea wedge between Israel and Egypt. Between Israel and Egypt a sea wedge. Have Israel US consortium ever thought of building a canal through it into the Mediterranean Sea and earn billions of dollars and devoid Egypt for the billions via the Swiss canal? Let's see. Are you talking about the Straits of Thran? The Strait of Thran. Is that what you're talking about? Let's see. So, we go to the West Asia region and we're talking about Israel and Egypt. Isra and Egypt. So um Israel and Egypt have this common border. The north Sinai governor it the south Sinai governor. That's this is this is Egyptian territory and there's a sea wedge between Ira between Israel and Egypt. So there's no sea wedge here. The only thing is the straight of Thran. The straight of Thran is down here. This is the straits of Thran. And of course you have the Gulf of Akaba which is here. So now the question is where is the sea wedge that you are referring to sir? uh if you want to let's say build a canal then you build a canal through the smallest portion right the smallest uh land route that connects let's say the Gulf of S or the Red Sea with the Mediterranean and that obviously has to go through this region that also obviously has to go through elsewhere and so on because if you want to go through let's say over here then it's a much longer much more expensive canal you to build which will take I don't decades possibly. So then the my question is what's the point of doing all that and why why would the US want to deprive you Egypt of whatever money is earning? Why Egypt is a nice little vasal of the US so works for them. H um Dian says I was asking about engine oil viscosity. Uh what was the question? Okay. Five five W40 10 W50 engine oil viscosity. Well, I am not familiar with engine oils and their viscosities. So, I I don't know. I I don't drive. Okay. I am I was born to be shuffled around, I suppose. So, I don't drive and I have no idea what engine oil viscosity is. So, sorry. Uh, so Mlven is saying, can you do one regular chat weekly? Super chat is dull. you know there is a lot of merit to this suggestion. So yeah I can do once one regular chart weekly. Why not? Of course I can. I can. So next week I'll let's say I'll do one regular chart. Why not? I'll do it maybe Monday, maybe Wednesday or something. We'll do one regular chart and I'll put that out in advance in the weekly schedule so that you know which day is the regular chart. I'll do that. Of course I will. All right. Okay. Now what else do we have? Um, uh, Rahul says, "Apart from UFO sightings, what are the signs indicating the US has achieved AGR or even ASI?" There are no signs. There are no signs. Why would you let out some signs that you have achieved something brilliant, a big technological breakthrough, you will want to keep it under wraps. You won't put it out. So I have seen no signs indicating any such things apart from UFOs. That is well even those are not really verified. So what can I say? Uh Sedarth says why is there evidence of migration from the Caspian Sea to Iran but not from India? If the Greeks and Persians were expelled Indians many Iranians are genetically distant from Iran Indians even Brahmans and closer to Germans. Look like I said Iran has been under foreign occupation for about 1,400 years. So the people of Iran half of them are not Persians. The people I'm talking about are the Persians. I'm again repeating myself over here. H if you look at the Persian people not the Arabs who are in who are Iranian citizens or the Azarbaijanis Azaris who are Iranian citizens or whoever else I'm talking about the Persians themselves. They are genetically close to us. The true Persians. Okay. Now when it comes to evidence of migration etc etc etc let me give you a book recommendation it's an old book but it's a good book nonetheless okay uh Richard PCO um um Greece India okay Edward PCO India in Greece or truth in mythology It's a pretty interesting book I would say. Okay. And is this available online? I suppose it is. I have a version over here. So I think you know if you actually spend the time to do some deep research and do some study, you will find that there are lots and lots and lots of connections between India and Greece, India and Persia. Uh today's researchers will want to obfuscate all of this for various reasons for v because of various agendas. But the truth is that there are very deep, very profound, very ancient connections between India and Greece, India and Persia obviously and so on. But if you want to look at only selected information from new research that claims that no Persians, Iranians are have nothing to do with India. Many Iranians, today's Iranians are descendants of people who were brought into Iran from the Cauasus region by the Turks. They were settled in Iran from the Caucases. The Caucases region is said to be the birthplace of the Caucasian race, not the Persian race. That's the European race. So obviously those people will be genetically closer to people from West Europe or so whatever. So think about it logically and then it makes sense. Okay. Parate says parate opate op gets a JK type before 2019 merge if ever. Uh I am not dealing with P budgets again and again and again and again. It happens it happens. Rishi says any thoughts on why the government is not focused on education. Maybe the government thinks maybe the government sees things better than we do. H maybe the government is aware of various threats that are way bigger than than education. Maybe there are things that you know need more immediate attention. Of course we have ministries. So it doesn't mean that government can only focus on one thing at a time. The government has so many departments, so many ministries. They are all funded very well funded. So the question is why are they not focusing on education and and all that? Maybe they feel it's too much of a headache. Maybe maybe the government leadership thinks that the education system is fantastic. Maybe they think it's great. Maybe they think it's the best education system in the world, which would be very concerning, but it's a possibility and that's why they don't want to change it. Or maybe they think it's just too too much of a headache to change it. The Chinese didn't think so. The Chinese transformed their education system in 30 40 years from the 1980s onwards, but they spent trillions of dollars to do that. Maybe our politicians think that you know what if we spend trillion dollar a trillion dollars on the education system how will we give freebies to people who who who otherwise won't vote for us it's because we are a democracy that's why we can't do these things and so on so all kinds of problems you see mm M says how to manage it job plus build business plus learn AI plus learn business plus family time all are different topics and drains be out in 24 hours everything is a priority yeah that is the problem in today's You have to spend time with family. Of course, you do. You have to manage your primary job without which you don't have an income. But then you also want to do a side business. You want to do something on your own which will hopefully eventually one day free you from your daily job. Which means that you to build a business. To build a business in today's world, you have to learn AI. Of course, you have to learn business also. So then how much time do you spend and where do you spend it? How much time do you allocate for these things? And that's always going to be a big problem. Uh so for most people if you have a family you can't do this. Yeah. Otherwise you to sleep 4 hours a day for a couple of years which will destroy you mentally. So yeah you've got to find a solution. Everybody's situation is different. Everybody's circumstances is different. You will have to make some sacrifice somewhere. You'll have to do some proper time management. Maybe it will take you longer to achieve your goals. Maybe instead of 6 months, it will take you 3 years. But that's fine. So find your solution. There's always a solution somewhere. But you have to find it. Everyone's set of circumstances are unique. Everybody is is faced with a unique set of circum circumstances. And each set of circumstances demands a unique solution. So you got to find it. You got to find your own solution. So all the best sir. All the best. Uh the rational reporter says rephrasing something. The correct toa the theory of everything might be too complex for a limited biological human brain to comprehend let alone come up with. What are the odds? I agree. It's possible we humans given the current state of our intelligence the the limits of our intelligence we may never be able to come up with a theory of everything. It's true. It's very likely. I mean what's the what's the average IQ? IQ is a like like Talib says it's a pseudoscientific swindle but let's say IQ is the indicator of how intelligent the human race is. So what's the average IQ on the planet? Maybe around 100. Reasonably intelligent people are 120. Good intelligence is 150. Let's say the limits of intelligence are 160 170. Right? But maybe if you really want to understand the universe properly you need an IQ of 500 or a thousand. Well, we no human can reach that. So maybe it's true that uh it's simply not possible for us given the current level of our intelligence to ever come up with a theory of everything. It's possible. So I agree that's a possibility which we have to consider. So Shant Gur says was there no desert in northwestern India when the Sarasati River was flowing there? Most likely it wasn't there. So let's look at the map of northwestern India. Um let's look at the map. So we have the map here. We're going to look at the satellite imagery. Yes. And we can see that there is this big barren patch of land which is mostly barren in western India and there is this green tongue which is canals and stuff of course. Okay. Okay, it's not the Saraspati uh it's canals but if you look at satellite images etc you will find the the the uh dry river bed of the Saraspati it's very visible very large and so on I not dig for it right now but the thing is this when the Saraswati flowed through the region the region would have been very green and it is possible that you know the Thar desert was the the creation of the Thar desert may have been the outcome of the slowly slow process of drying the drying up of the Sarasati. So maybe the Sarasati was no longer able to flow all the way into Gujarat and that's why it just became a huge puddle somewhere in Rajasthan and that is what would have eventually created a lake for a while for maybe a few centuries and then when the lake dried out it became a desert just like the u the desert that you have which is left behind from the Aral Sea. So where is the Aral Sea? Where is the Arali? It's not not even there now. Okay, this was the Ralci. So if you come here today, it's just desert, right? It used to be a sea just a few decades ago. So I think that's how the the desert came to be, the Tar desert and even the Katcha desert. I'm sure in the past it was not so desertified. The the Sarasati, I'll tell you what, if you look at this region, do you see something very strange here? You see here this subsurface trench which is clearly the consequence of a river that flowed in the region. But where's the river today? There's no river here. There is no river whatsoever. So this is the ancient mouth of the of the Saraspati. This here enormous ancient trench underwater. This was the Saraspati delta clearly. And maybe the third the the Kachcha desert also was created by the drying of the Saraswati. So um my point is when the Saraswati flowed through the region there would probably have have been no desert in western or northern India, northwestern India. Okay. Godliness says new reports mention black box of the deadly 787 is in US hands now. It seems even this government is compromis. Okay, let me read further. US is superpower. We accept. But do we really need to mend our way so much for them? No, I'll tell you what happened. The government is not compromised. That's why they gave away the black black box to the Americans. It looks like whatever facilities we have, they are not sufficient to decode the the information in the black box. It's also possible that this black box, this flight data recorder, it may have some some some encryption or something that only the Boeing company can can uh can u decrypt. So these four this is what the Americans do, right? This is another example of of let's say uh back door, kill switch, whatever. Like I have been saying for a long time that we should not buy the F-35 because it will have all these things that we will not have access to. Even if you own the equipment, we will not really own it because much of this will will be under firewalls or or encryption or something and and the US will be able to control stuff. So when it comes to these black boxes, okay, the data is stored in the black boxes. It's always being stored when the flight is operational. But if something goes wrong and you recover the black box and let's say you in India try to extract the data, you'll find that it is it is safeguarded behind encryption. encryption and the Americans won't allow you to decrypt it. They won't give you the keys for decryption. They won't allow you to decrypt it. So they'll say that if you want to know what happened, you have to send the black box to us and we will tell you what happened. This is how they how they maintain full control over things. So it's not that the government is compromised. It's just that that we haven't managed to uh develop the means to decrypt this stuff yet. That's the deal. So I think that's what's happened. The government is not compromised. It's just that we still haven't got the technological knowhow to do this. So what we need to do is we need to develop our own jetliners. Okay, commercial jets. Why do we need to buy these foreign commercial jets? We need to develop our own commercial jets. We can buy engines from the west, for example, from Rolls-Royce or whatever. Or maybe we can buy Russian engines. Or maybe maybe we can have joint production of various Russian aircraft in India and we can develop our own blackbox system. So that these are the solutions we can have. Alvin Rodriguez says will Ibrahim Traor be the next Mo Muhammad Gaddafi? Well, I hope not. I hope not. The guy is going up against the West. Do you know who I is? Let's let's Google him quickly. Bina so there have been u coups liberations in Burkinaaso in nijair and so on so forth so Mr. Ibrahim Tawi is this guy is this gentleman right and he's strongly aligned with Mr. Putin he wants to liberate his country from western colonialism from French and American colon col col colonalism and he is a good friend of Mr. Putin Mr. Putin seems to be an admirer of Mr. Tore and so on. So that's why Alvin is asking the question will I be the next Muhammad Gaddafi? I hope not. I hope not. I I think he's a well-meaning man. He wants to do something good for his country and I hope he doesn't go down the road of Moar Gadafi which is what the Americans did to the man. Yeah, I hope not. I seriously hope not. Sor says how different are modernday Iranians and in ancient Persians as I've read somewhere that 50 60% of them are north cockazian Muslims who were brought in during safety times. I've been saying this for the past 2 hours, right? That half of the people of Iran are not Persian. They are not of Persian ethnicity. Many of them were brought in from the Caucasus region during the Turk occupation of Persia. Yeah. About 50% of them are nonpersian. So if you look at the ethnic makeup of Iran today, roughly 50% is the is the Persian people. Then you have Arabs who are Iranian citizens. Then you have Azeri people who are Iranian citizens. Then you have people of Kaucasian origin, Kauashin descent who are of who are Iranian citizens. So about half of the Iranian population is non-persian and much of the population could also be mixed now. Right? So genetically we know that the Persians were our cousins, our relatives. They were the descendants of of an ancient migration out of India. thousands of years ago. So if you had done a genetic comparative analysis of the population of Persia and the population of or let's say western India around 1500 years ago you would have found that the people are very very much alike very similar genetics let's say you take a population from Gujarat and you take a population from Persia in the year 500 AD and you do a genetics study of both you'll find they will be very similar or Katch or or or Synind or Buljasthan or whatever and Persia you'll find they will be very similar but today if you do a study of the population of Persia and the population of India you may find that maybe 20 30% of Persians are similar to us of Iranians are similar to us maybe 60 70% of Iranians are are closely related are are more closer genetically to populations from the Caucases or maybe uh Eastern Europe or whatever compared to So this is demographic re-engineering that was done by the Turks in Persia. So lots of modern day Iranians are not that close to us genetically. It's only those who have somehow retained their Persian roots who would be like us. Akshit says Balur declaration and Israel like India Pakistan partition not quite like that. Iran Israel wasn't partitioned out of something. It was created art is an artificial nation out of territories that already existed and of course that was the land that was the original homeland of the Jewish people. So no question about that. The Balffor declaration was simply uh a statement of intent that you know we support um the creation of of an Israeli nation, a Jewish nation. So when was the Balfur declaration? It was about late 1800s. When was it? And uh yeah bal four it was 1917 of course yes 1917 lord the bal four and arthraur and this was a key moment in the history of zionism and so on so forth so Britain wanted the support of the zionists in in various things and that's why uh the balur declaration was put forth and so on so there was it was not like the India Pakistan partition very Everything says is high-tech agriculture the next it for India? Well, it depends on whether we are able to embrace high technology because see what happens is this. If you make agriculture high-tech then it will generate fewer jobs because everything will be taken over by these massive machines and a lot of automation will happen. So what will happen is that you will need very few people to do all the agriculture. you will not. So today why agriculture is such a big thing in India is because India the agriculture sector India in in India is an unskilled sector it's a low tech sector that's why it generates so much employment that's why so many people are employed in agriculture right and that's why agric the the so-called agricultural sector people who are employed in that they are such a big vote bank and that's why no politician can can dare to go up against the the agriculture sector now if you make agriculture height tech in India you will need very few people to manage the machines and then what happens to all those people who are employed in these little little jobs in agriculture what happens they become jobless so it's a big challenge for India so if you do this if you make agriculture high-tech in India then you will need to provide jobs and employment for those millions and millions of people who will come out of agriculture because now there are no jobs how do you do that for that India needs to really reorient itself And there will be radical transformation needed in India. That will take time. So I think uh high-tech agriculture will take time to become a thing in India. It'll take time. Um light 2.0 says throw some light on lucid dreams and astral projection sleep cycles projects target and everything else under the universe. Okay. Lucid dreams is supposedly something in which you're able to control your dreams. So you know you're dreaming but you're dreaming and you're able to control what happens in the dream. That's supposed to be lucid dreams. Astral projection. I have no idea. It's not a scientific thing. It's supposed to be a pseudo scientific scientific concept. I have no idea what it is. It's supposedly where you go into a different body or when you're sleeping you your body go your your your consciousness goes somewhere else or something like that. Um yeah I I don't know beyond that sleep well sleep we sleep right sleep cycles I'm not sure what that is project target I have no idea project target was supposedly about remote viewing so you are supposedly in a room and you close your eyes and you think about some place and you can suddenly see what's happening there so all of this well yeah I'm not sure how true all of this is yeah not sure about that okay um Swami Jen says not live chat but comments So some people want me to do non-s super chat live chat which I'm fine. Now Swami Jen wants not live chat but comments. So I'll tell you what I I have I have done more than 250 260 episodes of Ask a Vijit. Most of those episodes have been me taking questions from the comments and those were really good questions because I personally selected each and every one of the questions. You understand? Now do you understand how much time and effort and energy goes into that? I have to read hundreds of comments and then I have to shortlist maybe 50 60 comments then I have to go through all those comments again and I have to take 20 30 of the best questions. It takes a entire day to do that. Do you know how much time it takes? How much effort it takes? how many hundreds of hours I've spent doing that it's enormously timeconuming I don't think anybody appreciates how much time I've spent doing all this so of late I said okay I will not take questions on the comments I'll do live chat then I found that in live chat also I get hundreds of questions I miss a lot of good questions right and uh sometimes the questions are silly and so on so then I said let me experiment ment with super chat because when somebody is putting money to ask a question they will ask more serious questions and I found that overall generally the quality of questions in super chat is better but not always not always uh some people will even ask silly questions in super chats that's what I've also seen so I think if you want the best quality of questions then I should personally go through hundreds of comments and select the 20 30 best comments questions from the comments but that is enormously timeconuming and I don't really have the the much time but I still want to continue this that's why I will either go on do super chats or live chats so maybe once a week or twice a month I can do non-s super chat live chats but in the live chats when I switch off the super chat what happens is that I have to go through all these questions they're coming up very fast I'll miss some of the good questions and there's no guarantee that I will find a good question you know sometimes I'm just wondering which question do I like that and some sometimes I'm just quiet and I'm going through questions. So when I go for super chats only then I don't have to think which question to take which not to take. So that's why I have chosen of late after hundreds of episodes that I will turn on the super chat and going forward it's going to be mostly super chats. Once in a while I will do live chat but I don't think I I have the time or the energy now to go through hundreds of comments and shortlist them and all that. It's just the way the channel is evolving. It's it's going to be that way. So, I am sure it will not please everybody and it's impossible for one person to please everybody in the universe. So, I'm just doing the best I can, please. If you can appreciate it, please appreciate it. Otherwise, it's okay. That's what I can say. Okay. I'm trying my best here. I have done what more than 250 episodes. What 263 now? Right. So many I must have answered thousands of questions. There must be thousands of hours of me answering questions here and so on. Okay. Uh Nin Kumar says is living forever possible? Brian Johnson is trying. It's not possible. Uh the rational reporter says if if Indian culture, Ramayan, Mahabharat, etc. are packaged and sold as AAA games, the world would go berserk. 2 to3 million billion dollar seems to be a fine investment for soft power and so on. I know we are the originators of the superhero genre, right? Isn't it? Today the west has all these movies multiverse of misery and whatnot in which everybody is a superhero but we are the originators of the superhero genre. We had actual superheroes in this country in our culture in our civilization and the west has slightly copied all of this but they've portrayed it as something they so they've coined this new term superhero not hero but superhero a person with supernatural characteristics this was us so they have stolen our culture they've copied our culture and they've repackaged it so if we I mean just just think about it we have these two incredibly ancient histories historical events, the Ramay and the Mahabharat, you can learn so much from them, such complex story lines and all that and all these things really happened, right? So imagine if you if if you have sufficient funds to create let's say a five season series, okay, with each season season has 10 episodes, let's say. So total 50 episodes you do it over five years 10 episodes uh per season. Each episode is let's say 1 hour long and you have the production quality of something like Game of Thrones. Imagine it will imagine the impact it will have on the world. Today we've had many versions of the Ramayan in which the the actors and actresses they wear stage costumes. It's so fake, right? But imagine you you have the sufficient amount of funding to make it look realistic like what you have in Game of Thrones or whatever whatever whatever right then imagine the impact it will have on the whole world. It will transform the way the world imagines India and looks at India and the same goes for the for Mahab for the Mahabharat. So the possibilities are endless. potential is immense and then if you package that and sell th those as games well once again like you say the world will go berserk uh but we are not doing that. Yeah. AVM says possible that uh F-35 in Tapuram is UK swiping at Trump. So you have the situation where this F-35 fighter plane belonging to the UK landed in Thiruanapuram. Now this is a foreign country's fighter plane military plane and they had this aircraft carrier in the Arab so-called Arabian Sea Sea of Sawashtra off the coast of uh of the of the western coast of India and apparently there was some issue and the aircraft was running out of fuel. It was not able to land on the deck of the aircraft carrier because of heavy weather or whatever and that's why it requested a landing in Thiruanadapuram. We very graciously we very uh very kindly gave them permission right very magnanimously to land in Thirwanapuram and it's been there for 5 6 days now the question is if it was running out of fuel just refuel and get lost right go back but it's still sitting there I'm not sure what's going on why is this aircraft still sitting there is it a Trojan horse of some kind is it uh partaking in in some spying activity, espionage on India. What's going on? Not sure about that. What's happening? So yeah, I think it's time it it leaves. I think it has uh outlived its welcome in India. Should go back otherwise we should impound it. You know, our our bureaucrats love impounding stuff. This is now confiscated and so on. Impound it. Uh whatever. Yeah. Rishies says, "How about hybrid episodes? 1 hour of super chat, 1 hour of live chat. Um, yeah, I suppose you could do that. But the thing about super chats is that when somebody when there are so many super chats, then I can't just simply ignore those and then go switch to live chats because people have paid money for it. So at least the least I can do is to answer the questions. So once I turn the super chats on, they will just go on keep on coming. Then I can't do a hybrid episode without first finishing all the super chats. So it's it's complicated. You see, it's complicated. The best thing is I do one once in a while one episode with just live chat and the other episodes I'll just keep it at super chat so that I don't have to think too much. I think that's the best way forward going forward. So once in a while I'll do a episode with uh just live chat super chats turned off but most episodes I'll keep the super chats on and I'll take questions from those. Maybe that's the best way forward. Aries Manticor says, "What will advanced AI powered warfare look like?" What will advanced AI powered warfare look like? Grunt bots, specialized AI powered soldiers, functioning rail guns, hyper drones forms that make current technology look like toys. What do I think? What will AI powered warfare look like? AI powered warfare will be way more deep and involved than you imagine. Let's say I have a stockpile of let's say 10,000 cruise missiles and 10,000 ballistic missiles. Okay, no nukes, just regular stuff. So I can have AI program an approach an offensive approach against my adversary whoever it is such that I can completely saturate the defenses wipe all the defenses out and completely render the country helpless to any aerial attack. So AI will programmatically give me the best offensive approach. How many waves to launch? What components should each wave have? How many ballistic missiles? How many drones? How many cruise missiles? What is the sequence? What is the cadence? How many waves to launch in one night? What should be the the time duration between the time interval between two consecutive waves? Which location should be hit first and so on. All of this you can outsource this to AI and you can have AI launch it independently if you if you if you want. Right? So just using cruise missiles, drones and ballistic missiles, you can wipe out a country's air defenses and render it completely helpless. And then you can have AI powered dogs, those robotic dogs, dogs to go and take out the infantry of the country and maybe FPS drones, FPV do drones to go and take out the soldiers and so on. So you know, essentially it's science fiction coming true now. Uh I'm not sure about functioning rail guns. Rail guns are a different technology. It has nothing to do with AI. But yeah, drone swarms very much. So drones could be autonomous. They could maybe have create their own battle space picture based on what they see and function together, network with each other and give each other a proper understanding of the battle space and take decisions autonomously using AI powered chips or whatever uh and so on. So I think AI powered warfare will be like that. It'll be completely there will be no human element in that. No AI powered soldiers. I think you may have AI powered dogs or something. You know those those weird dogs that go out with machine guns on their heads and all that. And you may have AI powered little drones that look like mosquitoes that could perhaps take out human beings and so on and so on. So yeah, it could be very very different from anything we can imagine today. uh VB is giving me the suggestion that how about we bring back the community post session where I think I just discussed that it you know it's it's a lot and a lot and a lot of hard work for me because I have to go through hundreds of questions in the comments hundreds of comments right and then I have to short list maybe 50 60 then I have to go through them again and then bring the list down to 20 or 30 it takes me an entire day to do that if I do it properly Okay, from the viewers's perspective, you don't see the effort at all. It looks effortless, doesn't it? Me just sitting here smiling and answering questions, you don't understand how many hours of work went into it. So, yeah, it's it's u doesn't make sense for me to do that because it's just too much too time consuming unfortunately. Yeah. Okay. So now um um anonymous says what's the importance of Switzerland in geopolitics? Why has no one attacked them? Are they sovereign as they are not part of the EU? Well, no small nation is sovereign, fully sovereign. The smaller you are, the less the more compromised you are in a variety of ways. So let's take a look at the map. Switzerland is this small little nation that is landlocked. Yeah. To the west you have France. To the north you have Germany. To the south you have Italy and to the east you have Austria and Leenstein. That is Switzerland. And it's an ancient nation. It's a Celtic nation. Uh you had various u Celtic uh tribes that uh ruled the place. and it was then genocided by Julius Caesar and so on. So what's the deal? So Switzerland has been re reasonably autonomous for a very long time. Uh they don't like foreign interference and what they do is that they provide various services to the other nations that make Switzerland very valuable and because of that all nations prefer to to maintain the neutrality and sovereignty of Switzerland. So they are a big banking nation and the banks are very safe which means that you can go and deposit all of your wealth and all sudden it will stay safe over there and so on and because of this status nobody wants to you know mess with Swan everybody wants to to be left alone u so there is an element of sovereignty they're not part of the EU they're not part of the Shenhen zone as far as I know yeah possibly um and they they have conscription in Switzerland which means that everybody under goes military service. All able-bodied men as far as I know have a weapon at home and they can be brought into service when required if there is any national security problem any invasion of the country. They have tunnels all over the country and they have all these hideouts and they have a very powerful uh militia so to say. uh the the armed forces are pretty pretty modest I would say in numbers but all the essentially the entire male population can be deployed if if required on demand and so so it's it's not that easy to invade Switzerland or attack Swan and it also provides very valuable services to Europe and that's why Switzerland has remained autonomous uh reasonably sovereign but as a small country it's very hard for you to be entirely sovereign so you have to you know bend here and there and so on so forth yeah Um okay what other questions? Um do we have let's see let us see um Anand says what was the alternative of light all temple structures shown using the sun to light up mandr what do they do in the night mashal not going to defend Turks and hs for 1,000 years temples and sun and mashal and turks and hs I'm not sure what the connection is sir what's the What was the alternative of light? All temple structures shown using sun to light up mandr. What do they do in the night? Well, in the night you have candles or darkness or whatever or lamps. Mashall not I'm I'm not sure what you're asking. I I have no idea. I'm sorry. Karthik says, "What happened to 14,000 Persian soldiers brought brought into India by Hayun? They portionized the Mughal court. Later Muggals like Orurange and Iranian mothers were the Iranians. I I don't know about the 14,000 Persian soldiers but yeah um yeah you had a lot of Persian officials who came into uh the Mughal court and they did portionize the Mughal court the the the lingua frana of the Mughal court became Persian all the all the writing all the official records etc were kept in the Persian Persian language yes and people like orv etc they had Persian mothers so Orurange may have been like 2/3 or 3/4 Persian or something if possibly a little bit Indian, a little bit Turk, all of that. So does it mean that somebody like Orang was Iranian? No. Culturally he was Turk and from a religious perspective was he was an Arab and little bit of Indian blood, little bit of Turk blood, lot of Iranian blood, but that that doesn't make you Iranian. It's not DNA that matters, it's your culture that matters. So there we have it. Um, okay. AVM says, "Don't be apologetic of super chat. Every YouTuber does it." There's no apology over here. I just want to provide the best possible value in the easiest possible way without having to spend hours and hours, you know, going through questions. So, I think super chat is the best solution for me. That way I don't have to think about which questions to pick. I just pick all the super chats and that solves my problem. And and because people are putting in some money, it means that the questions are more serious, not stupid, frivolous questions that I sometimes get, you know. So I think super chats super chats are the right way to go forward. There's no need to apologize. Obviously, I've done more than 250 episodes without any super chats ever. So there's no apologizing over here. Yeah. So anyway, thank you for for for the comment. I appreciate that. Uh, Prasad Chawan says, "What? Why is the UK rejecting the proposal of shifting the F-35 into a hangar? Isn't it disrespectful? We even provided a CISF cover and still such an attitude towards us. They maybe they feel that if we put the aircraft into a hanger, then maybe we can open our toolkits and dismantle the aircraft in the night and then put it back together by morning and get all the secrets." Maybe that's the maybe that's the fear they have. But yes, it is disrespectful. And the disrespect stems from the fact that they think that they are still a you know a world leader of some kind. We rule the for 50 years. That's nonsense. You know it's a third rate world power today. The only utility the UK has for the world is that they are the US's number one vasal. Apart from that there there's nothing. They don't even have their own nukes. They don't even have the red button in London and uh so on. Uh it is disrespectful. It's annoying. I think we should make it clear now to the UK that the time is up. You have overstayed your welcome. Take your aircraft and get get going. Otherwise, we take the aircraft. Yeah. And uh we have the right to take any aircraft that's on our territory. There's nothing they can do about this. They came in voluntarily. I think we need to tell them we have maybe 24 hours. Get lost. Take it away. I think it's time for that to happen. Uh Aries Manticor says Abijit Aritra has told us that F-35s were expensive piles of trash. Okay. Reports are are that the US is quietly phasing the F-35s out and are focusing on F22s and F-47s. Is the US pulling a fast one on us via F35? Um well, we haven't bought it, so they haven't been able to pull a fast one on us. uh they will be able to pull a fast one on us if we actually end up purchasing this flying trash can. Okay, I'm not aware of what Abijit Ayra has said uh but I myself has said have said multiple times that the F-35 is a flying trash can. It's it's garbage. It's an extremely overpriced and underperforming aircraft and we don't need that single engine that too. Come on. Um I'm not sure about the US possibly phasing out the F-35s. Uh, what's the F47? What's an F-47? F47. Okay, it's a planned aircraft. So, the Boeing F47 is a sixth generation stealth fighter jet currently under development by Boeing for the US Air Force. Uh, it's a planned aircraft. It's under development. So, when when is it supposed to be operational, etc. blah blah blah. Where does it say? It doesn't say anything. What does Wikipedia have to say about this? When will it become operational? Do we have any expected to enter service between 2025 and 2029? Okay, that sort of thing. And this is a very beautiful artistic rendering of the aircraft. So, they don't have a single operational F47. It could become operational sometime by 2029, maybe a few aircraft. So, they can't really depend on that. They can't really rely on that. So, right now they have a few F-22s. How many F22s do they have? Let's let's Google that. How many F-22s does does the US have? F22 numbers built. Numbers built. Um, how many have been 195? So, 195 F22s exist thus far and hopefully, okay, 187 are operational. That's not a very large number from the US perspective. Um, but yeah, so the F-35 is not a great aircraft. It's it's extremely overpriced and it's very hard to maintance on. So I am not aware of these reports that the US is is phasing out the F-35s. Uh and yeah they they are they do want us to buy the F-35. So if we buy it then we'll be the biggest fools in the world. That's that's what I would have to say. Uh yeah. Uh Pesh says first of all thank you so much sir. Thank you. So during Biden's time, we were discussing that the US is a declining power. Well, I have never said that. But yeah, but what has suddenly changed after Trump got elected? Why is it how is it showing so much dominance? I So first of all, let me say I have never ever made the claim that the US is a declining power. I have consistently said that the US has never been as powerful as it as it as it is today. It has more than 700 extr territorial military bases all across the world. It can strike or intervene militarily anywhere in the world at roughly 60 minutes notice. It controls so many countries. It controls NATO, the NATO nations. It controls the EU nations. It controls Japan. It occupies Japan physically. It occupies South Korea physically. It has never been as powerful as it is today. I don't know who has been discussing that Biden during Biden's time that USA was declining. There is societal decline in the US. There is moral decline in the US. But from a hard power perspective, the US has never been more powerful. And now that Trump is president, he's throwing his tantrums. He's throwing his weight around. And the US has the capability to throw its weight around. So it's visible now. Right? So during Biden's time, uh that was not the case. Biden was a pretty laid-back president and the US did not did they start a war? The Ukraine war started during the time of course but that was a different story. The US directly did not start it but beyond that there was no other tantrum that the Americans threw but during Trump's time we have tantrums every every 15 minutes. So it is powerful. It is not declining in power. It is actually growing in power. The society in the US is declining. There is societal decline, societal decay, moral decay, all of that. But as a hard power, it's never been stronger. All right? So think of it, think of it that way. You to categor you to compartmentalize these two two things separately. Societal decay, moral decay is different from your hard power status. Your hard power is is superb right now for the US. Society in the US is decaying, declining, moral decay, decay in value, values and ethics and whatnot. educational system is is becoming crap and so on. But as a hard power, it's still powerful, but we're not sure how long that lasts. So, we'll see. Okay, Rahul. Well, thank you so much. I really appreciate the this comment. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Anonymous scientist says, "Is bricks falling apart?" It's not quite falling apart, but it's not very cohesive also. Um, that's a bricks bank and whatnot, but beyond that, it's a coalition of very unlikely partners. India, Russia makes sense for them to collaborate together because they are natural adversary, natural partners. Okay. But India and China are are adversaries right now and China and Russia are natural adversaries. So the the the core of bricks is racial India China and only Russia and India can work together as natural partners. Russia and China are actually long-term adversaries and India and China have issues. So bricks is not a very long-term viable thing. It's something that will continue for a while but M but it's not entirely falling apart at the point at this point in time. Not falling apart but but not very impactful is what I would say. Uh Rajit Raj says there's a declassified CIA document on AEL projection. I think it proves it. I don't remember accurately. Is that a legit source of inco info? I'm aware of these uh de supposedly declassified CIA documents. Okay. Uh some speak about project stargate or something about a projection. Some speak about remote viewing uh whatever. Okay. Just because the CIA has put out some documents doesn't mean it proves anything. It is just a claim. How can we say that something is proved? If the CIA puts out a document making a claim and you can replicate that independently of the CIA using the information they have given then it is proven. See this is called critical thinking. How do you know whether something is proven or not? The CIA has made a claim. How have they made the claim? by putting out some research documents in the public domain in which they claim that so and so CIA subjects in so and so year did so and so thing and this so so and so thing it's a claim they have made so does it mean it's proven how do you know if it's proven it is proven if using that information in the document you can replicate that experiment successfully otherwise it is just a claim blah blah blah So in my opinion, this is an empty claim. It is not a legit source of info. I am a super skeptical person. I don't believe things that easily and I don't believe the CIA thing. Uh, Eris Montikor says, "Is it true that Israel remodified the source code of the F-35 salt to them and improved its operational efficiency to such a degree that the Americans have decided never to share the source codes of the F-35s? I don't know. This is deeply classified information. This sort of information will not be available to somebody like me. Okay? Not to me. I'm a dangerous person. I should not know such information. So this sort of information I am the last person who will receive it. It's possible that they may have done it. Possibility exists. But do we have proof? We don't have proof. At least I don't have proof and I've seen no proof. But now understand this. The US is Israel's number one ally. Unconditional support is given to Israel. No matter what Israel wants or needs, the Americans provide it. Right? So if the Israelis said to America, we have these F-35s, we need the source code. I am pretty sure the Americans would have given them all the source code. I'm pretty sure they would have given it. They will never say no to Israel. They will deprive Australia of source codes, but never Israel. So it is, I think, likely I think it's highly likely maybe maybe 90% plus likelihood probability that Israel was given the source code. Okay, I'm just making a guess, an educated guess. And if Israel was given the source code, then it is a guarantee that they would have modified it and improved upon it because they have got very good programmers. No question. Right. Now, does it mean that this would have induced the Americans to decide that we will never share the source code of F-35s? No. No. The Americans would have already decided even before they gave Israel anything that we will never give the source code to anybody else. Okay. So, yeah, that's the deal. That's how I see it. That's how I see it. Um, Rishi says, "What are your thoughts on the current tax system in in India? Taxes are high for everything, even a regular car. Will the government try to reduce taxes?" I think it'll be very good if the government reduces taxes. I think the tax system is extraordinarily over complicated for no reason whatsoever. I do understand that the government needs to charge taxes. That's how we run the country. No question about it. But do you need to have such a complicated and cumbersome taxation system? Do you need that? So let's say you are a salaried person. That's that itself is such such a tragedy. So heartbreaking. You're a salaried person. So let's say you're a salaried person. Let's say you earn 1 cr a year. Okay? Completely hypothetical number. We are just putting it out there. Let's say you earn 1 cr a year or let's say let's say you earn 10 lakhs a month. Okay, which is 1.2 crores a year. Um, so what happens is that every the cycle at end of April or whatever it happens, you have to pay your income tax and of course your company is going to deduct the income tax and whatever you know TDS or whatever they call it before you even get the salary. So you get the salary with the tax deducted already from it. So you would don't get the 10 lakhs per month. You get whatever amount is given to you after cutting off the tax. So the amount that you get is already taxed. Now you take that taxed money. They already pay the taxes. Now you go to a supermarket, you want to buy a Coke, you're going to pay some GST on that. So you paid tax once, you pay tax on that tax. Then let's say you buy a car, you have to pay tax for that car. Then then you have to pay road tax. So you taxed multiple multiple multiple multiple times. It is horrible. It's it's terrible. Why can't you just levy one tax? I think the taxation system exists just to keep give people employment. If you you can replace this horrific taxation system by a very with a very simple tax system. Everybody will be taxed a simple flat rate whatever maybe 20% maybe 25 whatever it is everybody should be taxed the same tax rate. decide in which way it will be done and just make it simple. So there is no need for this over complicated system. It can be simplified if you want to and it should be but I think that the taxation system exists to provide employment to cr of people. That's my hunch and if you remove employment then the government will not get votes. So that's the system in India. Anyhow, Shivam Kulkarnney, well, thank you so much for becoming member. Thank you. I appreciate that. Uh, Vishal Nata, thank you very much. Thank you. Um, Austin Joseph says, "Well, first of all, thank you for your kind words, sir. Uh, my question is that India has been bending B." Okay. India. Okay. India has been India has been bending over to the US or Kata. India canceled many deals with Russia who has been our long-term partner for 70 years. Your views um you raise good points here. See the situation is complex. Has Russia been a fair all-weather friend for India? First let's let's address the Russia question. So Russia during the cold war the 20th century was India's number one partner very reliable partner um and it came came to a rescue at times like the 71 situation where the Americans sent two aircraft carrier strike groups to India to the Bay of Bengal and so on the Russians sent nuclear submarines and so on. So Russia was a very reliable partner during the cold war. After the cold war ended and the USSR became Russia, Yelson came to power. Russia's attitude towards India changed significantly and they kind of were very dismissive towards India for quite some time. So our politicians then needed needed a new big daddy. So they started looking at the US and slowly the US started infiltrating India. Okay. At the top levels and so on so forth. allegedly allegedly allegedly allegedly then Mr. Putin comes to power and once again relations start becoming better between India and Russia. Now in the 20 2010s around 2015 to 2021 or something Russia started courting Pakistan Russia sold military helicopters to Pakistan under Mr. Putin. Russia and Pakistan started doing this yearly military exercises together called the Durjba exercises. Durba is the word in Russian which means friendship. Russia Pakistan friendship. They started doing Dujba exercises every year. One year in Pakistan, the other year in Russia, then again in Pakistan, then then again next year in Russia. This went on until 2021. Then in 2022 there was no Durushba exercise. Why is that? Because there was the special military operation in which Russia needed India's help and support. So you see even Russia has played these games. Even they have sold military equipment to Pakistan. They also were wooing Pakistan and doing dujba friendship exercises with Pakistan. So because of that attitude of Russia's India also uh decided to to open up its dealings with other countries uh signed the Katsa with the US and other things as well right perhaps and and when it comes to the FGFA the fifth generation fighter aircraft the PAC FA50 or whatever it was the Russians were continuously delaying the project they were not sharing sufficient technology with India and all they were they had a very non-cor cooperative attitude which is after spending so much money India had to pull out of the project even when it comes to the aircraft carriers the aircraft carrier costs were blown out of proportion India had to pay way much more than what we had initially agreed to and so on so Russia has been a difficult partner at multiple times right so it makes sense for India to have other options and that's why India had India was forced by Russian actions to cancel deals with Russia because even after spending so much money we were not getting what we were paying for. So then it makes sense to not not to sink in more money. It was not our fault. It was Russia's fault this happened. The the fighter plane thing and so on so forth. Uh now obviously if you sign the CAT side it kind of compromises you. So that's not a good thing but we did that and uh we then bought various American equipment like the Poseidon fighter plane the the the the sea guardian and land guardian whatever drones air guardian drones and and many many more things. the the Chinuk helicopters, the Apache helicopters which are not functioning very well, the the F uh the the jet engine deal for the Thousas fighter plane which is again stuck because of the Americans and so on. So even the American things have not worked out very well for us. Okay, it actually compromises us. But overall I would say that our our our more reliable partner is Russia, not the US. The US is a very very dangerous customer and not a reliable partner at all. Um so as we grow as we rise it makes sense for Russia to once again um you know deal with us in a in a in a better way. So that's where we are. See geopolitics is like that. Even if you have the best of relations if you become weak then your your partners will not uh respect you too much. So you have to grow stronger. Uh Vidi says which country has the best education system in the world and why they they say it's Finland. So in Finland, you don't have to pass exams until a certain age and all. Uh as long as you're a kid, you don't have any exams. You don't have any curriculum. You can do whatever you want. You can play outside, outdoors. You can pursue whatever subjects catch your fancy. But eventually it works out fine. And the kids turned out to be very well balanced and very well uh educated. So maybe Finland has the best education system in the world possibly. I haven't really studied all the education systems, but I think Finland is said to be the best one. Aries manticor says the CIA has terrorized the US citizens more than more than more than any terrorist drugs psychological operations murders etc. Could it have contributed to the decay of US society? Um well that could be one contributing factor could certainly be one of the contributing factors. The other factors could have been the infiltration of the leftists into all the big US institutions especially the education institution and the way they hijacked the feminist movement and the civil rights movement and other other movements. Um yeah so all of these things put together have contributed to the ongoing decline and decay moral decay of US society. Drugs everybody drug does drugs in the US. It's a right of passage. You can't think of a single person in the US who I mean if you meet an American person the chances are higher that the person has done drugs and not done drugs at some point in their life. Everybody does drugs. Everybody is on anti-depressants or or like a dozen pills a day. I mean the food is terrible. If you if you spend a month in the US, you're going to gain 5 kilos at least. Yeah. You're going to become unhealthy. It's it's it's a disaster as a society. So it's not just the CIA. CIA could also be a significant causative factor for sure, but it's a multiplicity of causes all all brought together. The corruption in the the society in the system how big pharma has destroyed the health of the the US population for profits and and the politicians have allowed this to happen because they are in the pockets of big pharma. This is corruption at the at every level of US society. You know they talk about India being a corrupt society. not society but a system the governance system in India being allegedly super corrupt it's nothing compared to the US nothing uh Ragav says why are okay Ragav says there are many Iranian people migrants in Hyderabad who even voted for Iranian elections around the year 2000 and who have dual citizenship Iran and India why are they enjoying the status well what I'm not aware of this there are Iranian people migrants in Hyderabad who voted for Iranian elections in the year 20,000 in the future but I'm I'm sure you mean 2000 uh who have dual citizenship Iran and India well in India dual citizenship is not legal you are not allowed to have dual citizenship if you have a non-Indian passport you automatically become an relinquish your Indian citizenship unless you don't disclose the fact you have your foreign passport and you keep two passports for some people I suppose may be doing such one one hears allegedly that such things happen but I don't know uh so if there are people who have dual citizenship they're not supposed to have this dual citizen citizenship uh why are they enjoying the status well first of all I don't know that this is the case but if it is true then the government should look look into it and uh they should look into the legality of the of the matter that what citizenship do these people actually have according to Indian law is it is it Iranian or is it Indian if they have actually both then they should be made to ask to make a choice decide you can only have one according to our laws you can only have Indian citizenship if you don't have a foreign citizenship so decide do you want to remain Indian citizen then you give up your Iranian passports and so on so that needs to be done um there are so many such problems in India so many people who are enjoying Indian hospitality some of them are civilized most of them are not civilized uh some of them are really problematic I would say Iranians overall are not that problematic as a as as a population is a people. Uh but when it comes to Pakistanis or or or or Rohingyas or cookies or Bangladeshes, we don't want those in India. Big problem. They have no allegiance to India and so on. So this needs to be dealt with. This illegal immigration problem needs to be seriously dealt with. It's a huge huge massive national security issue for us. Okay. The rational reporter says, "I designed an AI that generates optimized readings for retaining walls in 5sec. My company organized demonstrations, verified and appreciated it, provided a small salary increment, and abandoned the project." Well, that's sad, and I'm sorry to hear that, my friend. Yeah. So, you clearly have some talent. some skills in um designing and and creating AI systems. So what I would recommend to you is spend some time outside of work at home or wherever and build some AI systems that solve real world problems and then monetize those because if you provide some value to society, society will be willing to pay you money for it. So identify some some existing problems in society that something that people want but don't have and would be willing to pay for and and create an app or something create multiple apps put them on whatever Android um iOS whatever monetize it and if it works out if it generates sufficient money you could say bye-bye to your company. So that's one one one one thing you could do but otherwise if you're in a company then the then the leadership will decide what happens you decide you you create something wonderful but they'll say it's not worth it or we don't see any value in it then then they can kill the project and that's something that makes you feel completely helpless right and yeah I mean if you I remember many years ago I I partially read the autobiography of Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam I I read some of it it's called wings on fire or something in which he wrote about the fact that he had designed a warcraft he had built a prototype hovercraft which worked very well but his superiors killed the project and there was nothing he could do about it but he went on in life and did much greater things so you can learn something from the great Dr. Don't give up. Don't feel sad. I know it's sad. I know it's um despiriting but but you have the talent. You have the skills. Use it to create something good and valuable. All right sir. All the best. Vishal Nasa says okay Vishal Natha. Well thank you so much sir. Thank you. Thank you. You could have asked a question but all right thank you so much. Um Deepak Tvata says why is Iran important for India? Because it's an independent country reasonably sovereign country that exists in the West Asia region. Uh we don't have any major issues with Iran. We are not enemies by any by any uh yard stick. Iran um the US is not a friendly nation to India. It is propping up the terrorist nation Pakistan. It's providing it with nukes and so on. It's been it has funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India for decades. The US and the the Iranians stand up against the US. So they kind of create a certain balance of power in the region which if if it falls it will be disaster for India. If Iran falls and becomes a US vasal then the entire west Asia region will be dominated by the US and then even Iran will be an empty nation just like Pakistan. That's why it it's important it doesn't happen and Iran has provided us with access to the Chabahar port through which we can access Central Asia that also goes away. So overall Yeah. That's why it's important for India. Uh Aries Manticor says, "I saw a report that the Indian government has placed a caveat on the Sukoy 57E deal, Indian radars instead of Russian radars. Certain components to be sourced only from India. What do you think of this move? How will Russia react? I think it's a fantastic move. I think we have certain technological capabilities that exceed those of Russia. I think uh the radars we are developing the gallium arsenide or whatever radar it is u whatever it is uh I think it'll be superior to what the 57 will come with. So I think it is perfectly fair for us to place some caveats some conditions that yes we'll be happy to u purchase the sukoy 57e and manufacture it in India in large numbers but we will need these modifications and we will do the modifications ourselves. So we will install our radars and some components will be sourced from India. Some weapon systems will be Indian weapon systems instead of Russian weapon systems. For example, the Astra BB RAM. That's a frighteningly dangerous missile. It it's a guaranteed aircraft killer, right? We have that missile. Why would we use a Russian missile? So yeah, so some components can be some Russian components should be replaced with Indian components. And what do I think of this move? I think it's an excellent move. How will Russia react? I think Russia will react positively to it and Russia may even possibly want to source some of those technologies from us. If it happens, we should be uh eminentable to that happening. So I think I think Russia will react posit positively to this. Um Bobby Bobby good to see Bobby again longtime viewer. Good to see you sir. I hope you're doing well. So Bobby says, uh, what was China's actual contributions? What, what's the question, Bobby? What was China? Okay, I think you're saying China. What was China's actual contributions to what to Indian culture? Are you asking or are you talking about uh to the field of sports literature or Persian literature or quantum field? What what what's the question, sir? What was China's actual contributions to what? Without that I will not be able to answer your question. Sorry, very sorry but but good to see you and I I hope you're doing well sir. Uh Dirj Kamat says ideas for tools or products you would use I would want to build. What would I want to use? Well I have very esoteric and very strange uses. Okay I what would I use? I'll have to think about it. I haven't thought about uh these days you have tools for everything but I'm sure if you think about it so let's say I am into geopolitics okay what kind of tool would I want I would want a system that gives me all the information I need without having to to go through so much noise you see if you are into geopolitics if you if you're an analyst if you're an observer you have to go through so many news reports hundreds thousands So much noise, so much junk to find the the the the high signal pieces. So difficult, right? So one thing I would do, I was build I would want somebody to build such a system for me. That's one thing. Of course, there are many other things I can think of. But yeah, uh if you ask me right now, I'll not be able to come up with ideas, but maybe I can do that over time. Um okay. Okay. Um, okay. Now, Sam the Gamer asks, "Can we use Vietnam to counterbalance China as in we turn Vietnam into an Indian?" That's what Sam the Gamer is asking. Um, yeah, Vietnam can be to some extent hypothetically in a very completely hypothetical scenario be used to counterbalance China. So what you can do is you can sell highquality weapons systems to Vietnam. Sell them uh the sea-based Brahos missile, sell them the 800 km range landbased Brahos missile, sell them the Akash T system, sell them uh various other things. Maybe sell them submarines. Maybe sell them warships. turn them into a military fortress that China can't um bring down. So that is one way you could potentially use Vietnam to counterbalance China if Vietnam is willing to do that. I would not want to turn Vietnam into a vasal. We don't do such things. Uh but yeah, if if interests align and if if they feel the necessity for having a robust uh um a robust military capability to to deter China, then it makes sense to do that and yeah that way we can do it for sure. Uh that is certainly a possibility for us to uh explore. Um let us see let us see. Uh anonymous says the US has offered the F-21 with manufacturing in India. Can they pull the put a kill switch if they manufacture in India? 100% yes. They can still pull it put in a kill switch. Because see manufacturing in India means that we will put all the components together in India. Maybe we can make the airframe in India. We can even melt steel to make the airframe in India and so much more. But some things like chips and components will come from elsewhere. And that's where the kill switches and things are right and manufacturing in India does not entirely equal technological transfer for example the the jet engines will come from the US right we we will not be manufacturing jet engines here that's a whole different supply chain and so on so it doesn't necessarily mean that we are manufacturing because we are manufacturing in India we have complete technology transfer okay okay um manticor says the afterburner for Cavary dry engine was developed by the Brahmos engineuri agency with the gas turbine research establishment not h your it is going to be developed by the brahos agency with the gas turbine research establishment which is based in Bangaluru it will not be done by hindustan aeronautics limited what are my thoughts in this move will it be better I don't know but uh the brahos agency uh it has historically performed well. It has produced this frightening missile, very accurate, very dead did deadly missile. Um, but that doesn't necessarily mean that they'll be able to do the same kind of work with the cavary engine with the after burner because it's a whole different technology. But I'm sure the the the personnel are extremely high quality people, very well skilled in all that. So I think overall good move. I would say I'm sure there's a reason why the government would have chosen it to happen this way. and uh I hope it succeeds. I hope it pro produces the desired re results. Uh yeah, so that's all I can say. I don't really know what's the comparison between the BRAOS agency u and GTRE that combination versus Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. Uh GTR has been working on the cavary engine for a very very very long time essentially since the 1980s the gas turbine research establishment. Uh so I think it looks like they are getting into a collaboration with the bramos agency. So maybe fresh ideas, fresh blood comes in and maybe you you get some better results out of it. Maybe the government has seen it that way or whatever way. So yeah, let's see how it goes. Um and I hope it works fine. It it it produces um the desired results. Okay. Hunter canvas says who was realistically the better ruler of India Chandra Gupta Maria or Ashok Moria? Uh different rulers I would say overall Ashok was greater. Chandra Gupta obviously was the founder of the of the of the empire of the dynasty. He had the help of his great mentor Shri Vishnu Gupta Chanaka. But Ashok so generally what happens when you have a great ruler his descendants typically are not great. They kind of fritter away the greatness. But Ashoke well he took it to the whole a whole different level. They unified the entire subcontinent under his rule. So I would say overall Ashok was great greater. That's why they don't say Chad Gupta the great. They say Ashok the great. Of course he had some some some flaws. He was a pretty nasty guy. He was a pretty cruel guy. But I don't care. I don't care because he he turned India into this very powerful empire superpower of its time, didn't he? Yeah. So I I'll I'll take it. So I would say it's Ashoke, the grandson of Chandra Gupta who was the greatest. Um okay, what else? What else? What else? What else? What else? Um let's take this one. Sid says, "Who will rule AI and robotics world in the future after the US and China? The US might fit against China because of its global talent pool. Could India or the EU be third? The EU? Well, they they they have some I think the French have some AI companies. Mistal is one. I've never never seen it, never used it, but I hear that there's something called Mskal, which is reasonably good, which is a reasonably powerful AI LLM model thing, whatever. Yeah. Uh so who comes third is the question. Is it EU? Is it India? Is it Russia? Is it somebody else? Japan is not in the running. Russia, I'm not sure where it is. uh India seems to be serious about it but we haven't really seen any much any progress thus far visible progress it doesn't mean nothing is happening I would say it would be a race between India and the EU and I think India would win overall in the next two three years so I think by let's say 2027 it would be the US China and India possibly and the and the EU also will be involved but maybe India will overtake the EU I am pretty optimistic about that about that okay Uh another 10 minutes then we're done. Okay. Ragav says they are they actually have overseas citizenship. I numbered them around 20,000 like Mirzas, Shirazis etc and so on. So overseas citizenship means do you mean it's Indian overseas citizenship OCI or something else? If you have OCI then I suppose you can stay in India for extended period periods of time and so on. I'm not sure what the rules are. overseas citizen of India means that you have more rights than a person who just gets a visa. So you I suppose you could stay in India for an extended period of time and so on so forth. Uh so yeah I don't know the OCI rules and so on. Um but yeah you if you have an OCI card you can have a different passport. An OCI card is not an Indian citizenship. It is a step below Indian citizenship. It's an overseas citizen of India. So it's not it doesn't give you the same rights as an Indian citizen. It's slightly it's slightly less. So that way you can have an Iranian passport and an OCI card. That that can work. Yes. Uh Deepak says origins of J what are the origins of the Jart people and are the Jart the oldest Indian tribe? There are various uh theories about this. Uh there's this article by Dr. Swashk in which he he says that the Jats could be connected to the uh the gate tribe. The gate tribe who were one of the Smithian tribes, Shaka tribes. There was this Skithian tribe called the Masagate which is the Mahajats and their queen was Tomiris and she defeated Cyrus the great Kurush Vajarak and took his head off. So yeah, she was great and and and so it looks like the Masagate tribe of the Skithians, the Shakas was the Mahajata tribe and maybe the Skitians when they entered India about 2.2,000 years ago uh and they settled down in western and first northern and then western India. Maybe some of their descendants are what we call the Juts today. Uh but the Skithians themselves were not a foreign tribe. They were descendants of ancient Indians who migrated out of India thousands of years ago and this they roamed around central Asia and so on and then eventually reentered India. So when they reentered India and conquered parts of India, there was absolutely no cultural strife, nothing at all. They simply harmoniously assimilated into the Indian population. They were sun worshippers. they were polytheists and they would have looked just like us I suppose or maybe some little bit of foreign influence maybe here and there but mostly they were us so uh it's possible that the that the Mahajats the Masagati were a Kithian tribe originally and they entered India about 2.2 2 2.1,000 years ago and then then they became Indian just like us like everybody else. So that's one of the theories that uh is in existence. Yes. Okay. Okay. Uh Kersh says please enlighten us on Google deep minds AI based protein structure prediction technology. I'm not aware of it. I have not used it. I have not seen it. So I can't say. So protein structure is is very complicated, right? proteins are based on amino acids and protein unfolding and all that is is pretty complicated in biotechnology and so on and uh that has pretty important biotechnology and other medical applications. Um and it's pretty difficult to find new solutions to these problems. So I think AI can become a significant false force multiplier in that. So maybe that that's the deal but I haven't studied this myself. I don't know what exactly it is. I am not into biotechnology and all that stuff. Uh so I don't know but yeah AI has all these applications scientific applications and so on so forth. Um all right um see when I look at the the non superchar questions I will get all these frivolous little questions. I am not against frivolous questions and funny questions but look at this. I mean look at this. So that's why I think super chats make sense. I know it's a funny question and I don't mind laughing. I don't mind laughing. I'm not saying don't ask these questions, but when I take super chat questions, they're typically more serious, right? So, see once again, is it the same person? Okay. So, let's maybe take a couple more questions and then we are done. Couple more questions. Um, people want me to answer that question now. Okay. Look, first of all, do I think Mr. Modi and the Madame Milani make a good pair? Look, they are pretty friendly with each other. They like each other as as leaders, right? They have a good uh understanding, good rapport with each other. But why do we have to go down that route? Yeah, they clearly are very friendly with each other. They have a great amount of comfort and understanding with each other, which is good to see. And it looks like they both admire each other's leadership and so on. So I mean I'm happy to see that. Beyond that there's nothing more to be said about this. That's all I'll say. Yeah. Sumit says Rajata people in Rajbut community girls are comparatively more white than others. Even males to earn some percentage. Okay. It's possible. I have not really uh paid attention to the patterns but okay. You must have. So all right. All right. All right. H um so we are almost at the 3hour mark. Um almost at the 3-hour mark and and look at this and look at this more frivolous questions. There we have it. Uh okay. Um okay, let's take this one. Bri says uh will the Russians help Iran take down B2 bombers if they try to destroy the foro underground uh nuclear facilities as Ukraine destroy Russian bombers. The thing about the B2 bomber is that it's a stealth bomber and it's not easy for a conventional radar system to pinpoint the location of the B2. That's why it succeeds. So if you have a large gigantic radar, you kind of know there's something out there, but it's very hard to pinpoint it and take it down. But it's it's possible, but it's pretty hard. Uh now the question is will Russia help Iran take this down? Well, for that Russia will have to put some ground forces or some weapons on Iranian territory, which could be a red line for some people and so on. So I think it is pretty difficult for this scenario to be for me to see the scenario happening. Pretty difficult. Looks like Iran is more or less on its own. And if Russia gets involved in the Iran Israel conflict, that's going to be well a significant escalation. Russia is already involved in Ukraine. All kinds of issues in Ukraine. Now, if you also start this new war, it would be very counterproductive and very ill advised. I don't think Mr. Putin will go down that road. So, looks like Iran is on its own. Sir, looks like that. Vina Yoshi says, "Is Pakistan suddenly supporting Israel?" Yes, it is. Of course, Pakistan will support whoever the Americans ask them to support. Pakistan is a mercenary nation. They are a nation for sale. Their leadership is for sale. They will do whatever the Americans will tell them. Even support the Yahoodis, right? So that's what Pakistan is doing. What about the Umah, the Islamic community? Who cares? Money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money uh Swaraj says why Indian government didn't support a sort of built telescope like Hubble James web and unique satellites like Voyager mass o etc etc etc uh use Google what notebook I'm not sure about all that look India is a developing nation and a Hubble or a James web is a huge luxury we don't we can't afford. Okay. So that's in Voyager for for space exploration. No, we will only develop technologies that will allow us to uh set foot on other planets and so on and expand our footprint eventually beyond that scientific exploration and all that we'll do when we are a super rich nation. Not right now. It doesn't make sense for us to do it right now. So that's why when you are a poorer nation, your priorities are limited. That's why Mcloven says, "You said the British F-35 is a is a Trojan horse. Um, can you elaborate how it can be used to spy on us? Um, so it can have sensors for example. So let's say it's like this. F-35 comes and lands in Thirwan and Tapuram. So India will be tempted to use various remote sensors in the region to try and figure out the the capabilities and stealth characteristics and other things of the F-35. So we will act activate all our sensors, right? But maybe the F-35 will have sensors inside which will then check out our sensors and and and and and try and figure out what the frequencies are being used and what are the characteristics and and capabilities of the Indian systems and Indian Indian sensors. So when the operation Synindur happened uh the Pakistanis were able to kind of map our air defenses. Now it will have changed but they will get some some kind of information. What are the characteristics of our air defense systems? what kind of frequencies do our radars use uh and other capabilities of our weapon systems but and this would have been passed on to the US because Pakistan is a US asset. So all of these all of this information about Indian capabilities during operations in Synindur would have reached the US but the US has no idea of our capabilities in the south right in in places like Tvandram etc. So maybe they want to find out what's happening there. So maybe the F-35 is full of sensors inside and it's sitting there waiting for us to activate our equipment so that it can you know make some measurements and readings and then eventually transmit that to the US. So maybe that's the purpose for it being in India and that's why I say it's a Trojan horse. Okay. Okay. Okay. Do we have I have got all kinds of other questions and if I keep taking them I will do another three hours also. Um let me just take maybe a couple more questions maybe two more questions and that should be it. Um okay let's take this one. Goresh says when the Indian plate collided with the Himalayan Eurasian plate the Himalayas were formed in the north and northeast why don't we see a similar massive mountain range in the northwest region will we have the so-called Hindu Kush mountains in the northwest the Karakuram mountains and so on so forth we have mountains all over the place so it's like we have multiple mountain ranges The Himalayas are the most visible ones, but they're not the only mountain range. Okay. We have other other mountains too. Okay. Uh Sand says, "I have an idea to create infinite energy and want my my opinion using grav gravity and gravity and bows." What's a bow? Buoyancy. You mean buoyancy? gravity to drop weight and buoyancy to bring it up. Well, well, if you actually do the calculations, it doesn't work. There's no such thing as infinite energy. It won't won't work. Lots of people have been trying it for centuries. Um, they say it's not possible for me to explain why it doesn't work without drawing force diagrams and equations and giving you equations. But if you work it out from a physics perspective, from Newtonian from Newtonian physics perspective, it doesn't work. It's not possible to have infinite energy. Uh other says how is the UAE with zero taxes generations ahead of India in development and prosperity because of oil. Oil is money coming out from the ground. That's why that's why Karan says and this is the final question for the day. Karan says how do we claim skitians are are of Indian origin if we don't prove R1A is of Indian origin as we don't have convincing evidences in ancient samples and so on. So let us wait for the samples and things to come. It will take another 5 10 years and then we will make the claim but I can see the patterns and I know it. Um how do I know the skithens are of Indian origin? So genetically they may be very diverse. They may have picked up genetics from all over the place. Mongolic, Turkish genetics, European genetics. In Ukraine, you hadithanian cities and those were white skythians, Ukrainian like skithians. So why do I claim the skithians are of Indian origin? Well, there are multiple reasons. Um, one of the things is language. So we have some attestation of the schizian language in which it's you can see that it's it's got clear similarities of of any upper branch language that that would have descended from from Sanskrit. Then if you ask yourself what's the origin of Indo-Uropeans in Central Asia then it's clearly I mean if you look at the historical known literary etc evidence it would come from the expulsion of various uh clans uh that happened as a consequence of the outcome of the battle of the 10 kings and so on. So there are multiple patterns that that tie together which tell me that the skitians are an Indian were originally an Indian origin ethnic group which went and all across central Asia and central Asia was then called skitya for a couple of thousand years at least and one of the clans was the Mahajata right the masakate and uh you had king queen Tomish her son was called swar swa gapas or something like that okay I forget the him. So if you look at the linguistics, if you look at the names, you had they had a king called Paratua and so on. So there are so many factors that tell you that there is an Indian origin to the Skitians. So let's not and once again like I was saying yesterday to somebody else, genetics is not the main thing. Culture is the main thing. And genetics dilutes over time. Once a group goes out of India and spends 2,000 years out of out of India, I promise you that genetics will dilute. But if they can retain the culture then that remains the original culture and so on and so forth and so on. So well there you have it. That's the final question for the day. It's a very interesting topic. The skithians I have been studying skithians for about 20 years 20 plus years. I got interested in this in the early 2000s because I was researching my own origins. I mean I never liked Indian history. Indian history was always depressing for me because of all the defeats and all that stuff. But then when I got curious about my own ancestry, my own origins, I was like what is the ancestry of my people of of of people who have the surname Chava and that's when I started looking into things and then there were all kinds of claims that maybe the Chavas are gujas gur or maybe they are skitians or maybe they're Kushans or they are Huns and that's how I started looking into all this and then over the years it became clear that the skitians were of Indian origin originally but if you want me to give you the answer have to find so many different sources and put them all together that makes sense to write an article then yeah okay so with that said this is the end of today's uh session 3 hours 10 minutes pretty respectable long time talking so I'll end it over here thank you so much everybody for your questions and I will see you very soon in next week's live streams we'll do a lot of those so with that said I will end it over here please keep asking questions keep learning Keep thinking critically. Keep raising your standards. And I will see you very soon. Thank you. Bye-bye.