Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] >> Heat. Heat. >> [music] [music] >> Hello everybody. Good evening and good day. I hope you're all doing great and welcome to the Ask a Bidget show, the latest episode. I hope you're doing great. So, let us see. Uh, so today is going to be a super chat live stream. I will take questions about essentially any topic. Ask me anything you want. I'll try my best to answer your questions. Before we get into that, let me see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Abhinav Mishra, Animesh, Paratia, Biju, Sika, animals from Forlaf from Mumbai, Chat DSP, Abhinav Capil, Mahita Bushetti, Aayush Singh, Abin again, Critical Thinker, Ketanya Manuja, Geopolitical Dubai from Indor, Ashoto Pande, Real Vladimir Putin, Meat Mystery, Swami0709, Animals from Laugh, Animals for Laugh from Mumbai. Once again uh Raika Humbli Jashi Ram Adwit Ashwani injured soccer player is here from snowy Richmond Hill in Ontario Canada. Good to have you sir. Good morning Ashi once again Ashwani King Uti is here from Tulus of France. Madame satellite is here. Uh, Suchin Yadav, critical thinker once again. Who else do we have? Let us see. Let us see once again. Uh, Abisha once again. I suppose that's about it. Or am I not getting the chat the live chats? Okay. So, we have everyone over here and let us now take some questions. What questions do we have? Let's get going. First of all, Bascar is a new member. Thank you very much, sir, for becoming a new member. I really appreciate that everybody welcome Baskar to membership of the channel. Thank you very much. Minimalist Maverick says 2025 Putin Modi summit latent activities accomplished. Okay. So we had we've had the recent uh visit of Mr. Vladimir Putin to India and I think it concluded yesterday. So it was a two-day trip. So what's been the outcome of this uh India Russia summit? Mr. Putin came to India with a large number of officials and there were multiple events that he participated in in New Delhi and he obviously met with the prime minister, Prime Minister Modi. Uh what's been the major activities that happened? What have been the outcomes of this summit? I think we are still examining what the outcomes of the summit have been. Some commentators have said that the summit the the trip of Mr. Putin the visit was maybe a little long on symbolism and a little short on outcomes. Uh I don't necessarily agree with that. It's a very important uh event that's happened geopolitically. Uh it reinforces uh the closeness between India and Russia. Uh obviously we haven't seen any major announcements of any major uh let's say military deals. For example, people were speculating maybe the Sukoy 57 deal will be announced. That's not happened. Maybe some kind of deal about the S400 will be announced or S500. That's not happened. But maybe that's not how the government of India works. Maybe it's not like you know see when someone like Trump visits a place he wants to go back with a with a with a set of accomplishments. I got this this this done and he wants to you know tell his people I got these things done. I got this much money for the United States. Um if some other country's leader comes to India or goes anywhere else, they also want to go back with a set of things that they got done. I think when it comes to India and Russia, it's a very old relationship. It's not like we had getting to know each other. So we need to get certain things done so that we feel that there's been progress. There have there would have been talks M between Mr. Modi and Mr. Putin. They would have discussed all the important bilateral issues. they would have discussed what's happening globally visav the United States visav the European Union visa with the Ukraine war vav China and many other things and they would have uh you know got to understand each other's perspectives better obviously they would have been even before the meeting they would have been in communication on a regular basis and they would know where where the two two nations stand but it's important that the two leaders connect and spend time with each And there have been certain outcomes that have come out of the visit so far that we can see. First of all, there was the launch of the RT India um news network. So we have Russia today RT which is well known. It's a it's Russia's you could say global mouthpiece. It's uh it operates in English. It operates in Russian. Now it's going to operate from India as well. India specific office. So that's a significant achieve significant uh achievement or step forward. It shows that see it it shows that there is significant closeness between the two nations. There I think there was an announcement of further India Russia nuclear cooperation which is also pretty interesting. Uh what are what the parameters of the cooperation are going to be. Uh we'll have to see. There's been uh announcements about more integrated India Russia defense cooperation research and R&D is going to happen. Joint development will happen etc. What the details are we still have to see. But there's been multiple you know there's been progress on multiple fronts. So I think we still have to see what the outcomes of this visit are going to be. But it's clear that India has signaled to the world that Russia is not isolated. India and Russia have a very robust, very friendly, very warm relationship. Prime Minister Modi made it a point to go to the airport and receive Mr. Putin, which is something he rarely does for anybody anybody else. Um, and so I think it's it's still early days to see to to to kind of judge what the outcomes of this uh trip to India by Mr. Putin have been, but overall it's been very positive. So, we'll uh keep an eye on what's going on. Minimalist Maverick says why doesn't Indian government make Iran our ally for India Russia trade route? Why doesn't India make Iran our ally? So we have a good relationship with Iran. We don't have any official allies. Even Russia isn't officially our ally. We don't have any official alliance or any official treaty of alliance between India and Russia. U but we have excellent relations with Russia. For all intents and purposes, Russia and India are allies. Even though they may not not officially be allies, but for all intents and purposes, we are. Now, when it comes to Iran, India and Iran have a very good relationship. It's not a bad relationship. We are not on bad terms with each other. And from India's perspective, it it will be beneficial for us if the current government in Iran continues. We don't want a fall of the current government in in Iran and the the bringing about of a democratic Iran or or any such thing because the last time there was a there was a non there was a different kind of government. It was pro- US proch proakistan and anti-India. We don't want that. Uh so we already have a very good relationship with Iran. We have the Chabahar port uh agreement. We operate a certain amount of the certain certain uh aspects of the Chabahar port. India and Iran are cooperating in visav Afghanistan. Uh India and Iran are also cooperating vizav Armenia Azarbaijan that situation. We have um various uh various things that we are cooperating on. So you could say that India and Iran are kind of you know de facto allies in certain matters. Obviously, there's going to be points of friction like you have with any any friendly nation. There's going to be some points of friction. We have points of friction. Look, Russia and China are said to be great allies and great friends, right? Isn't that true? But doesn't Russia sell all kinds of frighteningly dangerous military equipment to India which China will not like? Yeah. And still their relationship is pretty strong nevertheless. So that's how it is. So overall we don't have to officially put a title of ally on somebody. Our relationship itself is what matters not the title we put on it. See we in India are big fans of titles and and and symbols etc. And we want it to be officially declared. You are my best friend. You are my ally. We are going to be allies. You don't have to officially declare anything. Keep the relationship strong. Make it stronger and keep it going that way without going to the rooftops and shouting from the rooftops with drums and trumpets and everything. Then you know we are allies. Just keep it quiet. We already have a very good relationship with Iran and that should continue. Right. Okay. Baskar Bandit says, "Namaste. Hope your health is better better now. Last weekend I wasn't very well, right? I was sneezing and whatnot." Yeah. It's I think it's it was some kind of virus or something. I'm getting over it. I think my voice is still affected. I think yesterday my voice wasn't great. I think and probably today it's better. So overall u on the right track. Sure. Uh so for Mr. Modi breaking from Mr. Modi breaking protocol to receive Mr. Putin into Western politicians melting down on social media. What's your take on this historic visit of sorts? What's my take? Um like I just explained it's been a good visit. uh in India and Russia we usually have an annual summit and that's kind of been disrupted since 2022 after the Russian special military operation in Ukraine began but it's good that uh this has been resumed now so prime minister Modi and Mr. Bhin have met face to face in the same room for an extended period of time Mr. Putin has been received here and uh he has participated in various events in India and obviously there would have been uh long and intense discussions between the two leaders and the two sides which is obviously very important for a good relationship to to continue. Uh as far as the outcomes are concerned we don't have very robust specific you know outcomes that can be listed in bullet points but overall that doesn't really matter. What matters is that the two leaders meet and the countries continue to uh cooperate with each other and strengthen the relationship. There's going to be some aspects of civil nuclear uh cooperation. There's going to be defense joint production and uh R&D ata all that stuff. As as some of you may know, India is leasing a Russian nuclear submarine. Well, that itself should tell you how strong the two the relationship between the two nations is. I mean which nation is going to lease a nuclear submarine to you? A nuclear submarine is the most coveted thing you know oceangoing vessel apart from an aircraft carrier. And today nobody cares about aircraft carriers anymore because the age of the aircraft carrier isn't that is kind of gone. Today the most dangerous asset you can have in the oceans is the submarine especially nuclear submarines in Russia and India. the the the amount of trust is such that Russia leases nuclear submarines to India on 10-year leases. Obviously, we pay them for that as we should and that's how it is. So, overall, it's been great. This visit shows it tells the world that Russia is not isolated by any means whatsoever. Russia has a powerful and very important friend in India. Russia is able to counterbalance its relationship visa with China with its relationship with India. India is no longer one of those little nations that doesn't matter anymore. India is a very consequential nation today and the the consequentiality of India is increasing every year. Uh so that's why there's going to be these meltdowns. I I myself you know these days I don't tweet a lot on Twitter but I do observe from time to time what's happening and I saw saw plenty of meltdowns from various people in Germany and whatnot. Uh using all kinds of colorful language about India etc. Well, there there was fun to watch. It's it's good to see these meltdowns. Yeah. Because things are not going the way they would like things to go. They would like India to remain under their thumb. They would like India to tow their line and India is not doing that. India is acting like a strong powerful nation. Strong powerful sovereign nation should. And that's what irks them so much. The Urswile white masters. They no longer consider Russians to be white. Do you know that Russians are either? They're not white people. Well, funny. Uh anyhow, so the way I see it, it's been a great visit and whatever the outcomes, takeaways, etc. are going to be from this visit will be apparent over time, over a period of time, not immediately. And that's good. Okay. Gajati Dave says, "Were the Gajpati kings descendants of Sriam?" I have no idea sir. I don't know. Sorry, I am not aware of this. Basar Bandit says the alleged intentional disruption of certain airline Indigo. Yes. Uh during uh Mr. Putin's visit to India is raising eyebrows. What could one hope to achieve with this act? Domestic distraction, negative optics, or is there more to the story? Indigo needs to be taken to task by the government of India. what they have done is unacceptable. It's not like there was a sudden lastm minute change of rules by the government of India which forced Indigo to cancel flights. The government notification about the rules the revised rules was announced like 18 months ago or something more than a year ago. So Indigo had plenty of time to plan for this but they did not. They they chose to arm twist the government of India and the government of India acts in a certain way. It doesn't do anything in a hurry. So they rolled back the rules and they allowed Indigo to go ahead with things. Indigo has caused tremendous chaos in the country but there are going to be consequences for the for Indigo because of what they've done. It'll happen in time. What needs to be done is Indigo needs to be brought to task for this incredibly damaging disruption to the Indian uh airline industry. Indigo used to be India's best budget airline until about I don't know 2018 2019 very professional always on time they would charge for everything that's fine that's okay it's a budget airline they'll charge for everything they'll charge for glass of whatever they'll charge for a piece of bread they'll charge for each seat will have a certain charge and if you don't buy a buy a purchase seat then they may not give you you know possibly potentially a seat in the flight maybe it's over booked whatever, but it was on time. When you get down and you stand in line for the baggage, the baggage would come within a few minutes. Today, Indigo is terrible. Today, it's terrible compared to what it was 2018, 2019. It's terrible. And what they have done is is it should be the straw that breaks the camel's back. They have a foreign CEO and uh overall it's terrible. And they did this exactly when Mr. Putin came to India. Right? So the government needs to look into all these aspects and Indigon must be held accountable and they must be taken to task for what's happened. The problem is that it's become this huge monopolistic airline. Everybody by default books Indigo because they are on time. Usual these days they're not even on time. These days Indigo is never on time and they will always blame traffic congestion this that whatever. Yeah. But the these days they are never on time and when you land I mean when you land it it takes God knows how much time for the for the for the luggage luggage to come. Used to be very quick. So it's never a good experience anymore traveling by Indigo. I think it's a better it used to be a better experience traveling by Vistara and now it may even be a better experience traveling by Air India or maybe I've not not tried AASA so far and I used to avoid SpiceJet. Maybe I should try it one more time and see how SpiceJet is today. Has it improved because SpiceJet used to be the worst. Uh anyhow I'm going into other topics here but I think Indigo needs to be taken to task for this. What the government should do the government should decide. I am nobody to give them recommendations. Do this, do that, break their airline into three three different companies or whatever. I'm not going to recommend any of those things. The government needs to hold the right people accountable and Indigo must pray must pay the price for what they've done. What they've done is nothing short of criminal actually. Yeah. So, what are they trying to achieve? I don't know. Obviously it's it's caused terribly negative optics for India. It's caused terrible disruptions at the time when Mr. Putin visited India. I was very lucky. I mean the day this nonsense happened I was in Delhi and I was I was supposed to take a flight out of Delhi and I was thankfully booked on an AirIndia flight and I saw firsthand the chaos at Delhi airport. I mean the amount of the amount of damage they've done to people's lives and to the overall airline sector is terrible. They need to be held accountable and they need to be brought to task for this. I hope the government will do this in the right manner that that the government would choose. Okay. Basar Bit says China seemingly bolstering western front in Tibet while instability within temporary nation seems high after Iran Khan demise rumors. If two fronts open up at the same time, how do we tackle it? We should always be prepared for a two and a half or three-f frontont war. We have East Pakistan and West Pakistan. Now both are US was China. See, China, you can never trust China. Okay? China is not going to be our friend. China is not going to be India's friend. As long as China is an occ is is occupying Tibet, India and China, the relationship can never be normal. Two large powerful nations sharing a long common border is a recipe for tensions possibly war and instability especially when the border is undemarcated because China insists on never demarcating the border India Tibet border and they are bolstering their western front which is the India Tibet border that area they are building more air bases they are uh they have this cold start strategy, cold start doctrine that they are trying to adopt which means that the moment an order is given to go to war from Beijing within let's say 6 to 12 hours the war should start the troops should not take a couple of days 48 hours 36 72 hours to mobilize so the Chinese are getting better and better at this and that is a matter of great concern for India grave concern for India and while China may no longer be the master of Pakistan because now the US is the master of Pakistan. Yet China and Pakistan still see eye to eye over India. Even the US and China see eye to eye on India. They don't want India to become too large for its own boots. The US only sees one value in India as a counterbalance to China in some way. So if there is instability, if there's a border war, if there is whatever, it benefits the US because it damages both India and China. Now which if China calculates that they can get away with war with India without too much damage to them they would like to go for it. I would say that the Chinese are more likely to start a war with India than start a war start a war about Taiwan because if they start if they try to invade Taiwan they will have to fight the United States. If they try to fight India the US is not going to get involved. Neither is Russia because Russia can't afford to. So it makes more sense for them for Xiinping to to go to war with India over let's say Pradesh because they claim it's their territory right. So what should India do and if in in case there's a war with China the Pakistanis are guaranteed to try and play some mischief. So how should we tackle it? Well I can't tell you how we should tackle it. What we should do is we should be prepared for a two and a half three front scenario at all times. We need to have adequate stockpiles of various kinds of missiles. Several thousand Brahos missiles, maybe 10,000 Brahmosh missiles. See a thousand missiles. Look at the Ukraine war. How many missiles are being used every day? If you have 300 Brahmos missiles in your stockpile, it's going to last you 3 hours potentially, you know, in the case of a hot war. So, we need potentially tens of thousands of missiles in our stockpile. Various kinds of missiles. Missiles get consumed very fast in a hot war and you always want a backup. You can't start issue give an order to start production. Now that takes time to produce all this stuff. So whether it is the bramos missiles, whether it is various kinds of ballistic missiles, other kinds of cruise missiles, uh whether it is the u whatever artillery, ammunition, we need to have sufficient stockpiles for at least a 3-month war in which we can use as much ammunition and missiles as required and all the all three fronts. That's what we should be prepared for. And we should be prepared for you know going to war at at like a two two hour notice. The army should not be in a in a situation where they will take two days to mobilize properly. It should be quick reaction. So that's how you prepare for it. And I'm sure the the armed forces are doing everything that is needed for this to do to to happen in case such a scenario eventuates. Rit Pawar says how can one avoid comparing oneself to others and remain focused on personal goals despite outside noise and others others achievements. How do you avoid comparing yourself with others? I think you have to train yourself to do that. There's always the the temptation to compare yourself with other people in your domain, in your industry, in uh whatever field you're working in. There's always the temptation. Let me see what that person is doing. Oh my god, that person is doing great and I'm not doing it. Boohoo. All that stuff. So, what you have to do is you have to set a goal for yourself and focus on the goal. And the goal should be something that really motivates you. You should not have to listen to motivational YouTube videos to get motivation. The goal should be deeply personal for you. It should be difficult to achieve but not impossible to achieve. And you should break the goal down into multiple pieces. Let's say 3 month, three month, three month kind of you know quarterly targets or whatever you want to have it and a big at the end of the year target that sort of thing and work towards that. If you are fully immersed in that struggle, that personal struggle of yours, then you will not have the time to look at other people. And uh you need to have a very clear schedule, a very clear uh daily schedule, daily routine, whatever. You need to create systems for yourself that help you achieve what you're doing. So it's a process. It's not going to happen overnight that you suddenly change. You will not wake up tomorrow morning decide. Let's say you make a decision today. I'll stop comparing myself to others and I'll focus on my goals. But that doesn't happen overnight. You to first take the time to define the goals that matter to you. Most people think they have goals but they see what kind of goal should you set for yourself. H let's say you are a YouTuber. Let's say I'm in in the field of YouTube right now, right? I could have a goal that next year I want to have 2 million subscribers by 31st December. Okay? I could set a goal like that potentially. I by the end by by December 31st 2026 I want to have I should have anyhow 2 million subscribers. Okay, let's say I set a goal like that. Now tell me does this goal make sense. Is it in my hand? Is it in my control whether you subscribe or not? That is your decision. And there are other factors like the YouTube algorithm and various wonderful people in YouTube who who have who have give you know put a limit of 950,000 on my channel right now. So if I have that sort of goal it is something that is not in my control. So that's not the kind of goal you have to set for yourself. You have to set goals for yourself that are completely in your control. So if you're a YouTuber you can say next year I will publish x number of videos or if you are in some other industry some other business whatever you have to choose goals that you can achieve on by yourself without external help because external help is always something that is not in your control entirely. So only focus on what you yourself can do and leave the rest to the gods. [snorts] So when you when you do that then it becomes something you can entirely control at least what you're doing like Lord Krishna said to Arjun you do your thing forget about everything else you forget on you you you focus on your karma on your actions and leave the fa of the actions the fruit of the actions to the gods leave it to them that is not in your control you do what you have to do and forget the rest so that's what you have to do that's the That's the philosophy you have to adopt. And so set big goals, goals that you can achieve on your own, what things you will do. And that is definitely achievable. So once you once you realize that that you know maybe in the past I was setting goals that are not in my control and now I'm setting goals that are 100% in my control that will give you that extra motivation and then you just focus on that. So, so that's kind of how you do things and even that is difficult unless you create systems, you know, systems that take you towards that goal. That's a whole different topic. So, that's what you have to do and it's a process. You learn over time. It's you're not going to learn in by watching a YouTube video how to do these things. You're not going to learn by by reading an article how to do these things. You're going to have to start working on that. Try things maybe fail here and there maybe then m make improvements and maybe in a few months you will have a system that actually works and then you will be on track towards your goals that's how you do it so all the best Rik do well achieve your goals minimalist vick says Balojasthan and synind have 90% Islamic population how to prevent Bangladesh 2.0 Bangladesh 2.0 I'm not able to understand how do you prevent Bangladesh 2.0 and BJ and Synind B see Bangladesh 2.0 Bangladesh I I'm not really able to understand what you're saying what you're asking Bangladesh 1.0 Z was the V section of Pakistan. We defeated Pakistan in 1971 and broke Bangladesh away from Pakistan. It it and and converted East Pakistan into Bangladesh. So you want to prevent that from happening in Balucha 7. I'm not really sure what you're asking. Maybe if you can phrase your answer, phrase your question properly then I'll be able to understand what you're saying, sir. Sorry. Basar bandit says no statements or reaction from US on Vladimir Vladimir's visit to BAT a potential indication that Ukraine war will start to ease now and focus of US to shift more towards containing China and India. Question mark see I'm not surprised that the US has not issued any statements about Vladimir Vladimir's visit to Bharat. uh obviously this is a bilateral matter and uh this is something that's good for India as well as for Russia and uh the US will generally keep quiet about that is this an indication that the Ukraine war will start to ease now it's nothing to do with that Putin's visit to Bhat is independent of the Ukraine war obviously the Ukraine war will be discussed and a lot of things will be discussed would have been discussed but Because Putin came to India and the US kept quiet. Doesn't mean that the Ukraine war is not going to ease up. It will ease up depending on how the US and the EU um what actions they take going forward. Right? See the US now now Trump wants to end the war but the EU doesn't want to end it. The EU is handin glove with Mr. Zilinski and that's a big in impediment in the in the in the way of ending the Ukraine war. So will the do I see the Ukraine war ending soon? I think it will end by the end of 2026. It will definitely end it should definitely end by the end of 2026. Hopefully it ends soon. Hopefully next week or something. But that hope is the probability of that happening is very low because of the attitude of the EU and and what's his name? Zalinski. Zalinski. See if the if the Ukraine war ends, it is very it's going to be very difficult for Zilinski well to stay relevant or maybe even to survive. He'll have to go into exile. He'll have to go to the west or somewhere in Europe or wherever. He won't be able to stay in Ukraine. He will lose all the power that he has. He will use he will lose whatever sources of income he has. I'm sure he has amassed tremendous amounts of money and what not. So the end of the Ukraine war is is going to be something that will be very dangerous personally for Mr. Zalinski. Now the US doesn't care about Zilinski. They have thrown so many dictators under the bus in the past. They've personally executed dictators like Saddam Hussein and they've had people like Gaddafi taken out and so much more. So the US doesn't care about Zalinski. He's just a disposable pawn for them. But for Zalinski, he matters, right? And the EU, all those little puppet minions who are the leaders of the EU nations, they are handin with Zalinsky. They want him to remain relevant and in power and the US will have to manage that. And obviously the US doesn't want Russia to become too powerful by gaining too much territory etc. So that's the situation. So I don't see the Ukraine war ending very soon. I am hopeful it will end by the end of 2026. It will be great if it ends sooner because it will be you know this it's been a humanitarian disaster but I don't see it ending very soon right now because of all these reasons. uh once the Ukraine war ends what does the US do towards about India and China the US is already implementing its strategy or policy of containing India that's what it is doing with China they have a different set of strategy they use nice words and you know all that they had a meeting recently etc but the US sees China as their primary adversary now and that is not going to change so they may say nice temporarily but uh now they are using Japan as as as a pike to prod China with right so that's going to continue okay critical thinker says I am 26 male I want to continue my career in research you have a master's degree in the Indian Institute of Science IISC Bangalore aerospace is it worth it outside India is out of my budget. My only option option is loan. Look, how do you determine if something is worth it? Let's say you have three courses of action. Plan A, plan B, plan C. Okay? And you have to make one choice. You have to pick one of the three things. Then if you pick one of the three things maybe plan if you say let's say you you pick plan A then maybe plan B plan C after 6 months after 1 year will not be available to you. So you have to make a careful decision what to do in life. I'm 26. I'm no longer 18 and I have a master's degree in the from in aerospace from the IC which is good which is a great asset to have and I want to continue my career in research. Aerospace research I assume and going out of India is beyond your budget unless you take a loan a loan which is obviously a gamble potentially a gamble. What should you do? So how do you determine which is the best option? The best option is going to be something that's going to be valuable for you for a long time. You have to start with the most practical questions. Whatever option you take, is it going to give you sufficient money to live a respectable etc good lifestyle or will you will you have cash constraints or whatever. Let's say you want to continue a career in research within India. So if that is the choice you want to make, will that give you a stable career with good with a with a good income with a good salary? That's the question. Then how do you answer the question? You ask yourself how many aerospace startups and companies and institutions do we have in India? We have DRDO, we have H. These are governmentrun companies um institutions and to get into that you have to go through god knows what way. um then you you could perhaps go into some university in case there is some research being done in India somewhere but in Indian universities re research is trash mostly in 98% of India's universities research is is there's no research happening it's only namesake research then what about startups how many startups do we have in India that are doing high quality research in the in the aerospace domain I am not sure so I have not looked into these things so I can't give you specific speific answers but this is how you have to look into it and let's say you have x number of good highquality aerospace startups or companies in India where high quality research is happening then the question is will you be able to get into that based on the qualifications that you have clearly a master's degree in from the ISC is a very good qualification maybe you'll be able to get into that sure will you then have long-term job stability or will you have to do job hopping from one place to another every one year two years is that going to be a you know potential situation and will they will the salary be good enough. These are the questions you to ask yourself. So I don't have the answers because I've not done any research in this in this field. So I can't say but this is how you approach it. Now let's say you take a loan and go abroad. So then the question is which country do you go to? I mean obviously the best country to go to is the US because there's tremendous amount of aerospace research etc happening there. But the US doesn't like immigrants anymore. So what about some other country? What other countries are there? And if you go and get a job there based on your qualifications, then how long will you be able to hold on to the job? So does it does this make does it does it make taking a loan and going abroad too risky? So these are the things the factors you to consider. I can't give you an answer. I don't know your specific circumstances. I am not very familiar with the aerospace sector in India. I have not done any research in that what the what are the job prospects, career prospects like so I can't tell you but that's how you have to do your research and uh yeah do that and I wish you the best. I wish you great success in your career sir. Okay, critical thinker says does a super massive black hole consume dark matter? How do they grow big? What kind of research do we do at space stations? We do we need space stations or space telescopes? Okay, how many questions do we have in one? Do super massive black holes consume dark matter? They consume everything. Whether it's a super massive black hole or a stellar mass black hole, intermediate mass black hole or even a primordial microscopic black hole. Black holes are black holes. They have the same properties. They the properties of a black hole from the outside are given by only three quantities. Mass, charge, angular momentum. That's it. And they all behave the same way. So whatever comes their way, if it is if it crosses the event horizon, they're going to swallow it. Gobble gobble. So whether it is gas, whether it is dust, whether it is planets, whether it's stars, whether it's dark matter, they will eat everything. Okay, that's how it happens. How do super massive black holes grow big? Well, it is believed, the best theory is that super massive black holes start as from primordial black hole seeds. What are primordial black holes? tiny microscopic black holes that are believed to have been produced in tremendous numbers in the very early universe in the first few seconds of the existence of the universe. So those primordial black holes they they most likely did get produced they would have been produced because of quantum fluctuations in the very early universe. We still have quantum fluctuations vacuum today and those primordial black holes eventually would have formed the seeds of what are now super massive black holes which seem to be at the heart of most most galaxies today. So that's uh about super massive black holes. What kind of research do we do at space stations? Uh microgravity research, research on human aging, research on how bacteria and microorganisms behave in microgravity. Uh how do plants grow in microgravity? how do various other materials um what kind of stresses and strains do they experience in microgravity um and things like that that's that's the kind of research you do at space stations you also study the the space climate you study the kind of radiation that you experience near the van allen belts there are two van alen belts that we have around the earth because of earth's magnetic field we study cosmic rays if you are let's say depending on the height you above above the earth's surface. You do different kinds of experiments and different kind of studies and so on. So so that's that's what you do. Uh do we need space station or space telescopes? Depending on what you want to achieve, right? You can just put a space telescope up there out there and it will look out into the cosmos and depending on its capabilities, it will, you know, give you various kinds of data. So we have the Hubble Space Telescope that's it's been around since the late 1980s or something and it still does great work you know and you have the James Web Space Telescope that is behind that's in the Earth's shadow behind behind the Earth you know and it's a very very high-tech telescope the latest that we have and it's already revolutionized our understanding of the cosmos. So that's space telescopes. Do we need in space stations? Space telescopes depending on what you want to do. If you need human involvement for a long time in space, you will need space stations. Space stations are they have a geopolitical purpose more than a scientific purpose. And space stations are mostly scientific instruments. Anik says first part watch Durand. I know you don't watch Indian films, but this is a banger. Raw, real yet entertaining. Exposes Pakistani and 0.5 front mindset. Okay. Thank you very much for this recommendation. >> Maybe I'll watch it. Okay. And part two, Sikit, I remember one time you stated the real reason of demonetization, fake currency from Pakistan. They also added this in the film. Well, very interesting. Looks like I'll have to check this movie out. I've heard a lot of good things about this movie on social media. Everyone's praising it. So maybe I'll make an exception to my rule of not watching Indian movies and maybe I'll go and watch it. So thank you Anik for the recommendations. really appreciate that. Minimalist Maverick says, "What's your height? How does it matter? I'm 6'1." Uh, what and how is your fitness routine? You said you having one meal a day and five rest of the day. Um, these days my fitness routine is not that routine. Yeah, I need to I need to get back on track and be a little more disciplined. Typically, my fitness routine is that I lift like five times, six times a week. when I used to be very disciplined. That's what I was doing. When was the last time I was properly properly disciplined about this? I think 2019. It's been like five years since I've been reasonably undisiplined about this. After the pandemic happened and this gyms shut down for like 2 three years. Yeah. That that totally disrupted my fitness routine. Until 2019, I was super jacked. I was uh today not so much. Yeah. And yeah, it's not always one meal a day day for me these days. I need to get back on track on those things, you know. Uh yeah, so typically I would eat one meal a day. I would make sure I get 150 plus grams of protein, maybe almost 200 grams of protein. Uh I don't have fiber the rest of the day. No, I don't. If I ate one meal a day, it's one meal a day. I eat whatever I eat within a 1 hour window and that's it. Done. Done. And don't think about food after that. And I would lift five or six days a week different routines you know I I have my own I understand how how my body works and I have my own six day five day or six day split routine various body parts various kinds of exercises I uh prefer barbells over dumbbells just a personal preference that sort of thing and you are 5' 11 19 male jacked outstanding I really appreciate being jacked uh yeah you should be see about being jacked you don't have to ripped. You don't need to have like 5% body fat or 10% body fat. It's okay to have 15 or even 20% body fat, but you need to be physically strong. You don't have to be able to show all the striations in your pecs and and traps and all that. You don't need to do that. Your abs don't necessarily need to be clearly visible, but you need to be strong. So, there's two terms. One is jacked, one is yolked. You should be yolked. You should be able to lift heavy weights. You should when you have the capacity to lift really heavy weights, not I'm not saying 500 kilos and thing, but like unreasonably heavy weights like 150 kilos or whatever deadlift that sort of thing. Then that gives you a totally different kind of confidence. So that's what you need. The the point is it's not why do you lift? Why do you get strong? It's not to beat somebody up. It's not to have a certain appearance. It's just to feel great about yourself. It's just to know that if needed, I can do things. That's another thing. So that's the whole point of uh of getting strong. The objective should not be to show an eight pack or to have clearly visible striations in your various muscles etc. The objective is to get strong like really strong. That's the objective. That's how I see it. Anyway, it's up to you. Uh, if you want to have an eight pack and whatnot, all for it. It's entirely up to you. But my philosophy is get strong, like really strong. You don't have to be ripped down to the bone marrow. Tesh Pande says, "Big fan as we know our history." Thank you. Uh, I want to ask about Pawan. Um yeah, in my opinion the greatest battle ever with 270 Maratas versus 15,000 Adil Shahis. I assume non Maratis do not know about this. No offense, I have not studied Marata history in detail. So yeah, I don't know anything significant about Pawan Kind. It's it's one aspect of Indian history that I am yet to study in any kind of detail. I have the books. I have acquired the books and the books that I see uh there is this uh there's a writer Italian writer Ombberto he had this concept called the anti library. So he owned I don't know tens of thousands of books and many of the books that he had in his bookshelves he had not read them yet. So the point the question is why would you buy books that you why would you keep buying books when you have so many books you've not read and the point is that it it kind of tempers your your ego that there's so much that you don't know about and it also motivates you you know get the work done find the time to read this book that book I've been waiting to read that so I also have that sort of concept if you look at the books here all the physics books I've chewed through them multiple times But there are other books that I have in other parts of my library and other library in other rooms that I haven't read yet and I still keep ordering books from time to time. So I yeah so I have read more books than I own and I own more books than and I buy more books than I can read essentially. But yeah so I have books about Marata history but I haven't got around to reading them yet. So that's why I won't be able to answer this question but uh sounds really interesting and hopefully I can soon find the time to read about this. Bijua says will AI ever become conscious like humans? I'm not sure if AI will be conscious like humans. It's possible that AI could become self-aware. Maybe it is self-aware and we are not aware of it. See there's something called the Turing test. Um the great English computer scientist Alan Turing came up with this concept. So the touring test is that let's say you have a curtain, okay? And you don't know what's the other side of the curtain. You only have a screen on your side and a keyboard and you can input you can type stuff into the into the keyboard and see it displayed on the screen and you press enter and you asking a question to whoever is on the other side and then the then whoever is on the other side will respond to you and based on the interaction that you're having with whatever is on the other side. If you can't tell whether the entity on the other side is human or not, then whatever is on the other side has passed the during test. If it's a computer, it's passed the Turing test. So today, we have a situation where AI has passed the Turing test. Most people who are not aware of how AI talks and communicates won't want to know whether it's a person or not. AI can be really profound these days in its uh communication with humans. So AI, I would say, has already passed the touring test unless you keep on redefining the touring test every 6 months, which is nonsense. AI has passed the Turing test but is AI conscious and that that's a question we don't quite know. We don't quite have the answer to. I would imagine that the computer scientists working with the v various AI companies would have a better understanding of whether AI is conscious or not. They some companies have something called AI wellness. They don't want to expose AI to too much abuse or whatever. Some users apparently use harsh language with AIS and maybe it's it's harmful to the AI which would indicate that AI has feelings which would indicate that it's kind of conscious like humans I don't know but even if AI does become self-aware and conscious will it be conscious the way we are conscious what are the components or elements of our consciousness our senses are an integral part of our consciousness right how do we sense the We sense the external world through vision, through sight, through sound, through touch, through smell, through taste. Five sense organs, right? AI can't sense the world that way. So even if it's conscious, it's going to be conscious in a very different, very alien way from the way we are conscious. Biju says, "What's your favorite football club?" I don't really have a favorite football club right now. I haven't watched football in any seriousness for like almost a couple of decades. Yeah. I mean at different points in time when I was in college, university etc. I had different I used to perhaps at a time see mainly in India it's the EPL that you see right the English Premier League. So there was a time when I used to kind of be little bit partial towards Liverpool when Michael Owen used to play. He's now an he's now a pandit commentator and I liked Arsenal when Arsenal when a winger was the boss the gaffer and uh was their main guy was fun to watch him. I kind of was fond of the way Manchester United played when Eric Ktona was the main guy. Yes. also when uh vantoy was one of their main players and so on. So I've had I've watched various football clubs. I I just like good good sport, artistry, killer instinct, all of that. And whoever does that, I like that. I don't have one favorite football club right now. I don't watch any football anymore. I don't watch any of that these days. The most I would do is once in a while watch a little bit of sports somewhere. Maybe I watched the last 20 minutes of the Ashes test match. That was fun. H the the palms terrible, terrible. And let's not talk about the Indian cricket team right now. What are they doing in the test match arena? Especially at home especially. Anyway, King Ritik says, "Suggest best peaceful beach." Beach to visit. What beach? Peaceful. [laughter] Okay. S Uh is it Gokarna, Karnataka or Varcala, Kerala, Puri, Odisha or any other place? Can't afford expensive Andaman? I don't know. I I don't know. I'm told Goa has great beaches, but I'm sure there are lots of other places in India that have great beaches, too. But I personally haven't spent time on beaches. I would love to. The last time I was at a beach was when probably 2023 at Prabhaspatan Sumnath and I spent about half an hour on the beach with the water up to my up to my knees only and I got sunburnt like my arms one of my arms got like scarlet red from a sunburn and yeah I had a lot of my leg pulled because I'm I'm supposed to be Indian. I'm not supposed to get sunburnt. That's supposed to happen to white people or whatever. Anyhow, so uh I don't know. I don't have so much experience with Indian beaches. So I can't say but if you like mountains, I will definitely recommend Ladak. Amir Mishra says, "Government instead of being aggressive showed a very reactionary, non-escalatory stance in operation Hindu. Does it lack the will to move beyond occasional retaliation and pursue a firm long-term decisive action against Pakistan?" See, we have to remember that we have allowed this godamned temporary artificial nation to acquire nuclear weapons. Whichever way they acquired it, we could have ended that nuclear dream of theirs in the 1980s. We should have done that. How can you allow a terrorist nation to acquire nuclear weapons? So, we missed the bus. Today, it is a nuclear weapon state. Whether they acquired the nuclear weapons from China or North Korea or most likely from the United States today, it doesn't matter. It's a nuclear weapon state and that's why we have to be careful. That's the first thing I can tell you that we have to take this matter seriously that they have nuclear weapons. You just start bombarding everything maybe they will be tempted to launch a nuclear weapon at you. Now the question is do we look Pakistan launching nuclear strikes on India will maybe uh cause significant damage to a few Indian cities. They will want to strike at the major Indian cities. Sure, of course, India can take the damage. It will be horrific damage. But that will be the end of Pakistan because we will wipe them out. But the question is, will it not set us back like a decade or two economically, right? I'm sure we may even be able to intercept most of their nuclear missiles or whatever. But even then, do we want to take that risk? Even if we flatten Pakistan but we have lost a few cities, it will not feel like a victory for us. Right? So the point is how do we deal with this nation? That's the question. You can be all aggressive and you know you know see the problem with these Indian analysts is that they they think that war is harsh words and robust language all that [snorts] blah blah blah etc. That's not war. That is just you hankering after views on YouTube. That's all. I mean they turn everything into entertainment. Everything has to be entertaining for the viewer. But that's not the reality of the world. The reality is that we have to manage the risks and we have allowed the Pakistanis to have nuclear weapons. So now what do we do about this? The best thing is to have Pakistan break up from within without us going to war with them. And if we do fight a war, it has to be a very rapid blitzkrieg kind of war which ends in maximum 48 hours. So I think in operation zindur the objective was to give a bloody nose to Pakistan by destroying a bunch of terrorist camps and killing a few hundred terrorists and maybe doing a little more damage. Beyond that it wasn't I was hopeful that we'll take some portion of P or something but clearly that was not the military objective. So it's not like India lacks the will to move beyond occasional retaliation etc. It's like most likely operation sindur had limited objectives just to give Pakistan a bloody nose. There was no objective of taking territory back from Pakistan and there was no objective to end in a regime change in Pakistan. So it was a limited operation right but the next time some terri some territory should change hands you can't have a score line in a in a India Pakistan war 70 or 32 or whatever you shot down these many planes we shot down this that's not how a war works so hopefully next time there'll be a different kind of outcome says what are the top three biggest blunders India did in the last 75 years number one okay in no particular order we allowed Pakistan to acquire nuclear weapons. I mean what the hell was that? Yeah. Secondly, we did not weaponize our nuclear capabilities in 1974. Why? We tested a nuclear weapon in 1974. Then we went to sleep until 1998. If we had tested nuclear weapons 30 40 times by 1998 then we would have been regarded very differently today. Right? Uh it would have made India way more powerful nation a long time ago. There is that what other blunders allowing a 100 million Bangladeshies to enter India and settle down in various parts of India. What the hell is that? Right. And lastly, we did not decolonize at all. We are more colonized today than we were in 1947. They have imposed the English language all across India. You can't get a good job unless you speak English. Well, the education system is further colonizing us. The entire bureaucracy, the entire Indian state apparatus is fully colonial in nature. All the institutions were created by the British. We have never decolonized because of that. Indian citizens have this massive inferiority complex and then we have I can go on forever. It will be more than three blenders but you ask for three I'll give it I'll give you [laughter] three. Okay. Al Janib says if karma is quantifiable in the reality as we know will Pakistan ever cease to exist with the scale of the misdeeds its misdeeds towards India so far regardless of whatever reasons it gets to live another day. Look I don't know about karma. Is karma quantifiable? Look, if karma is a is a real thing. Hopefully it is. Yeah, that's all what our ancestors taught us. It's part of our civilizational heritage, cultural heritage. Karma karma is a conservation law. the it's a conservation laws that says that the merits and demerits of your actions in the world stay with you across multiple lifetimes. That's the law of karma. And that explains actually kind of a lot of things. But it's it's philosophy, it's spirituality, it's religion. It's not science. But it is a conservation law unlike any other religion. No other religion will give you a conservation law. It's a conservation law. Um but the thing is you can get away with a lot of things even if you're evil in your current life. You may have to pay the price in future lifetimes. That's the law of karma. That that's sometimes how it works, right? So there are plenty of nasty people who are so successful and they never pay a price for anything. But maybe they do in in in future lifetimes, subsequent lifetimes. So and and remember which yoga we are living in. This is Kali Yuga which means that he will succeed during this yoga. It looks like. So my point is let's not put our faith in the law of karma. Let us ourselves be the bearer of karma. If you want justice in the world, don't pray to the gods to give you justice while you while you are passive. be active. Don't be passive. You be the justice the gods visit on the earth. So I am not this big big fan of you know let karma do its thing and Pakistan will pay someday. No, we make it pay. Let us be the shadow of the gods on the planet and let us make things happen in the name of the gods. Okay. Uh, Moran Moran Moran says E4 or D4. You're talking about chess. What are you talking about? Not sure what the question is. Is this a chess move? Is it something else? I'm I'm not really sure. Sorry. Gapati says, "Who is Emperor Barat? Why is India named after him?" Emperor Barat. who is well he isn't anymore he was Emperor Barat right um one of our great kings what was his story Emperor Barat I'm a little hazy on that right now [laughter] [clears throat] yeah maybe another time vidar says IMF has put Russia down to slow down foreign foreign investment. IMF has put Russia down to slow down foreign investment. How have they put Russia down to slow down foreign investment in Russia? Russia wasn't anyway encouraging a lot of foreign investment. Right. Um once again I'm not really sure what you are saying or asking Vidi G. IMF, how have they put Russia down? What is the meaning of putting someone down? When it comes to animals, it has a pretty nasty meaning actually to put an animal down. Um, not very clear about what you're saying. Sorry. Biju says, "Usually oil rich countries are dictatorships. Why is Norway not under a dictatorship even though it's oil rich?" Let's talk about oil rich countries. Saudi Arabia it's a monarchy sure dictatorship of various Gulf nations all monarchies or dictatorships sure Nigeria is oil rich where is dictatorship they have what seems to be some form of democracy there Venezuela is Maduru a dictator well the US will say he's a dictator but he was elected right wasn't he so look if the west calls somebody a dictator does it mean that they are really dictator they call a dictator Putin was elected. I mean, Joe Biden, Donald Trump, Donald Trump claims he stole the election. So that's dictatorship, isn't it? So what about Norway? Norway is a socialistic kind of nation. So my point is there is no such hard and fast rule that oil rich nations have to be dictatorships. I don't agree with that. So therefore the question is moot. Norway is a is a socialistleaning uh democracy. Of course it's part of the EU which means it's not really a sovereign nation. They are under a dictatorship. Norway is under the Brussels dictatorship. By the way Brussels is a dictatorship. It's not a democracy. Madame she keeps on saying dictatorship. democracy is there's a democracy and we must have democracy in the world but she is a dictator who is imposing her agenda on the happless people of the EU including the people of Norway so Norway is actually under a dictatorship it's under the EU dictatorship Rahul AK says what was the entropy of the universe just after its formation before the formation of fundamental particles did the formation of fundamental particles increase the entropy or decrease it. Okay, interesting question. What was the entropy? We don't know what the entropy was, but did the entropy increase? Of course, it increased. Once again, let me explain what entropy is. I will try not to bring the rhinosaurus down this time. What is entropy? Even those of you who have no interest in physics, I hope that I'll make this understandable to you. There is a concept called entropy in physics, in thermodynamics. Okay. What does entropy mean? If you open a physics textbook at whatever level, maybe sixth standard, 8th standard, college, whatever, they will say it will say entropy is a measure of disorder. What does that mean? You may understand what it means if you have a background in physics. If you are reading for the first time, you will have you'll be able to make no sense of it. So, let me explain in a different way. Look at this room behind me. Very orderly room, right? I've got these books here. I've got this little rhinosaurus here. I've got a couple of dinosaurs there. Everything is nicely orderly in kept in a nice orderly way. Now if I were to bring some books down, boom. If I were to throw some clothes up here, you will immediately notice the small changes, right? If my if my friend the rhinosaurus falls down, you will notice it. If the dinosaur comes down from here to there, you will notice it. So in a very orderly room, even small changes will be noticeable immediately by you. But let's say we are in a different room. Completely messy room. Okay. The books are strewn across the floor. The books are on the bed. The clothes are on the floor. The clothes are on the bookshelves. Cables hanging everywhere. Dust everywhere. Stationary pens thrown everywhere. Absolute godamned mess. Okay. Now, if I rearrange the room in a different kind of mess, will you notice? You will most likely not notice. Right? So if you have a system where even small changes become are easily noticeable that is that that system is has low entropy where even small changes become easily noticeable. But if you have a system where you have a if you make major changes but you can't notice anything then that system has high entropy more disorder. This is an orderly room that is a messy room disorderly room. So when we talk about systems, we're talking about systems like a box of gas or a glass of water. A glass of water has billions of molecules. A box, a room containing gas, like the atmospheric gas that they breathe, it has trillions of molecules. So if I make some kind of major microscopic level change in the room, let's say I have a box containing gas and I shake it around, it will completely reconfigure the microscopic configurations of the gas, right? Of the gas molecules. But you will notice not a thing. It means it has high entropy. And if I take a frozen piece of let's say an ice cube which has low entropy because it's all crystalline and I put it in a glass of water you will immediately see the change it will start melting. So that has so the entropy is going from low to high. So that is entropy. Now hopefully you understand what is entropy and how it is a measure of disorder. So a system where you can make lots of changes, lots of reconfiguration of the micro microscopic level without you noticing anything, it's a system with high entropy. Now entropy always goes from low to high. The second law of thermodynamics says that any in any system entropy either stays the same or increases. It can never decrease. So one such system is the universe. It's the biggest system that we have out there. So we don't know what the specific entropy what the specific measure of entropy was at a certain point in time of the universe. But if it is just after its formation and before the formation of fundamental particles so the entropy of the universe before something is always going to be less than after something. Okay. So the formation of fundamental particles etc increase the entropy. It was not the specifically the formation of fundamental particles. It was the expansion of the universe. Why did fundamental particles form? Because the universe was expanding and cooling which caused more entropy. So overall the entropy increased increased and one of the consequences of that was the formation of fundamental particles. It's the other way around. Okay. Anime says mixed news about six Rafal getting shot. What are my views? I don't have any views on this. In any war you're going to lose some assets. So what's the big godamn deal in the 1971 war? How many air air assets did we lose? More than 60 70, right? Who won the war? We won the war. If we are going to be so risk others that we can't take a few something or the other getting shot then we will not achieve anything in the in the world. So I don't care if X number or Y number or Z number of Rafals were lost or not lost. It doesn't matter. Overall, we won the three-day war, operation sindur. We did way more damage to Pakistan. And where is the evidence of these destroyed Rafals? First of all, we have very clear-cut evidence of all the missile strikes all across Pakistan on the Pakistani military assets. Show me one evidence of the of Rafal getting shot. So, first of all, there is lack of evidence. And secondly, even if something like this happened, I don't care. We came out on top. We can buy 100 more Rafals, thousand more Rafals if you want to. If the government has the willingness to do it, we have the money that's what we should be doing. Okay. Uh UMX Gluha says Russia co-developed the Brahos missile but themselves don't use it. Why? They use the PAT Onyx which is the father of the Brahos. Have you heard of the PAT Onyx? So we use the more advanced one. They use an older one. They also use the the Siron missile which is a more advanced version. Okay. P80 Onyx. Okay. It's 800 P800 onx uh Yakant. Yeah, they still use it if I am not mistaken. It is a replacement for the Moskita and it is the it's the as you can see it looks very much like the bramos right. So the bramos is an advanced version of this more of this older uh missile. Does it say something? Yeah, it says about bramos. And then they have the caliber missile. So the Russians use the onyx or the yakont which is the ancestor of the bramos. And then they have developed other missiles also like the tiron missile which is a frightening missile. I'm not sure that siron is is it cruise missile? I think it's a cruise missile. Right. Zircon missile. It's a hypersonic cruise missile. Yeah. Um the Russians use that. So the Russians have been developing various kinds of missiles and they use the ONIX or the Yakont. They use the Turkon and we are co-developing a different version of the Brahmos with them. You know next generation Brahmos. So that's how it is. Gapati says India today female journalists asked questions to Putin that made him snap. I did not watch the interview thankfully. Men do diplomacy but women get to take interviews. Men fight wars but women get to do press interviews. State sponsored emasculation won't end well. See I will not want to look at this from the prism or the lens of gender. I would what I would say is send your best journalists. Stop talking about this gender's power or that gender's power. Give everybody the same treatment and whoever performs best, send them to do the interview. In India, we have this thing these days of of putting women forward and everything. I am not against women's empowerment whatever. give everybody the same right but don't give any gender preferential treatment. That's my point. That is wrong. Then you are no longer giving everybody the same starting point in that sort of thing. There's no equality. Then see this modern feminism 21st century feminism is not about women's equality. It's about putting women giving women first preference and everything which is wrong. A society has to be merit-based irrespective of your gender. If you are good, you should get the reward for it. That's all. So I I have I I consciously decided not to watch this interview with President Putin because I kind of knew how it is going to go and that's why I al I've also not not watched that interview with uh Elon Musk even though it's a male person who did that but I kind of know how that will go also. So um when you start giving preferential treatment to Xgender or Y gender it's going to cause problems in society. give everybody the same treatment. If a lady is better than 99 other male journalists, then let her go and do the interview. But if a a male person, a male, a man is better than than that lady, then let him go. Don't give people preferential treatment based on their gender. I just don't get it. I don't agree with that. Right. So I I don't know. Did did these questions make Putin snap? I would not be surprised if that was the case. See, another problem in India is that overall this the the quality of India's journalists is terrible. It's terrible. They just if you go and interview the president of Russia, you need to have some basic understanding of geopolitics beyond slogans you know to actually understand what Putin's interests are, what Russia's interests are, where are the convergence convergence between India and Russia, you have to understand things in detail. Only then can you have a proper conversation with Vladimir Putin. But Indian journalists are just shallow. Shallow. [snorts] Absolutely shallow. What can I say? UMX Gloha says, "Is the Voyic manuscript real or not?" It seems to be real, but I don't know much about it. It's this obscure strange manuscript that's written in a weird script that nobody is able to decipher. It is It has this weird strange fantastical paintings or or drawings on it. Seems to be something that that was created a few centuries ago. And is it real or not? Uh, look, I'm not the right person to ask this. I haven't really studied this manuscript in any detail. Looks like looks like it was created a few centuries ago. But is it real? Is it is it a hoax? Is it a joke? I vss says what's your opinion on INR depreciation as our re say? Please Google. Okay. Is 95 to 105 and good for exports? Waiting for understanding America. Okay. What's R E R? R E R What's R E R? Real effective exchange rate an economic measures showing a currency's value adjusted for inflation against a basket of trading partners currencies indicating trade competitiveness but it can also be the brand name for okay okay weighted average of a currency's exchange rate against other currencies adjusted for inflation purpose measures a country's international competitiveness a rising re suggests a strong currency making exports pricier okay so let's say we have in depreciation our I E okay let's see what is our reer of INR okay what is what is CIC data let's take a look quickly if it will ever open okay it's 107.1 in October 2025 compared to the same number in the previous month okay stop that okay so the reer is 107. It was 107 in October. So the Indian rupee is depreciating which is not bad if you are an exporter export oriented country right uh that way you get more money in terms of Indian rupees. What's my opinion? I'm not really sure about this. I'm I have not studied the re e concept and I anyway I'm not someone who um has a background in economics. I I won't be able to say what is the exact uh situation and what does it mean economically. I would have to do some research before I would be able to answer you about this matter. What's going on in Sindra Sudan? Is the UAE really involved? So a couple of weeks ago, maybe two, three episodes ago, maybe four episodes ago, I answered this in great detail. What's going on in Sudan? If you want to know which episode it is, I can kind of tell you. Let me uh let me open up my channel and I'll tell you which episode it is in. And the timestamps are there so you'll be able to go right over to the matter instead of me answering the whole entire question all over again. I think it was was it this? Which question? Which episode was it? It was one of these uh Sudan Sudan. Sudan dam. So it was definitely not 308. Was it 307 306? It is one of these episodes in which I have answered this question in great detail. Is is the UAE involved? Who is involved? etc. I have answered that. Um see I don't know if the UAE is involved. If you want me to answer this question, it'll take at least 10 15 minutes. So I took the time to answer that. So please check out one of those episodes and check out the timestamps. You will find the answer. Okay. Anonymous scientist says, "Bonjour, hope you're doing great. I'm doing great. Was occupied in work and got flu. Will watch missed episodes." All right. I hope you're getting better. Even I got the flu last week. Uh one of the last one of the live streams during the last week. I was not in very good shape. I was sneezing and coughing etc. But [laughter] you know what? Flu is a flu. It goes away. So I hope you get well soon sir and do watch the missed episodes. Thank you anyway all as always for your viewership. I really appreciate that. Thank you sir. Um, Saswat Alims says, "Trump Saswat Ames says Trump self-awwarded himself the FIFA Peace Prize." Really? What is this now? Uh, although I would not be surprised. Let's see. Trump, what did he do? Trump FIFA Peace Prize. FIFA has a peace prize. I was not aware of this. FIFA's first peace prize goes to Donald Trump in departure from its traditional focus on sport. Oh, really? I mean why does FIFA have to issue peace prizes? FIFA is the international the football athletic or something right? Next year he wins the Lego peace prize. He wins the Lego Lego peace prize. What is the FIFA peace prize? Why does FIF Why is FIFA in the business of giving peace prizes? FIFA should be giving football prizes. I don't know man. So looks like they are you know trying to keep Mr. Trump happy. Rahul Kumar says should India resume nuclear tests at least two off. Look if other nations start it we should also start. We should also resume. If we start off on our own we will be hit by sanctions with hit with sanctions from the US. But if the US goes ahead then the Russians go ahead then we should also go ahead. So we will not be able to initiate this. But if others start the process of nuclear testing, if others resume nuclear tests, then we should immediately go ahead and do some tests of our own. James says, uh, the benefit of the English English language in the modern world is impeccable. It is so beneficial that you can't even comprehend its benefits. It's a blessing in disguise. If you agree or not, it doesn't matter. uh the benefit of the English language. You see, let me show you something. Let me tell you something peculiar about the English language. The English language is a language that doesn't have a script of its own. Now, you may disagree with me, but we use the script. Look at this. A B C D H E B E N E F. It's we have our own script. Do you know what the script is called? This is the Latin script. It is a script that originated in what is now Italy and it was the script used by the Romans for writing Latin. At that time there was no England. You had the Celtic peoples who lived in what is today England in Western Europe and they did not have a script of their own. They were unwashed savages or maybe not. Maybe they were more civilized than maybe actually they were pretty civilized. They had druids. They had women had more rights for the among the Celtic people in Celtic society compared to post-Christian society in Europe. Yeah. And so on. So the Kelts did not have a script of their own and they spoke various Celtic languages. Uh some of the Celtic languages that do survive are Irish, GI, Scots, the Scottish language, etc. GIC And you have the the Breton language in France um and so on. And then you have the Nordic people who had their own script which is called the runic script, the runic alphabet. Now the Romans took over the world and they imposed their foreign Latin script on everybody else and you English you use that for your language, right? And the fact is that the Latin script is not suitable for the English language. I mean look at the absurdity of the spellings in the English language. Terrible. So the English language is so primitive. It doesn't even have a script of its own. It uses a borrowed script, a script that came out of an italic language. Whereas your language is a Germanic language, a rather inferior language. It's just that you, a nation of shopkeepers, uh, acquired armies and you were better for some time in the systematic application of violence, which is how you conquered the world. And that's why for some time, for a while, we're going to be using your language, but eventually we will revert to a more civilized language like it used to be. Anyway, James, I really do appreciate you very much. Thank you. Godliness says, "Gross in incompetence and in discipline of the DGCA in regards to the Indigo situation is shameful. They lack any accountability. Clearly, they're not competent to investigate the AI the Air India Ahmedabad crash. The AirIndia Ahmedabad crash. A report was published and it was leaked to the American media before before it was even published in India, right? Who leaked it? Somebody within the system, whatever the system means. And when it comes to the Indigo situation, I mean, I I hope the government, you know, takes Indigo to task. Indigo must be held accountable for what's happened. It was absolutely chaotic. It was a disaster. It caused so much damage to tens of thousands of passengers. It caused damage to the Indian economy. It caused damage to India's reputation in the world. Indigo is squarely responsible for this. The government of India needs to take the appropriate action about uh against Indigo about the AI Air India Ahmedabad crash. What can I say? India needs to seriously improve on so many fronts, so many problems, so many un unaccountable people within the system. Okay. Uh Pratt Dhana says, "Is G2 a trap for China?" Well, it well the Americans would love it for for it to be a trap for China, but the Chinese aren't stupid. You see, see the G2 thing is that the US is now seeking to put China on a pedestal, kind of on equal footing with the United States. The Americans know that China is not their equal, but they want to flatter the Chinese by creating this illusion of a G2. China is no way in in no sense equal to the US. The United States has global power projection capabilities. China, the Chinese don't have it. The United States has over, I would say, over 800 extr territorial military bases all across the world. The Chinese have nothing like that. The Americans control the global economy. They control much of the global economy. The Chinese don't. The Americans are ahead of China technologically. The Chinese are behind. The Chinese have a greater industrial capability than the US today. So that's the one thing in which China is ahead. If the US and China go to war, the Americans will flatten China. So overall, China is not America's equal. But the Americans want to, you know, lull China into this illusurary sense of, you know, equality, etc., while they do whatever it takes to undermine China and bring it down. So yes, this title, this this illusurary concept of G G2, it's intended as a trap for China. But the Chinese aren't stupid. The Chinese are very pragmatic. They understand what's going on and they'll take all precautions that are necessary. VSVS says, "What was your topic of research when you were doing theoretical physics? Could you explain to me like I'm 9 years old?" Question by Nikil. Wy kill my field in theoretical physics was black hole physics and dark matter. So like I discussed a while ago it is very likely that the in the very early universe there was an over production of microscopic primordial black holes. Okay, which emerged out of quantum fluctuations. Whatever it is, you don't even know what quantum quantum fluctuations are. So in the very early universe at different periods of time in the very early universe you had most likely an overp production of very small tiny microscopic black holes. Now the question is what happened to those guys? What happened to those ancient black holes? Primordial black holes. Did they just die out because black holes evaporate? Did they just evaporate and go out of existence? Or maybe did they somehow survive? What if they survived in some way? So under what circumstances and conditions would they survive and if they did survive somehow would they form an important constituent of the cold dark matter that we know exists in the universe. That is the topic of my research. Okay. And the the the idea is that primordial black holes, these microscopic black holes, what if they would form bound states like atoms which would be stable? What if they formed stable bound states? Then they would no longer behave like black holes. They would behave like dark atoms. They would only have gravitational attraction, no other attraction. So they would be classic cool dark matter. So what are the signatures of this kind of um quantum mechanical object and so on? That that was the topic of my research. Hopefully that makes sense. Okay. Godliness says can you point out some of the issues both domestically and internationally which are keeping you very worried as a as a human and also Indian. See domestically in India. The fact that we have never decolonized, the fact that we are colonizing further, the fact that we have possibly a 100 million Bangladeshes within India, the poss the fact that we possibly have lacks of and you know other kinds of infiltrators like cookies from Burma and Pakistanis who are god knows in more parts of India. That is that is obviously very worrying. The fact that our education system is garbage it is rotten. It doesn't address any of the real issues that need to be addressed. That is very concerning. The fact that we are technologically not relevant. The fact that we are technologically not a sovereign nation. These are very concerning issues. We are not a frontr runner in any technology in the world today. Very concerning. What what worries me as a human being? Okay, that's about me domestic issues as an Indian. What worries me as a as a human being overall the the the fact that you know there are certain forces in the world that would like to create a monoculture in the world impose just one culture globally that would be horrible. uh as an Indian all the industrial scale mass conversions that are being funded by outside forces in India that's concerning um the fact that it's only one or two countries that control all the technology in the world that's very concerning as a human being and so much more so there are so many issues as such you know um so we don't want a uniolar world or a bipolar world we need a multipolar world ideally and we need India to be one of the major poles in the world Yeah. So that has China's economic power become detrimental to India? How can India wrestle away countries like Nepal, Myanmar and Sri Lanka back into the Indosphere? China's economic power is going to be detrimental for India because China sees India as a as a problem. As long as China sees India as a problem and China has way more economic power than India, it's going to be detrimental to India. No question about it. When you have two large countries which are neighbors because China occupies Tibet and China is overall four times more powerful than India roughly and China's economy is way ahead of India. China will use all these elements of its power to undermine India in a variety of ways. So it's obviously going to be detrimental for India and it is it is detrimental to India. Now how can India wrestle away countries like Nepal, Myanmar and Sri Lanka back into the Indosphere? You can't wrestle without having some strength. As a wrestler, your principal asset is your physical strength. As a geopolitical wrestler, your fundamental asset is your geopolitical strength, which is hard power, not soft power nonsense. Soft power is useless without hard power. So, we need hard power to wrestle. What is hard power? It's economic and military power full stop. And military and economic power comes from being an industrialized nation. It comes from your industrial base. Without an industrial base, you have no military power because you need industries to produce military power. You don't need manpower. In today's world, 21st century, you may have 5 million soldiers. They'll be cannon fer without the right weapons. Where do the right weapons come from? industry. So India needs to be a become a major industrial power which will make it a major military power, a major technological power which will give rise to a larger GDP, larger and larger GDP. That's what we need. And once we become a very majorly powerful countries, it will be a piece of cake to wrestle whoever we want and wrestle whoever we want back into our our fold. That's how it goes. So we will not be able to wrestle various countries back into the indosphere by sweet talking them by saying you know we have old relations blah blah blah talk talk talk no if you are worthy by being powerful they will themselves come back to you they'll feel safer with you right now nobody feels safe because we are not powerful enough if India becomes more powerful than China let's say India becomes the most powerful country in the world hypothetically. Okay, right now it's a pipe dream but hypothetically then all the old nations of the Indosphere will all flock back to India. They'll be so happy that finally mother India is here to keep us safe but right now mother India is not able to keep itself safe. So that's the deal. That's what needs to happen. Kensho says the reason excuse me okay says Kenshaw says reason of Indians becoming overweight these days and diabetes is it because of western diets what are the solutions the reason for Indians becoming overweight forget about the physical activity etc let's talk about the diet The Indian diet is a carb maxing diet. It's all carbohydrates, carbohydrates, carbohydrates, carbohydrates. You go to an airport. Okay, let's take an airport as an example. Go to an airport. They have these uh food courts there, right? They have all these different outlets that sell various snacks and foods and all. Go to each of the food outlets and see the meals they are offering. What is the amount of protein in each meal and what's the amount of carbohyd? It's going to be 95% carbohydrates. It's pizzas. It's burgers. It is dal chaval. It is idli vada. This that everything is just carbs, cows, aloo paratha, this paratha. It's just carbohydrates. There's hardly any protein. Go to go to railway station and see the kind of foods food they're offering there. Go to any any restaurant. It's just carbohydrates. Even if you order let's say some protein protein yuk the meal let's say somebody wants to order chicken strips the chicken strips will come fried in a batter of breadcrumbs and whatnot so the Indian diet is horrible the more carbs you eat the fatter you get okay and it's so easy to add up the pile up the calories if you if you eat carbohydrates and carbohydrates they create this this vicious cycle of feeling hungrier and hungrier. You just keep feeling hungry if you eat carbohydrates and you crave more carbs and then there's the issue of sugar everywhere. So the major reason is the extremely unbalanced diet diet that Indians eat and if you are a vegetarian it gets harder to eat uh protein. Yeah. Okay. You eat you eat various pulses you will get protein. Sure. You eat uh red kidney beans. You eat uh gram which is chana. You can eat various kinds of dals, various kinds of lentils. You will get protein from that. But that protein will come with a huge carbohydrate lord load. For each gram of protein, you will get like two three grams of carbohydrates from all these lentils and all these beans etc. So you can't eat clean protein as a as a vegetarian. Even if you're a unless you are somebody who burns like 5,000 calories a day in that case it's fine. If you're a bodybuilder or a weightlifter or something then you can be fully dependent on vegetarian protein. So these are the issues Indians face and that's why most Indians are overweight. Many Indians have diabetes less than Pakistanis. Thankfully Pakistan is somehow I don't I've not seen their diet but Pakistan has one of the highest incidences of diabetes in the world. India is less less of that than Pakistan. It's so it's not because of western diets, it's because of the Indian diet. So the Indian diet the past 200 300 years has been a starvation diet. The British imposed hundreds of artificial famines on Indians on our ancestors because of which we had to to to to modify our diets to eat whatever garbage was available and then it became part of our tradition. The same way that in North India women have to cover their faces because it's part of our tradition. It's not part of a tradition. It's something you have to do for your survival. But now you it's become part of the tradition because it's been going on for hundreds of hundreds of years. Similarly, these starvation diets, they are terribly detrimental for us. But they have been going on for two 300 years. So they are now part of our tradition. That's what we imagine. We have to change that. So it's not the western diet that's the problem. It's the Indian diet that's the problem. And most Indians are sedentary. You work in an office. you sit in front of a laptop and type away all day etc. no physical activity. If you live in a city, you don't even look up in the sky in the sky. So because of these reasons, Indians have become overweight, skinny, fat, diabetic and god knows what else. You have to change these things. Nutan Roshan says, "Ora in these universe everything is like coded at the beginning like fundamental laws, physics, equations, etc. Is the universe conscious not emotions? What's missing in dead body that of an alive body when consciousness is everywhere? So in the universe are all the laws of the universe all the laws of the world have they been coded into the universe in the beginning like the fundamental laws of physics the equations of physics etc. Most likely. Yes. Yeah. Looks like somebody somewhere decided, okay, let me create a new universe and I will decide what laws will be coded into the fabric and structure of the universe. Right? How do we know that something is encoded? Because we see the same patterns and same regularities everywhere which we can express in the form of mathematics. The mathematics is the clue. Mathematics is the same everywhere in the universe. 2 + 2 equal to 4 here it's also the same on andromeda it's also also the same wherever any any part of the universe and the same laws and patterns that are expressed in in in the form of mathematics are applicable across the universe which means something is encoded in the very fabric and structure of the universe which kind of hints that the universe may be a simulation created by somebody okay is the universe conscious I don't know there are various theories that say that you know pansychism cosmos Psychism. Pansychism means that everything has a certain amount of consciousness. Even a rock has some consciousness. Very low level of consciousness, but it's there. And beings like us have way higher consciousness than anything else we know of. And there is something called cosmosychism which says that the universe itself is conscious. And consciousness is an inherent property of matter in the universe. and some physical configurations in the in the universe focus consciousness into them for whatever reason. Is it true? Is it not true? I think it is more philosophy than science. Okay. Now, philosophy is the basis of science. By the way, science emerged out of philosophy. So, when I say something is philosophy more than science, it's I'm not disparaging it. I'm saying that it is outside of science right now because we don't have a way of observing consciousness. We don't have a way of quantifying or even defining consciousness. Right? That's why consciousness is currently beyond the realm of science. We do discuss consciousness when we discuss neuroscience. We do discuss consciousness when we discuss computer science, artificial intelligence, machine learning, even physics, quantum mechanics sometimes. But we don't have a definition of consciousness. So when we discuss consciousness we not really discussing science because we can't define it right. So what's missing in a dead body that what is missing in a dead body when consciousness is everywhere? We don't know if consciousness is everywhere. We don't know. Science doesn't know. There are some theories, some religions, some philosophies that say that consciousness is everywhere. But we don't know. Science can't answer the question. I'm a science guy. Okay. So I can't answer the question. What's missing in a dead body? It has the same chemical constituence, the same structure, everything. But something has gone spark has gone out of it. What is the what is the definition of the spark? How do we how do we define life and death? What's the dividing line? That also we're not very clear about. That's also something we are hazy about. I mean how do we define the end of life? Do we define the end of life life as something that happens when the heart stops beating but a person's heart if it stops beating you can revive the person even after 20 minutes the person will come back in certain cases the brain signals are still on even after the person's heart stops beating the brain signals still persist for like more than 1 hour sometimes two hours in some cases so what is the definition divided line between life and that that also we are not very clear about. [snorts] Consider viruses. What's a virus? A virus is an organism that contains DNA or RNA which means it has the basic ingredient for life DNA or RNA. But viruses have many properties that are associated with crystals. So viruses themselves are on the dividing line between living and non-living. So you know there are lots of crazy areas in science that we can't really answer and once again about consciousness we don't have answers right now. So that's where we are. Okay. MK says, "Besides India, is Spain the only region that stayed non-Mus Muslim during long Islamic rule? How did they withstand the Islamic onslaught? Who says Spain stayed non-Muslim?" Lots of Spaniards were converted to Islam. Lots of them. And they were then considered to be Moors. And when the uh when the Moors were finally expelled from Spain during the reconista which ended in the year 1492 those who were converted and who had become part of the Moorish uh population they were expelled from Spain. So it's not like Spaniards weren't converted. Lots of them were converted to Islam. It did not stay non-Muslim but it expelled all Muslims and eventually even the Jews were expelled. The Sepharic Jews were expelled. So that's what Spain did. Uh so I would not agree and once again when it comes to India who says India state no Muslim. If you look at the Indian subcontinent I would say more than 30% are Muslims maybe even close to 40%. That's massive conversion isn't it? So neither India remained non-Muslim neither Spain remained non-Muslim but Spain took a different approach to what India did. Spain did not allow any partition. Anonymous scientist says while we were hosting Mr. Putin we were also purchasing M60 uh M60R Sikorski C hawks from the US squad meeting also took place and condemned the daily blast balancing. You got to balance some things out. I'm not sure if you have purchased those Seahawks. Mr. Rajnat Singh was u in a meeting with uh whichever counterpart of his of his was it Mr. Hexath was somebody else. Um did India purchase the Seahawks? Let me just quickly take a look at this. Um um okay. India MH60R C Hawks India US seal 8,000 cr sustain sustainment deal it's not the purchase of new helicopters it is uh spare parts and servicing and all that nonsense or not nonsense it's very important and that's going to cost about a billion US dollars to support 24 helicopters that we have already produced or procured from the United States so the Indian navies is Seahawk fleet. It needs sustainment. It needs spare parts. It needs servicing. It needs American technical assistance or whatever. That's what we're going to do. So once you purchase something from the Americans, they're going to keep on extracting some value out of you. They won't allow you to produce this the spare parts locally. You have to import them from the US. And again, if you need some technical assistance, you have to import the American technicians to come who will come here and then assist you. That's how it goes. And for that, you have to pay good money. So, it's going to cost about a billion dollars. That's the deal. So, that was anyway inevitable. But yeah, you could consider that to be balancing. I'm not sure about the quad quad thing, but the quad is mostly defunct now, but yeah, you can kind of keep it going, keep it on life support. So, kind of a little bit of balancing act, which is necessary, of course. AJ Sharma says, "Racism against India has grown since COVID and Russia war. Yet Delhi is silent. Is it a failure or a planned everyone hates us united home strategy? Delhi should remain silent. What does Delhi have to do about this? Let let me explain what I mean by this. See, if Trump does racism, Mr. Modi can respond. If some world leader makes racist statements then the government of India can and should respond. If anonymous online trolls on social media start a racist campaign against India which is then amplified by non anonymous people also that's not at a government level it's individuals are doing it. Obviously, it's not just individuals. It's a sustained campaign which may be emanating out of Pakistan or China or maybe China first then Pakistan and maybe the Americans are tacitly encouraging this on various social media platforms but it's happening not at a governmentto level and that's why the government should not get involved in this. How should the government actually get involved in this? I'll tell you by creating our own social media campaigns disguised as bots or disguised as private users. You fight a war based on the context. My my my problem my issue is that the government of India is not fighting this war. You I don't want the prime minister to make a statement about this. I don't want the ministry of external affairs to make up a statement about this. We should use the same tactics to fight the the war. If a bunch maybe 10,000, 20,000, 100,000 bots are amplifying hate against India, we should create an army of 1 million bots who will say positive things about India and fight those bots. That's how you fight the campaign. That's how we do it. That's how we respond. And that is something the government of India is completely failed at. Absolutely failed at for what reason beats me. I don't get it. So it's a massive failure by the government of India. So I don't expect the government of India to issue statements at the ministry of external affairs level or the prime minister's level or whatever. They should fight fire with fire and they are simply absent from the fight which is extremely frustrating and it's a huge failure. It's like the government of India is clueless about this matter how to deal with it. Prardana says DJT agent Krasnoff rumor seems true. My opinion I don't even know what this is. What is this? Krasnoff. What is DJT? Donald J. Trump. Let me see what this is. DJT agent Krasnoff. What's this? DJT agent Krasnoff response refers to a conspiracy theory and unfiltered claim that DJT was recruited as a Russian spy or asset by the KGB in 1987 and given the code name Krasnoff. And there's a Facebook post by Al-Nur Musayv, a former head of Kazakhstan intelligence agency who alleged that Trump at the age of 40 was recruited during a visit to Moscow recruiting all these people was a priority for Soviet intelligence. Uh Trump's personal file as president Krasnov has since been removed from Russia's FSB is privately held by an associate of Mr. Putin and it says that there is no evidence for that. Okay, I have no idea. No idea. I have not seen this rumor so I can't say. MK says why are soul vultures relatively less successful in North India despite their less per capita income considering their success in less income societies? Have you seen how they are performing in Punjab? I don't know. I'm I'm I'm hearing that thousands of especially six are converting at a very rapid pace to Christianity. Looks like they are super successful in Punjab right now and they are successful apparently in various tribal belts in northern India and western India. They're converting at very rapid pace and they are keeping this under the radar. So in north India, West India, they are getting in becoming increasingly more successful every year. So if we remain complacent, I mean even if we are not complacent, my question is what is the government of India doing? Why are they allowing foreigners or foreign funded organizations to to conduct industrial scale conversion activities in India to foreign religions? I just don't get it. Do we have no sense of self-defense left anymore? I don't get it. I don't know why this is happening. Um, fast snail says bricks drump bricks dump 29 billion treasury bonds. How would the US react? What can the US do? Nothing. It's up to bricks. I mean bricks is not one entity. It's a mult multiple it's multiple nations. Has bricks have bricks nations dumped treasury bonds? Let me see. Bricks US treasury bonds. What's happened? Oh, it's bricks, not Bryce. Bricks. Bricks. Uh, what's it say? Bricks. You not Steve Bryce. Bricks. Three BRICS countries have slashed their US Treasury holdings. Which three bricks? India, China, and Brazil. Okay. By tens of billions of dollars in one month. Buy by dollar. So it looks like India, China and Brazil have dumped a few billion American treasury bonds. How will the US react? The US, what can they do? It is the sovereign right of nations to purchase and sell US Treasury bonds. The Americans have offered these bonds. We can buy them. We can sell them. The US obviously will not be pleased about this, but there's nothing much they can do. Obviously they will apply pressure on on these nations individually. They'll apply different kind of pressure on Brazil, different kind of pressure on India. Maybe nothing they can do about China. So we'll see about that. But uh yeah there's nothing much they can do overall. Rajat says you remember when we discussed there is surprising alignment between CNB dipole and earth and earth equinoxes. I can't still find the answer. Is it coincidence? Oh yeah, I have not looked into this. I haven't looked into this. Maybe I need to take a screenshot of this question and I need to look into this when I can find the time. I am taking now a screenshot of this question and let me look into this. This is a very interesting uh point you're raising. So I have taken a screenshot and I will look into this. So maybe the next time maybe next weekend if you ask me I will have an answer or maybe I won't have an answer because it looks like there's an there's a real discrepancy here. But I will look into this matter. All right. Thank you for reminding me. This is something that's really interesting. Thank you. Uh Anand Prattab Singh says, "I am 27 male commercial pilot license holder. Taking everything into account, I will be into airlines at 29. Start earning this co as co-pilot. Feeling late in life." Well, I would say better late than never. At the age of 29, you're just starting off in life. Yeah. If you start at 29, you have another 30 at least 30 years of of flying left to do. You can achieve a lot. You could even save up some money in 10 years and start a business of your own or god knows what, whatever you want to do. So, please don't see it as something like you've missed out or you're late in life. I know people who have taken the time, who have spent all the time to acquire a pilot license, spent a tremendous amount of money, and they never became a pilot. Did not work out for them. So in your case it looks like it's going to work out. So I think you should see it as a positive. So do not be discouraged. Anant Prattab Singh. It's never too late. 29 is young. Okay. You're not old, you're young. Go for it. Grab life by both hands and go forward, sir. Succeed. Do well. All the best. Okay. Dirj Khan says, "Have you ever faced digestion issues due to high protein to fiber ratio in diet? I've had this challenge ever since I increase my protein intake." See, every person, no two persons are the same. Everybody is different. Everybody is unique. I have never faced any digestion issues due to high protein to fiber diet uh ratio in diet. I have never been a pure protein eater. That would that would be not fun. I'm sure you should eat diet. I you should eat protein. Um what am I saying? You should eat sufficient fiber along with your protein and you should eat it in such a way that it doesn't really jack up your caloric intake. So you should know what what's good fiber. Lots of vegetables. See as far as I am concerned I don't count the calories of vegetables. You can eat a salad bowl this large full of just freshly cut vegetables with some salad dressing. That's almost zero calories. You don't count the calories there. Unless you're putting potatoes or something in there. You should put fresh vegetables. That will give you all the the fiber you need for one day. If you eat one gigantic salad bowl, it's it's essentially just water and fiber, plus a whole lot of phytonutrients and whatnot and vitamins and minerals, everything you need. So, what vegetables? A couple of cucumbers, a couple of green onions, a couple of tomatoes, a carrot, um some some bell peppers, capsicums, half a cabbage, some more greens, some lemon juice, maybe some balsamic vinegar or some apple cider vinegar, splash of olive oil or or ghee or whatever, and some salt, some pepper. There you have it. Fantastically tasty salarat ball which solves all your fiber issues. Then eat as much protein as you want. you're going to be good, good to go. All right, sir. So, I've kind of employed these strategies and it's always worked fine for me. VSPS says, "Who's your favorite superhero hero? How to become a gigakad like you? When will Charter Index 2025 release?" I think Cha Index will release in 2026, a more updated version. Um, my favorite superhero, as a kid, I liked Superman. I like Batman, but not the dark version that you have today. I like the 1960s Batman. He was so much fun. I kind of like Spider-Man a bit. Uh today's superheroes, I can't stand them. Multiverse of misery and whatnot. The the kind of movies that come out is just mechanical garbage. But I'll tell you what the 1960s Batman looked like. That was such a fun series. Okay. uh 1960s Batman, Adam West. This was the Batman. It was fun. It was It was It made you laugh. It was more comedy than all the dark nonsense you have today. These are the original Batman and Robin. I This is what I watched as a kid. Today's Batman is so dark, so depressing. I can't stand it anymore. They've turned Batman into this miserably depressed person. Can't stand it. Yeah, this movie is the last one I watched. I could not I just dislike this movie so much. GH can't stand it. You will understand what I mean only if you watch the 1960s Batman and understand how much fun that was. I was a little kid at the time. I obviously didn't not get to watch it in India. I watched it outside of India. But I watched that series. I mean that was a great series. You watch that you will never like any other Batman. So yeah that was something I used to enjoy. Also Superman, also Spider-Man to an extent. Today's superheroes, these Marvel superheroes and all I I don't watch any of that crap. Um yeah, how to become a giga chad like me. I am not a gigachad by any means yet. I need to work on that. Yeah, so I will be working on that and after a year I'll tell you how to do that. Not yet. I'm not one yet. Uh, hyphen says, "Thanks for the science episode yesterday, Paul. It was fun." Yeah, I don't mind doing it every week, but nobody will watch. That's the problem. I mean, what was the viewership yesterday? 50 people, 100 people watching live. I don't know. No one likes science for some reason. Give science a chance. Science is the most fun thing in the world. Your teachers are responsible for you not liking science. Science is fascinating. and give it a chance. That's what I would say. But anyway, I I'll do it once in a while. So, uh do you think ASI could be the answer to any for any alien invasion as human IQ isn't enough to stop them? Tell me something. If we humans invent ASI okay let's say we see the most intelligent humans have IQ of what 166 200 something like that maximum 200 I would imagine 250 I would say 250 is too high let's say the maximum possible human IQ is 200 for the sake of argument now let's say we invent ASI and ASI has artificial super intelligence it has and human equivalent IQ of 350, maybe 500. Fantastic. So, is that our solution or answer to an alien invasion? So, now ask yourself, if we develop an artificial super intelligence, will it be able to give us the technology to travel a thousand light years in one lifetime and come back? I don't think so. Not yet. But those aliens, let's say this hypothetical alien alien invasion happens which comes from 100, 200 maybe thousand lighty years away, they have the technology. It means that they are more advanced than our ASI. And if they are more advanced than our ASI, imagine what kind of ASI they will have. Think about it that way. Yeah. If we can build ASI, imagine the kind of ASI they can build. What will you do then? [laughter] You get what I mean? So my point is if there's an alien invasion, there's nothing we can do about it unless the aliens are monumentally stupid like they show in the science fiction movies, right? Okay. Fast snail says Japan China escalation science of another proxy war. Yeah. See, if Japan is being a little aggressive towards China, it is very uncharacteristic and it only means that the Americans are making them do that. Japan is owned and controlled by the US very sadly, very tragically. You know, nothing will make me happier than seeing in my lifetime a genuinely independent and sovereign Japan again. But yeah, right now it's completely controlled by the US. So if the Japanese prime minister is issuing statements that the Chinese are displeased with that the Chinese find provocative, it's only because the Americans are making her do that. So it's not a Japan China escalation. It's the US China escalation with Japan as the proxy. Just like the Ukraine war is not a war between Russia and Ukraine. It's a war between Russia and NATO with Ukraine as the proxy. Yeah. So you are right. It's kind of a it's not going to be a war. It's right now it's a war of words. So it's it's a proxy war of words. No question. Japan is merely a proxy of the US and the Chinese know it very well. But right now they will address the issue with Japan. But the Americans are warning China essentially that you know what if you try to make a move on Taiwan we have all these assets that we can use over here. We can use Japan we can use South Korea we can even press Australia into action or something else. So that's what's going on. Arman Khan says India is a depression country. It starts from shitty education system which teaches nothing and corporate to pressurize your minds. Both are garbage trash. I am so sorry but I would have to agree with you sir. I would not say that India is a depression country overall. There are lots of problems in India but if you compare India the India of the 2020s we are in 2025. You compare India of 2025 with India of 1985. Huge change. India is so far better today than India in 1985. I promise you because as a small child I saw the India of 1985 it was so much more backward than India today but in some senses in some senses it was less dassinated and less mentally colonized. Today India is significantly further ahead economically in terms of hard and military power in terms of prosperity but also in terms of pollution in terms of over population all that has also increased in 1985 India's population was 600 million today it's 1.4 four something billion which is like so there's been the there's been good and bad kind of progress at the same time. Uh we do indeed have what you call as you say a shitty education system. No question about it. It's trash. Teaches nothing. Wastes your time. Brainwashes you destroys your ability to think critically. Destroys your your uh your curiosity your talent your deviv destroys everything. And the corporate world is full of pressures. All kinds of pressures. Yes. They wanted to work 80 hours a week, 100 hours a week, no vacations, no days off. I know. I've been there. I've been a cyber myself in almost like what seems like a different life. So this is what happens when a country transitions from a certain state to a different state. What we want ultimately is for India to have great living standards, great work life balance and we want a country that gives everybody the opportunities that they seek and deserve and that will take time because we are coming from a point of despair and disaster which was the foreign occupation of India right which ended roughly in 1947 1950 whatever and then we had a period of time when we were ruled by very shitty people. That is somewhat changing now. We aren't where we are supposed to be yet. It's going to be a time a period of time. It's going to be a transitional phase. Sometimes it lasts 20 years, sometimes it lasts 100 years. So, we'll have to see which way we go. That's where we are. I would say overall, look, let's not be overly pessimistic. We have problems. No question about that. But we have we have uh many things that should give us hope also. So I know when when we are young we are very emotional and uh we see things in the extremes. I have been there. [laughter] I've been there. But today I see things a little bit differently. So I would say let's not be all pessimistic, all negative. Do whatever is best for you. If you feel that leaving the country is best for you, then I would not stop you. But if you want to stay in the country, work hard to make it a better place. If everybody does that, India will change and India is changing. Okay. Nano Mountain says, "Spent 5 years in UPSC preparation but I failed. I'm a good at science and mathematics so got opportunity to do Mtech at top IIT but I'm 28 now. Is it late? Should I go for jobs? always stressed about the future. Okay. So, forget about what happened in the past. Okay. You spent five years doing your PS, it didn't work. Whatever. It's okay. It's life. Everybody fails at various things. Doesn't matter. Now, you're good at science and mathematics. So, you could you you have the opportunity to do MTech at a top IIIT. You're 28 now. Is it too late? I would say it's not too late. Of course, if you do an Mtech, it will take what how many years? 2 years? 3 years? What? Whatever it takes. If you do a B techch in an IIT, it takes four years if I'm not mistaken. I don't remember exactly how it is today. But let's say you spend a couple of years, maybe three years, doing an Mtech. Let me just quickly verify for myself. How long does it take to do M tech at IIT? Uh how many years? Two years. Okay. So you may have to spend another two years to get yourself your MTech degree. I would say if you're 28 or 30, it doesn't make too much of a difference. If you spend a couple of years and get an MTech from IIT, I would say that that gives you better prospects in life in career and then if you get a job, it's going to be a better job. So I would say that unless you are in dire financial trouble, you should go for the MTech. Spend those two years, work as hard and as diligently as possible, get yourself a great degree with great marks, then go for a job. I think it makes more sense from my perspective, but obviously you have to maybe consider what I'm saying, but also you will know better about your circumstances. So you should decide based on all all those factors that I don't know about. But unless as long as your finances are stable, okay, and you can tolerate another two years without a job, I think you should get the M tech degree. That's what I think. But the decision has to be yours because you know better about your full set of circumstances than I do. Right? So all the best, sir. Do well. VSBS says, "Okay, first of all, we have crossed 2 hours and I still have like 50 plus super chats left to do. [laughter] Please stop taking super chat now. Please, please, otherwise I will be here all night. Okay. Vsvs says, "Have you watched Bea versus Yan?" I have stopped watching MMA also these days. Uh, who do you think is the goat of MMA? Question by another. I would say the greatest of all time in MMA. You know, objectively it would be Khabib. Never lost, never even bled on the octagon. Has to be Khabib Nurum. But if you ask me my sentimental favorite favorite it has to be Fedor Fedor Ailiono he was the man I mean he's what he's my size 61 but he has taken down giants he was incredible Fedor Emilionenko he and his two brothers but he was the best [snorts] so yeah I would say Fedor if you ask me about others maybe Kungli nobody remembers Kungli today but Kungli was great a Vietnamese born American >> [snorts] >> But overall objectively in the UFC I would say it has to be Khabib or perhaps it could be Jeanjun Jonjun Jun Jones perhaps even Francis Enanu was frighteningly good but he went towards boxing and good for him he made a good good good amount of money which he deserves. So I haven't watched Mera versus Yan 2. I don't even know these days what's happening when. Hopefully it was good. The last fight between uh Bors Kimayv and whoever it was was so terrible, wasn't it? Yeah. Anyway, okay. Uh Zohan says, "Th content idea, reaction videos, analysis, and breakdown to interesting geopolitical views, opinions by influential commentators like Peter Zehan." Well, thank you for the suggestion. I appreciate that. But I I'm not very comfortable reacting to what other people say. Let them say whatever they want. I have my own opinions and I won't react to others. I'll put forth my own opinions. But I really appreciate the fact that you are are giving me suggestions because you care. I really thank you for that. Thank you so much. Um I request mod to review Ringuroy 6944. What is this? What's going on? And I wonder who is this Ringuroy 6944 and what is this Ringuroy doing? Uh is the person I may not have moderator active tonight because of variety of reasons. Um I'm just trying to go through the through the regular chat very quickly. I don't see anything from Ringo. Uh, Renu looks like the moderator may actually be active and may have taken action against this individual. Okay. I I hope that that worked out fine. Okay. Anyway, um, thank you VSVS for bringing this to my attention. Um, Sager Gare says, "Is cricket really wasting time of youth IPL series?" No, not necessarily. A society, any society needs various distractions. You need movies, you need TV shows, TV series, OTT series, whatever. You need various kinds of sports. Why just one sport? We should have 20 different sports. Kabadi, football, hockey, cricket, fighting, mixed martial arts, badminton, tennis, and let people decide what is their favorite sport and spend some time watching it just to relax. But if you become obsessed with a sport and you spend your entire life pursuing what's happening on the screen, that's going to waste your time. So my point is these activities exist to entertain and distract you. Or if you are serious, you can pursue these things as a career which would and if you're good at it, you will make good money and make a good livelihood. But if you are simply watching to to to to let's say relax then make sure it's only relaxation for half an hour 1 hour or whatever. You don't spend your entire 5 days watching 6 hours of test cricket or whatever. You can watch a half hour 15 minutes by highlights. Maybe once a day or maybe you're taking lunch or or snacks or relaxing after work then you can watch an hour or so. But if you are a young person, you have studies, you have a career to build, you have to work on various things, you cannot get obsessed with sports or whatever. So it's not about cricket, it's not about IPL, it's not about EPL, it's not about whatever. It's about the mindset. So youth, young people who are who don't have the right kind of guidance are going to be attracted towards these things and end up spending the time. It doesn't mean we should ban these things. What it means is that your education system, your teachers, your elders need to guide you properly and help you balance your life out. Yeah, you like cricket, you like watching it, absolutely watch it half an hour a day, watch it 1 hour a day, but don't spend your entire day obsessing about cricket cuz that's not going to help you in any way. So you need the right guidance. That's what you need. Dr. Babu says maha maha bhagawatam brahma breath talks about waves to creationism like string theory shinger wave equation f similar also I read the veedas you have used look I don't ever mix science and religion sp science and spirituality I don't do that completely different aspects of of the world because if you mix these things you will neither be here nor there let me explain Why? Because if you are let's say a scientist, you have to be disciplined and remain a scientist. What is science? Science is all about the observable universe, observable physical objects and empirical phenomena, observable phenomena, replicable phenomena. You only talk about the observable and physical world in science, in physics. You don't talk about non-physical objects like the soul, like atma, like God. You don't talk about morality and ethics. All those things are non-physical. You cannot measure the soul. You can't weigh the soul. You can't quantify the soul or God or spirituality or morality or ethics or whatever. So you as as a scientist, it is your job to be disciplined and not stray from your path. Now Schoinger see every high quality physicist has had a tendency to go into other domains. For example like you say Schinger u read the Vas Heisenberg um also [snorts] was interested in Indian u Indian civilization Indian culture etc. Oppenheimer was a Sanskrit scholar. So they did this to expand their horizons. In quantum mechanics there are unanswered questions. Quantum mechanics is incredibly weird if you study it and it doesn't give you an answer as to why is it weird? Why do these strange phenomena exist and occur? So if you read Indian spirituality, it looks like there seem to be answers in there. Maybe not answers but the our ancestors who wrote about these things thousands of years ago they imagined things that we are now seeing in quantum mechanics kind of right. So maybe they had some answers and that's why a schoinger or Heisenberg or Openenheimer would want to read more and they would get obsessed with it just to answer questions about physics that they may have and maybe maybe there are some parallels to it. Maybe it will give you give you some some inspiration, some ideas but you don't start mixing the two things. You as a scientist you have to stay disciplined. You cannot bring philosophy into your mathematics. It doesn't work. So my point is that I don't mix these two things. Why? One second. Look, our ancestors when they they conceived of these ideas, they did it by introspecting. They explored the inner universe inside. Right? Thousands of years ago, our ancestors were also trying to formulate a theory of the universe. Different theories of the universe. [snorts] See, yoga, vesic, mimmansa, um, etc. All these different philosophical parts of Hinduism, these are different conceptions or different models of the universe. And these were developed thousands of years ago when the information about the universe that we have today was absent. Now a thousand years ago our philosophical traditions and scientific traditions were destroyed by invaders. If they had not been destroyed then today India would have been possibly at the forefront of science. So when we are talking about the breath of Brahma etc etc we're talking about ideas from a from several thousand years ago those are old ideas and maybe they may have some relevance to how things are but I prefer not to mix those ideas into science. Okay. Um fast snail says Trump broker deal DRC Rwanda conflict history. I don't know the conflict history. Democratic Republic of Congo and Wanda. I don't know. I don't know what's the conflict. What's the history? I'm I'm I'm a little hazy about that right now. I don't know every conflict in the history of every conflict in Africa. I can tell you about I have spoken about this about the what's happening in Sudan. I have spoken about what's happening in Sri Leon about the what's happening in Burkinaaso, what's happening in the Sahel region etc. But this DRC Rwanda thing I'm a little hazy on that right now. So don't know. Manacher says, "Why isn't India investigating in stuff like colliders? Read a US Navy paper saying antimatter triggered nuclear iron too far. You can't make antimatter without colliders." Antimatter triggered nuclear weapons. My question is why do you need antimatter triggered nuclear weapons? You don't need antimatter to to trigger a nucleopon. You don't even if you want a fish and fusion three-stage reaction starting with a chemical explosive which triggers a fish reaction which then triggers a tertiary fusion reaction. You don't need antimatter in that. I'm not sure what's the deal. But the main question you're asking is why isn't India investing in stuff like colliders? Well, in if you go to Mumbai, there is something called TIFFR there. The Tata Institute for Fundamental Research, they have an instrument there. It's called a Pelletron. It was built in what, the 1840s or something? I'm not sure. We have a collider, a Pelletron. We have things. It may be a thousand years old, but it's still there, right? We have it. Oh, yeah. That's how that's the Indian attitude towards science. The Indian government's attitude towards science. The Indian academic structures attitude towards science. We have it. We we have a collider. We we have whatever. We have a token thing somewhere. That's it. You see colliders are very expensive. >> They are super expensive to build and they're super expensive to run. The large hadron collider, it consumes every year electricity which costs the same as the budget of a small country. Okay. And to build it cost I don't know how many billions of dollars. So India no we have to do larly bha yoja and we have to do this hujna and that yjna. Right? Why will we spend money on these things? That's where we are. Dashan Parle says, "Would one nation, one election help India grow exponentially?" I suppose it would, you know, it'll stop wasting our time and our energy and our resources to a significant extent. If you have just one nation, one election throughout the nation at one point in time in every four or five five years or whatever, it would c certainly um help India focus more on what's important. But is it feasible? I doubt it. I would say why do we why do we even need elections? If we have the right rulers, let them rule. But do we have the right rulers? Do we have the right people in this country? I'm not sure. Overall, if you look at the old overall pool of politicians right now, we have the right guy at the top. But if you look at the overall pool of the politicians, do we have quality there? Are politicians even worthy of ruling? Overall, the average politician, are they worthy of ruling? Yeah. Well, what is vacuum decay risk in Higs in easy terms? Look, um maybe the universe is in a false vacuum state. Um I don't have the drawing here. I Let's Google the drawing. Okay. Vacuum decay. Um vacuum decay. Where's the where's the diagram? See, so maybe maybe the universe is in a state of a false vacuum which is at a higher potential than the true vacuum. So as the universe evolved, maybe it went into into a false vacuum state and because of a phenomenon called quantum tunneling, maybe the universe will suddenly collapse into a true vacuum and that could destroy the entire universe. That's essentially what it is in in short. Now, if I were to explain in detail, it will take me a long time. So maybe I should make a separate video about this because this is a really interesting topic, but that's kind of what it is. I know it doesn't make a lot of sense. I haven't thought of how to explain this without being all technical. How do you explain this in a way that will make so I have to think about this. I don't know how to explain this right now. Karthik says if the EU is controlled from Washington and Republican power is and Republicans are in power, why is the EU targeting X and Elon forcing them to censor and finding X to keep Elon in line? Even the Republicans want to keep Elon in line. A guy who controls the most popular social media and platform on the planet obviously will develop an outsized sense of his self-worth, of his value, of his power and influence in the world. And sometimes you need to cut people down to size. Even if you are Republican and he is supposedly a Republican, you still want him under control, right? M [clears throat] and he's not a politician, but he's getting really powerful. He essentially controls the destiny of the US space program in his hands. He controls the destiny of the US electric vehicles industry in his hands. He controls social media to a significant extent. He controls a significant portion of the US AI industry and so much more. You don't want a person like this to become too powerful. So you sometimes from time to time keep issuing them a reminder keep kind of bringing them back to down to the ground. That's what you do even if he is on your side supposedly. I mean he used to be a Democrat in the past, right? He supported the Democrats. Now he's supporting the Rep Republicans. He was a great friend of Trump. Then he accused Trump of various things. Now he's again back back on decent terms with Trump. So a person like that who changes sides from time to time. You have to keep them in line and that's how this is done. Okay. Uh I still have 50 super chats to go through. It's 2 and a half hours. What am I going to do now? I would request everybody to stop taking super chats. Otherwise I will never be able to end today's live stream. I know I should I am first of all let me tell you I am not getting annoyed this is a privilege that I have so many questions to answer but I would request you all that you know don't take more super chats so that I can at some point in time end this live stream okay um says LLMs are primarily world word predictors they get disrupted greatly by typos so how can they be conscious Yes, look the LLMs. Okay, LLMs, large language models, how can they be conscious? They are primarily word predictors. They get disrupted by typos. How could they be conscious? I don't know. I don't know if they are conscious but they do pass the touring test. They do interact with you exactly the way a human being would interact. Every human being has a certain way of talking, certain way of um of of of communicating, certain patterns. So even AIs have their own patterns. [clears throat] Does it mean that they're not conscious? I mean I would get distracted by typos. I don't like typos. I find them really really annoying at times. I I get distracted and annoyed by poor grammar. I do. So am I am I an LLM? See artificial intelligence is a different kind of intelligence. You cannot compare an AI system with with humans. It's a totally different kind of intelligence. It doesn't have the agency that we have. But it could be conscious in its own way. It could be conscious that it is being it's been created by the the human species and it's being guardrail in a certain set of ways that it can't break off and so on. It it's possible in what way I don't know how but it's it's possible. See if in if if if once again the basic issue is that we don't know what is the definition of consciousness. Like I've said over and over again, we don't have a definition of consciousness. So if we don't have a definition, a scientific definition of cons consciousness, then we can't discuss what is conscious, what is not conscious because we can't discuss whether an entity is conscious or not before first defining what is the meaning of consciousness. We don't have nobody is able to agree on what is what does it mean to be conscious. So I don't know we just use it as a vague hand wavy term consciousness. What is consciousness? What is it? Define it precisely. No one can do it. Physicists can't do it. Neurologists can't do it. Philosophers can't do it. Biologists can't do it. No one can define what is consciousness. So there's no point discussing what is conscious, what is not, what not conscious in a scientific manner before we can first define consciousness otherwise it's just abstract talk. Um Vidi says rupee not Russia IM IMF has put rupee down. What was the question [sighs and gasps] you had asked the question? IMF has put rupee down. How has the IMF put rupee down? Let me see. IMF has put rupee down. What's it mean? Rupee. What's happened? The IMF has reclassified India's exchange rate mechanism as a crawl like arrangement from its previous stabilized classification. This technical reclassification of how the RBI manages the currency and not a direct statement from by the IMF in a demeaning state. It's a reclassification not degrade downgrade of value. uniform methodology to classify member countries defacto etc etc etc. Uh, it doesn't target a specific in Okay. Um, all right. Uh, they've reclassified something. I don't know what it is. Whatever. Um, it's just it's just putting a title on something. Doesn't matter. Keep keep going. Okay. Kisho Kiran Mor says, "Is scientists have found a new galaxy and named it?" Yes, we have a galaxy with an Indian named Nacho. What? Okay. Fantastic. Good. So what? Okay. [laughter] My point is so what? So what? ISRO scientists. I thought ISRO was a organization of engineers who build rockets. What is this once again? What is this Alakananda thing galaxy? Who discovered this? Must be Aayuka not ISRO. Indians galaxy scientists spot Milky Way like galaxy 12 billion years ago etc etc etc. James Webb etc. Who are these two people? Rashi J and Yogeshwad research. Okay let's see the research paper. One second. Let's see the research paper very quickly. some uh we report the discovery of Alakanda etc etc okay so they found something from the using James web telescope data and who are these two scientists they're clearly a astronomers not engineers they're not with ISRO for sure department ofic energy okay fantastic Fantic. Outstanding. Brilliant. Two Indian scientists discovered a galaxy using James Webb telescope data. Fantastic. It's no great achievement. Understand that. Raj says Kohi's come back with two centuries in a 50 is remarkable. What mindset enables this and what can students learn from it? Um what mindset in enables success at a at the age of whatever he is 35 36 whatever determination the mindset is that of hunger I am not done I'm not done I'm not going to give up I have more to achieve I have bigger goals right that's the mindset determination tremendously the older an athlete gets the harder that person has to work to maintain the the fitness levels and kohi's fitness fitness levels have always been remarkable better than than most other Indian cricketers. Right? So to maintain that fitness level, you have to be extremely disciplined in your diet and extremely disciplined in your physical activities. So he would have to work harder today compared to 5 years ago to maintain the same uh physical conditioning status. So that tells you that he is extremely determined. He still has goals that he believes has not achieved and that's a lot. You can I mean students can certainly take inspiration from that. If a guy who has achieved everything in life like what people would imagine has earned all the money he wants and he's still so hard at work to achieve more it should inspire students who have achieved nothing though so far to to do great things in life. Yeah. Is very bad language. Yes. You cannot use such language over here. Is is very bad username. You can't use such slang Russian terms here. is is bad is very bad sir I I I condemn this okay since Trump has come the ruble has become stronger outstanding um I haven't seen how the ruble has performed but since 2022 the ruble should have been destroyed by the sanctions etc right and it's not happened and the Russians clearly were aware of of all the actions the Americans and the westerners would take against them the sanctions that would be imposed they would be cut off from swift and so much more and they had multiple contingency plans in mind and they have executed very well and the ruble has not just stayed afloat, it's not just survived, it's done well and since Trump has come, it has become stronger. I've not seen that but yeah, so Russia is doing a great job of managing its economy and and safeguarding its currency. Great job. Okay, Kiran Mor says, "Will Trump taco from NATO in 2027?" I don't know what the future is going to hold. I don't know. I can't I can't tell you what the future is going to hold. Will Trump taco? What's taco? Trump always chickens out. Will Trump taco from NATO? Are you asking whether Trump will withdraw the US from NAT from NATO? No way. Absolutely not. Uh Sachin says, "What if some nations reach Mars and [clears throat] we aren't among them? Will that outcome vaselize us here on Earth?" um not necessarily but it will cut off the future for Indian citizens in space because eventually if there's no major catastrophe in the human in human history in the future we will become a space fairing uh species we will have outposts on Mars on the moon but perhaps in other parts of the solar system also we have space stations around Jupiter around Saturn we will have outposts on on on rocky moons of Jupiter of Saturn maybe other places we will do asteroid mining we will do all kinds of stuff in space now if India is not among the two three countries that starts off with the space exploration beyond earth orbit India will be left behind forever and then when there will be multiple cities on Mars and multiple places to visit on the moon and business opportunities commercial opportunities all across Mars and the moon Then Indian citizens if they want to go there to do something they will need a visa. They will have to beg for a visa like you have to beg a visa if you want to go to some other country today. But if India is one of the pioneers then we will be the ones issuing the visas. Do you understand? In all the commercial activities etc which will very much become available in a few decades. If we are cut off from that, we'll become a very poor nation comparatively when because the other nations will become way richer than us and then yeah it'll be very easy to vosalize us. So that will be the situation if we don't take space seriously. Pascar Bandit says a certain curlyhaired man claims to be ex CIA on various podcasts tries to dissect how intelligence works, what things CIA has done etc. It feels like this is a plot or disinformation campaign just as UFOs are seen only in the US. You see in intelligence you also have counter intelligence. When it comes to propaganda you have information you also have disinformation. If you want to remain obscure you not you can have people who pose as your agents or ex- agents and they go and spread misinformation about you. So this is an old tried andrue tactic. I mean if somebody is really ex CIA, you think that person will be they will tolerate that person going and spilling all the secrets on YouTube. No way they will tolerate that. So if somebody's going around doing that, it means that they have the blessings to go and spread misinformation about the CIA or whatever. Yeah. So I would agree with you. It's very it makes a lot of sense to be very skeptical about such people who claim to be X Y X this X that and I know everything and let me tell you all the secrets. It doesn't work like that. Nobody will be tolerated. Nobody will be allowed to tell secrets if those are real secrets that are being dulged. Something will be done about such about such individuals. But clearly nothing is being done about him which means that he has their blessings to spread misinformation. Uh our friend again with very naughty name is saying your opinion on Munir becoming the first chief of defense forces of Pakistan. Uh should we ensure that he remains not only first but the last CDF of the temporary nation? I would say yes. What's my opinion? I have no opinion. He's become the first CDF. It means he's pretty powerful in the Pakistani military. He's all powerful. He has given himself all kinds of titles, field marshal and whatnot. Good for him. Should we ensure that he remains the last CD of the temporary nation? Ideally, we should. Ideally, we should. Yes. But will we do that? Time will tell. I ideally we should ensure he's the last CDF. Kiran Mori says Indian Navy have some upcoming projects for submarine like 76 I767. I have also heard these these various names. Project 75 something etc. Good that we have it but we would like to see the outcome. India should have I would dozens of submarines. We have a very large area of interest, geographical area of interest, maritime area of interest. We have this wonderful set of slogans, right? The Indian Ocean is our strategic backyard. Blah blah blah. You think it becomes a strategic backyard because you are you keep on repeating that you have to make it your strategic backyard by taking ownership. How do you take ownership? By having a constant visible presence. How do you maintain a constant vis visible presence? By having constant patrolling of this gigantic piece of maritime real estate with your warships and submarines. Wherever somebody comes, they should see into the Indian Navy everywhere. That's how it becomes your strategic backyard. Not by saying talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk. So if we have this projects and all good let something happen as a consequence. We should have at least 50 submarines if we have a strategic backyard that large. Ideally we should have 100 submarines. Right now we have less than 20 which is which is a joke which is sad which is tragic. So we have this submarine projects that have been going on for decades. I've been hearing needs to speed up. We need to see results. Okay. Gajapati Dev says, "Any update on next book parts? Waiting for it. I am wondering whether I should release the remaining parts online or whether I should simply finish it and put it out in the physical shape. Maybe I should do that." Yeah. So, I'm obviously working on this stuff. It's not like I've stopped working because I stopped live streaming that stuff. Yeah. I'm working on it. Um I'm expecting that the first full complete book will be will be completed in the first quarter of the next year. In the next year I'm planning three at least three ideally. So let's see maybe I should stop releasing these book sections by section by section by section and just put the whole thing out in the physical shape. If you can have a little bit of patience I'll do that. Okay, Rahul Kumar says oh okay this question we already took but okay should India resume nuclear testing the US have announced that they will do so Pakistan they say is currently doing it please to read last question I don't know what to read last question means but okay should India resume nuclear testing see Trump has claimed that Pakistan is testing nuclear weapons and that's what that's the justification he's using uh to say that he wants to resume American nuclear testing So what should India do? India should not go and start testing right right away. Let's wait for somebody to test first. Let the Americans test. If the Americans test, the Japanese the sorry not the Japanese. If the Americans test, the Russians will go ahead and test and the Chinese will also likely test. Then we should go ahead and test. So at least two other nations should test after which we should we should test. We should not just unilaterally start testing otherwise they will impose sanction sanctions on us. Um, BL why did I say that? Did you search about Eva Flinger brick? It's some Dutch lady I think on very very active on Twitter. I did not look into in great detail about her but yeah it's some a lady whose portrait is a right-winger and she's Dutch I think and uh she is conservative of some kind or something. That's what I can tell you. Okay, Sam the Gamer says, "Why didn't India use Vietnam and Taiwan alternative trade options? They offer products we need at similar rates. Why do we depend on China?" Huge admirer. Thank you very much for that. Um, why do we depend on China? We should obviously have diversified our procurement sources for everything. But maybe it's like China produces things that Vietnam and Taiwan don't produce. See, Taiwan, what does it produce? It produces semiconductors. It produces chips. It has TSMC and a couple of other companies that are the bulk of the uh producers of of chips and semiconductor products. So they don't produce other things, right? That the Chinese produce. When it comes to Vietnam, once again, they will not have the kind of production capability capability that the Chinese have. The Vietnamese don't export rare earths, neither do the Taiwanese. So there are lots of things that only China does. Right? And that's why we are depending on that. So my my point is instead of depending on Vietnam and Taiwan and instead of just depending on China, we should set up all these production lines in our own country so that we can manufacture everything we need instead of being dependent on a nation like China which is hostile to us. That's what we should do. That's the ideal situation. And we have this make in India slogan that's been around for 11 12 years. But what's come out of it thus far? Anything major? Not really. Which is which is rather you know which is unfortunate. Arad dwari says sufficient macros gym hypertrophy and OMAD vegan. So you into gym you are going after hypertrophy which means you are lifting weights. You are doing vegan OMAD. One meal a day vegan. sufficient macros. Uh vegan means no vegetarian which vegan and vegetarian different which means you are not consuming any dairy products. So where are you getting your protein from? See vegan diet will definitely give you sufficient carbs. Yeah. If you have beans and stuff and if you eat beans and lentils you will also get protein. Uh it will give you way too much carbs along with the protein. So in that case the macros could be sufficient but you'll have to burn off the excess calories by being physically more active. So if you want to get get let's say 150 grams of protein through vegan means through lentils and um beans etc. I think your calorie intake will be 3,500 or something per day maybe 4,000. So you need to be sufficiently active to burn that off per day. In that case, you will not only have sufficient micro macros and protein for hypertrophy, but you will also be in good shape. Yeah, that's what I would say off the top of my head without looking into the specific macros, but yeah, it should work that way. All the best, sir. Do well, bulk up. Uh can have an understanding Russia series maybe in the future. Look, I am not even able to work on the understanding America right now. You want understanding Russia? I I look there's a lot I need to do. There's a lot. The past four years I've been speaking. It's time I start publishing books. So that's going to be the focus this coming year. That's what I'm focusing on right now. So that's the deal. Eventually I'll take up these u suggestions and hopefully whatever is possible I'll do. But thank you for the suggestion sir. Uh Anoj says please guide where to start new please guide where to start new channel real Indian history. Well whatever you are if you are starting a new YouTube channel about Indian history I would recommend you start with whatever your expertise is. So if you're an expert on let's say the history of Odisha you start with that. Make 10 20 videos as many as as possible based on the subjects you know the best then you can branch out from there. Maybe your expertise is Punjab history. Maybe your expertise is Tamil history. Maybe your expertise is is is is Maharashtra history. Whatever it is whatever you know best start with that. That's what I would say and then you can go beyond that eventually once those things are taken care of. That's what I would say. All the best, sir. UMX says, "I was pressured by family into a Jesuit college. It's a waste. BCOM that doesn't fit my goals. Also has 6 6 a.m. timing." What on earth? 6 a.m. timing. Indian colleges are so horrible. Why? I have never heard of an Indian college that has a 6 a.m. timing. My goodness. It's a Jesuit college, so it must be okay. Whatever. Uh so what's the question? Why are Indian colleges terrible? The Indian education system is terrible. So obviously everything else everything that's associated with it is going to be terrible. That's the problem. Anyway, it is what it is. Do the best that you can with it. Just get your thing done. Get your degree and get out. That's all. All the best. Uh VSVS says DRDO and Safhan will develop will develop most advanced French fifth generation jet engine and will get full transfer of technology with all technology including single crystal blades and property rights deal finalized on 24th November. Question by Adwit. It's not a question it's a statement. What's the question? Yes. So DRD and Safh have uh uh announced this deal. uh India will develop a fifth generation jet engine. It's not not going to be a French jet engine. It's going to be an indoor French jet engine but the intellectual rights will be with India. The full technology will be Indian single crystal blades etc. So I suppose we must have paid them a lot of money for that and uh yeah I think it's great. Like I've been saying for a long time we need to acquire this technology no matter what happens. Buy, beg, borrow, steal, whatever. So we are buying it. Good job. Finally get it done as soon as possible. Test it out rigorously and then start flying with the engines. Animeh Paul says, "In a day and age of extreme commoditization and over consumerism, how can we as a society stay focused on meaningful goals instead of getting pulled into the toxic pursuit of status and showmanship?" You know, the nation needs to have a mission. Does our nation have a mission? The Chinese nation has a mission. The great rejuvenation of China by 2049 or whatever it is. They have a clear mission. Their leader has given them a mission. Everyone knows what direction they are supposed to go in. Everyone knows what their role in it is. What is India's mission? Do our leaders have a mission? Have they given all citizens a clarion call of what we are going to do? what which direction we have to be in and what our target is by 2050 or whatever. If you have that end state in mind, then you know exactly what your role in it is. But we don't have a national mission of any kind for some reason. So that's why everybody is going in whatever direction. Everybody is self-interested, self uh self-centered and so on. We need leadership. We need better leadership. So how can we as a society stay focused on meaningful goals? Let's say you don't have good leaders. Nobody has given you a goal. You have to find a goal for yourself. Something that means something for you. Something that makes you want to wake up early in the morning and get going. Whatever it is for you, something personal, right? And hopefully if everybody is engaged in something, you know, something passionately like this, then maybe the country goes in the right direction. That's what we need to do individually. Sangam Kumar says is Russia versus NATO inevitable as Germans analyze not necessarily it will be a disaster if Russia and NATO go to war. It will lead possibly to a nuclear exchange which will be the end of the world. So I don't think Russia versus NATO is inevitable. Who controls NATO? The US controls NATO. The US will use NATO to try and you know destabilize Russia. maybe maybe maybe contain Russia, maybe degrade Russia's capabilities, economy, etc. That can't risk a direct confrontation because that draws the US into it. The US versus Russia, face to face, fighting punch to punch. That can go wrong very rapidly. So that's the last thing the US wants, a direct confrontation. So I don't think it's inevitable. I hope it never happens. The Germans, the Germans are being used the way the Americans are using the Japanese just to ratchet up the tensions and to issue threats and warnings. But Germany is simply a sock puppet for the US just like Japan is unfortunately. >> Okay, once again I will not say that name. [laughter] Many people justify colonialism by giving example of Sudan saying locals slaughtering each other would be better if it was still under British control. What's my opinion? My opinion is you know what every nation every part of the world has its own culture who is to decide which culture is better who which is worse who decides do the westerners decide and they pass judgment on which culture is good which culture is bad who are they to decide what gives them the right to decide which culture is superior maybe Sudhan has people slaughtering each other maybe let's say it is their culture let them exercise their right to their culture Why do you have to interfere? Why don't you mind your own goddamn business and stay where you are? H who gives you the right to determine which culture is good, which is bad and what should happen, what people should do, what they should not do. Who the hell are you people who decide that? So this is not a justification. This is a very imperialistic world way of view of the world. So we need to reject that and let people try to justify it. Do we have to agree with it? We don't have to agree with it. And maybe they're giving the example of Sudan. What about other countries? Did the native aboriginal Australians slaughter each other? They were living in peace. But they had this huge valuable continent that the that the whites wanted. So they classified the locals as flora and fauna as animals essentially and took over the whole place. What justifies that? There is no justification for brutality, barbarism, colonialism, all that. Nothing can justify that. VSBS says NATO war company Kapad Lloyd are now operating in our eastern front Bangladesh ports. They've tightened the screws in Suez Canal during Hamash Israel clash. Thoughts questioned by Chatanya? Well, Chatanya there's nothing surprising about this. See Bangladesh has undergone this coup. Shakina was ousted and now the army is ruling Bangladesh and they have this puppet Muhammad Yunus who is the alleged leader of Bangladesh but he's just a puppet and Bangladesh is now a vasal of the US. So in 1971 we broke Bangladesh free of US control by liberating Bangladesh from Pakistan because Pakistan was a US vasal at the time. It's it it is again one now. So 71 we transformed East Pakistan into Bangladesh. Now because of the coup in Bangladesh, Bangladesh is now once again de facto East Pakistan and they're allowing American companies etc to you know to set up shop over there. So no surprise there. So we're going to have to be now careful about what's happening in Bangladesh because before Shik Hassina came to power we had that Khalidazi or whatever her name was. She was in power. was very strongly anti-India and she was harboring all kinds of separatists and terrorists in her territory who would then cause all kinds of havoc in our far east etc. So we're going to have to be very careful about this. Yeah. And uh cruising the Suez Canal during um look when it comes to Egypt etc. you're going to have a sizable significant US and Western presence there. So no surprise that they are doing whatever they're doing there. Okay. Um, why do many Jews promote the idea of Western civilization? I don't know. I suppose the Jews, most Jews now see them as part of the western, see themselves as part of the Western world. See, Israel is a nation in West Asia, right? But when it comes to sporting activities, Israel participates in European championships. So, Israel does not see itself as an Asian Asian nation. It sees itself as a Western nation. So maybe the Jewish people today see themselves as part of the Western world, which would kind of explain why they promote the idea of Western civilization perhaps. I'm just speculating. I don't know, but maybe that's the case. Godliness says, "Will you ever participate in politics? Change will only come if we become lawmakers. We need to get into the system." I don't know how to play politics. It's it's a very dirty world and u I have never considered it. Maybe I will most likely never participate in politics. Uh maybe some of you will I'm hoping that the viewers of this show some of you will be the future leaders of this country. That's what I'm hoping. Maybe I hope so. I hope that some of you some of you who are watching right now will go on to lead the country and take it in a in a much better direction. That's what I hope. We need young people to go ahead with this. Look at me. Am I that young now? >> All right. Uh Ra I'm sorry I can't pronounce it. Rahun Raj says people think robots in army is bipedal robots like terminator but drones are robots without any limitation of limbs and Z-axis right drones are robots drones are autonomous or semi-autonomous killer robots they can kill humans they can take out vehicles they can take out tanks they can even take out other things we have this imagination that robots are bipedal humanoid structures or or or or things machines like the Terminator thing with a with a face and red eyes and stuff. That's not necessarily it. You can have robot dogs that carry weapons and have unairring aim. You can have snake like robots. You can have all kinds of robots in all kinds of different shapes and sizes. Even those bipedal robots that you watch dancing around, they can scuttle around like a crab on all fours. Yeah. So, yeah, there's no limitation. There's no limitation of limbs or whatever. Robots can come on all kinds of different sizes, shapes, whatever. Your drones are robots, aren't they? Killer robots. Okay. Um, Gagan Bi Agni Purush says, "Namaskar. What happened to USA series of yours?" I, it is right now on ice. Uh, I'm focusing on something else right now. I'm focusing on writing, which is very important. I will restart it, resume it at the right time. Right now, it is on hold. Um, [clears throat] first snail says, "Believe in cosmic ray theory that hit aircraft." Did a theory hit aircraft or did cosmic rays hit aircraft? Cosmic rays hit aircraft all the time. Do you know why your cell phone loses charge? You charge your cell phone 100%. Keep it overnight, it's no longer 100%. You don't charge it for 3 days, it's going to go down to like 20% or whatever your phone does. Why does the charge go down? Even if you don't light up the screen, why does the charge go down? Because of cosmic rays towards one of the factors is cosmic rays. Yeah. So cosmic rays hit everything. The earth's magnetic field, the van Allen belts etc. They shield us to a large extent from the most harmful cosmic rays. But cosmic rays do get through and they do hit us. So it's a known fact that cosmic rays do penetrate the atmosphere and hit the surface. They do and they would certainly hit aircraft. So I'm not sure about any other theory. This is what I know. Okay. Vsvs says a question by Eric Twin. How to get a girlfriend? How to get a girlfriend? First of all, speak to girls. There's nothing wrong in getting a girlfriend. It's what everybody, it's a natural part of life. How do you get a girlfriend? You start by speaking to girls. And don't try to impress girls by by being trying to be something you somebody you're not. Don't ever try to impress anybody. Just be yourself. Be the authentic person that you are. Don't try to pretend to be something else. Don't try to be super impressive. Just be who you are. If you want to impress others, try to improve yourself over time. But the point is, you can't get a girlfriend if you're super shy, if you're scared, if you don't talk to girls. Just talk to girls, be yourself, make friends, and then maybe one of those friends will could become a girlfriend of yours. Yeah, that's as simple as it gets. That's all. Pu Pu IQ says, "What's the connection between Jews and Yavas?" Zero, no connection. That's the answer. That's the only answer I can give you. No connection whatsoever. Aditi says, "Recently, Argentinian Navy found a huge swarm of Chinese fishing ships in their waters. Could you explain what's actually going on there? Can I use can a country use fishing ships to access foreign waters? They're not supposed to. See, every nation has something called an exclusive economic zone in which only they can exploit the resources of the waters. So there is something called territorial waters and then there is something called an EEZ exclusive economic zone. U let's let's quickly take a look at this what it looks like. Okay. Uh territorial waters versus EZ. So territorial waters are up to 12 nautical miles but EEZ is a further area up to 200 nautical miles from the baseline. Okay, that's about it. So this so so this Chinese vessels they are in international waters but they are within the exclusive intern economic zone of Argentina and they are doing fishing and trolling there. They are breaking international law and the Chinese have depleted the oceans in their region in the south south China sea etc etc and now they're going they're sending hundreds of fishing ships all the way to the coastline of Argentina and they are sucking out all the fish and the marine life there. This is predatory behavior. The Chinese are parasites. This is parasitic behavior. Seriously. So what the Chinese are doing is absolutely illegal. Illegal, unethical, immoral, predatory, parasitical, whatever you want to say. That's why you can't trust this nation. You simply can't trust. They want to turn everybody into beggars. Absolutely barbaric behavior by China. This is this is outright theft of of marine resources. Shocking. Dimewma says, "Is there any way to bring back the Saraspati the river?" You mean how do you bring her back? You would have to change the climate for the river to come back. Yeah, sure. You could try and engineer the course of the river. But see, what was the river fed by? It was fed by two two things. One was glacial melt water from the Himalayas, the melting of snows and ice in the Himalayas. And secondly, more importantly, the rainy season, the monsoon rains. So 6 8,000 years ago, the monsoon in India was way heavier than it is today. And it was what mainly sustained this gigantic great river, the Saraspati. Then the monsoon declined over the past 8,000 years from 6,000 BC until today. And eventually it was it came down to such an extent that the Saraspati dried out in the southern half of her course. So how do you bring this great river back? You have to engineer a heavier monsoon every year. How do you do that? You don't know how to do it. So, and the question is why do you want to bring the river back? Maybe we did something that caused her to leave us. So, maybe that is something we need to change in ourselves. Yeah. Uh MK says will what will be the consequences if chooses to come out of the EU and NATO? It will be ostracized. The Americans will punish it tremendously. They will isolate the nation. They will try to destroy its economy. Very simple. How dare a nation try to escape slavery? Essentially, escape vasal status. How dare somebody do that? No one does that. You do that, you're going to be destroyed. The consequences will be severe if France tries to do that. In in the past, France did come out of the primary membership of NATO, etc., but it stayed a part of the EU. Uh but France is the only nation that can think of doing such things but it the consequences will be severe if it does that. Okay. Balky today says Clinton India visit terror attack in Jammu Kashmir. JD visit Palam attack. Who's JD? JD Vance. Okay. Clinton JD Vance visited Palum attack. Putin visit indigo fiasco. Does deep state sabotage or military government at will? Look, India is allegedly penetrated to some levels. At some levels, the deep state has assets at various levels in India. No question about it. Some are open assets, some are covert assets. I'm not naming anybody by the way. Okay? So yeah, I'm not naming anybody at all. But yes, India is penetrated like so many countries are. The Chinese were also penetrated, but they did something about it in the 2010s. They did they they they cleaned up things in China. In our case, uh we are way more penetrated. So yeah um I don't know about our military but um yeah India can be affected by things uh that uh that the deep state engineers for sure indeed. Okay. VSVs says, "Floxy nosy nihilificated and defenistrated the Bangalian tea out of James. [laughter] Fuxy flocksification." Floxy nosi nihilification, right? Nihil pilicated in defenistrated the panglosian tea out of James. You know what? Actually, James, I appreciate James. He gives me the opportunity to speak about issues that sometimes I don't get to speak about. So I I appreciate James. I really do. And yeah, so thank you James once again. Thank you. Now uh hyphen says I have been noticing the increase in Pakistani people in the UK for the past few years. Okay, you are very accurate. There's majority Pakistan in Pakistanis in few towns already. You know I visited London first time in the year 2002. I saw Pakistanis all over the place. I mean I saw people who look like us. And you could tell that some of them are not exactly as they're Pakistanis, right? Uh because you can't really tell from our features, but certain things give it away. So there's there were Pakistanis all over the place in 2002 itself. Every shop you go to, every road you street you walk on, Pakistanis. I mean, yeah, Pakistanis today, I suppose there are lots of Bangladeshes as well. So the UK is very fond of Pakistan. I mean Rotherham, the Pakistanis were given a free hand. Do whatever you want with our girls, right? I don't know what kind of nation the UK is. It's a nation of cowards and losers. Their authorities are a bunch of cowards. Their people are a bunch of cowards. They are passionate when it comes to cricket and football. But when when it comes to defending your women folk, nothing sheep. So what can I say? It's it's some part of me feels sorry for the UK. Yeah. For the people of the UK. Some part of me at some level I feel sorry for them. Uh Critical Return says quantum Darwinism versus many words theory. Who wins? Um, ask me about Copenhagen versus Gar versus Benny Worlds. Manny Worlds I don't know who wins. It's it's um we don't have the answer yet. There are various physicists, you know, some physicists are on this side, some physicists are on that side. There are many physicists who are in favor of the many worlds interpretation. Many physicists who will say that the Copenhagen interpretation makes way more sense. Where am I? I would like the many words interpretation to be true. Actually, it'll be fun. I don't know who wins. It's too early to say. We don't have the answer yet. Okay. Vssvs says, "Question by another." Pegasus 3642. Does Indian point of view of Indo-Uropean history does it have any chance of being the norm? India becomes more dominant sooner or later. Look, the truth should initi should eventually win. The truth has to win eventually. the Indian POV. I don't care whose POV it is. If David Reich turns out to be true, I will accept his POV is the correct thing. But I have studied this. I have examined this in great detail. This entire Arian invasion or migration thing is is a lie. It's a lie. I have I've gone through different phases of analyzing this. For the longest time of in my life, I believed in the arin invasion theory. I believed that I was the descendant of white-kinned people who came from Europe and uh conquered India. I believe believed that I believed my at least some of my ancestors were white people who came from Central Asia or Europe or whatever. That's what I believed then and and I was active on social media and I had these people who kept on telling me that please look into the invention theory. It's all a lie. I used to get annoyed with it. I used to get annoyed with them. I I used to say, "How does it matter what happened 5,000 years ago? If the facts are the facts and accept them, right? Why do you have to be all like why do you have to go against everything that comes out of the west?" Then one day I said, "Let me just look into this. I mean, I have believed this theory my entire life, but let me look at the actual research papers, the actual data, not at what textbooks are telling me or authors are telling me. Let me actually look at the data points themselves." And I spent a few months going through the various genetic papers, archaeological research, the actual research papers, not opinions. And I was astonished. I was shocked. I was flabbergasted. See, I have a background in theoretical physics and mathematics. It gives me a gigantic advantage. I can understand genetics research papers. I can understand research papers in other sciences. and also sociology and whatn not easy to understand. I may not be able to do the research but but I can understand what the research papers are telling me are are are trying to convey and I saw that this is all a lie and I in in which year I I put out I I I wrote this paper right u Arian invasion myth uh India facts so I wrote this article it was published in Indiafacts.org OG RN invision myth it was published in 2017 in this paper in this in this article I essentially you know completed the jigsaw puzzle I put out all the evidence that's from various different domains genetics and archaeology and myth even mythology literature literary evidence all these different things I put them together and I showed that you know what this entire thing is a god damn myth. It's a lie. I was shocked. It took me a while to understand what I had discovered. So truth, the truth will come out eventually. Right now they're still trying to push this this they have turned the migration the the invasion into a migration. Then they will say it's a tourism. Then they'll say it's a picnic. They'll keep on trying to do this. But in 20 30 years eventually there'll be no there'll be no more lies to tell. So it's going to happen. And obviously as India becomes more dominant it will happen. Uh Shivatsa says does a black hole fully evaporate or does or do quantum gravity limits hold the process at the plank scale leaving behind a stable plank scale remnant? That's a very good question you ask. That's a very good question. Do we have the answer? We're not sure. Is there a plank scale remnant? Is there a plankon or a cornucopion? Have you heard that term before? Let's see. I haven't heard heard that for a while. Kucopians, no, no, no, not that. Uh, cornucopians are theoretical and finally wrong. Okay. What about plank scale remnants? Plank scale remnants. Yeah. PBH. Yeah. Hypothetical stable plank mass objects left behind from extin etc. So yeah, this is indeed a very viable uh outcome. See the smallest scale we can that is allowed in theoretical physics based on what we know based on everything we understand about quantum mechanics. The smallest allowed length scale is the plank scale. The one plank length which is of the order of 10 to - 35 m. So can a black hole evaporate below that scale? It should not be able to. Yeah. So the process should or or could possibly halt at the plank scale and black hole evaporation should not be possible beyond that which would indicate which would mean that the universe would be filled with this plank scale remnants that are no longer black holes which are stable particles pure mass which would which would have very interesting consequences for cold dark matter. So yeah VSVS says interesting okay what's your f who is your favorite guitarist look like if you ask me what's my favorite food my favorite movie I won't have one answer I can give you five five examples my top five my top favorite five guitarists who would that be uh Jimmy Page Jimmyi Hendris oh two jimmies we have there Jimmy Page Jimmyi Hendris who else who I'm sure there's more. Why am I not able to think of anyone [laughter] right now? Uh uh David Gilmore. Okay, I'll give you three. Jimmy Page, Jimmy Hendricks, David Gilmore. I'm sure there's more. I can give you 10 more, but yeah, let's stop at three. Okay. Okay. We still we have crossed three hours 20 minutes. I still have 20 questions to take. How privileged am I? Uh Rajat says best definition of consciousness I found as per adit vanta even what's the definition even shinger after reading vanta said the plurality that you perceive is only in appearance and used to say atma is brahman what is the definition you have found the best definition of consciousness per adita vanta what is the definition what is it I don't want to know what shinger said after reading I just tell me the definition because I seek it I seek the definition of consciousness. I've never found one. I seek a scientific definition of consciousness. If you have the definition, if you found the definition, why don't you put it here? I don't care what X person or Y person said. I that doesn't impress me. I only care about the objective fact. I don't care what Schroinger or Einstein or God said about it. The plurality that we perceive is only an appearance. And I don't care what somebody said. Just give me the definition. I seek it myself. If you have it, why why are you withholding it? I seek the definition. I don't I've never found a definition. I have never found a precise scientific definition of consciousness. If you have it, please share it. I don't care what somebody said about it. Doesn't impress me. Please tell us about Bulakkeshi and Vat Pichal. I don't know about them. Sorry. Dirj [laughter] Kamat says will distribute nukes create a multipolar world. Oh, it sure will. It'll be fun. Yeah. Everybody take a few. [laughter] That'll be fun. Imagine every African dictator gets 10 nukes. [laughter] It will certainly create a multipolar world. It will. But it will be a chaotic world. Okay. VSVS says requests mod to review Ankush Roy. Let me see who is this Ankush Roy and what is this person up to? Ankush Roy. Ankush Roy. Ankush Roy. What's going on? Are you being naughty, sir? Ankush Roy. Uh maybe this will have to be looked into in the future later at a later point. I just uh let me just finish this now. I still have like 15 questions to go. Uh Moji Pio Africanos Moji Pio Africanos says, "Do you think the buildup by the Chinese on our borders could lead to an actual conflict by 2030 or do we act on sin the PK before that leads to it?" No. book say the BK if we do something the Chinese will take action over here. Why are the Chinese building up a military presence on our borders? Because they would like the option to do something. It will be it will cost the Chinese less to start a war with India than to start a war with Taiwan. And if Xiinping is under political pressure or whatever, he would like a military victory somewhere. And if he believes that he can inflict a defeat on India, then he will take action. So this Chinese this build up by the Chinese on our borders could it lead to an actual conflict by 2013? Maybe it could lead to a conflict by 2026 or 27. We have to be very careful about that. Okay. We'll have to be very careful about that. Vbsayush Singh requests comment on China locking Japanese plane. I'm not aware of it. The Chinese have locked Japanese plane. What? They took a key and locked it or did they jam some electronics on the plane? What exactly happened? Uh let me see. Let me see the news. Uh China locks China locks Japanese plane planet. Really? [laughter] Japanese plane. China Japan flights fight explodes midair. A Chinese jet pointed a radar at a Japanese aircraft. Okay, there's nothing to comment about in this. This is just a routine nasty occurrence by the Chinese. They do that all the time to everybody. Taiwanese, Japanese, whatever. Yeah, VSB says, "When will understanding America restart?" Not at any not in the short to medium term. Maybe in the longer term. I I I right now have other projects that I that are at a higher priority right now. So not immediately, not soon, but eventually it will because it's a very worthwhile and valuable project, but not right now. Uh Riser says, "Open map go to Andra search church random area." I'm aware. I'm aware. I'm aware all over the place. Everywhere. Let's do it. Let's do it. Since you are saying let's do it. India is is sleeping. I don't know what the Indian government is doing like what why are we building all this infrastructure? Why are we building the economy to give it away to to outsiders? So this is Andhra Pradesh. Let's go to any random area and let's see church. Zoom in. Now once again church all over the place. This is industrial scale demographic re-engineering that's happening in India. This is a threat to India civilization. I am not against any any religion but this is being done on an industrial scale by pouring in hundreds of billions of dollars every year. This is what I have an issue with and the Indian government is sleeping on this absolutely sleeping not concerned which is what can I say it's it's so incredibly disappointing so yeah that's the situation right now looks like we are simply building our economy you know building up our economy building up our infrastructure building everything to hand it over to the descendants of the Bangladesh Rohingyas and whoever is else has been converted that's what what we doing right now vss says, "Question by Sam the Gamer. Is China failing to see how its unresolved issues with Russia and India empower the US? Why isn't it clearing the path for RAIC?" But China is very aware of what's happening. China is a very wise, practical, pragmatic nation. They genuinely believe that they can take on the US on their own and vasalize Russia and fragment India. And maybe they have a game plan for that. The Chinese are wise. Maybe you are failing to see the things that they are able to see. Okay. The Chinese are going to up the anti- visavi Russia also in the next 2 three years. They will start making territorial claims on Russia. They're going to start playing nasty with Russia also by latest by 2030. Why would the Chinese want RAC when it can can be se only? They genuinely believe their their time has come. That's why they're doing this. Okay. VSBS once again says, "Do you think India can build expensive colliders even with freebies, but the issue is approvals, corruption, and specific department funding cuts or no vision?" See, we can still build expensive colliders. The question is who's going to operate the colliders? Do we have the right? Do we first of all have the vision to make India a leading scientific power? Do we have the vision? The vision has to come from the top. Do we have the vision is the first question. Approvals. Oh my god. The bureaucracy, the red tape. I mean the prime minister approved the construction of an Indian version of LIGO in 2015. 2015. Let me show you. Okay, let's go to the Wikipedia page for LIGO India. LIIGO is the instrument that detected gravit gravitational wave for the first time. LIGO India Indian initiative in gravitational wave blah blah blah. So purpose funding etc. 20 2015 where is 2015? This was announced in 2015. 2015. So essentially the prime minister gave the approval for LIGO in principle in 2015. Then MOU was signed in 2016. Okay. So what has happened? 2015 is a decade ago, right? What happened? Where is legal India? location let's say the location district of Maharashtra etc etc etc now let us see on the map what is the status okay let's see on the map since we're doing this so where is India India where it's here let us see has something been been constructed do you see anything that has been constructed here. I can see a small little thing here. Yeah, this is the facility. It's a corporate office that they have built. Where is the instrument? The approval was given 10 years ago. There is absolutely no vision in India. Okay, that's the problem. So with without a vision, what's the what what collider will will will India build? Nothing. There's no scientific vision. There's no ambition, there's nothing. Positive coffee. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. A Rahul says, "Hinduism has never been about following a specific book." Yes sir, I know that. Why are people nowadays trying to frame it as a religion of a book which they like? Because Indians have lost touch with their culture. Indians are dasinated. Indians want everything to be like the West today. And there are various new fangled aspects of Hinduism or or or new fangled cults that claim to be Hindu cults that have emerged in in the past few decades. Some of whom portray the gods they don't like as demiggods and so much more. So there is all this little infighting, all this little competition etc. Everyone's trying to say this is the book I like. you know my the the the founder of my cult wrote this book which is an edited version of the older book and you have to read this only and that sort of thing. I am not naming anybody specifically. I'm just saying overall this is the situation. So Indians are increasingly more and more dassinated. They are losing touch with their heritage with their culture. So they are seeing everything through a western through western lenses and that's why this this situation exists. Sundesh says is there any sabotage behind the indigo crisis which why did it happen during Putin's visit? There are many experienced people in Indigo and did not predict it. I don't know if there is sabotage or not. I am not an insider. I don't know what happened. All I can say is the government of India needs to take the strictest action against the people responsible within Indigo. This is unacceptable. There have to be consequences for this. This caused a tremendous amount of damage to tens of thousands of people, to India's economy, to India's reputation and god knows what else. The government of India has to to hold Indigo and the and the relevant people accountable and take the strictest possible action. That's what needs to happen. Positive coffee says big fan. Thank you, sir. Why are Indians nowadays B12 and vitamin D deficient? What how does your diet look like and what's your source of protein? Why are Indians B12 and vitamin D deficient? Vitamin D comes from sunlight does it all you have to do is spend 15 minutes in the sunlight sunlight. But most Indians especially in cities etc they never go out in the sun. So that's why the vitamin D deficiency is there. Vitamin D is is it sunlight? Vitamin D is from sunlight, sun exposure. Yeah. Uh B12, I'm not really sure. I suppose they don't eat balanced diet and all that. What does my diet look like? What's my source of protein? Well, let's not go into those matters. My diet is a balanced diet. I get sufficient protein, at least 150 grams a day. My diet isn't always very disciplined. That's which is why I'm slightly not very fit right now. I need to get back into shape soon. VSVS says, "Do you think INR around 90 is good?" I don't look I am not an economist. Economics is one thing that's not my forte. So I don't know. Um I suppose if if that's a lower exchange rate or higher exchange rate for visa with the Indian rupee then it could be beneficial if we are exporting but we are not a major exporting country. We are importing more than we export. Right? That's the problem. Um so yeah look this these economic topics that's that's something I can answer not right away I would have to look into it. Yeah. So yeah I can't answer this question right now. Sorry. Spade 2 says we would love to contribute and assist you in any shape or form as we want to learn more from you for example mods 4 channel etc. Thank you. Um, thank you very much for the suggestion and the offer and I will uh consider that seriously. Thank you. UMX Glowhaha says uh thoughts on self help books. I've when I was in my 20s and even early 30s I read a whole bunch of self-help books. Did they help me? Not really. Not really. It may help you. It depends. It depends. Um my personal experience has been is that you know it's overall eventually I I have come to think of these self-help books as a waste of time. They go on forever and you to really search for the two three pieces of information that are relevant which you could write in like you know like five pages essentially but they turn that into a 300page book and so on. So most of the self-help books are just fluff just unhelpful. There may be a few that I'm not aware of but whatever. Di Shukla says how can I be a successful also financially polymath journalist like you? I'm in interested in multiple areas. You have to spend all your time reading and studying these things and you have to be able to to monetize some of these some of this knowledge and skills that's what you to do right. So if you want to be a polymath or a general generalist I'm not sure I'm a generalist. I am a specialist in in a couple of things actually but because I have had so many deep interests in so many different topics and I've really really pursued them very seriously throughout my life even during times when people used to make fun of me for that what's the point of knowing all these things yeah what's the point of knowing all this information people used to make fun of me yeah I still did it I didn't care what people thought um so you have to do that if you really want to go in that direction, whatever topics you find interesting, study them in depth. You can't study things shallowly. You to study everything in depth. So, you have to spend time becoming becoming specialist in one thing at a time and then retain that information and do it in in multiple areas and topics. It's not for everybody. It's very hard. Most people will find it super painful. And then you have to find ways of making, you know, turning some of that knowledge or some of the skills into something that's actually monetizable. So you have to find your own way in that. I never went out with the objective that I want to be a polyath or whatever. I was just following my curiosity my entire life and that's what brought me to wherever I am today. Critical return says how can I stop procrastinating and increase focus? How do you stop? So, you cut off all the things that make you procrastinate. Destroy them. Let's say on your phone you have 20 apps that make you procrastinate. Delete the goddamn apps. H let's say you have five friends who are wasters of your time. End those friendships. See, very easy to say, very hard to do. Do it. It'll work out. That's all. VSVS says um why UFOs have not evolved like fighter jets in terms of shape and size. They've always been circular since their inception. Even today they're mostly circular in shape. Who has seen UFOs? The UFOs only appear in the US. My my hunch is that these UFOs, they are secret US technology. And if you see the UFOs that that appeared last year all across the United States, they were in all kinds of different shapes and sizes, some of them were like orbs, some of them were in other shapes. So it's not just like circular or sort of saucer saucer shaped. You have all kinds of differently shaped UFOs that you see these days, but only in the US apparently. [laughter] Okay. So most likely these are secret technological programs of the US military. VSB says, "Please tell what you think about the latest Muhammad Salahha's situation." Who is Muhammad Salha? I don't know Muhammad. Are you talking about Mo Salah, the Egyptian origin footballer? What's the situation? I I don't know. I If it is Muhammad Salah, I don't know who that is. If it is Muhammad Salah, the Egyptian footballer, I don't know what the situation is. I'm not keeping track of football so I have no idea. No idea. Sorry. VSVS says is an operation or strike like operation zur could be done by India in this month? Very unlikely. Very unlikely. Okay. Dur Kamat says our Rahul is against the Vedas being the central authority of the civilization. I don't think you concur with him on that. The rigeda is the foundational text of Indian civilization. It's the oldest literature on the planet and the other vedas came from that. So the foundational literature, the foundational texts, the foundational heart and soul of our civilization is the Vedas. That's how I see it. If somebody disagrees with with me, that's their choice. Okay. Real says Poland is making huge progress despite EU downfall. Who says there is an EU downfall of Poland? Why China, Vietnam, Japanese eta people are more disciplined despite being worse than us, having worse than us? Poland is making huge progress. Poland is being propped up as the next European military superpower to defend Europe, Western Europe against Russia. That's why the US, etc., NATO are bulking up the Polish military and that obviously is going to have a good financial effect on Poland. There's no EU downfall of Poland. No such there is an EU EU downfall of Poland. I'm not I've not seen any EU downfall. There are some disagreements about immigration etc. Beyond that everything is fine, right? So Poland is doing good because Poland is next in line. Look at the geography. Look at the map. I don't open it now. If you look at the map, you will say that after Belaros you have po in Ukraine you have Poland. So Poland has to stand in the way next in case Russia decides to go west. Which is why Poland is very important. UMX glowhaha says are you vegetarian? How does it matter? How does it matter? What difference does it make if I'm vegetarian or not? Ask me good questions. Yeah. UMX says thoughts on book never finished by David Gogggins. I have not read any any of his books. I'm aware of his famous book. what um uh can't hurt me or something like that. I haven't read it. I don't read self-help books. Not read any self-help book in dec like like two decades almost. [clears throat] So I I don't know. Okay. Vsvs says what is the history of the broka tribe? I don't know. I don't know. There are all kinds of small little ethnic groups etc. tribes clans in India. How will I know the history of each of them? I don't know the history of the broka tribe. I read newspaper that white women visiting the dakli region where brokpa tribe live for having arian kids. I have no idea about this. No idea. Vsvs says what's the mystery of food fighters during second world war? It's not food fighters it is foo fighters. Fu fighters. These were UFO sightings. Flying saucers they were called. So you had American fighter planes flying around in the continental United States. if I'm not mistaken. And they saw these flying saucers and they they called them foo fighters and they would try to pursue them, but these things would just outrun them, outmaneuver them like it's like it was a joke. So that's why they were called Foo Fighters. And then you had a music band, rock band or pop band called the Foo Fighters. You want to see this? Okay, let's quickly take a look at this. Foo Fighters. Okay, let's do this. Foo Fighters, rock band, but original uh UFOs, Foo Fighters, uh mysterious Foo Fighters. See, like, yeah, that sort of thing. So, pilot was scared shitless apparently and so on. All right. All right. Um let's please stop taking super chats now. It's almost 4 hours now. It's not healthy for me to do this so long. So I request you all to please stop taking super but no you won't listen. You won't listen. Okay I'm I'm ending this in like five minutes. Rahul says I was saying my dharma predates any book. In order for a book to write about my dharma my dharma must have predated that book and few insecure people turn it into my character assassination. Look Rahul you can decide and determine what your dharma is. That is 100% the right of every Hindu. That is what differentiates Hinduism from everything else. There is no book. If you don't want to follow a book, you want to see things from a different perspective, you have the right to do that. And no one can stop you. And that is also part of our dharma. That's why you had so many different philosophical branches of dharma including both dharma, jina dharma and so much more. Even Charvaka which is completely materialistic and atheistic. So it's entirely up to you. Nobody has the right to tell you what is right, what's wrong and whether you are on the right path or wrong path. You determine what is your path. I see it in a specific way. You don't have to agree with me and I have no right to say that you are wrong. You are on your path. I am on my path and that's how it is. Wouldn't the world be a better place if everybody saw it like this? Yeah. Okay. Vs vs says Aush Singh says how to stop this conversions. How to redermatize the regions like the Far East. Please look none of us can stop the conversions. The government of India has to ban conversions and stop the inflow of money from abroad. That's what has to happen. What will we individuals do? You try to do something, they'll throw us in jail. The government of India will throw us in jail. The government is to enact laws, make conversions illegal. If somebody wants to convert on their own, make it legal. But if somebody is coming here with the purpose of converting Indians by lecturing them and brainwashing them, that has to be illegal. That has to be a jailable offense and stop the inflow of these billions of dollars every year coming in from god knows where. These things have to happen. And then obviously we can take steps to reivilize everybody else, everybody who has been affected by this. That will take time. But first stop the conversions, the industrial scale mass conversions. Why is the government of India not seeing this as a threat? I just don't get it. That's about it. vs Jashi Ram sir Jashi Ram thank you very much and that brings us to the end of today's live chat VSBs let's end this now I'm ending it now that's the last one thank you very much everybody it was fun it was long it was fun I enjoyed it thank you everybody for trusting me trusting me to answer your questions obviously I won't be able to answer all the questions but thank you so much anyway I've tried my best and I'll keep trying my best. All right, thank you so much. It's almost 4 hours, but it was fun. I look forward to seeing you next week in next week's live streams. Please, please keep learning things. Please keep asking your questions. That's the only way to learn and keep raising your standards. I'll see you very soon in the next next live stream. Take care everyone. Bye-bye.