Heat. Heat. N. [Music] Hey, [Music] hey, hey. [Music] Heat. Hello everybody. Good day, good evening everybody and welcome to the ask show. Hope everybody is doing great. Uh as I'm sure you know today is a super chat episode and live chat episode. We'll take as many as many questions from the super chat as possible and also from the live chat as and when possible. And today is a geopolitics only episode. So let's take questions about geopolitics. Let me see who is there on the live chat and let us see who all is there. I can see strainus something uh Alan J. Victor Sabatraati Nabarita Das Sergeant Skylan Somi Jin Animals for laugh good evening Aayush Singh Namaste Rohan Sunja Vikash PJ Shashi Kiran Abi Abi Silva Sachin Shaw Dhaj Kamat good morning Amaya Tulp from Germany hello Barat first Dakwa from Gujarat hello Samriati hello Amisha hi Amisha Mishra hello Dorya crazy brain hello good to see you again Rakkesh Mistri Shashi Kiran um Baskar Kayatwal Jade Parmar Aayush again Mahik Kata from Ethiopia. Hello Dakshwara is from Raj Rajot Gujarat Sumit Bat First uh Sparti Uturi Namaste Bat again Negro Geopolitical Dubai from Indor Hello good evening prane Paul from Kolkata Raja Akash Kumar good evening Vladimir Putin Aayushman Singh Varun Baj from Twitter or or X Raghav Raj Banga Master Diddi Yatinda General Subutai Napoleon Singh Shikawad is going to Russia. Suhas Ready Hy Penguin Pratik Magdum Prat Pratik Tagare Niha from China. Mlavin from Hawaii. Kuml Prabhakar Pande Nav Bagalc Court Arjun from Oceanana Stone from Mumbai and so many other people. So good evening, good day to all of you. Thank you so much for being on the live chat. And let us take some questions. What questions do we have? Uh I can see Ganesh from Germany as well. Adita Radi and everybody else. U Sasha Shalavik from shalom from Tel Aviv. Well, shalom back to you sir and everybody else. Okay. So, let's take some questions. All right. So, this is the first question we will take. Rohan Suna asks, "What's my views on the Azarbaijan Armenia peace deal by DT by Donald Trump?" Aharbaijan Armenia. Yes. So Donald Trump has has negotiated has brokered a peace deal between the two nations Azarbaijan and Armenia who have been at loggerheads for a very long time. Uh historically the region okay let's go to the maps and let's put the map on the screen. Uh this is the region we are talking about. Let's get that on the screen. So we are talking about the Kavkas region, the Kasus region and here we have the nations Azarbaijan, Armenia, Georgia and Russia. So the two nations have been at loggerheads for a very long time. Both were part of the USSR and after the USSR broke up, there was a war over Nagoro Karabak or Arsak that region. Um and at least two wars. There was one in 1991, there was one in 2020 and that's been you know simmering and still going on kind of for some time for the past four five years on and off. Um and in the last war, the 2020 war, Azarbaijan gained significant amounts of territory from Armenia. Uh essentially the objective is to wipe Armenia off the map of the world to to erase Armenia from the map of the world and to create a pan panuric corridor between Turkey, Azarbaijan and the Turk nations like Turkmanistan etc. A long story I will not tell you about the the entire history but that's the deal. So Azarbaijan is in the is in the ascendancy and Donald Trump has brokered a peace deal between the two nations. So there's going to be an end to hostilities between the two nations. Both countries have committed to seize all fighting, respect each other's sovereignty, open diplomatic and uh trade relations etc. And the interesting thing is that this agreement it grants the United States exclusive development rights for a 27m corridor which is going to be the which is going to be called the Trump route. the Trump route for international peace and prosperity and this will be a route across southern Armenia and it's going to uh connect Azarbaijan with the with this exclave that they have. Yeah. Nak nakchiban uh which borders Turkey and the US will have exclusive development rights to this place. There's going to be rail, there's going to be oil and gas pipelines, electricity, data lines, what not. So there's a commercial angle to this and Mr. Trump is going to uh well the US is going to benefit from that. So that essentially is is the long and the short of the thing and uh both nations have signed this peace agreement. Mr. Trump has brokered it. He's the peacemaker. He wants a Nobel Peace Prize come what may, right? Uh so the question is how long will this last? Well, I suppose it will last. If Mr. Trump is personally invested interested in this. He's going to ensure that this is enforced and we'll see. See, Mr. Trump is around is going to be around as the president for the of the US for the next three and a half years. After that, we'll see how it goes. But I expect that it's going to last at least as long as Mr. Trump is in power, as long as he is a reasonably strong president, which remains to be seen. So that's my views so far. It's a it's a very new event and yeah that's what's happened thus far. Goldliness says rank top five world leaders based on their IQ and foreign policy style from 1950 till now. Also as an Indian I want to nominate Mr. Cha for Padma. Well that's very kind of you. Thank you so much. Uh rank the top five world leaders on their IQ. Well, I would I I don't know what the IQs of the various leaders were, but we can uh rank leaders based on how successful they were. And how do you measure how successful a leader is? Well, the only that's a good question actually. What's the parameter that you b that you rank leaders on? Well, the only parameter that counts is whether a leader succeeds or not in ensuring their nation's peace, prosperity, and success overall. Right? the achievement of your national uh national objectives of your foreign policy objectives, economic objectives and overall an increase in your national prosperity, security, all of that. So from 1950 until now who were the great world leaders? Let us see. I think Joseph Stalin was one of the great leaders. You know he did very nasty things. No question about it. Right. Um terribly terribly nasty things he did. But overall you could you have to give Mr. Stalin credit for transforming the USSR from a broken country into a superpower. So number one is Joseph Stalin. You see when you talk about these things you geopolitical rankings and all this is pretty amoral. You don't inject morality into this. You don't bring morality into the discourse. So you have someone like Mahatong. You have someone like Joseph Stalin. They did terrible terrible things that caused the deaths of millions. But still if you look at the overall trajectory that a nation took after as as a consequence of their rule it was overall beneficial you could say from a numerical perspective hard power score the hard power score of the USSR increased substantially so one would be Mr. started the second I suppose you would have to give it okay we're talking about dictators here I suppose what would be maong you know he did terrible things I mean the great leap forward the green the cultural revolution the war on sparrows in case you haven't heard about that look it up the war on sparrows which caused a frightening frightful famine in China and yet he Maung was responsible for China gaining this gigantic piece of land called Tibet, right? They still occupy Tibet. Maong ensured that China got an upper hand over India decisively 1962 and so much more. So much more maong. So I would have to give it to Maong. So that's another one. That's two. Who else? Um US presidents Lynden Johnson. Well, he brought the deep state back. You could say Lynden Johnson, but I would so I would say it would be Ronald Reagan, the last great American president. He's the one who presided over the essentially the dissolution of the USSR. So I would say um Ronald Reagan. Who else do we have? One would be I would say Lee Kuanu. Uh benevolent dictator, a strong man. uh he did not brookke any descent or whatsoever but but he transformed this little city state called Singapore from a third world nation third world backwater to a first world nations in just one generation 20 25 years amazing incredible thing um there's one slot left who do we bring in should we bring in I don't know there's there's there's no one from Africa that I can think of and they were good people but they were all well bumped off by the by whoever by the powers that Um, who else is it? Mr. Shald. Um, was he that impactful? Mr. Sha de Gaul. Um, any I would say Margaret Thatcher, probably. Margaret Thatcher, the the iron lady of the UK. There's plenty of people who dislike her, but overall, she as long as she was in power, the the UK was still a world power. It was not a lap dog of the US. The moment she went out of power, the within five years the US, the UK became a lap dog of the US utterly. The moment Tony Blair comes to power, right? So, I would say Margaret Thatcher. I'm sure there's more leaders, but here we have it. Five leaders since you asked for. I will not rank them which is the first, which is second, but these are the five I can think of off the top of my head of my head. All right. Sergeant Skylin says, "Why has Trump been antagonistic towards us India since operation Sidhur?" Uh, by the way, proud that our India is standing up for itself. No question about it. It's something to be really proud of. Most would have expected that India would cave in that India would bend the knee and become a de facto vasal of the US. If you if you have watched my geost strategy episodes, you will see that I had given four scenarios on the 1st of July, the kind of trajectory the US India relationship could possibly take. Four scenarios. One was India standing up for itself. Second was India becoming a vasal. Um third was India not doing really well, not being here there just just you know things not going well for India. And the fourth one was a tilt towards China. So it's the and the first one was India gets a good deal with the US. Yeah, there was there was option A scenario A, scenario B was India becomes a vasal. Scenario C was India stands up for itself and scenario D was a tilt towards China. So we are witnessing something like scenario C and a little bit of sprinkling of scenario C. Uh scenario D. So India standing up for itself. Incredible. I think it's shocked a lot of people around the world. I think Trump himself is rather stunned as to how things have gone. The the the turn the relationship has taken. So why has Trump been antagonistic towards us? Well, the US, I will say this again, regards India as a problem. They do not want the emergence of a new China down the line, 20 years on the line by 2035, 2040 horizon. And India is showing every sign of doing that. Despite all the immense internal problems India has, India faces problems of our our own making. Despite all the internal problems, India is still the fastest growing uh major economy in the world and India is projected to keep on growing. There's no chance of recession no matter what happens. So by 2035 2040, India is going to be a whole different beast, a different league altogether. And the US doesn't want that. The US believes that they can deal with China. But they want to contain India. They want to keep India down. They want to um hamper whatever chances India has of growing. So that is one and Trump is the guy who's changing the entire world order. So obviously he's going to focus on India. And secondly, something happened during operation Synindhur. Clearly some things have been revealed yesterday like we knocked out five Pakistani fighter planes. We destroyed multiple F-16s on the ground. We clearly have hit nuclear warhead storage sites where you would have nuc US nuclear warheads being stored there not Pakistani ones. We hit their Nurhan air base which was operated by the US. It has come out that that that revelation has come out. Um and maybe some other things also happened and it looks like there was a phone call between Mr. Modi and Mr. Trump and Mr. Trump probably must have made some threats and Mr. Modi would have it looks like Mr. Modi did not stand down. He stood he stood up for India and I think that's where the relationship changed right so Trump is really upset Trump wants India to bend the knee and become become a proper American wasal and that's not happening so that's why he is being antagonistic towards us and that's going to continue so the India US relationship is going downhill and that's not going to change anytime soon Kamat says aren't Trump's policies endangering the US's imperial interests. Trump is basically compelling countries to collectively unite to reduce their dependence on the US. The EU is now pursuing military sovereignty. You are right. I mean, if you have seen my past past Jewish strategy episodes, you will see that the EU is is doubling its uh uh military spending and it's taking many steps that can be regarded as uh steps that will boost its strategic autonomy visa with the US which would make it less of a vasal of the US overall, EU, NATO, all of that. You know, things are changing. So, the question is what on earth is Trump doing? Isn't what he is doing? Isn't that endangering the the US's imperial interests overall? What are the US's imperial interests? To hold as many nations as vasals as possible and to have complete uh 360deree power production capabilities across the globe. These are the US interests right now. By dismantling the global trade order, the global financial, monetary, economic order and going back to the good old days of the imperial system when you dealt with countries one by one rather than having a broad treaty broad superructure the rules-based world order which applied to everybody and you let things roll rule. Uh he has totally shaken up the world order and a lot of countries obviously aren't aren't happy with this. I mean you you had an existing relationship that was going just fine. The entire world was running smoothly. But now you've dismantled everything and you're imposing tariffs one by one on countries depending on how they deal with you and whether they show sufficient difference or not. What does this indicate? What does it indicate? It indicates that the US is no longer confident about it itself. It created this world order that existed until um earlier this year the first quarter of the year and now it's dismantling it. Right? It's uh Mr. Trump is uh the guy who's in charge of dismantling this. So the US created the order that was running smoothly all this while but now they want to dismantle it. Why is it? It's because they feel that they are no longer that powerful overall. There are major powers that are rising now and that and these powers pose significant challenges to the US. The kind of challenges the US hasn't seen in essentially forever. Right? Essentially since 1990991 when the USSR disintegrated the USSR was kind of an equal to the US it was a peer competitor and now you have the the since the 2012 or so you have the emergence of China u and you have now the the emergence of India as well. India is also a nation that could in 20 years become another China kind of entity different but similar uh and overall the US its economy I mean if you look at the economy of the G7 nations and compare that with the BIRC nations you can see bricks is now taking over so there's so much happening that is making the US way less confident uh China is rising technologically China has be become an almost peer competitor of the US in so many technologies um and so much more so the US isn't confident now. It's it's worried and that's why they want to gain more control over the world order by dismantling what exists and and approaching every relationship as a bilateral relationship and deciding based on negotiations how much tariffs to impose on on which nation and the nations that don't cowtow will be hit with major tariffs, massive tariffs like India, like like Brazil and so on. So it looks like Trump believes that this is going to work for him, right? And Trump is somebody who has been speaking about tariffs for 20 30 years. I mean I I've seen interviews of Trump when he was nowhere near being a politician. He had not even considered being a politician but he was asked about the the way the US deals with various nations and he said that we should impose tariffs about tariffs. He used to talk about tariffs like 20 30 years ago. So this has always been one of his pet projects and now he is he's implementing that. So he personally seems to believe that I am um paternal preternaturally intelligent person and I understand the way the world works. I understand everything and I'm going to get things done. I'm going to you know bring the US back on top again. I'm going to make America great again. But is it going to work? Well, are you already seeing a backlash towards that? Lots of I mean everyone's unhappy with this. The US people are nations are cooperating with the US because they are afraid of the US because the US is the number one super it's a superpower. But nobody likes this. No one likes this. And when it comes to nations like India, China, Russia, Brazil, etc. They're going to clearly band together. It's going to happen in some some shape form or or way. It's going to happen. So So that's one thing that's going that that is going to be the consequence of what Trump is doing. A lot of nations are going to coalesce in a different in in in a grouping that is essentially not aligned with the US which essentially means opposed to the US and when major economies like China, India, Russia, Brazil, they all come together and ma and other nations are also drawn towards that that becomes a problem. That's the number that's the first problem one can think of and this is going to have long-term consequences. later they can't say well let's go back to the old old world order because this is not working out that won't work again later and secondly the tariffs are going to bite Trump in his backside very badly because it's not us who's paying the tariffs it's the American companies and American public that's paying the tariffs that's what the people of America now beginning to suddenly realize right so if I am an American importer I'm an American corporation and I am importing goods from India. Let's say I'm importing a million dollars worth of let's say coconuts. Okay, let's say I'm importing a million dollars worth of coconuts from India. But the US but Trump has imposed 50% tariffs on Indian goods. So when I receive the shipment worth a million dollars from India, the moment I receive the shipment, I'm going to have to pay that shipment is worth a million dollars, right? So I'm going to have to pay 50% tariffs on that. I'm the importer. I'm the American company. I'm going to have to pay half a million dollars to the US government on on receipt of the goods either to customs or or whoever whichever entity it is in whichever shape or form. So I the importer of the American company am paying the tariff to the US government and then since I have paid 50% tariffs I'm going to have to sell this goods to my to my consumers the to the US population at 50% at a 50% hiked rate. Otherwise, I'm going to be at a big loss. So, who's going to essentially pay the price? I, the American company, am paying the price and the American consumer is paying the price. It's going to cause a rise in prices. It eventually can boost manufacturing or whatever locally in the US, but it is going to create havoc in the US. Trump's approval ratings are going to plummet and the midterms which happen probably next year, it's going to be severe for the Republicans. That's what I foresee right now. So, Trump is going to it's not it's not going to um it's not going to be all smooth for Trump. He's going to be in very soon in rocky waters. So, yeah, overall you can see that this is going to weaken the US. So, I agree with you. It's going to weaken the US. It's going to weaken the US geopolitically. It's going to weaken the US uh internationally, diplomatically, and it's going to weaken Trump's position internally, domestically, politically, all of that. And well, someone of Trump's intelligence not seeing this. I don't know. Uh Barbar says, "Podcast with Dr. Sha, your views." Um um yeah, I am not aware of his analysis, so don't know. Sorry. Uh Vishal says once you said something like China can take try to take Taiwan in 2027 or before 2027 why so look I said that there seems to be some kind of deadline that has given to his armed forces which is uh the PLA and whatever else people's liberation army it it looks like he has given a deadline of 2027 that you need to be ready fully ready and fully prepared by 2027 to take Taiwan when I give the orders. So, and and we know that uh the the situation has changed significantly across the the Taiwan Strait. Uh the PLA, the patterns of its exercises, etc., they've increased significantly. The overflights over Taiwan, the intrusions into Taiwanese waters, the encircling of the island, all of that has increased in frequency and magnitude and whatnot. um the past let's say three four years right uh by in in 2020 2021 the situation was very different so you can see a significant uptick increase in the intensity and magnitude and frequency of these military actions that the the Chinese armed forces are undertaking around Taiwan. So they clearly have taken some kind of deadline seriously and they are yeah preparing they're doing military uh exercises and and mock drills and whatnot for an invasion. So yeah it looks like there's a deadline of 2027 and that's why I said that but we'll see how it goes. Napoleon Singh Shiki Khawat says why can't India use its NRIs big ones India favor Cash Patel see cash Patel is not a non-resident Indian he is a US citizen a non-resident Indian is a person who lives outside of India but is still a an Indian citizen holds an Indian passport Kasha Patel Cash Patel the director of the FBI is a US citizen so well if he has a US citizen, he's going to work for the interests of the United States naturally. Uh and we have lots of Indian origin people in in significant positions in the US. No question about it. Uh if you look at the Fortune 500 companies, if you look at the big tech companies, Microsoft, Google, Microsoft, you have Mr. Satya Nadilla, uh Google, you have Mr. Sundar Pichai and and so many more. But these are all US citizens. None of them are Indian citizens as far as I know. And if you're a US citizen, you're going to work for your country. You're not going to work for India. And of course, we have a huge diaspora in the in the US and other countries. And I'm sure that they can be well, they will still have feelings for India. So, you can certainly uh perhaps tap into that in some shape or form, but you don't do that overtly. You never do that overtly. The Chinese have a full-fledged program of doing that and the Americans are really really worried about Chinese origin citizens in the US. Anyhow, that's how it is. Zishan says, "If Putin gets to keep the five oblasts, would that justify everything Russia has lost in the war or will the Russian public demand more?" Um, right. So, what's the situation right now? Uh how many oblasts uh does uh Ukrainian oblasts does Russia control right now? Is it five? Uh we know that it's Luhans donets those regions. So let's go to the map quickly. Um let's go to the map. So Russia controls about between 1/5 to 1/4 of uh the nation of Ukraine. Um definitely the Luhansk Donetsk region. Mario is it definitely I'm not sure. Odessa not not thisa but yeah overall a significant portion of Ukraine is controlled and look Mr. Putin is now going to u meet with Mr. Trump in Alaska right that's that's been announced so Mr. Putin will meet with with Mr. Trump for um a summit a first round of negotiations let's say let's say uh about potentially ending the Ukraine war so Trump is desperate Mr. Trump is desperate to end the UK Ukraine war. He had promised that he would end it on day one of his presidency. It's it's been a big failure uh from that perspective. So Mr. Trump is desperate and Mr. Putin knows that Mr. Trump is desperate. Now you want to negotiate from a position of strength and Mr. Putin has a huge amount of leverage because he controls so much of territory that his armed forces have taken over at his command and I expect that Mr. Putin knowing Mr. Trump's negotiating negotiation style, Mr. Putin will come out with initially maximalist demands. I would say it would involve the complete demilitarization of Ukraine, the complete dennazification of Ukraine, a regime change in Kiev and more territory for Russia beyond what it control currently controls. Maybe territory all the way to the Niper River. I don't know. I expect Mr. Putin to make maximalist demands straight off the bat, right? And then let's see how Mr. Trump responds. So Putin, I assure you, whatever territory his armed forces currently control, not an inch is going to be given away. He's going to demand more because he justifiably can say, I can unleash hell tomorrow. Okay? I I can flatten Ukraine on on on demand if if required. He his armed forces have the capability to flatten Ukraine. They've been extremely restrained. They've purposefully chosen a slow war strategy, a frozen conflict strategy because eventually the major victories come on the negotiating table. So you've got to prepare the groundwork for that and that's uh what's going to happen now. So Putin will definitely keep whatever territory the Russians have already taken and he's going to demand more and at the end of the day whenever a negotiated settlement happens it's going to be more territory that Russia will gain. That's how I see things going. Mr. Zalinski obviously is going to say he doesn't accept this and that's going to be a problem. That's going to be a problem not for Mr. Putin but for Mr. Trump. Okay. Uh now will the Russian public be satisfied with five blasts? Um I think they will be satisfied even if Russia gets five blasts because Russia has already but the I I'm pretty sure the Russian public will be expecting a regime change in Ukraine. Zalinsky can't continue. So these are the hard demands Mr. Putin will make on Mr. Trump and the onus is going to be on Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump is going to be be the defensive is going to be on the defensive. is not in a position to go on the offensive and to sweeten the deal, Putin may give some kind of uh you know carrot to Mr. Trump. You get to um you know uh exploit some resources of Ukraine or whatever you know obviously that sort of thing is very enticing for Mr. Trump as we know very well. So that's how I see things going. I see Putin keeping all the territory he has acquired. I see Putin asking for way more territory and asking for way more than simply territory. Denuclear de d de d de d de d de d de d de d de d de d de d dem milmilitarization dnazification regime change and much more. And I think that's how it's going to go. And I don't think the first summit will see an end of the war. Maybe they will need more meetings. They'll need more meetings. the first meeting. I don't think any any viable result will come from that because it's not up to these two gentlemen. There's another factor which is Mr. Zalinski and the fact that the EU supports Mr. Zalinski and Mr. Trump doesn't control the EU that much. So that's going to be a problem. So Mr. Trump is going to be on the defensive and it's going to be a big headache for him as to what to do about Mr. Zalinski. May well we'll see about that. Yeah. All right. Mayang says after AIF F-35 PM statements what more can India do? What's AIF? F-35 I understand. What's AIF? PM statement. Um I am I'm a little confused as to what AIF means. AIF F-35. We know we are not buying the F-35 for sure. That's that's off the table now because uh the US can't be trusted. When you when they support Pakistan, how can we trust them, right? So the F-35 is obviously off the table. We're not purchasing that. We'll most likely go with it looks like possibly the the Sukoy 57. Yeah. Uh as long as there's proper significant transfer of technology and so on. I'm not sure what AIF means. I'm sorry about that. All right. Sorry. Okay. Prashant says per Kissinger being America's friend is dangerous. Being an enemy is fatal. Not so not not quite the case. Not he didn't say being an enemy is fatal. What did he say? Being America's friend is dangerous. Being an ally is fatal. What exactly did Kissinger say? Let's let's let's Google it. I am oldfashioned. I don't do chat GPD. I I do Google. Kissinger. Okay, let's let's uh see Kissinger's statement. Being America's friend, it's ah this is the one. It may be dangerous to be America's enemy, but to be America's friend is fatal. Understand? It may be dangerous to be America's enemy, but to be America's friend is fatal. That's what Mr. the Kissinger said. Okay, so you see being a friend is fatal. Being an enemy is dangerous, no question. But being a friend is fatal. So can you think of America's friends today? NATO nations, EU nations, South Korea, Japan, essentially vasals and countries under American occupation. And Canada couldn't be considered to be an American friend and so on. um enemy. We aren't an enemy of the US. You could say China and Russia are America's enemies. India is from Trump's perspective a prospective vasal, a nation that he would like to add to the ranks of his vasals. That's the thing. That's what he wants. He wants to make India America's friend. And we are refusing to be a friend. And we are also refusing to be an enemy. We are we are on the middle ground. We are saying we are not your enemy. We have no interest in being an enemy of the US. We want to cooperate with you wherever possible. Wherever it is mutually beneficial, we want to cooperate with you and we have been doing that thus far. Right? So we do not have any interest in being your enemy. We will do nothing that will harm your interests. But we will safeguard our interests. And if you insist that we take actions that harm our interests, we will refuse point blank to your face. That's India's stand. We are not bending the knee. We are not caving in. We are not agreeing to become an American vasal. Over here friend means understand that. So we don't want to be in that position. That's fatal. That's fatal. But we won't be your enemy. Nope. We won't do a thing that will hurt you, but we will safeguard our interests. That's where we are. That's the middle ground. Understand? We are keeping our interests safe. We are prioritizing our interests. We are working to um towards our interests and we are staying cautious. We are doing nothing that can genuinely be regarded as something that is adversarial to the US or detrimental to US interests. So I think that's that's the right strategy for India and that's exactly what we're doing. Very good foreign policy. I don't care what so and so people are saying about India's foreign policy. I have no interest in in in who whatever so and so person is saying. This is my perspective. I have some understanding of how things work. So yeah, Bradley says, "Could Trump use the Kashmir issue to sanction India?" How so? How so? What What is it that merits sanctioning? What are we doing in Kashmir? What exactly? There's no justification. See, when you want to sanction a nation, you need some kind of justification. It's some kind of some kind of pretext. Well, what is it that we are doing in Kashmir that would justify any any any form of sanctions? There's nothing they can find. That's the problem they're facing, right? Um, so yeah, they they can't really, of course, if they want to do it, then they can make any kind of pretext, any kind of justification, but we are not there yet in that relationship where they will start sanctioning us. See in the past the US sanctioned India when we tested nuclear weapons. We are a sovereign nation. We have the right to do whatever we wish that is in line with our perception of our national security, national interests and that's what we did. Prime Minister Waj ordered the testing of nuclear weapons and we tested them and as a consequence the Americans imposed sanctions on India that you cannot do such things. You cannot dare become a nuclear power. Well we are one now. Deal with it. So they imposed sanctions on India and at that time the USSR had just uh disintegrated. So the Americans arm twisted Russia into not selling not transferring cryogenic rocket engine technology to India. So India had to work another decade to develop the technology inhouse but we did that. So if they really want to sanction India they'll find any pretext. But I don't see Kashmir being that pretext. A board soul still says will Trump make statements over Kashmir now it's possible he may Trump Trump may try to needle India in a multiplicity of ways and one of those could be possibly making statements over Kashmir I mean he's definitely cozying up with Pakistan he is getting Pakistan in bed with him right Aim Munir the the the military whatever he is dictator of Pakistan he I think he's currently on a on a second visit to the US in like two three months. So he's being given the red carpet treatment by the Trump regime and if they're in bed with Pakistan they may they may make statements over Kashmir. Well, we'll see about that. Yes. Nikil Shvastav says if the US and India start opposing each other, how will India carry out its ambitions in AI, GPUs, LLM, etc. Will we miss the bus? Yep, it's a good question. So look, India isn't opposing the US, but India is opposing US attempts to vasalize India and that is a huge affront to Mr. Trump. How dare you? How dare you? You need to bend the knee. You need to be super differential to me in the sort of thing. Uh so the US is opposing India. We aren't opposing the US. Okay. So let's say the US opposes India and and Trump is super super upset with India, super pissed off with India, let's say. And let's say he imposes restrictions on exports of of semiconductor products to India. The kind of restrictions he has imposed on China for example. Let's say he does that. What does India do then? That's that would place India put India in in a in a in a spot definitely it will be bad for India. What do we do then? So then we will have to wait until our own semiconductor mission becomes a little more mature and starts producing chips of of of that are more powerful. Right now we are producing a certain class of chips. It's just begun. But not bad. Not bad. We have at least taken the initial steps in the right direction. So maybe we may have to dep to to either wait for a decade until we start producing chips of that caliber or maybe we'll have to import something from China if China is willing to do that. Will China be willing to do do that? We'll have to see. So you see this is what happens when you are technologically not sovereign enough. When you depend on other nations for critical technologies. So the so nations like the US will definitely seek to leverage that. So will we miss the bus? I don't think we'll entirely miss the bus. See what the government can do is whatever GPUs etc do exist in the country they can be uh stockpiled and given only to uh research efforts that are critical in nature that sort of thing. So you know rationing and stuff and we may still be able to produce uh good enough AIS and so on. We are working towards that direction right now but it will certainly hamper uh our plans. So this is what happens when you're technologically not sovereign. So we are now beginning to take the steps in the right direction towards becoming fully sovereign in in in the field of semiconductors and and um quantum computing and all of that. So yeah it's going to be a tough road ahead. Like I said, India is going to have to swallow 20 years of pain and this could be one one of one of those things. We will see. The government of India will have to come up with creative solutions, I suppose, if if this sort of thing happens, if the US imposes restrictions on India. Amisha says, "No questions, just want you to know you're the best." Thank you so much, ma'am. Thank you so much. Very kind of you. Thank you. Go says, "Can India stop all trade with the US? Is it practically possible?" Look, anything is practically possible, but is is it is it something we want to do? You see, the US is the world's largest market, the largest consumer market. Their population is what 330 or so million people, give or take something. But their purchasing power is is second to none. It's it's number one in the world. So, the largest market that we can export to is the US. And because of that, it's it's something we would definitely not want to do stopping trade with them. then we would have to look for alternative markets or we have to we for our goods see our ambition is to become a major manufacturing power right right now the world is seeking to diversify from China so which nation can replace China as the major manufacturer it's only India obviously because of the scale that that we have the huge population the huge resources the huge size of of the nation and so on so forth so we have to become a manufacturing power But let but if if we are in a situation where we can't export to the US if we can't if we are not doing any trade with the US then where do we export to all the goods we are manufacturing then you can have alternative markets like the EU the European Union which is not a bad alternative it's not as big as the US overall the EU is there so we could potentially think of the EU but that won't be the same as the US market and another alternative is China. Well, is China an import dependent market? Absolutely not. They're an export dependent market. They are the world's largest manufacturer currently. Why would they need to import anything? So, China is out of the question. So then what do we do with all the manufacturing if we are setting up manufacturing? We'll have to then depend on internal consumption, domestic consumption. But for that you need uh purchasing power and whatnot which kind of we don't have right now. So you know so that's why it's best to not stop trade with the US find some kind of negotiated uh deal some kind of agreement with the US whatever tariffs are mutually acceptable or whatever so I think the negotiations will continue and eventually hopefully we we arrive at some kind of trade deal with the US which which makes sense which is hopefully mutually beneficial. Govin says, "Can Russia afford to open multiple fronts with uh Finland and Poland?" I don't think Russia can afford to do that. It makes no sense to fight so many multiple enemies at the same time. That's a mistake many um leaders have done in the past. Napoleon, he sought to fight everybody at the same time. Everyone's my enemy. I I'll fight everybody at the same time. What happened? Elba. Elba is what happened. Look it up. Abel was I ear I saw Elba. Elba. The island of Elba. And then St. Helena and so on. So Napoleon, well, you see what happened to him. Another example is the great painter himself, the painter, the Austrian painter. So the Austrian painter, he also did something similar, trying to fight everybody at the same time. You're fighting the allies, you're fighting the UK, you're fighting the Americans. then you decide to start operation Barbarosa and start start a fight with Stalin as well. I mean how many people can you fight at the same time? You can't it's not a good it's not a good idea. So I would say Russia cannot afford to open multiple fronts with at the same time with Finland and Poland. They have to deal with Ukraine. Ukraine is a proxy war. They are fighting the entirety of NATO by proxy essentially. It doesn't make sense for them to open multiple fronts. So no answer is no. Right. Um Govin says perfect time for Thai for China to take Taiwan. I am not sure about that. Um the US is too powerful and even if China somehow does take Taiwan which is a possibility they will take possession of a destroyed burnt out island with no nothing of real value. That's what will happen. That's guaranteed. So what's the point then? See, the the objective of conquest is not to conquer a wasteland. The objective of conquest is to conquer something of value, right? Otherwise, it's a hollow victory. It's not really a victory. So, I'm not sure if it's the perfect time for China to take Taiwan. I don't think so. Not yet. Not yet. MK says, "Why is India focusing on chip fabs but not developing EUV lithography and EDA tools risking import bans like the US imposed on China?" Yeah, we do need to focus on lithography photo lithography machines like what ASML has. The Chinese are are developing those machines that that technology. Um what's EDA tools? I have to look into that. What what are EDA tools? EDA tools, electronic design automation tools, software suites used by engineers to design, analyze and verify electronic systems and circuits. Yep. All of this is India needs to definitely develop all of this photo lithography. What is EUV lithography? EU V E U V lithography ultra extreme ultra ultraviolet lithography is is a form of photoiththography obviously because ultraviolet yeah so it's something India needs to do you can't take shortcuts you have to develop the entire suite of technologies at the same time which complement each other uh I am not sure is India not what is India doing is India developing let's let's Google this together. Is India is India developing developing lithography technology? India is working to it's not currently developing lithography technology itself. The country is focused on attracting foreign investment collaborating with the canon. Well well that's a problem. That's definitely a problem. So yeah, I mean that that's that's not enough. That's not enough. I I hope somebody in the government wakes up and see and understands this that all of this needs to be done. It's not enough to just have chip fabs. You need to develop these these technologies at home. Only then are you genuinely uh self-sufficient and technologically sovereign. So I don't know why it's not being done but it does need to be done and hopefully somebody here listens and hears this hopefully. Rohan Sunija says do you think that recent unemployment and job crisis in EU is directly connected to the USA as the US is de-industrializing Europe through various means. Look, what you have seen in Europe in recent times is that their economy isn't doing well in the EU nations, right? Germany was in recession. Um, I'm not sure what the economy is like in Germany right now. I've not looked at it, but yeah, the economy isn't doing well. And that causes all kinds of problems. Uh, unemployment, job crisis, same thing. Yeah. Um and the question is why is so so why is the European economy not doing well? So see the European economy is dependent on Germany and France. Germany especially Germany is the engine the engine that drives the European economy. Germany is a manufacturing power right now. What do you need to have a massive industrial base and sustain that and do well? You need cheap energy. You need a ready supply of cheap energy. That's what powers an economy because all work requires energy. All work requires energy. Please remain remember this. Now Germany was importing cheap natural gas from Russia, wasn't it? Then what happened? Nordstream was blown up, the Nordstream 2 pipeline and u the flow of gas ended and Germany then started doing poorly and it went into a recession. So the US essentially has has ensured that this cheap energy that was flowing into Europe from Russia which has plentiful supplies of energy that cheap supply of gas is no longer available. Right? So that's one of the primary factors that has led to all the problems that we are seeing in Europe. So you could say that Europe is kind of being de-industrialized right now through various means. Who's behind that? It looks like maybe the US could be behind that possibly. You could you could put it that way. Possibly. Yes. Sergeant Skylin says, "Well, this should prove that our country is sovereign." No question about it. No question. What we are facing right now from the US, it shows, it proves that our country is sovereign. Only sovereign countries face these problems. If you are a vasal, you will not face these problems. You will not be treated like this because you're already well, you know, you're taken care of. So yes, this proves that India is a sovereign nation. It's a sovereign country. And I would like to commend the government of India for standing up for India and taking really tough decisions. Geopolitical Dubai says full support sir. Well, thank you so much sir. Thank you. Ji Parma Parmar says a Banglad terrorist was found in Mizam. Park mischief. Project K I would say. Project K is cookie land for Christ. It's a it's a project that was started by the Biden regime and I suppose it's still continuing. And one of the things the Biden regime did was a regime change operation successful in Bangladesh and they ousted the democratically elected prime minister Shikhasina and they've put in a puppet government which is which is a dictatorship essentially it's a military dictatorship right and ever since that happened Bangladesh essentially became East Pakistan and there's a significant amount of synergy now between east and west Pakistan so I had predicted at that time that we should expect a an uptick in problems emanating from Bangladesh you know anti-India elements terrorists all of that so if a Bangla terrorist was found in Mizoram that's not surprising at all not surprising at all because uh Misoram is one of the pieces in the puzzle when it comes to project K project K is this project to create an artificial Christian cookie nation out of Misoram parts of Manipur parts of Bangladesh and parts of Burma and this is this is a project that is being uh puppeteered from across from the other side of the planet. So I would not say it's park mischief. It's mischief at a bigger scale way bigger scale than Pakistan. Ankita says Mr. Netanyahu has offered to give tips to Mr. Modi on how to deal with Mr. Trump. Should this be considered seriously? I don't think Mr. Modi needs anybody's tips on how to deal with somebody. I think Mr. Modi can give tips to whoever it is. Really? I Let's Let's Google this. Has Nathan Yahoo offered to give tips to Mr. Modi? Let's see. Nathan Yu Modi, do we have any will advise Prime Minister Modi on how to deal with Trump? Uh says Israel Prime Minister Netanyahu. He's offered to help India in dealing with 50% tariffs imposed by the US. um and he has called the basis of the US India relationship very solid and urg urged them to resolve whatever issues exist. Can give Modi some advice. Well well what can we say? What can we say? There is a special relationship that exists between Israel and the United States. So one could say that Mr. Netanyahu would know how to let's say handle Mr. Trump. Okay, that's all I'll say about this. Uh so yeah, Mr. Netanyahu definitely will know how to handle Mr. Trump because he would have certain forms of leverage, let's say, but we don't have those forms of leverage. So, it's a I would say it's a very nice kind offer, a friendly offer, but uh I would say it's it's kind of a half joking offer most likely. Arun Mr. says, "Do you see China or Russia taking offensive measures against the US say like attack attacking their territorial sovereignty and so on?" No, I don't see that happening. No, that is suicidal. Not going to happen anytime soon. Jadi Parmar says well I'm doing hope I'm I'm doing well sir how are you I hope you're doing well as well uh so Munir is giving new threats to India aim anti-India protest in New York by immigrants immigrants well the US finally has its mask off moment is the war coming should India do next okay so so the US is is unhappy with India see India has refused to bend the knee to cave in to kiss the ring and so on. India has refused to vasalize itself and become a US vasal and that has greatly upset Mr. Trump and hurt his his feelings. So Mr. Trump is using Pakistan as a pressure point and obviously Mr. Trump is heavily invested in Pakistan. If you see my geo strategy videos you will know how deeply Mr. Trump is involved in Pakistan invested personally. So Mr. Moody is is Mr. Trump's blue-eyed boy right now. Yeah, a favorite of Mr. Trump. I mean he's been invited to the US second time in like two three months. So Mr. Mun is being given the red carpet treatment and as such Mr. Mun is feeling all emboldened. Yes, I can make strong statements. I can defeat India verbally. So he's making issuing statements like if India builds a dam in in Kashmir then we will wait for the dam to be built and then we will uh what hit it with missiles 10 missiles or something. That's what I heard that he said. Um and if there are anti-India protests in New York, well those are obviously done with the approval of the of the US uh government obviously. So the US finally has its maskoff moment like I've said look the US seeks to contain India. The US seeks to ensure that India doesn't become the next China in the next 20 years. Right? That's always been their objective and they've always taken actions um along those lines. all the subnational diplomacy and whatever they're doing project K the regime change operations in east and west Pakistan all of that stuff it's all aimed at towards containing India right so the mask of well I've always seen through the mask but now I'm glad the rest of India is seeing it because of Mr. Trump's uh activities, let's say. Yeah. So, is a war coming? No, there's no war coming. The US doesn't want war. They know Pakistan can't win can't win a war against India. The US won't go to war with India. What's the what's the need for that? What's the reason? No reason for that. But they can use Pakistan possibly to to try and create problems with India. But Pakistan obviously isn't in in any shape to to create real problems for India. If there's a full-fledged war, if like if for example operation sindur had gone on for another 3 days, Pakistan would have been in ruins. Possibly possibly we had already crossed their their so-called nuclear red lines very badly. We had crossed the nuclear red lines. So their nuclear threat, their nuclear bluff is gone. It's called right. So Pakistan's nuclear bluff won't work. We have crossed their red lines massively during operation synindor. So I don't see a war coming with Pakistan. If a war does happen with Pakistan, Pakistan will be in ruins. It will be a smoldering set of ruins. Right? So a war isn't coming. And if it comes, we'll win. What should India do next? Stay calm. Carry on. Okay? That's what India has to do. Whatever pain comes our way from the US, swallow it. Don't don't respond in an immature manner. Stay mature, stay calm, carry on. It's a 20-year slog. It's a 20-year marathon for us. We have to build our economy. Once we are at a $15 trillion mark, $20 trillion mark, we're going to be a whole different beast. We have to reach there somehow anyhow the next 20 years. That's that's the real work we have to do. That's what India needs to do next. One step at a time. We are climbing Mount Everest. We are now at base camp and we have to start the climb. So you don't look up, you look in front of you. One step, one step, one step, one, one foot in front of the other and keep going. That's what India has to do for the next 20 years. Mr. Strange says why this late announcement by the Indian Air Force of Pakistani jets being downed. So the announcement was made yesterday that India uh destroyed five Pakistani fighter jets in the air using the S400 system. Yes. And we also destroyed several F-16s on the ground. We also destroyed Pakistani Awax aircraft and and so on. So this was announced yesterday. Why wasn't this announced uh once operation Synindur went into a state of a pause May 10th? Why not then? See, India was being nice to Mr. Trump. It was a friendly gesture towards Mr. Trump. This would have embarrassed Mr. Trump that his assets essentially were destroyed. US F-16s, possibly US personnel who were babysitting those F-16s. It's it's embarrassing for the US for a Russian system operated by India to destroy American assets. It's embarrassing. It shows that Russian systems are superior to US systems. So this was a friendly gesture towards Mr. Trump considering the fact that India and the US have a good relationship and the two leaders Mr. Modi and Mr. Trump are on good terms. A friendly gesture towards Mr. from and what did Mr. Trump give us in return? Everything we have seen. So now that the gloves are off and the relationship is is in the rocks, we might as well announce it. So that kind of is what happened, right? Okay. Anikit Idate says, are we living in a world with competent reader competent leaders? Modi India rising India Putin USSR um Putin USSR to Russia Netanyahu Netanyahu Xiinping Kavir Mle my comment we have pretty competent leaders right now uh who are the leaders I see as competent but that would be controversial well so be it uh Mr. Modi Mr. Putin Mr. Xiinping definitely very competent leaders. I would say even Mr. Netanyahu is a very competent leader. He's facing all kinds of domestic troubles but that's a whole different story. But overall he is a pretty competent leader. No question. Khavier Mille is doing a good job in Argentina. He has shored up the Argentine economy. Um yeah that's what I can think of. Uh in the EU I think Mr. Mong Mr. Mong is a pretty competent leader himself. No question about that. He's doing a pretty good job overall of of uh overall of of uh marshalling his nation through these troubled times. So we are indeed living in a in a world with pretty competent leaders. And the top three I would say are Mr. Modi, Mr. Shei and Mr. Putin. I would say Mr. Putin who has been in power since what ever since Mr. Yelen stepped down. Well, he is he's has the longest track record. very solid very solid track record and uh if he if when Mr. Putin eventually steps down because of advancing age when he eventually does that whenever it is if he gets the transition transition of power right and he gives power to the right leader somebody as as competent as him then history will regard Mr. Putin will remember Mr. Putin as Putin the great. So yeah definitely one of the great leaders that Russia has produced and Mr. Modi probably India's greatest prime minister thus far since 47. Mr. Xinping is the current emperor of China. I think he's also solid very solid very competent from from his nation's perspective. So yeah we are living in an era of pretty solid robustly competent world leaders. Siddhant VMA says chchhatchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchions destroyed many Russian tanks via guerrillaa tactics. Chchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchens zassians are non-indo-uropean. How did chachchna become integrated into the Russian federation despite historical conflicts and how did they resist? Is the chchen language a non-indo-uropean language? The sarcasians as far as I know are indo-uropeans. In English I'm not sure. Chachchans, Dagistanis. Let's see if Chichchan is an Indo-Uropean language. I am not an expert on the Chchnian language. Let's see Chichchan language. What language family does it fall under is the question. Let's see. Wikipedia first of all. It's a northeast Caucasian language uh or Caspian languages. Uh uh what language family is this? It's one of the world's primary language families. You are right, sir. Chchan. The Chchan language is a non-indo-uropean language. Fascinating. What about the Ingusettian language? Ingushetia language. English. English language. Well, what language family does it belong to? Northeast Caucasian. Wow, you are absolutely right. Now, let's let's see. Okay, let us see the Sarcasian language. Um, you are utterly correct. You're utterly correct. Even this is a non-Indo-European language. Fascinating. Fascinating. Right. You're right. So, you're utterly right. Cheschna, the Chchan language, the English language, and the Sarcastan language. These are non-indouropean languages, which means that the these peoples, these ethnicities are non-indouropean. They're not part of our our our ethnicity, broader ethnicity, the Indo-Uropean ethnicity. They're not. So, so does that mean that Chuchchnik should not be part of the Russian Federation? What about the Yakut people? What about the Tuven people? What about the Tatar people? Even these peoples are non-indouropeuropean people but they are part of the Russian Federation right and they they've also had I mean the Tatars have had historical conflicts with the Russians 18th 19th century oh terrific historical conflicts with the Russians the Tatars but they are part of the Russian Federation and you know what they say in Russia scratch a Russian you'll find a Tatar inside that sort of thing because they're all intermixed um that sort of thing. So you see Russia is a multi-thnic country. If you go to the far east of Russia, you will see people who look like Mongols essentially, right? The Tuan people, the the the people who even Mongols, you even have ethnic Mongols in Russia. Um Russia even has a completely Buddhist part of Russia and so on. So um so Russia has is that sort of a nation. It's a multi-thnic nation, multicultural nation. Islam is one of the primary religions. Buddhism is also not insignificant in Russia. Um, and obviously Orthodox Christianity is there. So, excuse me. So, how did Chachchna become integrated into the Russian Federation? Well, by conquest. By conquest. Russia conquered all these territories. It was by conquest and obviously there was there was resistance and like you say in the 1990s there were two chuchchan wars and Cheschna won the first chachchan war. They became essentially independent for a while and there was a huge setback for Russia under the leadership under the visionary leadership of Shri Boris Yelen. Yeah. Terrible. Yelin messed up and then Putin comes to power and Putin straight away goes back to war with with the Chachchans and he wins the second Chichchan war. He ensured that they won and that's how Chachchna was reintegrated into Russia and then then you have the Kadov family which comes into the picture and so on. You can look it up the Kadro family. Currently uh who's the leader of Chachchna? The king of Cheschna it is Mr. Kad Raman Kadirov. But the original king of Chachchna was uh his his his father Ahmed Kadov was Kadirov. What was his name? I think it was Ahmad Kadirov. Uh let's see Kadrov. Oops. Kadov. Let's see. So Ramzan Kaderov's dad was was Ahmmed Kadirov. That's right. and he was assassinated with via a um it was a bomb that killed him. Anyhow, long story. So, so Cheschna was integrated by force into Russia. MK says, "Why is Israel cooperating with Turkey and Azarbaijan against Armenia and what are its objectives and interests in doing so?" Well, excellent question. I have obviously spoken about this in the past in great detail but I'm very happy to say to explain again. So let's go let's go to the map first of all because the map explains a lot. So let's take a look at this region that we talking about. Okay, we're talking about Azarbaijan, Armenia. Here we have Azarbaijan and Armenia. To the left of your screen you have Armenia, this nation here and to the right you have Azarbaijan. Historically all of Azarbaijan was part of the kingdom of Armenia historically but that's old history doesn't matter now. So Armenia is sandwiched between Azarbaijan and Turkier and Turkey. To the south of Armenia you have an Indo-Uropean nation which is Iran. Now if you look at Iran the whole matter actually revolves around Iran whether you realize or not. See, Iran, Persia, Iran is a nation that has lots of enemies. Uh, ever since 1967, Iran has said that uh, Israel doesn't deserve the right to exist. So, obviously, Israel takes it very seriously and they consider Iran to be their primary adversary in the region. And we know what happened recently, right? The war between Iran and Israel. So if you look at Iran, about 50% of Iran's population is non-persian. Only half of Iran's population is actually ethnically Persian. If you go to Iran, you will see lots of people who look almost European because they they were brought in from regions like Chichchna and other and other Turk parts of Central Asia into Iran during a period when Iran was under Turk occupation just like India was under Turk occupation. So Iran was ruled by Turks for a long period of history and they brought in all these foreigners into Iran and settled them into Iran. So that's why about half of Iran's population is nonpersian. So if we go to the northwest of of Iran, okay, places like Tabaris, Tories, etc. Uh you will find that this region is called the east Azarbaijan province of Iran. And the people who live in this region are ethnically Azaris, Azarbaijanis. Okay. So the the logic is this. If Israel supports Azarbaijan in its war in its conflict against Armenia, then they will get favor from the Azarbaijani population of Iran as well, which means that they can spy in Iran and could possibly potentially cause problems for Iran. So that should be the logic that seems to be the logic that uh is driving the Israeli cooperation with Azarbaijan and obviously Azarbaian is supported by Turkey. So that's why Israel is cooperating with Turkey and Azarbaijan in this matter against Armenia that they will tell Armenia nothing personal but we have this thing with Iran and we need to have the Iranian Azaris on our side. Okay. Hopefully that that explains the way things are, why things are the way they are. Rishi Verma says, "Big fan." Well, thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Uh the question is, how can India be so strong that no neighbor dares to mess with it through military power, through economic might or another strategy? Everything boils down to the economy. See if you want to be a massive military power you need a lot of money for that right which means that your economy needs to be massive enough to sustain a massive military so without a powerful economy you can't become a powerful military power unless you pour your entire economic might into your military matters which Shri Chingish Khan did essentially back in the day because entire nation was mobilized mobilized into the the the the military of of of Mongolia. That's that's an extreme example. We're not talking about that here. We're talking about India. We are not that sort of a nation. So for India to be super powerful militarily, see if you want no no neighbor to be able to to to dare to mess with you, you need a super powerful military. No question. But for that to happen, we need a super powerful economy. And not just a super powerful economy, we need to be technologically advanced as well. So that we are completely self-sufficient in military matters in arms, ammunition, all of that. Drones, whether it's drones, whether it is missiles, whether it is jet engines, whether it's fighter planes, submarines, nuclear submarines, warships, whatever you can imagine, satellites, lasers, all of that needs to be manufactured inhouse. So we need to be technologically advanced as well. So if we want India to be so strong that no neighbor or anybody else dares to mess with us, we have to first be a massive economy. Secondly, we have to be technologically advanced at the cutting edge of technology and that will make our military so powerful nobody will dare mess with us. Okay. Abishek says why the US did not stop proxies for China did not prop proxies for China like Pakistan. Why did the US not prop pro proxies for China like Pakistan? The US is pro propping up Pakistan. See Pakistan is is a mercenary nation. They will get into bed with whoever is willing to throw some cash at them. That's the kind of nation it is sadly. Yes, they used to be our people but they're not now. So the US see Pakistan was created as an artificial temporary nation by the UK to serve the UK's geopolitical interests in the region the subcontinent and the Gulf region that overall big region but the UK by 1956 or 58 became a second rate third rate world power after the failure of their su operation which was in cooperation with the Israelis and the French. So then the US took over the mantle of the overlord of Pakistan. Okay. And they propped up Pakistan. They had various defense agreements with Pakistan. And after Christmas Day 1979, the US started funding Pakistani terrorism essentially and that was that fund those funds were eventually used against India, right? All of that. Um now around 2012 or something the US lost interest in Pakistan temporarily and Pakistan went into bed with China and the US is okay with it. The US was okay with it because no US assets were being exposed to China. But now 2022 onwards the US did a regime change operation in Pakistan ejected Imran Khan brought in Shabbash Sharif and now Pakistan is once again a US vasal but it's kind of cooperating with China also at the same time and the Chinese have sold Pakistan military equipment and so on. So Pakistan is in bed with two partners at the same time essentially but more with the US. The US is the bigger daddy. Uh so that's how it is. That's how it is. So the US is propping up what you can consider a Chinese proxy at the same time. Okay. Survey Shwarma says what country will leave NATO in 30 40 years? Germany, France, UK? Or 30 40 years? I I have no idea what will happen. Maybe we will have we have no idea what's going to happen in 30 40 years. It's it's too far away for us to inv Mars by 2030 in in 30 years 40 years. So today 2025 30 years is what 20 55 the world will be a whole different place. We will have flying cars in 20 255. We may have extraterrestrials on earth by 2035. No idea. But what nations could leave NATO in the next 10 years? I think no nation will leave NATO in the next 10 years. a situation where nations leave NATO will only happen if the US is no longer the primary sup primary power in the world. Well, that would mean the decline and and and end of the US empire. Only then will we will you have nations leaving NATO. So I don't see that happening at least in the next 10 years. 30 40 years God knows no idea. Okay. Solo Leveling says if India purchases purchases the Sukoy 57 or S500 given the reaction to the S400 purchase do you think this move may destroy any remaining bipartisan goodwill towards India? Well, if we have to purchase something for the sake of our national security, we should not be concerned with whether we will affect goodwill towards us in a in a certain country. Of course, that certain country is very important. No question. So, look, now it's clear. Let's let's assess the situation right now. It is clear that the that India has lost whatever trust it had towards the US defense establishment towards the US government overall the Trump regime right whatever Trump whatever uh trust existed has evaporated because you can see that the Pakistani military is is is showing a lot of synergy with the US military right now the aim is yesterday he was meeting with American generals and all so there's a lot of synergy between the two militaries Right. And we know that the Pentagon has always favored Pakistan. So the whatever trust had been built up over the last 10 years or so, 11 years that has evaporated. So India is not going to purchase any more American defense equipment. No F-35s or whatever. But we do need fifth generation fighter planes as a stop gap measure until let's say 2035 when we will have a certain number of Indian-made fifth generation fighter planes. So for we have a period of 10 years that we need to fill. We need a certain number of fifth generation fighter planes for the period. So what options do we have? The Rafal is a 4.5 generation fighter plane. We need something better than that because China may be selling their their fifth generation fighter planes to Pakistan. Possibly that may happen. So we need something. So if it's not the F-35, what options do we have? It's either the Rafal which is not fifth generation or the SOA 57. Now people will say that the SOA 57 is not as good as the F35. I don't care. If we get a full transfer of technology or even a decent transfer of technology, it'll help us tremendously and it's not a bad aircraft. So most likely India will go ahead and purchase the Suki 57 and the F S F S F S F S F S F S F S F S F S F S F500 most likely is a tremendously powerful missile defense system even better than the S S400. So if if it makes sense for us, we should purchase that as well. Um, look, the attitude and approach of the US is already that of containment towards India. Containment. I don't care what they say. I don't care what their politicians say. Oh, we have goodwill towards India. We like India. We would like good relations with India. Blah, blah, blah. Words, words, words. But what are their actions? Look at their actions. Their diplomats, they engage in subnational diplomacy in India. They're trying to create fissures and divisions within India. Their embassy props up anti-India YouTubers. That's one. Secondly, they they have carried out two regime change operations in our periphery, East and West Pakistan. That is an anti-India move. Third, their running project K Cookand for Christ. So if you look at their actions, their actions are those of containing India. That their actions are detrimental to our interests. I don't I don't care what they say verbally. That that so-called goodwill, bipartisan goodwill is only verbal goodwill. Their actions are all anti-Indian. Now look at Trump and the tariffs. So I think we should stop worrying about goodwill or the lack of it and do whatever is best for our interests. All right. Okay. Premier League says, "Hello, Sar." Well, hello Sar. You've defined what the deep state, what the US deep state is, but you've never named any members of the deep state. Which people would you suspect are members of the deep state? Well, if I knew, I would say would that I could that I could. If I knew, I would name them, but I don't know who they are. I don't know who they are. I have no idea. Look, okay, let's once again try to redefine what the US deep state is. Um the US deep state if it does exist if it does exist would be an extra constitutional extra democratic extragovernmental power center that controls all the levers of power in the US if it does exist and some of it may not be extra governmental some of it may be in the government maybe it's half in the government half outside so some of it would be so it would be a small number of people who have all the power. So for example, you know that the US Federal Reserve Bank which is the bank that essentially owns the US essentially essentially well that bank who are its shareholders who are the people who own the bank that is a secret now if you ask Google if you ask your chat GPD or whatever they'll say no it's not the case the shareholders are other banks and so on so forth they will give you a roundabout story which will never give you the answer. The truth is that it's hidden. The US Federal Reserve Bank is a privatelyowned entity. Who are the people who own it? Can you imagine the bank the national bank of a country is a privately owned entity? It should be run by it should be owned by the government but it's not. So clearly somebody owns it or some set of people own the bank. Who are they? We don't know. That's why I say I don't know. You understand? And obviously there are people who work for the deep state. The richest people of the world that we know of will probably be the poorest people in the deep state. Uh that sort of thing. So you know I can't answer the question because I don't have the answers. But clearly something like this does exist. I think it's it's pretty clear to everybody by now. The US is is just an autotocracy masquerading as a democracy. The US president really doesn't really have all the power. The US president himself serves somebody. There is this song by Bob Dylan. Bob Dylan. What is it called? You may be the devil or you may be the Lord, but you've got to you've got to serve somebody or something like that. Yeah. So, you've got to serve somebody. So, even the US president serves serves somebody. So, that's why I I don't really know who those members are, right? I hope I explained clearly why we don't know who those people are. Okay. Arun says, "How is it that Iran which despite so Iran despite being heavily sanctioned has advanced drones, cheap and advanced roads, metros and even indigenous supercars and they have twice the GDP per capita income than India. Okay. So their GDP per capita is twice that of India which is not a huge difference. But Iran is heavily sanctioned. They have advanced drones and all that. That's good. We also have advanced drones and so on. That's fine. But look at the roads in Iran. Beautiful clean roads, beautiful clean cities, all of that. And look at the roads in India in in the major cities in India. Why is it like that? That's a question we have to ask ourselves. Why? Why Iran despite being heavily sanctioned and facing all these trouble troubles has such so much better living standards than India? In India, the situation is horrible, abysmal. Why? The problem is corruption. Allegedly, it is alleged that India's number one problem is allegedly corruption which allegedly exists all across the spectrum allegedly of the Indian governance machinery allegedly. That's the problem. So we have all the money in the world. That's not alleged. That's true. India has a gigantic economy. The Indian government has access to access to enormous amounts of resources. But how are the resources being used? Where are the resources going actually? Right? I think everybody can see what's happening but you allegedly can't dare to speak up. So that's the major problem in India. So my question is where is India's war on corruption? Corruption allegedly runs the entire country. H the entire system allegedly runs on corruption only. So where is India's war on corruption? When is it going to happen? That is the solution to all of India's problems. Mr. Sid says, "What are your top five fighter jets globally?" The F-22 Raptor is number one as far as I understand. Best fighter plane ever. F-22 Raptor. Okay. What else do we have? F-35. I'm not going to put the F-35 anywhere. Um, we have the Saab Grippen, we have the Euro Fighter Typhoon, we have the Rafal, we have uh the Sukoy series, the Sukoy 30s, the Sukoy 35, Sukoy 57, we have the Chinese J21 and J31. Am I missing something? So, these are some of the fighter planes I can think of right now. We also have older aircraft like the Mirage 2000 and the the F-16s, FA18s. Um, yeah. So, I would say the best of the lot is the F-22 Raptor. The US won't export it to anybody, not even to Israel, apparently. Yeah. Wow. Would you believe that? So, that's obviously I would say is number one. Number two, what could be number two? The the F-16 is a workhorse. It's it's worked very well. But even but yeah, you know how how it what happened in Pakistan. So I would not put the F F16 up there. Um see if you if you want me to give you uh a rating top five, I can only give you a rating of battle tested aircraft. Theoretically, technically which aircraft are better? Anybody can give an opinion. But aircraft that are tested in battle, battle tested aircraft, which are these F-22, I'm not sure, but I think F22 is still number one. Um, which aircraft have seen action and and they've come out on top? Mig 21, I don't know about Mig 21. Um, the Rafals have done pretty well in contested airspace to some extent. uh the Sukoy 30 MKI or Sukoy 30 I think it's done decently well but it's not I mean we haven't had a large scale war somewhere where where you up where an aircraft can be properly battle tested so I'm not sure I think the F-22 Raptor is up top and maybe the yeah the other I can't really say maybe the soy 30 35 series maybe the Suka 57 also may be Uh, the Rafal is is a definitely a good aircraft, but I'm not sure if it's right at up at the top. And the European fighter planes like the Typhoon and the Grippen, have they ever been battle tested? I don't know. The Chinese aircraft, the the J21 and J31 or whatever those are. JF7, we not we'll not discuss that. That's that's a variant of the MIG Mig 21. So, even the Chinese aircraft aren't battle tested. So it's really hard to give you a a ranking of aircraft. The only correct way of giving a a ranking of aircraft is you can rank aircraft based on their performance in war and battle. And that's something we haven't seen and that's a good thing that we haven't had wars of that scale and magnitude. So I don't know. I would say the F22 is up top and then there's a whole bunch of aircraft that are decent. Um yeah, that's what I can say. I don't really have a top five list. I have a bunch of aircraft that are decent and then this the F22 I think which is the best one. Okay. Wobb says will these tariffs affect the IT sector? What IT employee working in servicing company like in city like Pune is supposed to do to survive looking for next 20 years? Look thus far the the tariffs are not aimed at the IT sector thus far. Okay. Trump hasn't imposed tariffs on the IT sector thus far but it could happen. It could happen. If that happens, then India's IT exports become either less competitive or non-competitive. What could that cause? What effect could that have? So, let's say someday in the coming days, Trump decides to impose hypothetically, let's say hypothetically, 50% tariffs on the Indian IT sector. Hypothetically that would cause tremendous damage to the Indian IT sector because Indian IT Indian IT services exports will become highly less competitive compared to what they used to be. Then what do you do? Then what will Indian IT companies do? They will lay off people. They will lay off employees. And that can be terrible if you are an employee in an IT company. So what do you do? I'm not sure what you can do. If the if there are layoffs, significant layoffs in the IT sector in India, um that can cause a crisis in India. Job crisis. Lots of highly qualified, highly experienced, talented people suddenly having to become jobless. Typically they will first lay off people who are on the bench, right? We know what what a bench is, right? First of all, they'll they'll lay off those who are on the bench and then they will lay off the junior programmers and so on, junior staff. But yeah, that that's bad. It it affects the the the flower of our industry, the youngsters, right? Um so yeah, this is something that could happen. What can I employees working in a servicing company like Pune etc. What can you do to survive? Uh that's that's a tough question. What do you do to survive? Um maybe you can get into freelancing. If you're in freelancing, I suppose if you're working on a on a gig on on a gig basis kind of thing, I don't think there's a tariff on that. So if you can if you can find clients of your own as a freelancer, which is pretty tough itself because if you're working for a company, you don't need to go and hunt for clients, right? The company has clients and you work for them. But if you're a freelancer now, suddenly you're in the face with the prospect of where do I find clients. So that's something you will have to do perhaps. So yeah, it's it's pretty tough. It's it's pretty uncertain times right now. And what I would suggest is that everybody who's in the IT sector needs to take certain precautions. Get your finances in order. Have as much savings as possible. Have options somewhere. Maybe your spouse works in a different industry, different sector, whatever. That's good. That's that's that's a safety net for the family. Um so I think you know bulk up your savings. Uh invest in whatever you can property or I don't I'm not giving advice. I'm not giving any investment advice. But yeah, you need to take whatever precautions um you deem necessary and and whatever is possible. Yeah, because this this could happen. Trump could possibly uh impose tariffs on the IT sector which could affect both nations. But well, Trump is Trump. He could do that. So I hope it doesn't happen and I wish you the best. I I it will be bad for us and it I hope it doesn't happen. Nearby says, how do you see the India US relationship in the future? It will all depend on what happens in the next few months. What do I mean by that? It'll all depend on what happens in the next few months between Mr. Modi, Mr. Putin and Mr. Shei. If Mr. Modi, Mr. Putin, Mr. Shei can get their act together, it will all depend on Mr. Shei actually Mr. Xiinping. But if that happens, if some kind of understanding is reached and some kind of economic grouping is is created then well it's the end of the India US relationship which is something we would not really want because the US is a big market and it's it's we have so many people there. So it will also depend a lot on the attitude and approach of Mr. Trump. So if the if the tariffs start biting very badly at the US public at the American public and if the economy is is hit significantly then Mr. Trump will have to back off because he will otherwise lose popularity but if he backs off then again he will look like a weak president. He is putting himself into a corner but anyhow it will all depend on the approach and attitude of Mr. Trump. if he decides to impose even more tariffs or if he decides that we should go ahead and do some kind of a trade deal with lower tariffs. Hopefully if that happens then the India US relationship will be okay economically but strategically whatever trust was there is gone. So economically so the best case scenario is that Trump backs down. Trump sees some sense and his diplomats and our diplomats they they work something out and we we agree to some kind of a trade deal with with whatever reciprocal tariffs we need to apply on each other that sort of thing and we carry the relationship forward. That's the best case scenario. So it'll be a decent economic relationship in that best case scenario but strategically there's not going to be no trust. Now worst case scenario is that Trump imposes bigger sanctions on India. Then we decouple from the US and then we find some kind of way of u coexisting economically in a beneficial way with Russia and China and other nations who are willing to work with us like Brazil and whoever else. So that's not that of a good situation and that is complete decoupling between India and the US and then the US will try and impose additional pain on India using Pakistan or whatever else. So the best case scenario is a decent relationship economically. The worst case scenario is a complete decoupling and that will be bad in so many ways. The shift room says, would you define Israel's actions in Gaza as genocide? What's the definition of genocide? Let's go and find out. I would say look, let's not define genocide or whatever. uh when a nation faces a massive terrorist attack like what Israel faced in 2023, are they going to respond disproportionately? If the if if Hamas did not want whatever Israel has done to Gaza, then they should not have unleashed a terrorist attack on Israel. Right? Uh after that, what happened? Israel obviously has essentially flattened Gaza to through a certain extent. I suppose there would be significant casualties and so on. It would not have happened if if Hamas had not done what it did, right? A nation does have the right to defend itself. And I will never ever condone terrorism. And why was Hamas in power? Because the people of Gaza voted for Hamas, didn't they? Did they not vote for Hamas? Did the people of Gaza not know that Hamas was storing all kinds of uh uh rockets and whatnot? Did they not know that all these tunnels existed? Did they not did they not participate in in the terrorist attack against Israel? Yeah. So, so I would say that Israel as the nation that was at the receiving end of this horrific terrorist attack reacted disproportionately. See, when you respond, when you retaliate against your adversary, you want the retaliation to be so disproportionate that the adversary will never ever dare to do it again. That's a principle in warfare from time times immemorial. Right? So that's how I see it. That's how I see it. I obviously do not want people to suffer. Nobody should suffer. But then if you don't want to suffer, don't be terrorists is what I would say. And the same applies to Pakistan. Suda Pakistan. Thank you so much. Thank you sir. Pratik says uh is Trump an example of give a man power he will show his true colors compared to his words first used in first and second term. Yeah. Yes. See there are lots of people who are very nice because they are powerless but the moment they gain some kind even a little bit of power you you see their true colors. So you you are right. I would I would answer your question with one word which is yes. Yash says this is not trade war against India. It's a regime change operation either demanded by the deep state or aim in return for for favor for private benefits to tapu you mean Trump for minerals. Well Trump the US would love a regime change in India. They would love for somebody else to come to power in Delhi. They would Mr. Modi is so inconvenient for the US isn't he? He's standing up for He's standing up to the US. He is friends with Mr. Putin. He's going to China. He's going to meet with Mr. Xi and see what can be done there. Mr. Modi is standing up straight. He's not bending down. He's not bowing down. He's not caving in. He is extraordinarily inconvenient for the US. The US would want nothing more than somebody else in the hot seat in Delhi. Right? So um and obviously when Trump imposes tariffs on India there will be certain political dispensations in India who will say that this is a failure of Mr. Modi and I suppose a lot of Indian idiots will believe that because our education system doesn't teach us how to think critically right so they have been made idiots by the education system they are you see our people are the brightest in the world but the education system turns our people into into into fools and idiots so you have to deprogram that anyhow that's a different story um so yeah if you if you have let's say hypothetically politicians or political parties hypothetically in India who are on the deep state payroll and they start this campaign this this uh this narrative campaign that Mr. Modi's foreign policy is failing and so on is a failure and that can be considered as a regime change operation. Yes, you're laying the groundwork in the long run on the long run for a regime change operation. Uh so you are right from that perspective. You're right. Vijay Viki says Aim Munir is in the US at a talk in Florida. He said that when our existence is threatened, we will take half the world's population with us. What are your thoughts? Joke. Aim does not control those nukes. If he controlled those nukes then what was he doing when we crossed his nuclear threshold in in May May 7 8 what 8 9 10 whichever those three three days were what happened we crossed the we crossed the Pakistani nuclear threshold their so-called nuclear red lines we crossed them we on the last day in a space of about 20 minutes we hit what nine Pakistani air bases our jets flying over the Pakistani air bases. What happened to their nuclear threshold? Yeah. So that that bluff has been called and it is almost guaranteed that Pakistan doesn't really have nuclear weapons of its own. Most likely those nuclear weapons are American nuclear warheads. That's how I see it. I have no evidence to back it up. But I have a brain which is a half decent brain at least. So I believe those are American nuclear warheads. So I don't think Aim Munir will has the authorization or or or the power to use those warheads unless he's given a green light from Washington. Sudhindra Desai. Well, thank you so much sir. Thank you. Pratik Vaji, thank you. Susant Badwaj, thank you very much. Very kind of you sir. Thank you. AVM says is it possible that Indian IT companies not innovating is by design and not because of their low risk tolerance to be use of use in times like these. So we are in times like these right now and Indian IT companies we know that they have not innovated. Look first of all we have to understand that we should not overly criticize India's IT companies. We should not be too harsh in our criticism of it of our anti iting because they have transformed India. They have given employment to millions of Indians. They have brought so many Indians out of poverty into the middle class status. They they have transformed the country in the past 30 years. Right? No question about that. Show me any other industry that has that has done that. But it is true that they have failed to innovate. they have simply um stuck to the old uh formula of of labor arbitrage and they have done a good job at that but they have not wanted to innovate. They've not ever tried to develop their own products. Um so is this by design? Well, it's obviously by by design and it's obviously because of low risk tolerance. The question is how can that be of use in times like these? Tell me how it can be of use in times like these. If Trump decides I'm going to impose 50% tariffs or 100% tariffs on India's IT exports to the US, then what what use are they in times like these? What use are they? How will they compete then? But if they had products that the world wanted, if they had created products that the world craved, then those tariffs would not work. You see, if they had created products, you know, there so many softwares and apps that the world uses, things that the world can't live without, right? But our our companies have done none of that. They've produced nothing. They're simply using that old formula of labor arbitrage. So when you are hit with tariffs, there's nothing you can do about it. But when you have innovative products that the world craves, even the tariffs won't work. So yeah, that's the situation. Prashant says, "How to safeguard dams after threats from Munir?" Well, the threats are verbal. We have safeguards. And you see, look, it's it's pretty hard to to safeguard. You can destroy you can damage a dime significantly with even an anti-tank missile. I'm not sure if there's a defense against an anti-tank missile, right? So, it's pretty pretty difficult to safeguard dams from threats. Um I'm sure there are lots of options that the the Indian armed forces have even in these situations. But we have to understand that these threats are verbal threats and all these threats all these possibilities will be taken will have already been taken into account uh during the planning phase and and the creation of the when we are planning the building of dams and all that and the best safeguard is that if you touch our dams we're going to flatten your raindia or whatever that's the best safeguard and we can actually execute that we can actually um you know if that promise is we can actually execute the promise. So that's the deal. ICMBB says what's the story of the Indian Tajakistan base? So we have a or Farhore. What is it? Let's go to Google. Uh Farhour. Let's go to Farhore. Farhore air base. So there is this Farhore air base in Tajakistan. Is it operated by India currently? Not sure. It's not far from Afghanistan. Let's go to map. Yes. So it is alleged that this is an Indian air base. Let's go to the uh satellite images. Park farore whatever you want to call it. And if you zoom out you should be able to see an air base somewhere here. Where is this? There has to be an air base. I have seen that in the past. I'll maybe outside the city possibly. Farcore, Farcore Air Base. Well, so as you can see, it's it's rather hard to discern an air base here, but I remember seeing one here. So, that's one that's one place where India allegedly has an air base. It's on the border with Afghanistan as you can see. As you can see, this is the border with Afghanistan. Do I Okay, that's one. Okay, the other one is AI Air Base, Duchan Bay, Tajakistan. Where is this? Now, this is a proper air base as you can see. And if you zoom out, you will see where it's located. Where is it located? It is in a very different part of of Tajakistan. I So, let's zoom in once again. Do we see any activity? We can see plenty of military-looking aircraft over here. Now, who operates these? These helicopters look like Russianmade helicopters. And what do we have here? We have some kind of fighter planes here. Three fighter planes. And we have hangars and whatnot. Okay. So, it is alleged that India operates two um air bases in in Tajakistan. One is Farhar, one is ai. I'm not sure to what extent this is true or untrue. I'm not sure the government of India has ever uh um clarified the matter. So we don't know but it is said that India has a couple of air bases. I was not able to find one in the in Faror but I'm sure it's hidden somewhere. But yeah, so that's what I can tell you sir. Uh MK says Indians you say that Indians are naive in geopolitics. Which nations people do you consider pragmatic? What have they done to demonstrate pragmatism? See what do I mean by naive in geopolitics? It means that you don't understand how power works you don't understand how international relations work. Most Indians believe that by shouting on on debates you are defeating the enemy and uh so on and you don't most Indians don't understand certain basic principles in geopolitics which uh there's a whole bunch of principles but the thing is this in India you don't teach things okay let me reformulate that how many of you know what what is the Indian national interest. Do you know what the Indian national interest is? If I ask you to define what is India's national interest, will you know that? You don't. If you ask Americans to define that, they will have a pretty good idea of what America's national interests are. If you ask Russians to to define what Russia's national interests are, they'll tell you what those are. And if you if you ask Indians, they will have some opinion, but they will have wildly differing opinions and the opinions very often don't make sense. So there's so much that Indians don't understand and it is not the fault of Indians. It is because we never teach these things. Is the national interest some kind of vague undefined thing or is it something that you can define with precision and clarity? Of course, it is right. And and what's pragmatism? Pragmatism means being realistic. What is pragmatism? It is what was the policy of Shri Vishnak Gupta Chanaka extraordinarily pragmatic. So it's all part of our culture. It's all part of our heritage. But we have completely forgotten everything. How do you demonstrate pragmatism? By sometimes compromising. By not becoming emotional about compromises when a nation makes compromises. They're understanding that there's a difference between the short-term play and the long-term play. There's so much that is is is within the ambit of pragmatism. So, you know, I can't explain all of this or in a in a in a five minute answer, but uh yeah, that's the deal. Anonymous scientist says could not watch latest episodes working on a paper. Well, I wish you the best on your paper, sir. And whenever it's out do let us know. I would be I would be very happy to see what the paper is about. So all the best do well in the paper and it's okay. You can watch the latest episodes whenever you feel like it's all over here. Right. All right. Yash says one way of regime change is to tarnish the image of a leader by using a set of accidents air India economic downturn to den demotivate people and to vote for a deep state selected puppet. Well who could that be? I wonder who could that be? You are right. You can see a regime change operation takes time. Takes time. It's not something that happens overnight. You to create the groundwork for that. You to create a layer of sentiment, multiple layers of sentiment to make this happen. And eventually a few years down the line, you can execute what you're trying to execute. So you to prop up somebody. Let's say you were to prop up Zalinski as Zalinski is a great man. He used to be a comedian, but he's now a great man. So you prop up Zalinsky. You you have pe people your your your media minions write glowing articles about Zalinski. You have your news channels praise Zilinsky and lionize him. And on the other hand, you whoever the current leader is, you write articles, a slew of articles criticizing and critiquing him and and ridiculing him and all that. And overall overall after a period of time if you just continue this people's opinion changes and then it's easy to make something happen. So you're right that's how it's done. PLTP says what country will be rising superpowers of next century. What chat control EU online security act setup UK the excuse me what how chat control EU plus online safety act UK setup similar laws could affect India in the future. I'm not aware of these things. But which country will be a rising superpower of the next century? We are in India obsessed with this term superpower, aren't we? So let me define what I mean by the term superpower. For me, a superpower is a nation that can intervene militarily anywhere on the planet at 60 minutes notice. That's my definition of the term superpower. A nation that can intervene anywhere on the surface of the planet at 60 minutes notice. Intervene militarily. And now the definition will expand into space also. So that's my definition of superpower. So we Indians are obsessed with the term superpower but we don't even know what the definition is. My at least I have a definition that I use. When people use the term superpower in the media or wherever do they know what it means? Do they even have a definition? I'm not sure which country will be the superpower of the next century. I have absolutely no idea. It depends on so many factors, so many variables. I would say that if we get our act right, we could be one of the nations. I mean, typically you only have one or two superpowers. Will the US be a superpower in the next century? I think maybe not. Maybe not. We'll see. So, see the next century is what 75 years ago? 75 years away. That is way too difficult to predict. I would only say this that there is something called the Lindy effect. The Lindy effect says that if something has existed for x amount of time, it will continue to exist for another x amount of time more. If a play, if a movie has been popular for a 100 days, then most likely it will be popular for another 100 days. If a book has been popular for 20 years, then most likely it will continue to to be popular for at least another 20 years. Okay? If a nation has been powerful for 50 years, then most likely it will continue to to be powerful for another 50 years. If a civilization has existed existed for 10,000 years, most likely it will continue to exist for another 10,000 years. So that way if you look at it, I think India should be possibly hope I I hope India is a superpower in the next century. Hopefully this century in the second half of of this century itself. We'll see. Godliness says I live in the west and I have and what I have observed in the past few years still the language wars between the English, the French and the Germans and many more are very relevant. It feels like Europe is very divided in in reality. Of course it is divided. If you have been on the ground in Europe, you will see how proud they are about their languages and their cultural differences. Europe used to be a very insular set of societies. When I was a kid, if you met a French person who spoke English and you tried to speak English with them, they would answer you in in French. I don't speak English. I I they will refuse to speak English because they were proud of being French and they considered English to be an inferior language, an inferior culture. The French and the English have this long-standing thing, right? Thousand years of enmity. So if you live in the west, if you live in Europe especially, there are language and cultural wars between the English, the French and the Germans, the Italians, Italy, the Spanol, the Spanish, even the Dutch to some extent and so much more, right? Um, so it's it's very real. Europe is actually very divided. That's why I call the first and second world wars the European tribal wars. That's what it was. Look at the chaos that led to the first world war and and and the consequences of that. It was all tribal warfare. Europe is indeed very divided in in in reality. So interesting observation that you that you have made and I completely agree with you completely. Anonymous scientist says, "Sorry if it's a silly question. Let's see." No, no, no issues. Um will US policy to bully India change after Trump or is it going to be a new normal for the US? You see what Trump is going to achieve is that this is going to be a new new normal. the damage that Trump is going to make, the damage that Trump is inflicting and will continue to inflict if he doesn't change course immediately that damage will become permanent and later if somebody comes to power somebody else obviously will come to power after him and that even if that person asserts that I'm a friend of India we that that relationship will have gone way beyond retrieval. So as of today the strategic trust that whatever level of strategic trust existed uh between India and the US has evaporated. India doesn't trust the US one bit now strategically one bit and that is not going to change because we have seen the approach and the policy and and and the attitude of the of the defense establishment how warmly they they welcome that aim fellow and how deeply they're synergized with Pakistan there's going to be no trust no matter what happens so economic relations may continue they may even get better after Trump but that strategic trust that Some amount of it was built up over the past couple of decades has evaporated. It's over. Yash says Munir may have informed Tapu which I expect is Trump. Munir may have informed Trump that to realize your personal investments in Baluchasan Baluch protests must stop. You must you need to remove Modi to stop it. I suppose he must have said that. I mean it's a dream come true for Aim in Pakistan. If Mr. Modi is no longer in power right obviously obviously I mean Mr. Modi the kind of actions he has taken against Pakistan how how many Indian leaders have done that the last Indian leader to take any anything like that sort of action was Indra Gandhi Mrs. Indra Gandhi 1971 in which she gave the armed forces the go ahead to bifurcate Pakistan right ever since then no Indian prime minister has taken any harsh action against Pakistan and Mr. Modi has done it right. So the from the Pakistani perspective that that would be a dream come true if if Mr. Modi is not in power in Delhi. So I'm sure Mr. this this fellow Munir must have exhorted his his his boss Mr. Trump please sir sir please sir he would have done that. So I agree with you. Aman Patanya says huge love and support to you for you sir. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. I I I really appreciate that very much so. And you know I I keep reminding myself every day that you know it's a it's a privilege that people want to listen to you. It's a privilege if you are in a position where people want to hear you and listen to you. So I don't ever take it for granted. I'm very thankful very grateful to all of you for your viewership for the fact that you turn up to to ask me questions and and hear me answer them. So thank you so much. I I never ever take it for granted. Feminist Slayer says, "After India cancelled the US deal over GMO seeds, what's what steps can India take to protect its indigenous seeds from GMO contamination and trade risks?" Great question. So, one of the major bones of contention is the that India has refused to uh open our India's market to these American GMO products, agricultural products, dairy products and whatnot. We will not allow this to happen. What steps can India take to protect its indigenous seeds? Well, um see if you go to the US, okay, if you're flying to the US, uh they have some rules that you cannot carry certain products. You cannot carry some seeds and you cannot carry these things whatever and you you to fill up a form and tell them that I'm not carrying anything. Then they'll still check your luggage and if they find something you they'll take some action against you. So I think we will have to tighten our border security border security and and uh security at our ports of entry. All the airports where people come in from come from abroad come to India from abroad. We need to tighten the security ensure that no seeds or GMO products are brought into India. If anything is found we need to be very proactively and vig vigilantly confiscate and destroy that. That sort of thing needs to happen. So wherever we have ports of entry whether they are airports or naval ports or whatever we need to be super vigilant at these ports of entry and ensure that no such products are allowed in and uh when it comes to imports things that our companies are importing from the US or whatever we'll have to be very strict on that as well. So the government will have to come up with a set of procedures to ensure that we are not in a situation where there is contamination from GMOs right. G says, I am moving to Khaledin grad for studies. From a geopolitical view, how do you see its role between Russia and the West evolving over the fi next five or six years? Interesting. Very interesting place you're going to kenrad. So, let me put that on the on the map. Let's check the map. It's an exclave. It's a Russian exclave. Kuningsburg it used to be. And after the second world war, Russia took it over. After the allies destroyed it, the allies flattened Khaledra. Kuringsburg and then Russia took it over and rebuilt it. So this is Khaledrad. It is not connected to the mainland of Russia. You see its neighbors are Lithuania and Poland and to reach Russia you have to go by sea through the Baltic Sea and reach sittersburg or you have to go by air. So that is Kalinindrad and and there have been demands from Poland and other countries that Kalinindrad needs to be demilitarized. Russia should not be allowed to to keep any weapons or or armed forces there that sort of thing and obviously Russia will resist that. So Khalin could come under some kind of pressure from the west but but Russia is powerful enough to withstand that pressure. So politically, diplomatically etc. There's going to be talk of kalinrad. It may be it may increase in the coming years and nations like Poland and various EU and NATO nations allies or or assets of the US may uh may exhort NATO perhaps or the US to take some actions to demilitarize Khalinrad or something or pressure Russia to do that. So Khalinrad is going to be in the news but I expect that Russia is significantly powerful enough to resist any pressure to change the status quo in Kalinrad. So I think the next five six years most likely the place will remain stable and there will be no major issues there. That's how I see it. So all the best for your studies do well. All right. Okay. SRR. Well, thank you very much. They haven't asked the question but thank you so much. Ashish Karan says Prime Minister Modi said we need to be technologically sovereign and asked our tech companies to innovate. Why didn't we do this beforehand? Why do we always play catch-up? Well, you see we have been playing catch-up since 1947. In 1947 when the transfer of power happened from the British to people in India, India was a destroyed economy. Utterly destroyed. And we have slowly been rising from that. We could have risen much faster if we had taken certain steps in the 20th century whatever. So what Mr. Modi inherited was a well economy that was not doing very well. And you know things have changed overall and there are so many problems in India. The one of the major problems is this lack of self-confidence. The the the infamous Indian inferiority complex. Indians feel that westerners people with whiter skin are superior. The moment you are in Indian person is in the presence of a foreigner their their whole attitude approach behavior changes. Yes sir sir we are you are better we are inferior that sort of thing that needs to go away and this is one of the reasons why we have not innovated. Another reason for not innovating is because of alleged corruption and whatnot. So many issues whatever it is it's watered down the bridge. We did not do it. very unfortunate but now we should do it. No, we should do it. And eventually there'll come a there'll come a time in our country where we are no longer playing catch-up when others will will have to start playing catch-up with us. For example, when it comes to missiles, we have the most frightening missiles in the world. We are the we are the best missile producing nation in the world today. Okay. When it comes to air defense systems like the Akash, we have the best battle tested air defense system in the world. There are nations who are playing catch-up with us on these on on these fronts. We have to extend and expand this umbrella to everything else. So we are already in some in some cases at the forefront of technology and that needs to move to other fields. So eventually there there will come a time if we get our things right where we will not be the ones playing catch-up. The rest of the world will be playing catch-up. So that's the that's what that's the challenge. The government of India needs to create the right conditions for this to happen as quickly as possible and that's the challenge that Mr. Modi is faced with and I wish him the best because we would like this to happen. Basin says big fan. Thank you so much sir. Thank you so much. Did you predict the brrics currency will dominate the USD in the next do you p do you do you predict the bricks currency will dominate the US dollar in the next 10 years? If so, how can that impact our stocks? Well, there's no bricks currency right now and in the past there has been some talk of bricks currency but India said no. But now things are different. So will we will we as in will we India ascent to the creation of bricks currency? If that happens, that will be a huge huge challenge to the US and Trump will be super super upset with that and he will impose sanctions on everybody. So if we are in that stage where the relationship between India and the US has gone that far downhill, then we may agree to a bricks currency being created and that could be a significant challenger to the US dollar in 10 years possibly. I am not an expert on the stock market so I have no idea how it will impact stocks. But if the India US relationship goes significantly downhill then I expect the creation of a bricks currency and that bricks currency could in 10 years be a genuine challenger to the US dollar. So let's see how that goes. Animesh Paul says did the US ever try to vaselize China or did they try and fail? Can India learn anything from China along these lines? Love you great. Thank you so much. Thank you. The US had this great dream of vasalizing China. You see the US used Pakistan in the 20th century as an intermediary to start the the channel the the communication channel with Pakist with with China. So they used Pakistan as the intermediary and Nixon and Kissinger communicated to Maadong that you know we would like to have a dialogue and then eventually Kissinger and Nixon reached China Beijing. They met with Mr. Mao they met with Mr. Shuin li and so on. And uh this happened because the US saved China from being nuked by Russia in 1969. The Usuri river clashes when Russia USSR had decided to nuke China. But the US came in the way. So that led to eventually this kind of this they the taunt between the US and China and China decided and the agreement that the the two nations reached was that China would gradually open up its economy to the US and China would start manufacturing uh products for the US slowly gradually that's what happened it continued during the time of then shopping and after then by the time then shopping died the change was very significant so the US hope was that you know if we integrate China into the world's economy and if we make China more prosperous than what it is. At that time China was third world nation. So if we achieve this change in China then that will transform China and China will become a liberal democracy and hopefully a vasal of the US that sort of thing. That was the great dream hope ambition complete failure. So the objective was to kind of vasalize China kind of did not work right. Buu says Makyavei versus Chanaka who's greatest and more relevant. Look Makyavei wrote a book um about how a prince a ruler can can retain power essentially through amoral means. Chanaka wrote a book on how to run an empire. There's no comparison between Makyavi and Chanaka. How to administer, govern an empire, the economy, the taxation, the administration, the espionage, the foreign policy, geopolitics, all of that. Everything you can imagine how how the emperor should comport himself, what his daily routine should be like. Um, all kinds of stuff. I mean, it's so super detailed. Makyavari is nothing compared to Chanaka. Chanak Chanak is the greatest. No question. Raj Lit says if India becomes becomes a dictatorship what the what would be the global impact. While if India becomes a dictatorship and it it is run efficiently it will have a gigantic global impact. India will start behaving like a whole different beast. um decisions will be taken very fast and implemented very fast and uh things that usually took a long time to do would be done very fast very rapidly and if India becomes a dictatorship it means India becomes an empire an imperial kind of system which would be something like what we always had so that the impact would be massive globally India would rise very rapidly as long as the the ruler is is benevolent and is is competent Vishal roars says as is Brazil semi- sovereign well you see if you are a nation that that is in South America you aren't fully sovereign you are under the control of the US in so many ways but Brazil is showing signs of sovereignty because Trump is upset with Brazil and has imposed 50% tariffs which shows that Brazil is standing up for itself at least to some extent so you could say Brazil is se sovereign if you look at the history if you look at the Monroe doctrine and so much more and we will see that no nation in South America is completely sovereign. Aris's manticor said we had ancient protein fiber heavy millets and essential tubers as part of our diet along with wheat and rice. Should we research this to try nutrition-based genetic healing for our future generations? I think we should definitely explore um cereals beyond right and vis what am I say right and what is right and wast right and w rice and wheat so there was something called the green revolution or something in in India in the 19 in the 1900s in the 20th century and India was a nation that was beset with famines because of misgovernance and so so on so the green revolution kind of helped India but what it what the consequences were were was that uh the nation became dependent on just a few strains or breeds of rice and wheat as the primary staple uh cereal. Now we historically had like you rightly say we had various kinds of millets you know joar bajra and so many different varieties of these. These were part of our staple diet and they that gave us so much variety in our diet and those are actually I would say better for your health and for digest for your digestion etc compared to just plain old wheat and rice and they also taste good. So we certainly should bring that back into the mainstream. Right now most people just eat wheat which is roties and rice which is rice, boiled rice mostly, right? But you can have all these other fibers which were part of our traditional diet and that would be really good for our health. Uh would that bring about genetic healing? See one of the problems that Indian people face a lot of the Indian population faces is that it is uh genetically more predisposed towards becoming diabetic because of the two and a half centuries of famines imposed by the British on our ancestors. So I think with good nutrition for multiple generations we can weed that out. I'm sure it can be done. So yeah, we should certainly research our traditional cereals u with the objective of in the long run weeding out these genetic defects. Yash says after July 2024 deep state change strategy made Trump part of deep state of course September 24 world liberty financial created foolish to think that Trump won all swings without blessing. Like I said, I first of all I agree with you and I had said at the time I had said that Trump most likely won't win the presidency. That's what I had said and I also said that if Trump does win the presidency, it means that he has kissed the ring. The kissing the ring is an allegory to mafia movies like the like like The Godfather. In the Godfather, for example, if you to to swear your allegiance to the mafia boss, you have to go down on your knees and you have to kiss the ring that he's wearing on his whatever finger. That's called kissing the ring, which means you're swearing your allegiance to the big boss. So I said that if Trump does win, it means that he would have kissed the ring of the deep state. And that's exactly what's happening in World Liberty Financial. Of course, all of that. If you if you watch my geost strategy episodes, I've gone into great detail as to about Trump's uh personal business empire and its dealings with Pakistan and other countries. He's montecores why are the American food products causing a rise in IQ decline in mental disorders in kids? Why are there people not doing anything about it at all? You see, at some point in time, the US economy became a completely exploitative economy. The pharmaceutical industry became an exploitative industry. the food industry became exploitative. They wanted to hook their consumers onto the products. They wanted to maximize their revenue with by whatever means possible which had the effect that all kinds of processed food stuffs and processed chemicals and whatnot became part of the food chain. And if you I mean if you look at a video of how for example Doritos are manufactured you will see the kind of chemicals and other stuff that goes into it and all of this obviously is not natural. It's going to cause a decline in IQ or an increase in mental disorders increase in obesity increase in cancer increase in god knows what things. The food industry exploits the people of America and they are handin glove with the politicians super corrupt. So that's what's happening. You see why are the people not doing anything at all? Because it is not really a democracy otherwise something would be done. You see you can see the signs and symptoms of this not being a true democracy. It's just masquerading as a democracy. K U Poll says, "Why is India arming Armenia even when our ally excuse me what ally?" Uh, let us not use terms that casually. Even when our ally Israel supports Azarbaian, what are my thoughts on this? First of all, Israel is not our ally. India has no allies. What do we mean by ally? Do you know what the term ally means? A a nation is an ally. If you have a treaty with it, a treaty that explicitly lays out the rules of the alliance, the terms of the alliance and both nations must sign that treaty. That's when you have an alliance and that's when you are an ally. Both nations are allies. We have no allies. Please understand this my dear Indians. This is another example. Somebody asked me that why are Indians? What do you mean by Indians are are are naive when it comes to geopolitics? Well, this is one example. I am not meaning to criticize you. Okay? But this is an example of that. I'm not criticizing you. This is not your fault. We are not taught these things in the education system. So, it's not the fault of our Indian people if they are naive geopolitically. But that's why I am doing what I'm doing. So, please understand what does it mean to be an ally? It means you have a treaty alliance. You have a treaty with both which both countries have signed. then we have no such treaty with anybody. So Israel is not our ally. We have good relations with Israel. We have a lot of convergence of interest with Israel. But we have differences with Israel as well. And I'll not go into those right now. So this is one example. India is arming Armenia. Israel is supporting Azarbaijan. Why are we arming Armenia? Because we don't want this ancient nation with whom first of all we have a very ancient relationship. We don't want this nation to be wiped out from the map of the world. Secondly, if Armenia is wiped out, it strengthens Turkey greatly. And Turkey is an ally of Pakistan, not ally, a friend of Pakistan. Okay? And that will strengthen Pakistan and that will hamper our friends, our friends in Persia, in Iran. It's complicated. Okay. So why is Israel supporting Azarbaijan? because they want to use that to to influence the Azari population in Iran to hopefully from their perspective conduct a regime change operation in in Iran. It's pretty complicated. Pretty complicated. So that's the deal. So you see Iran see India and Israel are on opposing sides in this matter. Are allies generally on opposing sides? No, they're not. Okay. Uh there's clear weaponization of laws and commi feminism to destroy marriage and family system in India. How do we save ourselves from this attack? Lack of pura masculinity makes us sucking sitting ducks etc. Look this is not really a geopolitics question but look you are right there is all this happening and how do we save ourselves from this attack? We have to reform the education system. If we teach the right things to our kids from the very beginning through the education system, nothing like this will work. Nothing like this will work. All this weaponization of all this nonsense, it won't work if our people are properly educated. You understand? You have to teach the right things from the very beginning. From the time a kid is 3 years old all the way to the time they're in college. If you take care of the education properly, nobody can influence them. Nobody can brainwash them. Our education system is so weak. So and itself is the problem and that's why this that's why we have these issues in India. Your own teachers and professors eventually teach you all the wrong things. They influence you in the wrong direction. That's the problem. And our because you are impressionable kids you'll you'll believe them. That's what needs to change people. That's why I keep saying education needs to be reformed. Right. Okay. Okay, we're going to end this soon. Uh, Aries Manticor says the US education system is being exported being exported to the world has been optimized to demonize their own young men. That's right. So on a record scale, the school college dropout rate of young US men is becoming higher and higher. That's true. That's what you can do. The education system is so powerful. In any country, the education system can completely change outcomes for the country completely. It won't happen overnight. It will take 20 years, 30 years, but eventually you can completely transform the whole nature of a country through the education system. So the US is a nation that's that's misandric today. Men are secondass citizens in the US. That's what's being done to the US actually. In the US, they're demonized men. No question about it. Um so young men are disench disenchanted and they're dropping out and so on and they are trying to export this stuff to India which is a geopolitical ploy once again you see Sager thank you so much sir thank you very much uh Saga once again says how to deal with rising hate versus Indians in Canada US Ireland in East Asia where many worshiped the Buddha but wrongly believe it was Chinese not Indian let's talk about First of all, the west, Canada, US, Ireland, these nations. Look, there's a wave of propaganda against Indians on social media. They demonize Indians. And this is being done, this is not all accident. It's not spontaneous. It's being done by design to to change the way Indians are viewed globally. See, you know what Pakistanis do when they go to Western countries? They form grooming gangs, rape gangs and they do all kinds of horrific crimes. Indians never do crimes. But you will not see any such hatred being spewed against Pakistanis on social media while Indians are consistently demonized, demonized. And this is being done on it's it's not random. It's not spontaneous. This is all organized. It's all well thought out. So this is the situation and because of that you you're seeing you know rising incidents of of attacks or assaults or various hate crimes against Indians in the west whether it's North America whether it's Ireland or wherever how to deal with this I have no idea you got to be careful if you are an Indian origin person living there you've got to be more careful that's what I would say because this is going to increase it's getting worse the US administration the Trump regime is now talking about the H-1B visas. How how Indians with H-1B visas are stealing American jobs and all. So once again, you can see more demonization coming from the very top. Indians will have to be very careful. If you are a brownkinned person look like an Indian person, you've got to be careful. You will have to take precautions that others don't have to take. Yeah. Uh in East Asia, I don't think there's that that sort of hatred towards Indians. That sort of thing. Yeah. Many people in East Asia, especially those who aren't educated, believe Buddha was Chinese because the Chinese government has portrayed Buddhism as a Chinese religion because they have had Buddhism for the past 2,000 years, right? At least. So, what can we do about this? Well, I would say that the government of India needs to take steps to to teach the world to to remind the world that Buddhism originated in India. It's an Indian religion. It's one of the dharmic religions and it is one of the facets, one of the religions that are part of the Dharmic umbrella and it's not just the government of India that that needs to do this. Us Indians need to educate the world wherever possible. So that was that's what needs to happen and another thing that does contribute to a negative perception of Indians is the way Indians behave when they go abroad as tourists. That needs to change. I mean the people of Bali allegedly I hear are tired of Indians because of the way Indians behave there. I mean the Balinis should be the first people to like Indians because we are the nation where Hinduism came from and the Balines people are Hindus but apparently even they are tired of Indians and their behavior. So Indians when they visit other countries need to learn how to behave in a civilized manner. Just because you've got some money doesn't mean that you can now go and flaunt it and behave like like absolute bo abroad. Hyphen 2K. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Arun says DJT is behaving like a vendor who got haggled by an Indian mom for 30 minutes and didn't sell anything. Indian envoy may have used their experience from roadside shops here. I don't know what you mean by that, but he is frustrated. Trump is definitely frustrated. U the Indian diplomats clearly have negotiated very hard. They clearly are very tough negotiators and that seems to have really upset Trump because he was expecting that India will cave in and India will give him exactly what he wants and he hasn't got anything of what he wanted which was the vasalhood of India. He hasn't got what he wanted and that's why he's upset. So yep India is standing up for itself. Hyphen two cases I'm a truck driver in the UK originally from India. Okay. And all I do is listen to Ask Kabijit all day long and it has changed the way I think. Thank Wow. I'm astonished. First of all, well, thank you so much for for for spending your valuable time listening to me. Thank you so much. Um, and I'm I'm I'm happy it has it has changed the possibly the way you think. Thank you so much. And uh yeah, so you you're in the UK. You're a truck driver from India. Well, thank you so much for for your contribution and for for saying the for for for communicating this to me and to everybody else and uh what can I say? I'm I'm very touched. Thank you so much and I wish you the best, sir. Do do very well in whatever you're doing in life. All the best and I I would I look forward to hearing from you again in the future. All the best, sir. All the best. Do well. Ran Singh says, "How does the US do regime change? Why can't India do it?" That is a whole big story. How do you affect affect a regime change operation? Well, I would say look, I cannot tell you the mechanics and dynamics of regime change because it's a very long thing to explain. But I would say I'll give you some homework. Some homework. Okay? Look up how the Euromidan revolution happened 2014 in Kiev. The Euromaidan coup that was executed by the US. How was it executed? Look it up. Look at just look at the chronology. Ask your favorite Google or chat GPD or whatever. Give me a chronological outline of the events that preceded the Euromidan coup or revolution. The events that happened during the the coup, the revolution and the aftermath of that. Give me a chronological outline and explain the involvement of US government officials in that. Then you will have a chronological outline of what things happened in what what sequence and what order. That's one example of a coup that the US carried out. Another example is the uh regime change operation in Dhaka which happened more recently last year which I had predicted eight 8 n months before that sort of thing. Yeah. So that's what you can do but they have a whole they they they have this playbook now they have got it down to a formula the color revolution formula and that's how they they they do it. They have done so many such color revolutions. Kapay developer says excited to tune in to your latest adventures. Thank you so much and I look forward to having you on board. On board. Thank you sir. User uh 6362 says did Trump solve Armenia Azarbaijan issue? Yeah. Well yes it looks like he has at least for now solved the Azarbaijan Armenia issue. He has brokered a peace agreement between the two nations. I think it was the first question I took today. He has brokered a peace agreement between the two nations. Both nations will immediately seize all hostilities. They will establish diplomatic relations and trade relations and a Trump corridor will be created in the southern part of Armenia bordering Iran where the US will have exclusive rights to minerals and they will build rail corridor and whatn not. So the US will get access to some resources there. So that's how he has solved it. Let's see how long it stay it remains solved. Let's see. Achinti Anand says, "What are the Indian national interests in the gist?" Well, to give you a very simple ones sentence answer, the Indian national interest is the long-term security, prosperity, stability of the Indian nation and the Indian civilization. So the the duty of the ruler is to ensure the long-term stability, security and prosperity of the people and the and the nation and the civilization. This includes national integrity, territorial integrity, civilizational and cultural and religious integrity also and so much more. Okay, that's like I can give you in a very brief answer. Kapay developer says, "How can India ensure that the Balo situation doesn't blow up in our faces like the LTE in the 1980s?" Well, how do we ensure that? We ensure it by doing by not doing what we did badly in the 1980s. In the 1980s, we sent the IPKF to Sri Lanka, the Indian peacekeeping force to Sri Lanka, which was professional soldiers, but we did not give them a proper mission. See what does the armed what does the Indian army do? What is it specialize in? It specializes in executing missions. What's a mission? That's your target. You go there, you get in, get something done, and get out in this much time frame. That's a mission. You need to have clear objectives. You need to have clear targets. You need to have deadlines. You need to have territorial targets and what not. Clear delineated missions. That's what you need to have. What happened for the IPKF is that they were told you go and be there. Job bad job. Be there. Be there. That's it. They had no idea what to do. They had no clear objectives. The Indian armed forces were treated like a police force and that messed up things. so badly. So you have to learn the lessons of the IPKF uh debacle and not do the same thing in Baljasthan. So when it comes to Baljasthan, we don't have any armed forces there. So first of all, there itself is the solution, right? How will it blow up in our faces? How will it and so on. So that's how you do it. So how do you ensure something doesn't go wrong? by first studying what went wrong the the last time and doing exactly the ensuring that you don't do any of the things you did at that time. That's how we do it. MK says, "What repercussions or actions might the US take if India purchases the so-al 57 or the S500?" I suppose they would impose some kind of sanctions on India, more tariffs or maybe sanction some some form of sanctions. That's what could happen, right? Yeah, Shiva Prasad says, "What are geopolitical?" Oh, no. Why are geopolitical strategist videos not getting focused just like yours and Ankit Shaw right now? I have no idea. Look, look, we have to understand that this platform that we are using right now, it is not an Indian platform. It's a foreign platform. It's an American platform. We have to acknowledge that fact. We have to respect that fact. We have to respect the fact that this platform gets to set the rules of the game. We don't get to set the rules of the game. They get to set the rules of the game. And they will obviously not like people who educate the world about things that are detrimental to their national interest, right? Um that sort of thing. Now they are treating India as as kind of an adversary nation, a nation that needs to be contained. And if if Indian geopolitical strategists or analysts or whatever are educating Indians about these things, well, they will not like it. So they may suppress those channels, suppress the viewers and subscribers and whatnot. That sort of thing can happen. And I would say that it's their platform. They have the right to do it. You understand that? So that's the reason why I have decided to pull the geostrategy series out. I'm not doing it anymore on YouTube. I respect that this is their platform and they have the right to do whatever they want. And if I say things that are not in line with their national interest, they will not like it. So that's how it goes. So if we don't want to be in the situation, we need to have our own platforms. Right? That's how it goes. Technological sovereignty. Arun says why how different is Bali Hinduism? Why is it different? I'll tell you what, sir. You go to different parts of India, Hinduism is different. You go to Kashmir, Kashmir shvite shaism is super different from uh shaism the the worship of Lord Shiva in Tamil Nadu Gujarat is where you had Lord Krishna's kingdom Dara lots of Gujarati people are vehnov if you go to Assam or Manipur the Vishnuism there is very different from what you have in Gujarat do you understand I think I've answered your question right here now if you go further ahead if you go to Indonesia IA Indonesia used to be a Hindu nation, Hindu Empire, the Majapahit Empire. Their version of Hinduism was their own version of Hinduism. Like any different geography, you will have different ways of of practicing the culture, the civilization, the religion. So that's how it was, right? It's pretty different. They have their own ways of of of worshiping our gods, the same gods as us, but in a very different way, different shape and form. And that's the beauty of Hinduism. It is so diverse. It is so democratic, right? Ritik says, "My views on Maharashra CM driving Islam." I am not aware of that and I don't really have any views on that. I'm so sorry. Yeah. Ankita says u if no in India corruption is not looked down upon unfortunately instead people boast of their out of proportion income or assets protocol money. Just a statement. I'll tell you that. Why is it so? Allegedly. You have to use the word allegedly. Um there is no action that's taken unfortunately against corruption when someone is caught with you know assets that obviously were allegedly obtained through illicit means let's say hypothetical case I'm not aware of any I may be aware but hypothetical case some IAS officer is caught with 50 cr rupees hypothetical scenario clearly that their income can't support that sum of money so where did it come from obviously allegedly corruption. What happens? Suspension. Not not termination of employment. Suspension and after some days quietly they come back into service and they are posted somewhere else. Well, they will start the same thing again. So that's how the system is allegedly run. The entire system bottom to who knows how to how far up, right? The entire the whole country allegedly runs on corruption. So when this is the system that runs the country and there is no action taken against that then people will boast about it obviously right the moment pe the the the government starts taking action against this well things will change. Akash says big fan. Thank you sir. Thank you very much. How might the AI arms race shape future alliances and conflicts given current US and Chinese advancements? uh does India stand anywhere? See, right now India doesn't stand anywhere. Okay, India doesn't have its own EI systems, LLMs or whatever. As far as I know, as far as I know, uh but India could develop something in the next two months also. It's not that hard to do it. Uh but right now, we don't don't really figure or stand anywhere. How might the AI arms race shape future alliances and conflicts? um it's going to be a couple of two three countries that will lead the world in AI and they will make their AI services and products available to everybody else at a price and uh not the full technology of course but export versions let's say and let's say you have the US so they will make their LLM services available LLM and other services available image generation video generation whatever services available at at various different price points to the world and they will compete with other nations like China. The Chinese also have some some products like what is it Deep Seek R1, R2 and what else? They have something called Manus and some other things as well. The French have Mistal. So everybody will compete to make money. So it will shape the world in that sort of sense. alliances. Well, in an alliance, whichever nation is the most advanced in AI is going to rule the alliance. So, when it comes to NATO or the EU, it's going to be the US that that obviously is in the lead and nobody is even close to the US. So, they will continue to dominate the alliances. See, in an alliance, the most powerful nation dominates everything and gets to set the agenda and the rules. So, those alliances will be dominated by the nation with the most powerful AI systems because then they can do whatever they want. Um so when it comes to EU and the NATO uh the EU and NATO the US will dominate because they're not just militarily most powerful, economically most powerful but also technologically most powerful and they are the nation that is at the forefront of AI. When it comes to let's say any alliance that's that involves China, well China will lead that alliance. BRICS is not an an alliance. BRICS is just a coalition of nations, an economic coalition. So yeah, that's that's how it's going to go. But eventually it's going to be a couple maybe two or three nations that will lead the world and rule the world because their AI advancements will go so far ahead that nobody can catch up eventually. Yash says so-called democracy is so manipulable. China and Russia knows this and resisted themselves from western puppets. Only way for India to get out of the mess is not being democratic nation. Well, we are very far from not becoming democratic. We are very far from that. But yeah, you're right. Aradhi Pandit says, "Is Trump a Russian asset? His actions justify it?" Who knows? Who knows? You never know. You never know. Uh, Premier League says, "Hello again, SAR. If the US has a deep state, do one party states like China, UAE, Saudi Arabia also have have their own deep states?" Not really. Not really. The US is special. It has a deep state which and and and the facade of democracy hides who really is wielding the livers of power. That's what the Anglo-Saxons have done in the past couple of centuries. They have very cleverly hidden their means of power. That's what they've done. So the US does have a deep state. I think that's very clear to everybody. One party states like China. China doesn't have a deep state. it its power is it lies in the polit bureau and top leadership of the Chinese Communist Party as clear as that there's nobody hidden behind behind some curtain somewhere um Saudi Arabia the royal family is the power there's nobody hidden behind them of course they the bigger power is the US and that they have to acknowledge but overall in in Saudi Arabia itself it's the royal family that is the power and currently it's the crown prince Mr. Muhammad bin Salman who has who is the most powerful person. So they don't have the deep states. It's the US that has a deep state. Okay, we'll take a couple more questions. Adit Kumar says, can India sign a Sukoy 57 deal while Putin visits India? And my second question, did we kill two Turkish drone pilots during Operation Synindor? I think there's a possibility that India may sign a deal for a for certain number of Suka 57 fighter planes when Mr. Putin visits India. It's a possibility. I'm not guaranteeing it will happen, but it's a possibility that exists. So yes, it can happen. Secondly, did we kill two Turkish drone pilots during Operation Synindur? It is possible. I am also hearing some chatter about that. Is it confirmed? No. Is it possible? Oh, it's very highly likely. It's likely. That's all I can say. Uh Arun says about Bali Hinduism. I heard that they were forced to be monotheistic and they chose Brahma um to represent the god. I can't find the truth online. Vicki has just two lines. Okay, I'm not sure about that. See, Indonesia has been an Islamic country for quite some time, right? Uh and Bali has remained Hindu. It's possible they may have come under some kind of pressure to portray themselves as a little more monotheistic as such, which is something Hindus can do. See we Hindus can can believe in a 100 different deities and gods but we can also say that all these different gods and deities are the representation of one great deity that sort of thing. So Hinduism is a very is very flexible religion that way. We can believe in a supreme deity. We can believe in a lots of different lots of different deities. Historically our our religion has evolved so much. We used to have one great god earlier the pitru the great skyfather whose consort was pritu mata. We just had two major gods back in the day even before the rigidic age. Then things changed and it it's evolved so much over the thousands of years or the millennia. So I'm not sure about this but it's possible. I think it it kind of makes sense that in a monotheistic country you may for you know face some pressure of this kind. Okay, that brings me to the end of today's questions. I'm going to end it here. Uh okay, one last question I will take from Aradhyda Pandit. Uh I am a CA student, 18 years old. Advice. Okay, what advice can I give you? You are 18 years old. Your life is just starting. Okay, my advice is work as hard as possible. Don't work over hard. Work work smart and uh learn real skills. The education system is is going to be something you will need to go through because you need degrees and all but the real skills you need to learn are are the skills that really matter in the real world which is interpersonal skills. You need to know how to deal with people. You need to know how to learn new skills as soon as as required. You need to be able to solve problems in whichever field you are. So these are the things the real world skills that's what you need to focus on. All right sir. All the best. Okay. I'm going to end it over here. Thank you so much for all the questions. We have way overshot past 2 hours, but I enjoyed this. Thank you so much for the questions and I'll end it here. Keep asking questions. Keep keep learning. Keep raising your standards and I look forward to seeing you in my next live stream. Thank you everybody. Take care. I'll see you soon. Bye-bye.