[Music] Hey, hey, hey. [Music] Heat. Heat. N. [Music] Wow. Wow. Good evening, good day everybody and welcome to episode 300 of the Ask a Widget Show. It's great to have you all with me on this live stream this fine evening here. So before we begin let us see who all is there on the live stream. I can see many people I can see Kalborgi Aush Singh Purva Anu Anupama Anime knowledge nuk abhishek shukla swami jane from jaipur nakul verma amit patil ipk_1s animals for laugh from mumbai animeish suraj s mystic skanishes koshikatistic rdra gulba shivasai aadin uh knowledge Nukar, Swami, Jane, Shas D from Pune, Geopolitical Dubai from Indor, Diya Channel, PSJ, Abhishek from Kpur, Avin, Mirangabonia from Assam, uh, Fields Strong Man, Chaitanya Manuja, Tanmay Desh, Pande, Vinay, Meet Mistri, uh, General Subutai, yes, Amisha Mishra, Nir, Kash Bali, Bak Bali today 439 Kushal Chi Mangabonia Kanish Manish Sha Mi Manisha Kardo thank you Damru Nikil Medi Vinay Dak Dave Joi Bori Gautam K RBG Pranay Patel Anirud Parakala Priyanka Jalia Nirkash Bali Vinay Field Strong Man once again uh Ashwani Karthik Rishi Rahul Dun anonymous scientist Dak Hunter Kenway Su Yudha um who else do we have Suraj S Kel Kennel is here mystery is from Australia from stria good to see you sir amay birulkar Anand Divor Singh Chetan Aradhya Radhya Das okay injured soccer player is here from Richmond Hill, Ontario in Canada. Deepanita Mang Mandal Goss. Uh who else? Who else? Okay, so we've got lots of people and uh yeah, so first of all, thank you everybody. The we are here. This is the 300th episode. I remember I had done the first episode in early June 2021 and I had no idea whatsoever that I would end up doing 300 of these episodes. It is all thanks to you only. You are the the people who drive the episodes. So without you this doesn't happen. It's your questions I take. I don't invent the questions myself. And uh so thank you so much for for your viewership. Thank you so much for sticking with me all these years. Some of you are newer. Some of you have been around for the for the longest time from the very beginning. So thank you everybody to to thank you very much to all of you. I am really very grateful. I don't take this for granted at all. It is a privilege to have so much viewership from all of you. So once again thank you very much. Um okay let's take questions. Uh this is going to be an extended episode. Let's take it as long as we can. Obviously, I once did an 8 hour episode not a very long time ago. I'm not sure I'll do it for 8 hours today, but let's see how long it goes. Yeah. Um, and why is something happening on YouTube listen? I have no idea. YouTube decides what it does. Let it do what it does. It's not in my hands. So, I don't I don't worry about it. That's it. Let YouTube do its thing. All right. Okay. Uh, let's take some questions. What questions do we have? We'll take as many and I'll take questions about everything today. Uh no restrictions on the topics whether it's geopolitics, history, science, something else you want to talk about. I'll take all the questions. Okay. 6P70 Delta says the justification for having bases in Japan given by some US people is protection of Japan from China. Looking at history, it feels like nonsense. What's my opinion? The justification of having American bases in Japan so that is that so that is so that they can occupy Japan and hold this very important geostrategic location. It's nothing to do with the protection of Japan. When you have captured a territory, you obviously want to protect it from your enemies. So yeah, it's not because they are doing this out of the the the goodness of their hearts for the safety and security of the Japanese people in the in the nation. It's because they have captured Japan and they don't want to give it up. Right? And uh from look if you let's take a look at the map and understand why Japan is so important strategically. Look at the location. Uh where's the map? Here is the map. Let's take a look at this. So we go to Japan and you will see that the Japanese territory it kind of prevents Russia from uh sending its uh sending its warships out in the into the Pacific Ocean. So if if the if the Russians want see for example the Russians have um a naval fleet that is stationed around the Vladivosto area over here and if they want to send out let's say nuclear submarines or warships out into the Pacific they have to pass through various choke points that you can monitor if you are in occupation of Japanese territory which is why it makes a lot of sense for America to occupy Japan and of course they can keep an eye on Russia. as well as China over here and possibly target both of the nations from there which is why Japan is a very very important uh asset to have in your kitty bag. So that's why the Americans have hundreds well more than 130 military bases in Japan. It's not for Japan's protection. It's for power projection. Prattana says there is something called IVC infinity not see the similarity with son shields. It also appears in Andhra Pradesh later with exact same design. The Indis Valley culture first of all this is a misnomer. Let's understand that it's not Indis Valley culture or Indis Valley civilization. It's Indian culture and civilization. Now this infinity not it's it looks like the infinity symbol right? Let's so let's go and take a look at that. Let's Google that. Okay. Uh I V C infinity not did I get that right the spelling all right endless not etc eight auspicious symbols let's take a look at the Google thing um indis valley let's see indust valley infinity kn so this is the kind of uh symbol it is and you will see it in other parts of India also it's not just like and and and in other time periods in Indian history. So over here as you can see on the right you have the script with the same infinity symbol. Um so you find it in various parts of India. Uh do we find it here? Yeah something similar to that uh and so on. Harapan symbol etc. It appears unchanged in Gujarat in the 9th century CE. Okay. This is an inscription from Gujarat. All right. Uh and you find something similar on Sonali shields. So it is something my point is very very simple very it's a point I've made so many times. Um we've had cultural continuity going back 10,000 years. Right? The culture hasn't changed. The culture that was practiced during the Indust Valley times or Sarasati Hindu times. It's the culture we still practice in different forms today. So, no surprises here, right? No surprises. Okay. What next is the question? 6P70 Delta says, "Being a viewer since lockdown." Okay, that's that's been Yeah, that that period of time. Pleased to get a perspective to get to know a perspective different from dominant leftists. One um sad to see the growth of your channel seeing starting to resemble the Soviet economy during Brev era. Well, look, it's not in our hands. It's not in my hands how the growth of the channel goes. If the reach is restricted, there's nothing I can do about it. It is what it is. Let it be. So, first of all, thank you very much for having been a viewer since lockdown. And uh we continue, right? We continue. Karthik Arisha says, "Does Israel have its own deep state have a deep state in it in in its own country?" I don't know. Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't. We don't know. I don't have any u knowledge of what's going on deep inside Israel. Maybe it does, maybe some countries do have that, maybe some countries don't. So, can't say. Uh field strongman says, "Hypothetically, I work at parliament. Allegedly, my in instincts align with external forces." Okay. But ideally, no amount of dollars should make me agree with racist posts with against own people. Uh I would say that I would agree with you that you may work at hypothetically at parliament your instincts may allegedly align with external forces. Okay. But uh if you work for parliament and you have taken an oath of allegiance to India and so on then and if you are Indian if you have any selfrespect whoever you are whoever you may be uh no amount of dollars greenbacks should make you you know agree with racist post against your people. So yeah, I would completely agree with this entirely utterly hypothetical situation. Yes, completely agree. Um, Dignor Singh says, "What would happen if Sam Manako had actually taken over the country of India like Indira Gandhi feared? Did she fear that Sam Manuk would take over India? Um, I am not aware of that fear of hers if she if it existed. But let's say that Sam Manuk actually took over the country. What would have happened? Well, the standards of the country would have risen tremendously assuming that he had the full support of the military in his takeover of India and then the military gets to call the shots. So if that sort of thing happens what could have happened what would have happened is the Indian see first of all we don't understand the strength of the Indian military manpower uh perspective what currently what is the the manpower strength of the Indian military it's it's a million something right maybe 2 million maybe in the past we've had a military let's say even if you had 5 million personnel in the military and they're all aligned with uh the person who takes over the country in a coup okay uh Can 5 million people control the entire country? I suppose it's possible. I mean, the British control the whole country with 20,000 people. Yeah. You know, so if they get it right, then maybe they could control the country and uh take the country forward in a direction that was that would have been different from what was happening. So if Sam Mano had actually taken over India, right, successfully, then I suppose India would have turned out to be very different. Let's say it happened in 19 in the 1970s. That's about 50 years ago. It would have given India 50 years of a far better direction in which than in in which India did did go. So yeah, India could have possibly been like like we all claim vishwa guru superpower today possibly. Who knows? Yeah. MojiPo African says sudden drop in your viewership and theories. It is what it is. Yep. I don't care what's not in my control. I don't worry about at all. I I I enjoy doing what I'm doing. I enjoy the viewership I have. I enjoy connecting with you all. You YouTube, whatever it wants to do, it can keep doing. I have no issue with that. It's their platform. It's it's their choice. Let them do what they want. I'm good to go. I have no issues. Okay. Ankit Duta says, "As a founder, I need DSA to build." What is DSA? First of all, what is DSA? DSA to build tech tech products. What makes an app scalable and fast? Are rust C++ needed or is JS enough? What's important? Where to focus? It all depends on what you're doing. What technology stack you use? Depends on what you're trying to achieve, right? What makes an app scalable and fast? The back end has to be super powerful. I mean, super super aligned with whatever you're doing, right? Of course you the back end means your data uh that has to be on on on point. Uh first of all let me see what is DSA. Let's let's Google DSA. What is DSA? DSA can refer data structures and algorithms. Of course you need data structures and algorithms. How will you build tech products without that? Yeah. Uh yeah. So you need to have the best possible algorithms. Do you need data structures and algorithms? If you are building a tech product, uh I think the backend company will take care of all of that to give you blazing fast uh access to the back end. I suppose you will need data structures and algorithms only if you are if you are building a backend company or something. Uh so what makes an app scalable and fast? The the tech stack matters. um the the the the company that you hire whose services you hire for the back end and all that that matters. Rust, C++, JS, it entirely depends on what you're trying to achieve, sir. Entirely depends on what you're trying to achieve. Um yeah, so that's what I can say sir. Dimnur Singh says, "How accurate is the news that CIA agents planned to kill Modi?" That's been all over the news, right? Uh that Mr. Modi had gone for the uh Shangai Cooperation Summit organization SEO uh summit in China and it is being said that there was a coup. There was there was a a plot to allegedly assassinate Mr. Modi. It's been all over news. Twitter is full of these theories. How accurate is this news? and and apparently some some individual was found uh not alive in in Dhaka who has some background with you know the US Marine Corps or something like that. Uh is there a connection between what have between what happened in Dhaka and what was going on in China? I don't know. So I see look I am sitting here like all of you all. Okay. I don't have any access to any any privileged information any confidential or classified information. I can't say and neither do the people who are making these speculations, the people who are putting out these pieces of analysis, speculation, whatever you want to call it, do they have access to any information that we don't have access to? Are they part of the raw or whatever it is? I don't know. So, in the absence of any any, you know, anything that corroborates these claims, I would say it's pure speculation. I I don't know if it's accurate or not. Yeah. Prardana says, "Future strategy for the channel." We keep going. We keep going. I I keep going essentially. Uh I enjoy doing the Ask a Budget show. Um I I've been doing this study with me thing for a for quite a while which is getting you know uh so that I will complete 50 episodes and I'm done with that also. Can't do that forever. and uh let us see what else I can do with the channel. Maybe I can do just see essentially I can do whatever I want with the channel. Uh it's not like it's going to grow beyond beyond a million anytime soon. So I can play around with the channel. I don't know. I I I may do something different. I may perhaps uh start some kind of We'll see. But what one thing I can assure you is that the Ask show goes on. That goes on. I have no intention of ever stopping it. Yeah. So yeah. Uh Basar Kayatwal says, "Seven months of the year I'm in Moscow, rest of the time in Bhat. You JD, Major Goravari and others are always playing in my house." My mom says as it feels like you are part of our family already. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. Uh please give my regards to your mom. Thank you so much sir. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that very much so. Animeish says, "Happy 300th. Thank you very much. Being a member since the 37th." Well, thank you. Thank you. It's been a long time. Am eternally indeed for the transformation you have brought in me and many many others. That's that's all I try to that's all I seek to do. I seek to share whatever I understand of the world with you all in a way that you want. That's why I have you ask the questions and I answer the questions. So, uh yeah, we keep going, right? and and there's no greater privilege than doing what I'm doing. So So yeah, thank you. Busai says, "First of all, congratulations on for completing 300 episodes. Thank you very much, sir. Why is Russian literature so d dark and pessimistic as if the world will end tomorrow?" Yeah, that's that's that's a fact, isn't it? I mean, if you study Russian literature, it's dark. It's because Russian life, Russian history has been dark. If you look at Russian history, uh if you look at where Russia is, first of all, I mean, take a look at the map. There's a reason why I open the map all the time. There's a reason for it. If you look at the map, it explains why things are the way that they are. If you look at Russia, it's all up there in the northern latitudes, right? uh very harsh climate, very cold, lakes freeze over, rivers freeze over uh even in summer it it it's colder than what you would want it to be, especially if you from from a place like India. So first of all, the climate, the terrain, all of that is pretty harsh, pretty unforgiving. It's very hard to survive over there, right? That's one thing you don't understand. And secondly, their history has been full of all these tra tragedies, wars. I mean, look at the history of the second world war. How many Russians died like 27 million Russia lost so many people? And then you have uh the before that you had the Bolshevik revolution. Then you had the the rule of Stalin, then you had the rule of the you know the communist party of the USSR. It's it's it's it's a nation that's h and before the communists take over you have the the Romanov family that is that is assassinated you know executed by the communists before that you have the eras of the sars you had uh Peter the great yeah sure but also Ivan the terrible Katherine the great uh very tough rulers they've had and overall their history has been has been full of tragedies and it's it's just been that way so no wonder that you know Russian literature is dark and it's not entirely pessimistic but it's pretty dark. I mean if you read for example war and peace by Toltoy it's got all these dark things but it's not entirely pessimistic. Yeah but the literature of the nation reflects what the nation has gone through. So no surprise there. Ritik P says our country has produced mediocre leaders but the one thing that surprises me is that is how they've managed to keep India a sovereign nation at least militarily. See uh yeah yeah yeah we are against all odds still sovereign. We have produced very mediocre leaders because the system is designed to produce mediocrity. The system is designed to to promote mediocrity and on the on the other hand it's it's it's designed to seek out and destroy talent which is why all talented people leave the country right uh yeah but we are still still sovereign and if things if the gods keep smiling on us then maybe in the future we'll we'll produce better leaders right right now we have a good leader no question about that uh Mr. Modi the way I see it some of you may disagree that's fine but the way I see it uh he is the best prime minister we've had despite all my personal frustrations also about various things but still overall if you look at it he's the we are lucky that we have someone like him and hopefully in the future we have leaders who are even better so let's see Dnur Singh says some people blame MI6 for killing the CIA guy in Dhaka well I have no idea honestly I have no idea some guy dies in Dhaka and um allegedly he's taken away he's uh without any any autopsy or whatever and that's the end of it as far as far as we know MI6 is the British intelligence agency CIA is the well the Americans and then you have various other intelligence agencies so I have no idea look it's all speculation I have no way of corroborating uh whether it's correct or or whether you know telling you assertaining whether it's false. I have absolutely no idea. It's all speculation at at this time and the people who are speculating I don't think they have any access to any any confidential information. So on what basis are they speculating? I have no idea but maybe there may be some some potentially possibly some grain of truth behind it but I can't say. Tarun says was Iran a major source for foreign migration to India as 90% of Mughal cortisans after Hayun's return were Persians and they all settled here. Does it explain why many modernday Shia Muslims are of Iranian descent? Was Iran a major source of foreign migration? It's a tiny source of foreign migration. How many mogul courters did you have in India? 100, 200, 5,000, 20,000, whatever the number you can come up with. Let's say 90% of that is is is Iranians. So if you had the incredibly fantastic number of 20,000 Mughal courters and 90% of that is Iranians, that's that's 18,000. out of a population of what 330 million Indians undivided India that's that's insignificant completely insignificant you see if you put it in the in the in the proper perspective you will see that 18,000 people which obviously was not the case you did not have 18,000 Iranians who came and were part of the Mughal court um but you but see back in the day you do not have any visas you do have passports. You could just, you know, travel to countries and as long as you were there on legitimate business or whatever your purpose was, it was seen as legitimate, you were allowed to come. There was no visa applications in blah blah. So, so India and Persia were anyway neighboring civilizations and Persians used to come to India. Indians used to go to Persia. Uh, yeah. So, that's how it was. Um, many modern day Shia Muslims are of Iranian descent. Well, I was not aware of that. I don't know about the history of Shia Muslims in India. Uh, it's not something I've studied. Um, what I know is that lot of see some of them are of Yemeni descent if I'm not mistaken. Some people especially the the Shia Muslims who are of Gujarati origin the the Bodhi people many of them seem to have some kind of connection with with uh with Yemen once again I am not very clear about their history either so I can't say but yeah when it comes to India Iranian India we are neighboring regions so no no surprise if there is significant Iranian you know presence in India first of all the genetics of the two peoples they aren't that different Right. Okay. 6P70 Delta says, "Us US YouTubers, okay, American YouTubers make videos weekly about UA, Ukraine, hammering Russia and wiping out the so-called orcs, but also run fundraiser campaigns for Ukraine, mainly Azov V Battalion. If Ukraine is really willing, why winning, why are they asking for donations?" you know, this propaganda has been going on since uh early 2022. The special military operation, like Donald Trump says, it was it's not a war. It's a special military operation. He also agrees with me now, Trump. So, the special military operation, SMO, started in February. It it began on the 22nd of February, 2022. And ever since this started there is there has been you know this campaign of misinformation in the western media claiming that Ukraine is winning. At some point in time they were saying that Putin is dying. He's got cancer. He's got three months to live. Some point in time they were saying that Bakmut is you know Ukraine is winning Bakmut. And when Russia takes over Bakmut they said that why is Russia taking has taken over Bakmut? This this completely insignificant city. So if it was so insignificant why were you talking about it for 6 months? and so on, you know. So, they have been claiming that Russia is losing and Ukraine is winning since 2022. It's been over 3 years and yeah, like you say, if Ukraine is winning, why are they really asking for donations? And now Trump himself is saying that Ukraine will be wiped out if they don't agree with to Russia's deed. And we know that Russia is way too powerful and over the past 3 years, their military-industrial complex has really taken off. Their economy is doing well despite all the sanctions. You know, Russia is not going anywhere and people like Zalinsky have have been responsible for destroying their country because Russia's reasons for going to war are legitimate reasons. I mean, imagine China or Russia funding Mexico and doing a regime change there. Will the US allow that to happen? They won't, right? Similarly, Russia also can't allow things certain things to happen in Ukraine and that's why they had to go to war. They did their best to prevent a war, but eventually they had to. Right. Fast snail. That's quite a name. That's quite a name. Fast snail. Is US aggression in Latin America due to Chinese influence? Uh no. See the US the you know some of some people may say that what I am saying is outdated obsolete because this is the 19th century century matter. The Monroe doctrine. What was the Monro doctrine? The Mandro doctrine was this US policy that no external power will be allowed to influence any part of the Americas. The US has to be the predominant power in the Americas whether it is North America or South America. England isn't allowed to interfere. Spain is no longer allowed to inter interfere even though they created these colonies right by taking over native land. uh once the Monro doctrine came into force the US was very clear only the US has the right to complete hedgemony in the Americas. Now if you look at uh and and most Latin American nations today they they bow down to American wishes they never do a thing that displeases the US uh you know in in any major way. But Venezuela and Cuba are two exceptions. So Cuba is not in Latin America, it's in the Caribbean region. And the Cubans have steadfastly been super independent and uh yeah the you could say anti- US. The Americans say they are anti- US. And secondly, Venezuela. Venezuela has uh refused to well cave into the US. They they are socialists and so on. So uh that's why the US is aggressive towards Venezuela and anybody else who deser who who who dares to challenge the US in any way. It's not because of Chinese influence. Obviously the Chinese have some role to play in this a little bit which is um something that's happened only in the last 1015 years maybe the last 15 20 years maximum that the Chinese have had a presence in Latin America for extracting resources out of nations like Brazil etc. But this uh US aggression like you say US hedgemony it it dates back well to the 19th century. So it's nothing to do with China overall. Tanmai says your views on attempt to attack Modi at the SEO summit. There is no evidence that this happened. There's all kinds of rumors and speculation going on in in social media but I don't know if this is true. Right. I personally have seen no evidence and I am not in connect contact with any government agencies or whatever who will allow me to see evidence. So I have no idea. I it's it's possible that this could be just pure speculation and rumors and it's also possible that may there may be some truth to it. So I can't say my views is that my what are my views? I have no idea what's happening. That's my views. I don't know. Could be possible, could be true, could maybe not. Uh DN Singh says so apparently Columbus was a Jew secretly. I have no idea about this sir. I have no idea. Um so Dn Singh says apparently Columbus was a Jew secretly found the USA in 1492 when Jews were expelled from Spain. Coincidence. Yes. The reconista happened. It it it culminated in the expulsion of the Jews from from Spain in 1492. And that's when Columbus discovers the Americas, not the USA. He never set foot in what is now called the USA. Uh he never even saw with his own eyes what is now called the USA. But he set foot in the Caribbean region and eventually during this third voyage in uh he was able to see South America as well. The first European to do that, Venezuela if I'm not mistaken. So um and he was of Italian origin of course and he was financed by the by the king and queen of Spain. So if the Spaniards had done a reconista and u expelled all the Muslims and the Jews from their country, then why would they fund a person who was secretly Jewish to go and search for India? Unless they did not know that he was Jewish. Was Columbus Jewish? Let's let's do a quick fact fact check. Uh let's see. Was Columbus Jewish? Let's see. Was Christopher Columbus Jewish? Was he? Recent genetic research suggests that Christopher Columbus may have been a Spanish Sephardic Jew, challenging the traditional view that he was Italian. This theory proposes that he was from the Iberian Peninsula, possibly Valencia, and and concealed his Jewish identity due to religious persecution at the time. The evidence supporting this is not universally accepted and some scholars point to the lack of conclusive proof. Genetic evidence. A recent study analyzing DNA from Columbus's remains found the genetic markers are compatible with the Spanish Jewish origin. The research suggests that he may have been from a family of silk weavers in Valencia, an area with a large Jewish community. Many Jews and Muslims were forced to convert VA. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. The theory suggests that Columbus may have been one of these new Christians who secretly practiced their Jewish faith. The traditional view holds that Columbus was in Okay, fine. Okay. So, there's no evidence. Uh, genetics, it cannot tell you what a person actually practiced, what religion a person practiced. Yeah, possibly there is some connection with Sephardic Jews. That's what this says. I haven't first of all seen the actual research. Is there a research paper behind this? We are doing a live stream so I will not go and do all that right now. But interesting interesting maybe I will look into this in the future. Yeah. Busker says I sent several super chats yesterday. Possible to review them. Um this is a different live stream. It won't be possible to review yesterday's super chats in this live stream. Uh and yesterday was not a super chat live stream. You should not have done that sir. Yesterday I took questions from the comments. So yeah, I'm I'm very sorry that you sent super chats and I could not see those. Won't be possible to review those today. Very sorry. I apologize. Yeah, I apologize. Hershel Shing Singla says, "What will India do after sanctions to Russian oil companies? What's your take? What what should we do and what do you think the government will do?" Well, what should we do? What will the government do? I don't think the Indian government wants to be in a confrontation with the US. Um, so maybe we will reduce our intake of Russian oil. Yeah, it's it's a possibility. I would not want that to happen, but if it affects us uh in a negative way, then it is not a good idea. And I'm sure the Russians will understand. Um so I would not want that to happen. What should we do? We should do whatever is best for us in the long term. You know long-term uh always always prioritize the long term over the short term. A long term we understand that our relationship with Russia is good. It's been good long-term in the past also and it should remain good long term in the future also. temporarily maybe we possibly may reduce our consumption of Russian oil but it's a temporary thing perhaps and uh what do I think the government will do the government I think they are prioritizing the trade deal with the US right now and a trade deal may not happen unless we agree to certain terms from the US so maybe temporarily or maybe long-term we may cut down on Russian oil it looks like it may happen right now which is not something that pleases me but it may happen. Yeah. Because it should not the sanction we should not be in a position next that we ourselves are sanctioned. Right. We've had American sanctions in the past. Uh when did that happen? It happened in uh 1998 after our nuclear tests and we don't want to be in that situation again. So maybe we will you know uh maybe we will make that sort of a choice for now. BJ Sai says during the Vic period Lord Indra was the god that was most prayed to then why did we stop praying today no one stopping you from from praying to Lord Indra things change things change the Vic period was not first of all we don't understand the how how how long how ancient our history is our history is so ancient that there was a river that we used to pray to that no longer exists Our history spans geological time time periods. Time spans, right? Thousands of years. Our history goes back about 10,000 years, maybe most likely even longer than that. So if your history is so old, massive, massive changes will happen in your history. One of the reasons the Saraswati dried out is because there was a shortfall of rain, right? And who was the god responsible for rain? It was Indra. So Indra did not Indra stopped blessing us. So maybe that's why we stopped praying to Indra. I don't know. It's a possibility. U there could be multiple reasons. Maybe the emergence of new gods or new aspects of divinity. We still worship Saraswati as the goddess of of of uh knowledge and wisdom. We no longer worship Dors Pitru, the oldest of the gods, right? The skyfather. We know people don't even remember Dioshitra today. People still do remember Indra, but in a different way from what Indra used to be, the great warrior god. So primarily it's because our history is so ancient. 10,000 years is not day before yesterday, right? 10,000 years a lot of changes happen in 10,000 years. We no longer refer to Lord Shiva as Rudra in the Rigida. All you see all you will see is rdraha that's not that isra but whatever right so there's been so much change in India that's how it goes says big fan thank you sir thank you very much I have heard the rumor that the voke movement originated in the US it was originated and orchestrated by the French intelligence as a means to degrade the US from within is it true thanks Well, uh, what you could what you could call the the origins of the Voke movement comes out of, uh, movements such as, uh, what was it called? Jacqu Deida and, uh, Jean Paul Sak. I forget what it was called, but yeah, some of it does originate from from France. Um, some of it also originated in Germany by the way. Yeah. So, is it possible that the French intelligence was involved in this? It it the possibility does exist. I'll tell you what about France. France is the one European nation that is not entirely subjugated and controlled by the US. France has a quasi independent foreign policy to some extent. And I can also assure you that the French intelligence does not regard the US as a friendly nation. That I can assure you of. Okay. So it is certainly possible that there could have been something like this because see you've got to play the long-term game. You have to think in terms of decades and centuries. You have to think in terms of time periods in which you may no longer be in existence anymore, but you've got to account for that. So, it's possible the French intelligence may have planted the seeds of what is now vocism in the United States back in the 1950s and60s. It's possible. Yeah, it is certainly possible. Um, I still don't I'm trying to remember what was this movement called. Let's let's Google it. Uh, Jacqu Dida. Uh, what was it called? Deconstruction etc. phenomenology, deconstruction, um, hospitality, margins of philosophy, fukult, derida and fukult and fu. Oh, come on. Fukulta debate. Postmodernism. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Postmodernism. So, this entire voke nonsense comes out of postmodernism. And I have tried to understand what postmodernalism is. I've even tried to read some of the literature. I um apologize but I is I am not sufficiently intelligent to understand what it's all about. I have never been able to wrap my my head around it. It sounds like nonsense. It sounds like there is nothing to it. Just word salads. Yeah. Hersh Rati says, "Please check Kan Jats Reik phrase Ajay Jarto Hunan." I have no idea what you're saying, sir. Kanj Vicki phrase a jar hunan. Um, okay sir. Thank you. I I'm not sure what you're saying. Aronomous scientist says, "Will we ever be able to unify all four fundamental forces like the theory of everything by Stephven Hawking? What would such a theory explain about the universe? I don't know what it would explain. Will we be able to unify all four fundamental forces? Okay, first of all, what are the four fundamental forces? We have the strong nuclear force. We have the the weak nuclear force. We have the electromagnetic force and then we have the force of gravity. But if you look at gravity from the perspective of general relativity of geometronamics, then gravity is not a force. Gravity is not a force. It's the curvature of spaceime that accounts for what we what appears to be to us this force that is gravity. But it's not a force. It's the consequence of the warping or curvature of spacetime. So if you want to unify the four fundamental forces, you have to do that in curved spaceime. Right? Now what happens when you try to do quantum mechanics in curved space time? It's not compatible. Yeah. First of all, time itself doesn't seem to it seems to be an external parameter in quantum physics, in quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. So, uh yeah, I'm sure in the future we may be able to unify, you know, have a single equation that accounts for everything. But, uh how would we do it? I'm not sure you know and one of the major questions is about time. Time I mean yeah sure we have four even if we consider G gravity to be a force. Okay, let's say you want to unify the four forces. But where does time figure in all of this? Time is even an even bigger mystery than all of these things. The big question is what is time? What is time? Yeah, it's something you see on the on the on the watch. You look at your phone and you see what time it is. Wonderful. Brilliant. What is time? Where does it emerge from? Where does it come from? Is it intrinsic to the structure of spaceime? It doesn't seem to be. Does it emerge from somewhere? Is it an emerging phenomenon? Do you have quanta of time? Do you have atoms and molecules of time? What where does it come from? We only vaguely perceive it. So, how do you fit time into all of this? You can't fit time into quantum mechanics as as an an integral outcome of quantum mechanics. Time is an external parameter. So, um big big questions and we don't have the answers right now. And what if we are able to unify everything into a single theory, a grand unified theory, what would such a theory explain about the universe? I think it may raise more questions than answers. Yeah. I mean it what will it tell us? It will tell us how all the four forces are related to each other and it may explain to us the nature of reality better. It may even explain what time is. But then the bigger question will arise why why this equation? Why not a different equation? Yeah. And another question is will it be able to explain the constants the constants of physics? The constants of physics physics seems to be seem to be hardcoded into reality. Who did the hard coding? Who did the hard coding? Who programmed that? Who's the programmer? So I think even if you have a grand unified theory, it may still just tell you that what the program is, what the software is. It won't tell you who wrote the software. Right? These are these are questions that are bigger than the universe itself. Right? Okay. Divor Singh says if Churchill actually drank liters of alcohol and a few cigars every day, how did he even lead? I don't think Churchill drank liters of alcohol every day. And okay yeah so he was fond of cigars right we know that he used to smoke a cigar every evening or something smoking a cigar takes about an hour depending on the size so if you want to spend an hour not doing any work then you sit down in a cigar lounge and have a cigar and when it comes to alcohol I I am told if I recall correctly I'm not told I read that he used to drink brandy he used to drink a quart a quarter of brandy not not litters. So every day in the evening he had this this time that he he would have for himself in which he would have a quarter of brandy and a cigar. So maybe this whole ritual would take about an hour, hour and a half and uh so that's how it was for him. So clearly if you drink liters of alcohol every day you want you won't function let alone lead. But if you drink a quarter of of brandy or whiskey or whatever, I suppose you can still be a functioning alcoholic. Yeah. So I suppose that's that's what he was. He was not the healthiest person. He did not have the healthiest lifestyle. And uh yeah, he and and the thing about cigars is that you don't you don't inhale the smoke. People who smoke cigarettes, they inhale the smoke. That goes into their lungs and it messes them up very badly obviously depending on how many they smoke. But cigars are not supposed to be inhaled. So it doesn't really affect your your health badly. Unless you're inhaling that otherwise if you do that I suppose you will meet your maker very soon. So I think that's that was a deal with Churchill. Um Zeir right Zafir Zafir says we Chinese think fascism is coming back and we hosted a grand parade September 3rd. Is anti-fascism a thing in India? Indians don't even know what fascism is. Indian don't Indians don't care what fascism is. Fascism is a thing that was a thing in Italy, wasn't it? Um during the first half roughly first half of the 20th century and uh and Mussolini El Dulce right Benito Mussolini was the fascist dictator of Italy and he was an ally of Adolf Hitler. So fascism is a thing that's u that's western in nature. Uh there is no equivalent of that movement or that ideology in India. U so if it could be coming back it could be coming back in the west. Yeah I'm sure there is there is there are some people who are sympathetic to that ideology in the west as are some people as you have well have some people who are sympathetic to every ideology you can imagine. But it's not a thing in India. So anti-fascism is not a thing in India. Most of 99% of Indians won't even know what fascism is and they won't care about it. Vishal Nas says good evening. Good evening sir. Why is the Schinger equation considered to be the core of quantum mechanics? Good question. Why is the Schoinger equation considered to be the core of quantum mechanics? What does the Scholinger equation do? It describes well there are two forms of the Scholinger equation. One is a time dependent one, one is a time independent one. And uh it essentially tells you see in the shing see the shinger equation is a differential equation a partial differential equation and the argument in this it's it's s which is uh the wave function what is the wave function it's not a physical thing but the wave function if you you know it's complex conjugate it it describes the probability of finding a particle in a certain location in in space not in spaceime but in space. Uh so the Schroinger equation if you solve it it will tell you essentially where you can find the particle where the likelihood of finding the particle is higher where it's lower and so on. Um and because of that it is the core of quantum mechanics. It's quantum mechanics is all about all about subatomic particles and the equation that describes the behavior of subatomic subatomic particles is the sodinger equation. Uh and uh yeah so so that's about it. That's that's what I can explain in brief. Literally officer K says how are some cookie infiltrators calling themselves Jewish? the flag of their proposed cookie land as the star of David on it. I have no idea. They claim apparently some of their religious practices are similar to Jewish uh religious practices. So they have started calling themselves one of the lost tribes of Israel. They the you know the if you look at Jewish history there are some lost tribes apparently. I haven't really studied that in in detail. Uh but the cookies claim that they are one of the lost tribes of Israel. And I I'm sure that genetic tests were done on the on on these people who call themselves cookies. And I and am certain that there was not even a drop of Jewish blood that was found in these people. But many of them have moved to Israel and they have been baptized or whatever the procedure is for Jewish people and they are now Israeli citizens some of them. Right. um others other cookies are Christian. So I don't know what the logic the rationale is but apparently some religious practices of theirs are similar to Jewish things and that's why they have been allowed to become Jewish. So those of them who want to go to Israel they claim that they are Jewish and they go and move there and that's about it. And uh there are various versions of their flag of this artificial fictitious nation called Cookie Land and some of these versions have the star of David on it. Yeah. Shashad Jenna says big fan. Thank you very much. Thank you sir. Uh you have always said that the humanities of IITs are west colonized. Is the medic medical education of India west colonized also or is it good? I don't know. I have no exposure to the medical education system of India. Um so I I can't really say the IIT why do they even need humanities departments? These are the Indian institutes of technology. Please teach technology. If someone wants to get exposure to the humanities, they can do it in their own godamn free time. The internet will give you all the information that you need that you seek. The IITs have no business setting up sociology departments and humanities departments. This is a waste of taxpayer money. And the humanities departments in the IIAS if you see the kind of research output that's coming out of that out of those it's it's garbage. It's totally anti-India which obviously is pro- west. Right? So that's why I say that. Now the medical education system of India I have no idea. I have never looked into it so I can't really say. Sorry. Wun says Google says China invented gunpow shows ara shastra mentions the same and predates China. Same bias with molecule. Why? If you so I won't be able to do do this right now, but there is there are multiple levels and layers of evidence that demonstrate that explosive chemical powders were known in India long before this supposed date when China invented gunpowder. Now what is an explosive chemical powder? It obviously is gunpowder. You can't you don't need necessarily need to have just one chemical composition or one chemical formula of gunpowder. You can have different ways of producing explosive chemical powders. Right? So the truth is that India is the civilization that invented gunpowder long before China. But if you ask Google, if I can if I do it right now, it'll tell you that it's China. Why is it biased? Because this is called algorithmic bias. AI will have biases. Whatever information you feed AI while training AI, while training it, it will be biased in that manner. So whatever information it has absorbed, it's going to tell you that it's not AI's fault. It's the fault of the people who trained the AI, right? And it's the west that did that. And obviously the west is biased. There is a strong anti-india bias in the west. So no surprises there. All right. Anonymous scientist says five four more most interesting archaeological mysteries according to me. Okay. Interesting archaeological mysteries. Well, one is Duara. Yeah. Darka and the overall broader issue of the Gulf of Kat archaeological complex. You have apparently these ancient cities that are on the ocean ocean floor that are laid out in the same grid structure that you find in cities of the Saraswati Hindu region the so-called Harapan cities Mahjadaro Harapa Rakari etc. The same grid structure that you find in civilized countries today in advanced countries today we are of course a civilized country but we are not advanced we are a third world country. So the same grid structure you have right and and these cities are sitting on the bottom of the ocean floor in the Gulf of Kad and the last time you that that part of the ocean floor was above sea level was about 10,000 or so years ago. So how did our ancestors build these cities 10,000 years ago that are laid out in a modern grid structure big archaeological mystery? Same to same about Darkara. Duara is also in the same overall region slightly for the west. Uh and it's a mystery why the government of India won't fund any excavations or or any archaeological investigations of these structures. That's one. Uh what else? What else? Uh Egyptian pyramids, Egyptian history overall. I mean, who built the pyramids? Obviously, the Egyptians would have built them, not UFOs, not aliens, but how did they do it, right? Uh, and what lies bene beneath the pyramids. So, if you when I was a kid, you know, there used to be these movies about Egypt in which we are told that the the the pyramids are these places where the pharaohs, the Egyptian kings were buried. But the fact is that not a single Egyptian mummy has been found in a single pyramid. The question is then what was the purpose of building the pyramids? If these are not tombs for emperors, what was the real purpose? We don't know. A big mystery. Um then you have, you know, South America, the Inca Empire. U you have these stones, you know, walls for let's let's Google that. If you go to a place like Cusco, for example, Yeah. CO walls, stones, okay, wall, stone, whatever you want to say. Look at this. I mean, how on earth were these stones fixed in this manner, right? Incredible. Gigantic stones, massive stones that are almost impossible to lift without, you know, cranes. and and uh mechanized equipment, enormous stones, and they all fit so incredibly precisely. How did How was this done? Look at the fit. Look at Look at how incredibly precisely the stones fit. There's no gaps. You can't even put a knife through the in the gaps. How was this done? Who How did the the people who made this do it? It's it's it's a huge mystery. So, I suppose that's three mysteries, right? That's Cusco, Peru, present day Peru. Peru. Yeah, probably Peru. Uh, what else? What other mysteries can I think of archaeologically? I'm sure there's plenty. Okay, let me think of one more archaeological mystery. Yeah, I can't think right now. Yeah, I I I'll I'll I'll keep it at three, but yeah, three that I can think of. Very interesting. If something comes to my mind, I'll I'll let you know. Okay. Fast snail. Lovely name. I love it. Uh Colombia. Is it Colombia or is it Colombia? Colombia. Oenor. Colombia. Colombia. Muls ending US military presence possible. Um let us see. Let's Google this. Colombia US military. Colombia US military bases. Let's see. Is there any news regard regarding this? Ole Maida U air base. Okay. Colombian airfield. Seven new US bases. Do we have any news? What's at stake? Trump pro feud strains the US Colombia alliance. Petro Muls ending US in military and CIA presence in Colombia. Will this happen? It won't happen. It won't happen. Yeah. Is it possible? Well, possible. Anything is possible. But will it happen? I think it's very unlikely that they will be able to ask the, you know, make the Americans vacate the country. I think it's Yeah, it's it's it's a it's not going to happen. WMA Nadim Pali says, "Why do a lot of historians claim that there are no chhatrias in South India despite the existence of pandas, cha cha, chas? I have no idea. There's an agenda, right? There's an agenda to separate South India and North India. I don't say South India. I say Southern India and Northern India, right? Southern and Northern because words matter. They want South India and North India separate. And they want to claim that South Indian culture has nothing to do with northern Indian culture and Hinduism and and everything else is a is a is a northern imposition. It's an Arian imposition on southern India. And southern India is the original India, the true indigenous India and northern Indians, people from northern India are are imposters, invaders, descendants of barbarians and so on. But if you have the same societal structures in northern and southern India, then you can't make the claim. That's why you have to deny these things. So you have to deny that you know there are no kri in south India which is a lie. Obviously a lie. So it's an agenda. It's an agenda-driven thing. The agenda is to fragment India. The agenda is to create more divisions among our people. That's the agenda. That's why all these claims are made and we have to ridicule these claims because they are ridiculous and they are outright lies. What says magnetic field requires moving charges to exist. Then how come spinning neutron stars have massive magnetic fields if the net charge of neutrons is zero? Um magnetic fields require massive moving charges to exist then how come spinning neutron charge stars have massive magnetic fields. If the net charge of neutrons is zero see neutron stars don't only have neutrons they also have other charged particles. They are mostly made of neutrons but they also have an atmosphere which is iron plasma. They also have charges on their surfaces and that's why they have massive magnetic fields. It's not like they're completely electrically neutral. They have charges. Without charges, you're right. You won't have magnetic fields. So, neutron charges, neutron stars have charges. They they may mostly be electrically neutral. If you look at a macros spokic perspective, but if you look if you do a cross-section, you will find different uh you know, you have nuclear pasta inside and stuff. So there's going to be charged regions in neutron stars and neutron stars spin so incredibly fast which also creates so even if you have small charges but they're spinning so incredibly fast the magnetic fields that result as a that are produced as a result are going to be very powerful so that's the deal fimate says is it safe to assume that post 1947 Indian government neg neglected the far east of India and that's why we see so much racism against northeast people. See after 1947 the far east of India was given utterly stepmotherly treatment by the government of India completely neglected. You are right absolutely neglected. There was no development done there. um you know and and the whole region was essentially cut off from the rest of India. Uh most Indians did not even know what existed in the far east of India, what the people there looked like. And because of this stepmotherly treatment, you had the the emergence of all these insurgency movements and separatist movements all across the far east of India. Every state had multiple ins insurgencies, right? which was just just mismanagement. Terrible, terrible. Uh so that's the reason why you had so many insurgencies that cropped up and still you know you still are dealing with the consequences of that today in the Far East. Uh when it comes to racism against northeast people uh it's because most Indians were not aware of what northeast Indians looked like because there was no national integration. There were only slogans of national integration. we have to be nationalally integrated blah blah blah slogans but no actual work done to actually integrate Indians from various parts of of the country and Indians knew what Chinese people look like right now see if you are Indian and you have never been abroad to you a person from Sweden from Denmark from France from Italy from Norway from Germany from England they look the same they look the same right no question about it they will all look the same just they're just white people for you similarly if you have never been outside of India never been exposed to this then people from Japan Korea China Mongolia etc they will also look the same to you even though they they are different so India fought a war with China 1962 we lost right because of our government's terrible handling of the matter so we already had this this deep angst anguish in our in our hearts that we lost territory to the Chinese. The Chinese are evil and then we know what the Chinese look like. You know the stereotype of what Chinese look like and that is kind of similar in some ways if you are not well informed to what people from various parts of northeast India look like. Now even among the northeastern you know of the far eastern people of India different different states they look different but you have to be aware of that. So because Indians had no exposure you know India from the so-called main Indians from the so-called mainland of India had no exposure to people from the far east of India that's why when you would see somebody like that you would assume that they're Chinese or maybe Nepalese and that sort of thing but mainly Chinese and that's why you would have you know mistreatment or whatever or what you call racism today it has reduced drastically because now Indians because of social media and because India is so much more mobile today Indians most Indians from various parts of the country know what the people of the far east look like today so today it's it's not the case it's it's much significantly lesser than than in the past but yeah historically this is the reason why you had all these issues in India the government was a massive failure massive failure kesh kakoshik says congratulations on 300 sir thank you very much been watching since 2021 that's essentially the beginning thank you very much thank you very much sir thank Thank you so much for raising your standards. You're very welcome. Sad to see the US limiting your reach. I don't care. It's fine. Please add more regional languages in post stream VODs for more audience. I will consider that. Sure. Um um more regional languages. How to do that? I'll have to look into that. I'm sure it'll involve more work. But let's see if it's possible. I will be happy to do that. So Kesh Kaj, thank you so much. Kanesh Koshik G, thank you very much. I really really appreciate your having been here since 2021 and many more years to go. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. Anumita Roy. Thank you very much. I think ma'am. Thank you very much. Thank you. Rahul Lak Manan says, "When can we see updates to geostrategy.ac?" Yep, it'll happen eventually when I get a little more time on my hands. I'm more into writing these days and in case you are aware, I'm writing. I'm writing a lot. So that will also happen. Ankit GI says Cambodia's prime minister nominates Trump for Nobel Peace Prize after a peace deal with Thailand. What is the truth of this deal? Why doesn't he try to strike a peace deal between Afghanistan and Pakistan? Thailand, Cambodia, it's easy to do that, right? These two nations aren't that powerful. They don't have nuclear weapons. They don't have any any massive armed forces. And the dispute is about a Hindu temple and and multiple Hindu temples mainly the the Priya Vihar temple and the US can easily end you know bring about a ceasefire without actually resolving any issue right Trump is all about ceasefires he doesn't resolve any actual matter he resolves nothing the issue still stands the the po the point of contention between Thailand and Cambodia is the Priya Vihar temple which is a 1,000 plus year old temple. Both nations claim it. Both nations want it. They both crave it. Has Trump been able to resolve the problem, the core issue at the heart of the matter? No. It's a ceasefire which means that we will fight maybe some other day. So that's what Trump does. He wants to add all of this to his resume and he he craves the Nobel Peace Prize. So if you want to please Trump, you have to nominate him for a Nobel Peace Prize and he'll be like nice to you, nice towards you, towards your country. So Cambodia's prime minister is the son of Mr. Hunen. Mr. Hunen is the long-term military strongman, military dictator of of Cambodia. Now he has uh stepped into a more advisory kind of role where he where he still holds all the power and his son is now the prime minister. Mr. Hunen's son, I forget his name. Um yeah, so Mr. Hunen's son is a smart man. You know, nominate Mr. Trump for the Peace Prize. The truth of the deal is that it doesn't resolve the problem. There's no real deal. It's just a ceasefire. That's it. Uh why doesn't he try to strike a peace deal between Afghanistan and Pakistan? Because you can't because you can't strike a peace deal between Afghanistan and Pakistan without resolving the issue which is causing the fighting. What is the core issue? It's a territorial dispute. It is far bigger than the issue with Kashmir. Afghanistan claims massive Pakistani occupied territory. Kaibar Pakuna which historically should be Afghan territory because it is a pashon dominated dominated region where pashons haven't come in yesterday or day before yesterday. They they've been living there for centuries. So that territory actually belongs with Afghanistan and it is currently occupied by Pakistan and the Taliban are pashon nationalist. They want their ancestral territory back which is why you have a massive problem between Pakistan and Afghanistan which is made worse by the fact that Pakistan is a terrorist nation right and also made worse by the fact that Pakistan treats the pashon people very badly. Trump can't resolve this matter. He can all he can do is order a ceasefire or or urge both sides to do a ceasefire but that is only postponing the issue for tomorrow or day after tomorrow right so Trump is not really making any peace anywhere he's just create you know urging ceasefires everywhere I did this I did that come on man if you are really a peacemaker you have to resolve the problems what's the resolution to the Afghanistan Pakistan problem there's only one resolution karaku A needs to go back to Afghanistan. That is the only just resolution of the issue. Which means we have to redraw the map of this temporary artificial nation which will happen sooner or later. Shishir Upadia says Upadia. Okay. Shishir says why did Germany become the most immigrated country in the EU? You see, Germany, Germany is a fantastic nation which is under foreign occupation since 1945. Uh you could argue that it's a it's an artificial nation because there was no Dutch chalanda before 1871. You never had a unified Germany ever before 1871. uh even during the the the Roman times when you had Armenius who fought the the the Roman legions in the year 10 AD you do not have a unified Germany. You had various Germanic tribes who spoke similar languages and who came together to fight the Roman uh occupiers. Um now after 1871 Germany became an industrial powerhouse and the nation with the highest standards in Europe the best education system in Europe. Germans discovered quantum mechanics. Germans discovered relativity. Germans, it was mainly Germans who did this work. Of course, you had the French and uh people from Denmark and so on, but mainly Germans. Um and after 1945, after the end of the Second World War, Germany rebuilt itself and it became the industrial and economic powerhouse of Europe. the engine that drove the European economy, which is why migrating to Germany was very um was very attractive if you were a person who came from, you know, a third world country or a or that sort of thing. Of course, you had to learn the German language. Well, you learn any foreign language, same thing whether you learn English or German. So, uh that's why Germany became a country that was very attractive for immigration. Now, after 1945, the Germany had to be rebuilt. So a lot of Turkish workers were brought into Germany to rebuild the country and they never left. So so Turks became part of Germany's uh society. About 10% of of Germany's population is of Turkish origin. Some Kuresh people also Turks Kurds never friends by the way. Okay. And after Germany became part of the EU, the EU has pushed in immigrants into Germany. immigrants of certain kinds from certain nations, usually nations that are war torn nations, Middle Eastern nations, typically military age men with very few women or children. So that's a policy that the EU, the European Union has imposed upon Germany and that's how Germany has become the nation with the largest amount of immigration in the European Union. Yeah. They want to essentially end Germany and create a new kind of Germany. 6P70 Delta says, "Did you watch Mir Shar and Tucker's podcast?" I haven't seen it. I think he's spot on on China. I think the government of India should hire him to get educated about the PRC instead of wasting energy on slogans like Vishwaguru, Atman, Super. So, I haven't seen this podcast. I don't watch podcast anymore. I don't have the time to watch any podcasts. Um I I know people who tell me that if you want to be a podcaster, you have to watch podcasts. I understand that if you want to be a writer, you to read also. You read read a lot. And I do read, but I don't have the time to watch podcast. So I haven't seen this one. Um so I don't know what Mir Shmer has said about China. Should the government of India hire him to get educated about the People's Republic of China? I don't think it's a bad idea. uh you can you know hire consultants hire people who who have expertise in various various domains no there's no harm in doing that uh all these slogans like vishwaguru atmana superpower etc I think they are for public consumption and the public you know it it it gets induced when this you know by the slogans vishwa guru um which are actually pointless slogans right now so I agree about that superpower what What are you talking about? Superpower Vishwaguru we are not even Vishwa student properly right now atma that is a very important slogan and I hope we become more Atman as we go on but yeah overall I agree. Carla Dika Carla Daika says I hope I got your name pronunciation right. Um the racist stuff appearing on my ex Insta algorithm is laughable since I know my Indian relatives are not like that. Why are no are we in the states being manipulated? See what's happening on on social media. Uh I see X every day. So I I tweet very little these days because I don't want to be a spreader of negativity and there's very little positive to tweet about these days unfortunately. So anyway coming to your question, if you are on X, I'm not on Facebook. I'm not on Insta that much. I have an Insta account but I don't use it that frequently. So if you see X there's this tremendous outpouring of racism against Indians. No question about it. Is this organic? I don't think so at all. I don't think so. Uh it's it's I mean I have seen these videos of these server farms and uh uh these things. You see you see this is book rack behind me. you know, books. Uh, I've seen these videos with racks similar to these, but you have mobile phones on those racks, like thousands and thousands of mobile phones, each of which is connected to the internet. Each of which is a bot, has a bot account, which pretends to be a real account on X. It's powered by AI. And you can use this bot farms to to create narratives and amplify narratives about whatever. So it's possible that Chinese and Pakistanis have been doing this you know spreading hatred about India towards Indians and amplifying this hatred and eventually it's become mainstream. So now we don't need these bot farms to do it. It's become mainstream. Indians are like punching bags in in the US. Um they don't fight back. um they they're not like for example the Arabs the Muslims who are going to fight fight back and and come and harm you if you do something about them or if you say something about their religion right Indians are are absolutely dosile uh they don't hit back so they're the best in you know ideal punching bags and and obviously Indians if you look at the various demographics in the US Indians earn the most so there is going to be a tremendous amount of jealousy that's directed towards Indians So my point is that I I don't see this as an organic issue. I don't see this as an organic phenomenon. This has been this has been artificially created and amplified and now it's taken a life of its own. So now people the ordinary western person people the ordinary white person let's say in the US they they have a negative outlook towards towards Indians um yeah so so in case you have Indian relatives you will know how Indians are and whatever is being said about Indians that's not quite accurate not all of it is accurate uh some some things that that they say about India some of it is accurate obviously India is a third world country even today India still has a lot of issues, infrastructure and and corruption and whatnot allegedly poverty also but we have made huge strides in the right direction but some of the issues still persist. Anyhow my point is that all of this is a manufactured narrative that has now taken a life of its own and uh most frustrated people need someone to punch at and that's why Indians are the perfect punching bags if you're American. Divor Singh says, "Funny how YouTube would not let me ask about Israel." Okay, I suppose there are certain keywords that if you use those and then your comments or whatever get flagged and it depends, yeah, on the moderators and what they have said as the keywords, right? Anonymous scientist says, I I think Modi G postponing a meet with loudmouth Trump is a good move. What what's my view? I think it's a very good move. I agree with you. See, the Americans just now have imposed sanctions on various Russian companies that are going to affect India, right? Uh our purchases of of Russian oil. So, it's it's a hit on India and right after they do this to us, if we go and meet Trump and also after all the fake all the all the lies has been telling about Mr. Modi having spoken to him and assured him about not buying in Russian oil anymore then it's like we are condoning his behavior and we are going we are you know caving into him and and bending our knee to him. If Mr. Modi goes and meets meets with with Mr. Trump after all this behavior and if Mr. Modi does go and meet Mr. Trump even if you ignore all that behavior then Mr. Trump can make more claims after the meeting than Mr. Mr. Modi has promised me XYZ has promised me the moon has promised me the stars and then again the onus comes on Mr. Modi or on the Indian Ministry of External Affairs to either deny these false claims or just keep quiet silent stay silent and swallow this. It makes no sense for Mr. Modi to meet a guy who behaves in this manner. So uh I think it's a good idea. What Mr. Modi has done is the right thing. There is no point meeting with Mr. Trump right now at least until this trade deal if it ever gets done is done. Once the trade deal is done, see what Mr. Trump would like is that the trade deal the major negotiation happens between him and Mr. Modi. And it should not be a negotiation. It should be it should just be demands. I'm going to demand this this and Mr. Modi has to say yes. In a trade deal, it's not the principles who should negotiate. It is the officials and bureaucrats who are supposed to negotiate. Go down, drill deep down into issues and negotiate each of these issues one by one. That's how it is done. But Mr. Trump wants to ram it through from the very top. And that's why he wants to meet with Mr. Modi and get his immediate sign off on whatever deal he seeks. Okay, just sign this document. That sort of thing. So I think it's a very good thing that Mr. Modi has not gone for the ASEAN summit where so that he doesn't have to meet Mr. Trump. I think it's a good thing says sir apples what are your thoughts on this and congrats on 300 thank you very much sir um I don't know I can't say there are all these different timelines all of these any of those could be right and I'm not sure what the details of his timelines are because there are now so many people who have made so many different claims on what is the date of the Ramayan and what is the date of the Mahabharat? Some are very near to where we are maybe 1500 BC around that time. Some are 3,000 something BC. Some are like 30,000 BC. Uh so many different claims. Uh so right now I'm not not looking into all of this and there's too much toxicity and too much fighting among each other. See various you know first of all we to understand it takes a lot of personal time. there's you need to invest a lot of your personal time in doing this research. So all of these people have done tremendous service to India by by investing their personal time which is money into doing all this research and they have all come up with all these different dates. So first of all I commend all of them and I thank them all for their efforts but the dates don't match like five people will have five different dates and then they become emotional and they fight each other on on social media and that's a very unfortunate situation we have that all these people who are actually like scholars are fighting each other taunting each other on social media calling each other names some are being egoistic some are being toxic so I have been seeing this for several years and I've just, you know, tuned out of it. So, I don't know which is correct, which is not. Um, and I'll just, you know, I'm staying out of it right now. That's all. So, I don't know what to say about his dates. Maybe they are right, maybe they're not. I can't say because I personally haven't looked into the into the calculations. Mr. Senna says, "Minimum wage is a norm in the US and the EU. How does its absence contribute to wealth inequality in India and hinder our path to prosperity? Do we have minimum wages in India? I suppose we should have at least something on paper. I'm not sure. Does India have minimum wages? Let's let's Google that. Uh does India have minimum wage law? Do we have this? Yes, India does have a minimum wage law which was established in 1948. Wonderful. However, there is no single national minimum wage. Instead, the rate varies by state and the states decide all of these things. It's determined by various factors. Okay. And both the central and state governments have the authority to fix and revise these rates which apply to workers in scheduled environments. Blah blah blah. That's the need in India. Everything is hazy and whatever. So it looks like we have a minimum wage law and each state can decide what its minimum wage uh norms are right. So there is so you don't have an ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab absence of this minimum wage law we have it we have it wealth inequality of in India India is one of the least inequal nations when it comes to wealth I think it's the fourth least unequal inequal unequal nation the nation with the fourth least inequality in wages right um and look you cannot have complete equality of wages is otherwise you are in communism right so um so I don't see this this to be an issue I don't even think it's desirable to have more equality among people you need to have some inequality and it's it's just natural for there to be some inequality in wages in everything have you ever seen two people who are exactly equal no even among twins you will have differences it's just natural for there to be differences So yeah, so I don't see this as a as an as a big issue. Swapna says, "What were Norway's motivations for mediating in the Sri Lanka civil war?" The Sri Lanka civil war. The Sri Lanka civil war was the LTT versus the government of Sri Lanka, wasn't it? And uh the LT was a pioneer of various kinds of innovations like the suicide bomber, suicide west, sin capsules and whatnot. all kinds of horrific things. Um, and the the LTT so the one misconception people have about the LTTE is that it was a Hindu organization, liberation tigers of Tamil Elum. The fact is that the Prabhakaran family were all converted Christians and that's why they were very aminable to to being uh you know persuaded by the west to do various things. Uh so Norway is Norway was a proxy. Norway was you could say a middleman. See various European nations, they play the role of proxies of the US. That's what it was. It had no motivations of its own. Um beyond serving larger master. Divor Singh says Jews bought Tik Tok literally. What now? Well, Tik Tok continues the way it is or maybe some changes happen. Uh what now? So now it's no longer under the under the control of China. It now the the talk that's available in the west becomes a separate entity and now whoever has bought it gets to control it and decide how the algorithm works and what not. So that is the deal. Now have Jews bought Tik Tok? I think you mentioned this earlier also. Who has bought Tik Tok? Let's take a look at this. who has acquired acquired tick tock enterprise tech giant Oracle Silver Lake and the Abu Dhabi based MGX investment fund will be the main investors in the in Tik Tok's US business controlling a roughly 45% stake in the equity while bite dance investors and new holders will own 35%. Um, okay. Oracle Silver Lake, but I hear that Jews have have bought Tik Tok, so maybe there is something to it. I haven't looked into it in detail, sir. Okay. Anonymous scientist says, "How was your Diwali crackers?" I personally did not burst crackers, but everyone around me did that. So, it was great. Diwali is always great. Friend of Sharma, thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Amisha says, "How did humans mostly become right-handed?" I don't remember right now. I hear that polar bears are mostly left-handed. I don't remember what the reason is right now. I'll have to look into it. Let's let's quickly Google Google it. If Google has an answer, um why did humans become predominantly predominantly right-handed? Mostly right-handed. What is the reason? Left hemisphere of the brain which controls something or the other. Language fine motor skills connected left hemisphere dominance for tool use and later you language. Okay. Something to do with the hemispheres of the brain. The left hemisphere is the more mathematical hemisphere controls the right and the bodies are crossconnected and so on. That sort of thing. So I I'll have to look into this. I don't remember exactly. Maybe I would have known the answer in the past when I was a much younger. Looks like it has something to do with brain hemispheres. Divor Singh says, "Explain the Balur declaration." PS Rothchild. The Balfur declaration was what was it? It was the support for a Jewish nation. Lord Balur was the was a prominent politician I think it's 1917 is it and he was a prominent politician of some kind in Britain and they needed Jewish support for something and that's why they they expressed support for the creation of a Jewish nation somewhere I I suppose various parts of the world were were considered for creating a Jewish nation. Madagascar was considered once but eventually uh Israel was created in the ancient holy land, the ancient ancestral land of the Jewish people. Uh Rose Shield, I'm not sure what the connection is. I'm sure there must be some connection. Don't know for sure. So yeah, that's that's what I can tell you off the top of my head about the Balfur declaration. Yeah. Ammon um Anand Ray Fimate says, "How did bullets pass through propellers of planes?" Yeah. So um so during the first and second world wars, mostly during the Second World War, you had uh fighter planes which were propeller-driven fighter planes. You did not have the jet engine until late in the Second World War. And it was the Germans who developed the first uh jet engines. So you had fighter planes with propellers like the Spitfire for example. And these fighter planes also had cannons, guns and bullets would be fired from these from these cannons. And in front of the cannon you would have the propeller that's propelling the plane. So you would have to fire the bullets through the place where you had you would have the propeller doing its thing. So how did bullets pass through propellers? So they did not pass through the propellers. I suppose the the bullets were timed in such a such a manner that they coincided with the time where the propeller was not present exactly in the path of the bullet. The propeller would have a certain period, right? Period of rotation. So let's say it rotates, let's say a thousand times a minute. No, that's too less. maybe uh 10 times a second for example. So and and let's say the bullet the the cannon's rate of fire is also 10 times per second. I'm just giving a hypothetical example. So you can time it in such a manner that when you press the the the button the big red button for the cannon it'll fire in such a way that it doesn't ever hit the propeller blades. So yeah I suppose that's how it was done. Pratt Dhana says this Diwali felt special. Did you feel the same? I really enjoyed this year Diwali. Uh did it feel special compared to other Diwali? I'm not sure about that but it was it was great and this time there was no ban on crackers that I know of which which is also a good thing. So people really enjoyed bursting crackers. Yeah, I I hope everyone enjoyed this. Uh DNU Singh says US news ranked Israel higher than China in military strength recently. India is not in the top 10. Okay, anybody can come up with rankings. Um, if you are a media outlet, you can create your own rankings of whatever you want to create. So, military strength, naval strength, air force strength. Recently somewhere I hear I hear that the Indian Air Force is ranked the second or third most powerful air force or second most powerful air force in the world which makes no sense whatsoever. But there was this human cry about that in the Indian social media >> or Indian Twitter or whatever. So you know what are my views on this? I don't care. Anybody can create rankings. And uh Israel higher than China in military strength. Well, that is a little laughable. Of course, that's a little laughable. Uh even if you look at um nuclear capabilities, Israel would have what 70 80 100 nuclear weapons, maybe 200 nuclear weapons, but China would have at least 600 and overall China's economy and military capabilities far surpass that of Israel's. So that obviously makes no sense whatsoever. Shas Jenna Jenna says, "What is the history of Kolinga? It's underestimated. The history of Kolinga will take hours. It will take like multiple semesters of of a university course to teach. The history of Kolinga. How can I explain the history of Kolinga here? Kolinga is history goes back as as as far back as Indian history. And Kolinga was the part of India that was instrumental in connecting us with Sarabumi with the far east with with Southeast Asia right it is merchants from Kolinga who first ventured out and crossed the sea of Kolinga or the Bay of Bengal how it's called today and uh by by ship about 3,000 years ago at least and they started trading with Southeast Asia which is how You had the creation the emergence of various Indianized Hinduized kingdoms and empires in Southeast Asia all thanks to the great merchants of Kolinga. So the history of Kolinga is is spectacular fantastic but you can't explain it in 2 minutes here. Divor Singh says all American presidents descend from one man some English kind named John except Van Buran. Let's see. Do all American presidents descend from one man? Do all American presidents presidents descend? Descendants of King John really? Who's John? No. All US presidents are not not all are descendants of King John of England. Who was King John of England? Who is King John of England? Okay, it's not explaining that. Let's see. King John of England. Who was that first of all? King John. Okay. Are you talking about uh Edward Long Shanks? No, that that was Edward. Okay. King of England from 1199 to his death in 1216. He lost the duty of Normandy in most of his etc. So a lot of these guys are descendants of King John. Okay. Many presidents share a common ancestry. Barack Obama and Martin Vanburn have non-English ancestry that is not descended from him. Most are related to King John. Very interesting. So is Trump is Trump related? Is Trump is Trump a descendant of King John? Is he? Let's see. Yes, he is. Fascinating. likely through his Scottishborn mother's lineage. Very interesting. This is quite a rabbit hole that you have pointed out to us. Very interesting. Very interesting. What's the significance of this? I'm not really sure. I'll have to look into it. Um Dur Singh, let us not discuss this. All right, sir. Thank you, sir. Deadshot Diri says, "Why are we more inclined towards being followers? For example, we tend to go out of our way to follow the internet trends. One dude says, "Thanks for your attention to this matter." And tons of others follow. Yes, everyone follows trends, don't they? Why are we more inclined towards being followers? Because it's hard to lead. It's hard to lead. You need a tremendous amount of originality in you first of all to lead. See, most people don't even know who they are. Do you really know who you are? Can you spend 10 days alone without talking to anybody else? That's the only real way to find out who you who you really are. What are your own real thoughts? Most people you will find have thoughts that are the carbon copies of something they've heard here or there. None of their thoughts are original. None of their beliefs are original. their beliefs also they have acquired from here or there. Oh, I like this person. This person is very popular. Let me find out what they think about this issue or that issue and then I'll make it my belief. Right? Because thinking is hard work. Thinking is painful. It hurts to use the brain. Right? Most people have no original thought. Most most people have no original beliefs. they have no original ideas and it's not their fault because the education system etc does that to you. Um so it it so if you have the situation most people will therefore want to just follow. So leadership is very uncommon and most people don't even know what leadership is. Leadership actually is service of all these people who have no thoughts of their own. Uh so it is it is human nature that we tend to most of us tend to want to follow. Most of us have no original thoughts of our own. Most of us find thinking to be very difficult. Right? Most of us want to be like everyone else. We want to fit in. We want to be comfortable. We look around okay if I think this way will everyone approve? Will my peers approve? If I do something that is different from what they think, will that hurt me? Will they no longer be my friends? Do I have the courage to stand out and be different? Most people don't have this. That that's why everyone wants to be followers. Most most people, very few people want to be leaders and most people when they want to lead, they want to actually manipulate. They don't want to serve. So that's human nature. You see human nature. Rahul G says as of late October 25 sir creek activity among India and Pakistan I have no idea no idea whatsoever I am not keeping track of that if something happens we'll see lanya says if you want to guess based on your knowledge and instincts by what year will we see the planet free from the Anglo-Saxon le world order Garajia if I want to guess based on my knowledge and instinct By what year will we be free of the world order that is currently in existence which is led by the Anglo-Saxons? When will that happen? That's a good question. When do I think that will happen? I don't see that happening anytime in the near future. Unfortunately, if the See, I'll tell you what the what my thinking process is. Um there's only one nation that has currently the capability to to make life interplanetary. If they are able to send missions and colonists to the moon and Mars, then they are here for another couple of hundred years at least in the in the pole position, in the leadership position. Um, so I don't know or maybe something changes very rapidly. It is very hard for me to look into the future and say what could happen based on my instincts. I don't know 50 years. I'm being a little hopeful here. Yeah, I'm I'm just making a wild guess. Maybe 50 years. Maybe it won't be that long. Maybe some some things will change. Maybe 30 years. Okay, let's see. I don't know. Fast snail says, "What's the secret? What is secret information declassification? What are criteria for that?" Secret information is declassified when it is no longer dangerous. Why is information classified? Why is it kept secret? Because it is dangerous to those who are in power. Okay? If that knowledge becomes widespread, if it becomes common knowledge, then it will be dangerous to the people who are in power or it will be dangerous to your country. So information is kept secret only if it is if it compromises you, if it compromises the country or it compromises those who are in power. When it no longer has that power of of compromising you or the country, then it is then it can can be made secret. So one example is the Nakaji thing. Naki Subashand most likely did not die in the so-called plane crash of which there is no actual record in Taiwan. Most likely he was alive until 1985. But why is the government unwilling to accept this? Why is it unwilling to declassify the documents that they would have? Because it is these documents are still dangerous. They can still cause trouble too perhaps. I mean nobody in power will will will be singed by this right but maybe the country will face some problems because the west will attack the country for glorifying a person who they will claim was a supporter of Hitler or something like that. So you know that's the deal. So secret info is declassified when it is no longer dangerous or it can no longer compromise the people who are in power or or the country. 6 P70 Delta says about around 15,000 Ukrainian civilians are dead peanuts compared to Afghanistan and Iraq. But the US is a democracy valuing human life in evil Russia having complete disregard for human life. That's how it goes. People all people aren't equal. You see, all people aren't equal. That's how it goes. People with certain skin colors are more equal. That that's the hypocrisy of of of the West and and overall of all human beings. You pref you tend to prefer people who are more like you. You will always prioritize your people, your country people and so on. So yeah, you see what happened in Iraq when the Americans liberated Iraq? How many Iraqis died? Civilians, more than a million. Those you don't talk about. Entire cities were flattened. You don't talk about that, right? Because you are bringing in democracy. So that that's how it goes. That is the way of the world. Divor Singh says, "Are Chinese the best businessmen?" That's what American businessmen say. In the 1970s and 80s, American businessmen used to say that there is no better businessmen than the Japanese. The Japanese are the toughest negotiators. They do business in such a hardcore way that we Americans can't deal with them. That's what they used to say in the 1970s and ' 80s. Then the Americans dealt with Japan. Now, China is up here and right now because of the leverage that China has that other countries don't have, right? That's why China is right now in vogue and the Chinese are the best businessmen. So my point is why do we have to base our understanding on who the best businessmen are based on what one nation says? You don't necessarily have to do that. Of course, the US is the most consequential nation in the world right now. It's the nation that matters the most. It's the nation which historically the past century or so has had the highest standards. So, it kind of makes sense to to listen to what they have to say. And if they regard the Chinese to currently be their, you know, the toughest peer competitors they have, then maybe the Chinese are the best right now. So as a nation the Chinese the Chinese nation is the biggest competitor to the US right now and maybe their business people are the best in the world right now. Anonymous scientist says why are our countrymen insecure, naive and emotional? The moment your view differs from theirs they start fighting. It's the fault of the education system. It doesn't teach you how to think rationally. critical thinking. You know, you you're not taught any of these things that it's okay to have different opinions. It's okay to have different viewpoints. Try and understand the other person's viewpoint. Maybe you will learn something from them. Maybe they will learn something from you. You don't have to react to everything emotionally. Be analytical. Try and understand what that viewpoint means. But none of this is taught to us in school. in college, in university, right? So that's why Indians are insecure, naive, emotional and so on. And that's why unless we reform the education system, this country is going to go nowhere. Dr. Rita Brata Debat says, "Although the truth will never be out, but the CIA, but doesn't the CIA seem dumb enough to try assassination of Mr. Modi knowing his successor will be more hardliner. There is no guarantee of anything. First of all, there is no evidence there was an assassination attempt of Mr. Modi or a ploy to to assassinate him. That's all speculation on social media without I have not seen any evidence that could actually uh point in that direction. But let's say hypothetically assuming that maybe hypothetically this there could be some truth to it. Okay? And hypothetically there was this ploy. So when you want to do so, let's say you want to assassinate a world leader. You don't make a plan to assassinate somebody unless you have a succession plan that you think will succeed. And there is no guarantee that if if something happens to so and so person somewhere in the world that a more hardline successor will come up. No guarantee. So maybe they have some kind of plan you know action plan contingency plan whatever you want to call it. So yeah this is all speculation. Okay. Aradush Darwilli. Aradush Dwari is a Georgian name. Okay. Would you eat raw food and turn liquidarian for life? Why? I would not. Why would I do it? Why? Why raw food? I would never eat raw meat. That would be madness. Uh raw vegetables and fruits. Of course, I I'm happy to eat that. turn liquidarian for life. No. Why would I? Is there any benefit of doing that? No. Team talks Dharma says, "Congratulations. Thank you very much. Why doesn't the US do military parades like Russia, China, and India? Is there some link from the past? I have no idea. Why do they not do parades?" Um, well, they do parades, right? Don't they? Trump recently had a military parade. Donald Trump recently had some kind of military parade which did not really go out very well which kind of indicates that the US doesn't really do parades. So why don't they do military parades? I suppose if you are the most powerful nation in the world and if you are a nation that's accustomed to hiding its in instruments of power then it makes sense not to do parades. Yeah. Let the wars do the talking for you. No need to display what you have. just deploy it in warfare and win. 6P70 Delta says YouTube may decide to delete the Nuring's account. You never know what YouTube will decide. Vishnu says if Turks are of Central Asian origin why did so why did many western Gturks tatars have a 100% European ancestry which is ancient even before migrating to Anatolian lands and settling there see migrations aren't like straight arrows human migration is like a back and forth process okay Um if you look at the tarim basin mummies which uh are found in present day singinjang you know currently occupied by China uh you will find that those people who lived about what 3,000 4,000 years ago they look like present day western European people many of them have blonde hair or red hair light colored skin probably had light light colored eyes but if you see their language in their religion it was Indian so that's very weird isn't it so various kinds of genetics have spread across Eurasia over thousands of years uh the Turks the Turks they originate in the region that is present day Mongolia they their ancestors were called the Shau or the Hunu the Huns uh and they spread spread across Eurasia as as nomadic conquerors and their descendants some of them eventually came to be known as the Turks. Now these folks they migrated all across Eurasia and they would have picked up all kinds of genetics along the way. So if you look at the Tatar people like you're mentioning some of them have very slanty eyes some of them look like Europeans. Uh one example is Marat Safhin and Dinara Safhino the the the the siblings who are grand slam champions. Marat Safin Dinara Safhina these two are siblings. If you see here they these two are brother and sister. Now as you grow older you will see more cha. So do they look do they look European or Central Asian? I think they look kind of mixed, don't they? But if you see Maratafin when he was young, he looked less Central Asian and more European. Uh, Grand Slam, US Open. Let's see which Okay, which one did he win? Um, Grand Slam here. Does he look he has blonde or or light colored hair uh and that sort of thing? He looks more European here. So the point is that you know all these people if you are if you are a nomadic if you are a nomadic people you're going to pick up all kinds of ancestry all kinds of genetics during over the course of centuries and that's how it goes. All right. Okay. Uh DN Singh says what is cherankov? Cheranken of radiation. Cherank of radiation. Okay. So that comes when you break the speed of light in a certain medium. Yeah. The speed of light. So let's say we know what the speed of light in a vacuum is. It's roughly 300,000 km/s. 300,000 m/ second. kilometers uh kilometers/s 300,000 kilometers/s no m kilometers per second okay so that is the speed of light in vacuum one second let me just remember whether is speed of light speed of light meters/s 300,000 m/s we don't talk about kilometers we talk about meters okay so we know what the speed of light is in vacuum But the speed of light in let's say glass will be different. The speed of light will not be the same in glass as it is in vacuum. The speed of light will not be the same in water as it is in vacuum. And it's possible for the speed of light to break that limit in a certain medium. And that is what gives rise to this this radiation which is called cherank of radiation which is this this bright flash that you suddenly see blue flash typically. So you can see uh if you want to see what it looks like. Okayov radiation. And if you look at the images, this is what it looks like and that's how it originates. Okay. Deadshot Diri says Sal. Okay. Sal, are we still sovereign because we because and haven't sold out because the insanely corrupt politicians already have infinite money to be farmed in land. Look, uh there are different ways of looking at sovereignty. And you can complicate it as much as as you want or simplify it as much as you want. The way I look at sovereignty is from different three four different perspectives. One is territorial sovereignty. Second is economic sovereignty. Um so economic sovereignty is do you control your own money? Do you control your own currency? So India does control its own currency doesn't it? Right? We have the Indian rupee that we entirely control. When it comes to territorial territorial sovereignty, we control our borders. We have full control over our borders. So we have that as well. When it comes to uh legislative sovereignty, we make our own laws. So we are sovereign there as well. When it comes to uh policies, so we we we decide what policies will be implemented in our nation and nobody else does. So if you look at all these different perspectives, we are still a sovereign nation for sure. Um yeah, sure you can have issues and we do have allegedly issues such as corruption that are a big problem in India and that need to be resolved and corruption can have the effect of various people potentially becoming assets of foreign countries in your nation, right? Uh so that is there. So it does compromise the nation but it doesn't encroach on our sovereignty entirely. So every nation has these issues. Even the US will have some people who will secretly be working for some other country. But that doesn't prevent the US from continuing to be a sovereign nation. Right? So these are issues that compromise national security and national interests to a certain extent. Uh but until and unless it becomes a widespread epidemic scale problem, you're still sovereign. Busker Kywal says, "Dear sir, the questions weren't sent to yesterday's live stream. I sent 8 to 10 questions to this particular 300th episode, but yesterday." Well, if the questions have been sent, then I should be able to see them. And uh right now I can see 149 um super chat questions and I'm going through these one by one. So and I started with the first one. So let me see the first one is not yours. So maybe if you send those yesterday maybe they disappear. I have no idea. See if that's happened I apologize but that's something that YouTube controls. I don't control it and I am simply taking every single super chat question I am seeing. So yeah, in case your your questions aren't there, I apologize. But it's it's not in my hands, then maybe in the future, maybe you should do it when it's live, right? So if I see it, I see your questions. I'll take them for sure. But I don't think I'm seeing any questions from yesterday. All right, sir. Shia says, why destroy EU and Japan introducing Muslim human crisis by the US? Listen uh I will talk about immigrants. I will not talk about religion. All right? I I don't talk about religion. I don't talk about that specific religion. First of all, if you are talking about bringing in bringing in illegal immigrants of various kinds into Europe or Japan, why do that? See, if you consider a nation to be a dangerous nation, for example, Germany, if you consider that Germany is a potentially dangerous nation, they were able to produce something like the third. They were able to produce Nazi Germany. And if we are not careful, maybe in the future something like that will happen again. Then you go to the root cause of Nazi Germany. Their belief that the German people are the master race. the master race, a superior kind of human being. That's what caused Germany to become the third Reich, Nazi Germany. So, how can you prevent this from happening? By changing the race, by bringing in outsiders into your country and having them interbreed with your people so that you no longer have that master race. Maybe that's one reason. I'm just speculating here. I don't have any real answers because I don't know what's going on in the minds of the people who are planning and and and executing this but maybe that is one of the causes why one of the reasons why they want to do that and similarly in Japan maybe something similar I I'm just guessing I don't know but possibly yeah that sort of argument does make sense logically perhaps yeah Rajat Rasogi says Indian diplomats say that in in that India will be a 30 trillion economy in next 30 years what do I Where will where will be the US in the next 30 years? What will happen to China? You ask me to make predictions about the future you can't uh Indian diplomats say all kinds of things. TK good wonderful. What will most likely happen? What will where will India's economy be by 2050? Look right now it's a $4 something trillion economy in 2025. Um in 2014 we were half of that. So in 10 years we've doubled roughly. Okay. Uh what was India's econ? How large large was the Indian Indian economy in 2015? USD trillions how many 2.1 trillion right and today we are what 4.3 4.4 4 trillion. So India's economy has doubled in 10 years. Right now it is 4.5 let's say. So in another 10 years by 2035 let's assume it doubles. So it's 9 trillion. Then another 10 years will it double? Let's say it doubles hypothetically. Okay we are doing the exponential thing. So by 2045 we are 18 trillion. So it is possible that by 2050 we could be a 20 trillion economy. But a lot can happen. We could become a $50 trillion economy or we may still remain a $10 trillion economy depending on so many different factors. Maybe the leadership is a very important factor. Right now we have something someone like Mr. Modi that we are very fortunate to have. What if something somebody else comes to comes to power in 2029 or before that and maybe then we make a complete U-turn U-turn and our economy slows down. That's also possible, right? Depending on how you people vote. Uh so I am confident I am I am hopeful I would say that we will be at least a 20 trillion economy by 2050. Where will the US be? It will most likely still be the most powerful nation in the world. What will happen to China? China will still be the second largest economy if not the largest economy by the time if things go on track, stay on track the way they are right now. But you never know what the future will bring. You know, you never know. Divor Singh says Raan had the knowledge of the of four Vedas. If Riga is just 1500 BC, Raan Ramayan happened just 3,000 years ago. Does not make sense. No, it doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. So, look, these timelines don't make any sense. They have been force fitted into euroentric notions of how the world is supposed to be. uh when Maxim Miller made this this claim that the Arian invasion the so-called Arian invasion happened around 1500 BC he was trying to force fit everything into this biblical uh timeline of the universe's age according to Christianity according to the Bible or whatever their their texts are the world was was created about 4,000 years ago by God in in a period of 7 days 4,04 years ago or something like that. So, and that's why people like Newton used to be astonished when Egyptians seemingly claimed that they their civilization was like 5,000 years old and they would the Europeans would say, "How can it be?" Because God made the the world 4,000 years ago. So, how can you even claim that your civilization is 5,000 years old? So all of these dates that we that are currently mainstream are because of the force fitting that was done by people like Max Müller to force everything within the the biblical time frames. So this this dating of the rigid of 1500 BC or whatever it makes absolutely no sense. The rigida was most likely written closer to 6,000 BC than to 1500 BC based on what we know about the Saraspati and when the river was last in its prime. So the Raman clearly happened significantly before uh 1500 BC. That's for sure. Hersa says I was reading an article that shows that 60% of women leave their man if they are incapable of providing capital. So what is this unconditional love crap views? Well, okay. I'm not sure where this article came from and how they decided that 60% of women will leave their man if they can't provide uh capital. But from a biological evolutionary perspective, it kind of makes sense, right? It kind of makes sense that a man has to be strong and and and capable of providing for a woman. and uh her offspring and his own offspring. So from an evolutionary perspective, it kind of makes sense. But from a civilizational perspective, maybe not not so much so, right? You're supposed to be unconditionally loving each other or or something. So you know what I I would have to see the article and what was their research methodology, you know, and so on and maybe it doesn't make sense. I don't know. Divor Singh says, "What was the Iran Contra affair?" It was this um Iran Contra affair. This is from the Reagan era, isn't it? Somewhere around that time. And there was this guy called Oliver North who testified with his hand out like this. Oliver North. Let's let's Google this. You're bringing back memories from the time when I was a little kid. Oliver North, American political commentator. What was he kn What's he known for? What is Oliver North known for? Come on, Google. Do your thing. Test. He testified or something. Iran contra affair. Iran contra affair. Yes, he maintained a public blah blah blah. Arms for host. All that stuff. Yeah, that's fine. But he testified. Let's see. Testifying. There he is. Yep. There he is. Yeah. So it was some some kind of corruption scandal of or something. Um the see in 1979 you had the uh Islamic revolution in Iran and the the government of Muhammad Raza Pakabi who used to be who who was a US asset. it was overthrown and the regime of the Ayatollah took over which still continues in in Iran. And when this happened, the Iranians they uh stormed the US embassy and they took uh a bunch of diplomats hostage and that hostage crisis went on for like 2 three years and around this time you had some kind of bribery scandal or something. I don't remember the details of the Iran contra affair. If you want we can look it up. But it was something from that time. Iran Contra affair affair. What was this thing? Yeah. Arms trafficking to Iran between 81 and 86. And what was the objective? What was what was? Yeah. Secret sales of weapons to Iran, exchange of rel. Yeah, that sort of thing. Yeah. So I kind of was was in the right ballpark. um you know some kind of deal with Iran some kind of u sale of weapons or whatever in exchange for releasing the hostages. Yeah. Pratt says is in the US Republican politicians got a backlash for Diwali wishes. Have they opened a can of worms? Maga Magore is size Magore is size gone full as of mode. YouTube won't let me super chat. Okay. Um in the US Republican politicians some of them got a backlash from their own constituency from their own voters for wishing for for Diwali wishes. Have they opened a can of worms? See um in the US the conservative people consider the nation to be a Christian nation and it is kind of a Christian nation isn't it? Uh the US was founded in what 1776 by Christians. Um and yeah overall it's been a Christian nation and when you wish people for a polytheistic religious major holiday it will definitely offend the Christians the Christian conservatives and so yeah the politicians who have done that will most likely have got a significant backlash from their own voters. It is what it is that's how it goes. Have they opened a can of worms? No, it's not a can of worms. Um, yeah, it's not surprising at all. And see, the thing is that if you are Indian in a western nation, uh, you despite the fact that the law gives you equal rights and so on, if you are a citizen of the nation, you are kind of still going to be kind of a secondass citizen implicitly. Yeah. Unless you are a white Christian, you're going to be a second class citizen. I mean the Latinos know that, the natives know that and Indians are also discovering that now. It is what it is. An says to fulfill its full potential, Bat needs a robust governance system, government system, governance system. For a robust system, we need excellent education system, which in turn requires a robust system. Are we trapped in a catch22? So what needs to happen first is the question. For a better system, do we first need to create a better better education system? No. The question really is what comes first? A better education system or a better system of governance? I would say a better system of governance comes first. Otherwise, the education system will never be reformed because in the current system, this is the best form of education that we can have. uh the politicians who who have come to power in the current system, the current flawed system, they would not want to change the education system because that will then inform the citizens of how how bad the the current governance system is. So it it doesn't make sense for them to reform the education system. So what first needs to happen is that the the governance system itself needs to change. Then other things will change. See that's the thing Dur Singh says if we cannot go further from the north pole is it same with time and the big bang there was no time before the big bang as far as we know time is a big mystery it's an interesting question you're asking here time is a big mystery we don't know where it comes from we don't know whether time is an emergent phenomenon that emerges out of spaceime or emerges thought of something that is part of the universe or time is maybe even external to the to the universe itself. We have no idea. So you are right. We can't go further north of the north pole. No question about that. Time and the big bang. Did time begin with the big bang? What has caused time? Is time a consequence of quantum entanglement and decoherence? And all of that obviously comes with the beginning of the universe which is the big bang. So I would say it is likely but I'm not sure about this. No one is sure about this that time began with the big bang with the expansion of spacetime itself at the very beginning because we think of you know uh Steve Weinberg has a book called the first 3 seconds. It's about the first 3 seconds after the big bang assuming that time begins with the big bang once again. So most probably there was no time before the big bang and time began with the big bang itself. But who knows? Maybe time is external to the universe itself. We don't know. We don't know for sure. Uh net net stat says why are elites building bunkers all of a sudden? I don't know sir. Are elites building bunkers? What what does elite mean? Do you mean the billionaires in the US? Because I don't know if any elite in India is building bunkers. Maybe you're talking about the US. So, does Elon Musk have a bunker? Does Bill Gates have a bunker? Does uh I don't know. I don't know. An says, "In my opinion, in 200 years, the British were able to colonize BAT much more thoroughly than the Turks could in 800 years." I agree with you, sir. I agree. What do you credit their success to? The Turks tried to destroy our culture and civilization through violent means through the sword. The British did that with bureaucracy. They passed laws. They changed the education system. First of all, they abolished the indigenous education system that gave India so much everything we had. They abolished that and then they created they imposed their own colonial education system that was designed to to churn out clerks and peons and they made it such that unless you have a degree through the colonial education system you can't get a job and they made English the language through which you can get jobs because of that Indians had to become anglicized And if you become anglicized and if you go through the education system, you will start worshiping the British. So that is what they did. They did more through the power of the pen than the Turks could achieve through the power of the sword. Right? Very very intelligent, very smart, very insidious. That is why even though the British are gone, their system still continues and we are getting more and more colonized today. Right? That's the deal. Gallour says what is time? Does it make sense before knowing what is plank time? Uh the plank time is the shortest uh unit of time. See there are there's something called the plank units. Plank units are made up of the fundamental constants of the universe such as G, H, C. G, H, and C. H is the plank constant. G is Newton's constant of gravitation. C is the speed of light. And using these and they all have different units. And using these fundamental constants, you can create you can construct uh fundamental units of of u length, breadth, mass, temperature, etc. you. So you have the plank mass, you got the plank length, you got plank time which are all constructed out of these fundamental constants. So plank time is is a unit of time. It is a very very very brief unit of time. It's about 10 to - 44 or 45 seconds. Okay, I let let's let's verify whether what I just said was is correct or not. uh plank time if I recall correctly if you calculate properly it's about 10 it's of the order of - 10 10 - 44 or - 45 seconds so let's see plank time 10 - 44 seconds right it's of the order of 10 - 44 seconds it's the smallest unit of time that can be measured well you can't really measure it hypothetically theoretically be measured you can't actually measure something of you know that brief Okay. Uh, nationalist says top 10 biggest historical lies fed to Indians. I'll tell you the top one. Nonviolence. Nonviolence is the best thing. Right? Nonviolence will turn you into losers. Nonviolence is a lie. It's a myth. Don't ask yourself what what would Gandhi do? Ask yourself what would Kali do? Why do all our gods hold a weapon? If nonviolence is the biggest biggest best thing in the world, then why do all our gods hold weapons? Maybe because Hinduism is evil, right? Again, there we go. So, these are some of the biggest lies, historical lies. Yeah, nonviolence works. Nonviolence doesn't work. Nonviolence turns you into slaves. Okay. Bjusai says, "The more I read about World War II, the more I realize that Italy was more actually more of a burden on Germany." What do you think? Italy was a junior partner to to Germany. Germany was the major power in Europe and Japan was the major power in in the east. Italy was a junior partner to Germany, but it was ideologically aligned with Germany Germany, which is why the two nations were on the same side. Right? The axis Uh so I agree with you. Um Italy was a junior partner and maybe you could say a burden to some extent on Germany. Rajat Chhattajji says why does dipole from cosmic microwave background match with earth's equinox in ecliptic when there is no connection between these? I'm what dipole from cosmic microwave background. The cosmic microwave background radiation is photons. Photons it is the leftover light. The after go afterlow of the big bang. It's photons. There's no dipole there. Right? So I'm not sure what you have read, but you need to first have clarity about what you have read or heard. The cosmic microwave background radiation is just photon. It's just light. But it's it's extremely cold light. Extremely low energy, right? Um it's about what 2.4 2.5 Kelvin the temperature. What is 0 Kelvin? It is absolute zero. CNBR is about 2.5 or something Kelvin and that's it. There's no dipole in there. So yeah. Uh Dnor Singh says why is Scotland and Ireland the home to whiskey? Well, Scotland is home to Scotch whiskey. Uh Ireland has its own whiskies. The Americans have their own whiskies, right? I mean what is Jack Daniels? It's it's Tennessee mash sour mash whiskey. So even the US has has its own whiskies. What do what else do they have? Whatever else they have rye whiskey and whatnot. Um Irish whiskey. What are famous Irish whiskies? I'm not really sure. I know about scotch whiskies. You know various i scotch and peted scotches and whatever else. Um, and what are whiskies made from? Hops, right? Hops. At least in Scotland, they're made from hops. Ireland, I'm not sure what they're made of. And um, in the US, what does what are what is Jack Daniels made from? Let let's let's I Let's see. Uh, what is Jack Daniels made from? Oh, it's made from corn, rye, and Okay. Molted barley. Okay. What is scotch whiskey made from? Oops. What is that? Ma made from scotch. Scotch whiskey made from. It's made from water, cereals, and yeast. Molted barley. So what is made from hop? Hops. What is what alcohol? Alcohol is made from hops. Is it beer? It's made from Okay, it's beer. Okay. So, yeah. I don't know what rabbit hole I'm going into, but okay. So, I think I suppose every nation has its own brand, its own, you know, favorite kind of alcohol. And u yeah, Scot Scotland is Scotch whiskey, Ireland has it own whiskey, and the US has its own whiskies, I suppose. Okay. 6P70 Delta says, "Does power come from violence rather than money? As a person with a truck full of Kalashnikovs would be more powerful than with one with a truck full of money?" Well, you have hit the nail on the head, sir. Power comes from the capacity to unleash violence if required. You are absolutely right. A truck full of cash is It doesn't give you the kind of power that you get from a truck full of Kalashnikovs. Right? Imagine you have a 100 guys each of whom carries a suitcase full of dollars and then you have 100 guys each of whom carries a Kalashnikov and sufficient ammunition to do a lot of damage. What makes you more powerful? It's the guys with the Kalashnikovs, right? So power comes from the capability to unleash violence on demand. That is the truth about power. It's like what Maadong said, political power flows out of the barrel of a gun, right? So yeah, violence is the key or the possibility the potential to do violence. Anonymous scientist says is it possible to test multiverse theory and professor Alan Gut's bubble universe theory maybe some observation through James Web it it is not possible to test any multiverse theory ever through any observation because to test the multiverse theory you have to prove that there are more universes than the one we live in which means that you need to have find data you need to collect data from beyond our universe which is impossible right so it's not possible to test the multiverse theory bubble universe I'm not sure about that but no matter how how far you crank crank up the James web telescope how do you find any evidence of universes beyond our own we don't even know what lies beyond the observable universe that bubble that we live in because there is a certain horizon horizon the observable horizon of the universe which is about what which has a radius of of about 45 to 47 uh billion light years we can't see beyond that so the universe will live in itself we can only see a small part of it so how are we going to see something that's beyond our universe it's it's impossible so yeah you can't test it unfortunately you can't um swastik mahesh says how much is India's power projection capabilities. So how do you define power projection? Power projection means the ability to project power far beyond your territory or beyond the territories you control. Right? Um so in the case of the US, power projection is done through the various military bases the US has in territories that are not it its own. For example, the US has more than 130 military bases on Japanese territory which is not US territory. So that's how it's able to project power in that region. It has a military base in Diego Garcia south of the Maldives. That's how it's able to project power in the Indian Ocean region and so on. So that's how the US does it. Does India have any such power projection capabilities? Any extr territorial military bases? Maybe a few. So our power projection capabilities aren't great. Um another way of projecting projecting power is through missiles. So what are the longest range missiles we have? The publicly available information is that the AGNI 5 has a range of about 8,000 kilometers roughly. So that's how far our power projection goes more or less. But obviously the the actual range may be different which is a different story. Uh, Gallivor says, "Burvestnik, Burvestnik missile." Burstnik missile. Does this change the game once and for all more than Chinese FOBs deployment? Buritnik missile. Is it that nuclearpowered missile that you're talking about? Let's let's Google it. Buritz Buritnik. Yeah, there you have it. Buritnik missile. It's a nuclearpowered cruise missile. Oh, really? They test it today. That's fantastic. That's interesting. Okay. They tested this today. This missile was first announced, I think, in 2019 or 18. So, what's the deal with this missile? We I think we know what cruise missiles are. I I think you all must be knowing what a cruise missile is. A cruise missile is a missile that kind of flies like an aircraft. Okay. It's not a ballistic missile that has a parabolic trajectory that exits the atmosphere and then re-enters and then impacts. A cruise missile flies like an aircraft. It's got wings. It flies at aircraft speeds or maybe higher, maybe lower, whatever. And uh so it plays a totally different role and it these missiles typically have engines that are similar to aircraft engines or maybe sometimes different. So this missile that we're talking about the Buretsnik Burve Wnik missile it has nuclear propulsion. What does that mean? It's not a nuclear tipped missile necessarily. It may not necessarily have a nuclear warhead. It may have a conventional warhead but its propulsion system is nuclear in origin. Typically, you would have something like a nuclear ramjet, nuclearpowered ramjet. So, it'll have a nuclear power plant in it, which produces heat that powers a ramjet or possibly even a scramjet. So, let's Google this. Okay. Burvetsnik, what is the propulsion like? Bitnik missile propulsion. Is it a nuclear ramjet? What is it? Uh, nuclear armed cruise missile blah blah blah. Propulsion. Propulsion. Propulsion. What is it? Design speculation. We don't know. Of course, we don't know. Okay, let me just search for ramjet. Ramjet. It could possibly have a ramjet. Yeah, but it's so classified that we don't really know what the deal is. And it's definitely not not a Basad Ramjet. So yeah, it definitely is a gamecher because see what's the deal with this missile? If it has nuclear powered propulsion, it means it doesn't need to be refilled with kerosene or whatever um fuel chemical fuel is used in standard uh propulsion. Which means that this this cruise missile can fly for months on and on and on. And then one day without warning it can go and hit the target. That's a gamecher. Nobody else has this capability. Yeah, totally game changer. Shashank Kukhat says Peshwa Bajiro remained undefeated throughout his life. Shattered the Mughals and transformed the Marata kingdom into an empire. Can he be considered India's greatest military general ever? One of India's greatest military generals. I would not say that he would be the greatest ever military general. one of the absolute legends. Okay, no question about that. Uh but we have other legends. Uh we have for example Samudra Gupta whose entire life, Emperor Samudra Gupta whose entire life was an extended military campaign and he never lost and he conquered more. We also have Kaneshka who defeated everybody who conquered an empire that boggles your mind from the Caspian Sea to the Aral Sea including the whole of present day Shinj Jang which is part of China. He defeated everybody who came his way. So we've had many legends, many legends. Uh so we have to put things in the right perspective. All right, friends. James says, "James princip is the man who deciphered your brahmiscript, found your history. We civilized you, taught you your own language, of course. Yet you still hate us superior British." Yeah. James Princip. James Princip, right? He's the guy who deciphered the brahiscript, is he? So suppose uh found your history right? See see what happened is this. This is what happened. India was the uh nation that invented education. India wasn't the nation. India was the civilization that invented education. We invented the concept of the school, the college, the university, especially the university. We had the oldest libraries. We invented the concept of the library before anybody else. Um so we had our own records of our own history. And then what happened is that we were invaded and occupied by the Turks. And what the Turks did was they destroyed all our universities and burned all our libraries. So we lost all the written records of our history and whatever was left we we had to pass it on orally. Then the British arrived in India later on right and uh once they took over India they they said that you you guys have your these fake histories these legends everything is done orally everything is passed on orally so we will teach you what your history is and then they proceeded to write our history for us and teach us what their version of our history and that's something that is still being taught to us to our to our children to children in schools colleges universities is today. So, um I don't know much about this gentleman, James. James James Princip, but but okay, let's quickly look at him. James Princip, who's this guy? Princip RN P. He was an English scholar, etc., etc. Karashi, Brahis. Okay, so I'm sure he was interested in these matters, right? and he would have deciphered the brahmy and the koshi script. So, so good for him, good good for us, good for all of us. Um, so yeah, some of this was done by the British. But the British also did other stuff which was very nasty, wasn't it? Like genociding 200 million plus Indians, right? Uh, construct not constructing, engineering hundreds of artificial famines and so much more. So you see just because a couple of things happened because of because somebody was curious about Indian industry doesn't mean that you civilized us and taught our own language and so on and so on. But you know what James I appreciate you James. I appreciate you from for bringing these things up. Thank you sir. Thank you. Dnour Singh says so I told this white guy that Jesus looked more like me than him and I believe I I became the villain in the people around somehow. You see, everyone wants to see God in their own form. If you go to Southeast Asia, they have statues of Gotham Buddha there. Those look Southeast Asian. You go to China, they have statues of the Buddha in China. And whether the Buddha looks Chinese, right? Um, so that that's how it's going to be. uh you will find paintings of Lord Shiva and and and goddess Parvati in central Asia and there they will have slanted eyes. So that's how it goes. You see so today Christianity is the the the primary religion of the white people and because of that they would want Jesus to look like them. So I believe that Jesus was the the standard depiction of Jesus as this as this person with a beard and and uh long blond hair. I believe it was modeled on one of the Borgas of the Bourja family right Chisar Borg was it was it what did he look like? Chazar Borgia. So this is what the guy looked like. Chazaria and uh and I suppose that family commissioned some artist to depict Jesus in the like likeness of Chisar Borgia and that's how that image has been passed on and today most Europeans believe that Mr. Jesus was this white man with Italian-looking face and and long blonde hair. And if you dispute that, then you're going to become the villain. Of course. Yes. Abishek Shivas says, "What went wrong in the 1857 war? Who was Taty Tope?" I don't I remember when I was a little kid, we were taught about Tattope. Some reference to to a freedom fighter called Tate Top. I don't know about his life history, so I won't be able to answer that. What went wrong in 1857? We weren't united and some of us fought for the occupiers. That's what went wrong. You see, so the lesson, the moral of the story is we have to be united. We have to look out for each other. We still have the same problem in India today. We still have brown coolies writing articles, anti-India articles for Washington Post and whatnot and proudly saying that you know what I'm proud to to have written this article to to have done this investigation on so on so on and so forth. We still have these me jaffers in the country right that's these are the things that went wrong for us historically shaswat shashwat mishra says we seem to overhide the capabilities of our weapons it makes our weapons look substandard on paper various other countries especially China seem to hype up their weapons which enhances the export I'll tell you what enhances the export of weapons performance So and once again performance in in a battlefield it's not being telecast live. So if you're watching a cricket match you know that so and so guy has performed well and so and so guy has not performed well. We know exactly who performed in what way. Roy Sharma did this. Virat Kohli finally got some runs. Right? That sort of thing. But let's say you use 20 different weapons on the battlefield. you don't quite know which one has performed well. But if you win the battle or the war, then most likely your weapons are better, right? So if you want to enhance the export of your weapons, you've got to fight wars. You've got to win wars. If you consistently win, your weapons are going to be in high demand. So if you want to export weapons, one way of doing it is to do marketing marketing lot of marketing. We have the best weapons blah blah blah. Enhance you know exaggerate the capabilities of your of your weapons. Another way of doing it is to win. So for example when we had operation we did not really gain any territory. In my opinion, the only measure of victory is how much territory you gained. Otherwise, it's just pointless because you know if you take out some aircraft and crater some airfield those that can be repaired the aircraft can be replaced. Territory is what you need to win. Now one thing we know for sure in operation tendur is that our air defense system performed spectacularly. we now can factually state that we have the world's best battle tested air defense system. So that performance is what gives you export orders. Uh when it comes to hiding the capabilities of your weapons, I think that's a good idea actually. Don't don't reveal what your weapons are capable of. Reveal that only on the battlefield by winning. That's what you have to do. Team talks Dharma says, "Is there a way to regulate alcohol consumption in a state because we know banning it doesn't work. Spreading awareness also fails because people think it's cool." Um, alcohol clearly is a is not a very good thing. Uh, people who abuse alcohol with they will create all kinds of trouble for themselves and for for the world. So, The thing is if you try to regulate something then it becomes even more desirable. You see if you ban something or if you regulate something it becomes more desirable. And there are some states in this country in India where alcohol is banned or please go there. Please go to to those states and see what happens on the ground. Is there no alcohol consumption in those states? On the contrary. Okay. So my point is all these things are pointless. People will do what they do. The only thing we can ensure is that people in some states one hears that there is too much alcohol consumption. So something should be do done about that. And there must be reasons why certain states have excessive alcohol consumption while other states don't have that issue. there must be something locally you know relevant over there in those states why you have excessive alcohol consumption for example I have heard I'm not sure if I'm right but a certain certain state in the southern part of India seems to have an issue with alcoholism so what's the reason there must be something local to that local to that state which is why maybe alcohol is a available for very cheap over there maybe it is locally made alcohol which is very cheap I'm not sure what it is so one way of regulating alcohol consumption is to make it expensive, right? Make it expensive. Don't ban it. Make it expensive. Impose extra taxes or whatever on it. That's one way of doing it. Banning it doesn't work. Spreading awareness. Everyone knows cigarette smoking is bad, but people still smoke cigarettes. I've seen doctors who smoke cigarettes. I've seen dentists who eat who which you pan. So, spreading awareness makes makes no difference. The only way of doing it is to make it more expensive. Make it more expensive. Divor Singh says, "Was the falank of Alexander superior to Roman legionary warfare? What about Mongol pony blitz blitzkrieg?" Uh, the Macedonian fallank. Yeah. Yeah. That was quite a thing, right? That was quite a thing. You would have these soldiers called hoplights if I'm not mistaken who had these like spears that were like three times the length of of a man and you would have these these pe these hoplights would deploy the the spears right in front of them and for and you would have their companions who would be waiting in the arms behind them and that was almost an impre impregnable kind of a you know maneuver until it was not right? Uh until it it was defeated. So it was uh so was the fallank superior to Roman legionary warfare and the Mongol pony blitzkrieg? I think the fallank was relevant for its time period. The Roman legionaries would have made short work of the falank because they had other weapons. They had ranged weapons. Um and the Romans they were able to solve all problems whether these were engineering problems whether the these were tech tactical problems. What is the use of failanks if you can be destroyed at a distance? Tell me. The Romans would bring in catapults which would take out your fangs from a distance of 500 ft. Then what do you do with the falank? So I would say that the Roman warfare, the Roman legionary warfare was superior to anything the Europeans invented in other other parts of Europe because the Romans did defeat the Greeks. They occupied they conquered and occupied Greece. Roman pony blitzkrieg. If the ro sorry, Mongol pony blitzkrieg, the Mongolian way of warfare was yeah, definitely ponies and archery. They would have made short work of the Romans, the Mongols. They would have punched holes through whatever the the Roman legions looked like. the Mongols would have defeated them. The Romans there was there was an innovation that was ahead of its time. So yeah, I would say the legionaries would defeat the fallanks and the and the Mongols would defeat the legionaries. Karan says, "Are Avans really our stock people?" I've seen some of the Afghan immigrants kind of look like Italians, blue eyes, blonde hair, etc. Easily differentiated from local Indians and Pakistanis. They have mixed Iranic and Central Asian DNA. The original Iranian DNA, the original Iranian people are were not blonde or blue-eyed. Today, you will see some people in Iran who are blonde and blue-eyed because those have been brought those people were brought into Iran during the Turk occupation of Iran from the Caucasus region. The true Persians aren't white people. They aren't blonde. The true Persians are darkhaired, dark eyed people with light brown skin. Okay, please understand that first of all, today's Persia is different. Today's Persia is the consequence of almost a thousand years of of Turk occupation. Who was Nad Sha? You think he was Persian? He was a Turk. Who was uh the the Sha of Horasma when Chingishan invaded Horasma? He was a Turk. He was not Persian. Persia itself was under Turk occupation and a lot of people from Caucases from the Caucasus region and central Asia were were settled in Iran which completely permanently changed the demographics of Iran. So before the foreign occupation of Persia, the Persians looked like people from western India maybe slightly lighter skin. Now coming to Afghanistan and the pashon people. Even if you look at Afghanistan today, it's not one ethnicity anymore. You have um the Turkmans, you have the Usuzbcks, you have the Tajiks, you have the Hzaras, and God knows what other you may even have Kiris in Afghanistan. Those are not the original people of Gandhar. The original true inhabitants or native people of Afghanistan or Gandhar are the pashons. Now even even among the pashons you will find some people who look very strikingly almost like Europeans. Sure. But what does the average pashon look like? If the average pashon were to walk around in Delhi, nobody will look at them twice. That is a fact, right? So why do some pashons look so different? because that's the nature of the genetics of the subcontinent. The further north you go, the the further you will have influence from outside. A great example is the tarim basin mummies. Let's see what the tarim mummies look like. So before I show you what they look like, the tarim mummies are most likely the tushara people. Tushara the the people who were called Tushara in the Mahabharat in English they are called Tokarians. The Tokarians are the ancestors of the Kushan people. The Kushans are now assimilated among us right among us among the Indian people. So the the Tokarians they their language was similar to our language. It went ka gaga that way. uh and their religion was was some form of Hinduism but their genetics were very different but the genetic lineages were R1 A1A which is essentially the same as what we even have today in India. So if you want to look at the tarim mummies this is what it looks like. Okay look let's look at this tarim mummies. So let's take a look at the tar mummies. You see that some of them look central Asian but many of them look like they you know uh European and yet they were culturally Indian. Uh so the that's the deal. So overall my to answer your question after going round about in explaining all the other uh details the pashons are our people. The pashons are an extension of the north northern Indian population. Even if you go to some parts of UP etc. you will find people with blonde hair sometimes very rarely and blue eyes. So it's it's not that unusual actually. All right. Dn Singh says Jesus's birth is historically uncertain. Why base modern chronology on it and retrocalculate epochs like this elucid? Doesn't this question the system? To be entirely honest, there is no hard evidence of the existence of Mr. Jesus, right? There's no hard evidence. There's no archaeological evidence of the existence of Jesus, but it is that doesn't necessarily mean that he did not exist, right? Uh but like you say his birth is historically uncertain but we have based all our modern chronology on that the BC AD system. So the year of his his alleged birth is 1 AD not even 0 AD it's 1 AD. So AD is anomin the year of our Lord and BC is before Christ. Now they have changed it to BCE and and CE before common era and and common era which is nothing but putting a new new branding on the old thing. Uh so why is the entire modern chronology based on the birth of someone who we don't even know existed? It's because the world is euroentric. Right? the past 500 years it's the Europeans who were Christians who have dominated the world and they have shaped all of this in the in the way they wanted. So yeah, see see even today you will see that we still uh kind of live with some of the consequences of the Roman era, the Roman Empire, the Roman period. For example, the names of the months August. Why do we have a month named August? Why is the 10th why is the 12th month called December which which is named after this which is 10 should be not called December should be called 12vember or something right? but it's December. Um, so all of that is the legacy of the uh of the time when the Romans ruled Europe and the overall extended region. So because the world is euroentric and the Europeans have uh ruled the world, that's why we have these issues which don't really make a lot of sense. Hersh says, "Is keeping two wives considered as cheating? Like if it's done mutually? Is it better than today's hookup culture, etc. Just a thought? It's entirely up to you. Uh if you have two wives and both of those wives are happy with that, then I suppose it is not cheating. It's not. If it's done with the consent of both of both of your wives. Uh is it better than today's hookup culture? I would say it is better than today's hookup culture for sure. Absolutely. Hookup culture is an abomination. Yeah. So yeah, if if you if you would like to be in a situation where you have two wives who are both okay with it, then I see nothing wrong with that in my opinion. Wun says schematics POV Yahwa lightning god wife is El Ashura. Indradev lightning god wife is Ashura. What Indra Dave lightning god's wife is Ashura is Jesus son of Indra Garuda Harudah Horus why I have no idea sir I don't see there I don't think there's anything in common between Indian between the Indian gods and the sematic sematic gods and when it comes to Egyptian gods I'm not sure if there's a connection there have been all kinds of uh claims and so on there have been uh writers such as what's his name? Oak Oak P and Oak who have made all kinds of claims similar to what you're saying here. Uh Indra Deva's god is Ashura. Okay, let me just Google this. Who who was Indra's wife? Who is Indra's wife? Indrani she's the daughter of a Assura okay that is fine assura sura assur is is a concept from our culture lightning god so look my point is that you know what the way I see it I don't see there are any I don't see any connections between arian gods our gods and the gods of the somatic people Yahweh They they now are are monotheists, right? The Egyptians were polytheists, but I personally see no connection. An says you call Pakistan a temporary nation. Even if we military militarily take over, what do we do with people who have learned this adversarial ideology? I'm not sure what we do with that. We can't assimilate those people back into our population. It could have been done in 1947 if we had very quickly in 5 10 years reintegrated Pakistan. Then it would not have had that much of an effect. But today you have people who have been living in Pakistan for several generations regarding India as the mortal enemy and who are taught to hate Hindus. Their their own ancestral culture Hinduism from the time they are children. The education system you know teaches them to hate Hindus. How do you bring that that big population back into the Indian population? You can't. You can't. It'll take maybe a hundred years to dradicalize that population. So I do call Pakistan an artificial temporary nation. And what needs to happen for peace to return to the subcontinent and for the wounds to heal is for first of all for Pakistan to break up because it's an artificial nation. Pakuna needs to return to Afghanistan. Sind needs to become independent. Balojasthan needs to become independent. Punjabistan can do whatever it wants. P etc. can return to India. Even that will be an issue. But yeah that will return and then let things let that ideology of hatred which is poured through the education system end and then maybe in 50 years 100 years we can look into it whether we can reintegrate the population with their own people which is us but yeah immediately it's not possible what do we do they hate us they're all of them are terrorists or have terrorist uh kind of mindset you can't integrate them with the Indian population it would be a disaster. You're absolutely right. Okay. Caution World says, "Can the USA do something similar with India to get their way like they are doing with Venezuela? If yes, why? If not, why not? Can having nuclear weapons save India?" So, what are they doing with Venezuela is the question. What is the US doing with Venezuela? Uh they may be on the verge of maybe attend uh you know conducting a regime change operation in Venezuela. They can even invade Venezuela. I remember in the 1990s or something it was 80 late 80s, early 90s, the Americans invaded Nicaragua, right? And captured the leader of Nicaragu Nicaragua and installed a different government there. His name was Manuel Doryga. I suppose he's still in prison in the US. So they certainly can do that in any country in the Americas. They may do that in Venezuela. Can the US do something similar in India? Well, they certainly can try that and the the the might of the US military is way greater than that of India. So, let's say hypothetically in a completely absurd hypothetical situation. The US decides to invade India, they'll win. That is guaranteed. They'll win. Even if we have nuclear weapons, they'll win. And if we dare to use nuclear weapons, they will totally destroy India. Um, so they certainly can do that. But is that what they would like to do? No, they would not like to do that. They would like to control India without destroying India. They would like to control India by having a proxy puppet government in India which is actually controlled by them. That way they can actually avail of all the resources of India including the population, manpower and whatever else without destroying. It's one thing to destroy a country and defeat it that way. It's another thing another thing to control it without touching it. So the ideal situation is you win without firing a single shot and you control everything. That's better. So that's what they would like to do actually. E Rahul says child marriage in India was due to the average lifespan of people back then due to 1,000 years of operation. question mark by 18 people had lived half their life. That was by the end of the British occupation of India. We don't know what the average lifespan of Indian Indians was 1,000 years ago. We don't have any statistics, any data, any records. If those records existed, they have been long destroyed. But we know that by the time the British left India in 1947, the average lifespan in India was what? 30, 31, 32. That's it. That's how badly they had destroyed India. So the average person would live 31 or 32 years. Uh which means that by 18 people had lived half their life. And is that why you had child marriage in India? No, absolutely not. That has nothing to do with that. Child marriages happen in India even before 10,000 years ago. That's a different story. It was a it was a cultural thing. You had child marriage all across the world. like I showed yesterday by giving about a hundred examples from Europe right and the west but does it mean that if if if let's say one family arranged their son's marriage to the daughter of another family when both children were 8 years old does it mean that they would go and have sex obviously not right that won't h that would not happen it was simply an arrangement and they would start living together when they would be maybe 15 16 something like So yeah, we we we have to be very careful not to examine our own history from a western perspective, right? We have to understand our own culture first of all, which now is becoming more and more alien to us. We don't even understand our own culture anymore. It it feels like something foreign to us now. That's what the education system has done to us. Divo Singh says so did CIA kill Homi Babhaba possibly um Homie Baba was traveling by air by aircraft when the aircraft crashed the aircraft carrying Dr. Homie Baba it crashed in the French Alps and the the wreckage was not discovered and investigated until a few years ago. And this this plane crash happened what like 50 years ago possibly something like that. And some CIA former CIA agent had boasted that we we we killed Homie Bababa. So it is kind of like circumstantial evidence. They will never admit that even if they have done it but it's possible that something like that may have happened but there is no 100% incontrovertible evidence that they did this. So it's a possibility but I can't say for sure. Uh Sumit says why is Abu Zed Ahmed's mind body separation in cognitive psychology cited more than Patanjali second century Indian work on mind body and soul. I don't know who Abu Zahed Ahmed is but why is Patanjali's work cited less than somebody who has done something more recently. One is recency bias and secondly Patanjali was Indian. We don't even know if he was a second century person. Right. Uh do we know for sure that Patanjali lived in the 2nd century AD or BC or whatever? We don't know for sure. That's what the westerners claim and that what that's what we go with. We don't know for sure. Um so look there is there is this western tendency to downplay any Indian achievement right that's there. They will always try to you know give the credit to somebody from who is not Indian. For the longest time they said it was Arabic numerals. Now they say grudgingly that it's Hindu Arabic numerals. Why are they even Arabic at all? The Arabs themselves wrote that these were Indian numerals and Indian mathematics. Al-Hisabhind. I mean can it get more plain than that? Right? The Arabs were very clear that this was Indian mathematics. They never claimed credit for the mathematics or the science or the astronomy. It's the Europeans who ascribed it all to the the to the Arabs. So yeah, that's the deal. UMX says origin of Marvaris. Can you speak Marwari sir? I can't speak Marwari. Origin of Marwaris. That's the origin of Indians. What next? Origin of Noa. Origin of people from Noida. Origin of people from Faridawad. Come on. We are all Indians. We are all Indians. Our origin is the same. India was settled about I don't know about 75 80,000 years ago. That's our origin. That's our origin. All of us. Abida Singh says, "Your thoughts on the recent mummified fossil of a dinosaur found in Canada with its skin and organs intact." In my topics in JP Dialogues, um, a mummified dinosaur in Canada. Let's Google that. Okay. Mummified dinosaur in Canada. Really? Let's take a look at that. What's it look like? Let's take a look at it. Oh, this is not a mummified dinosaur, bro. This is a fossilized dinosaur. It looks like a mummy because it's so exquisitly well preserved. It's one of those armorplated dinosaurs. Do we have an actual mummified dinosaur? Dinosaur mummy discovered in Canada. Let me see a news. So this is it's got skin, armor, pigmentation, etc. But it's still a fossil. It's still a fossil. And this was found more than a decade ago. Organs intact. Really? Uh organs? Really? You have organs intact? remarkably preserved internal organs, specifically its intestines. Fascinating. Fascinating. So, it's the same one. We're talking about this guy. Right. So, what's my thoughts? Sometimes you you get these things, but uh it's still a fossil. It's not a mummified thing. Mumm mum. What's the definition of mummification? It's the preservation of the original tissue. Fos what's the definition of fossilization? Fosilization means the replacement of the original tissue with with uh minerals which retain the shape of the original tissue but it's not the preservation of the original original tissue. So I I am not blaming you Aida Singh for for saying this. It's the media that is misreporting the find. It's not mummified. It's fossilized but it's very well fossilized. But there have been discoveries of let's say T-Rex skeletons in which the tibia the no not the tibia femur either the t it's probably the femur bone which is a major leg bone it broke by mistake and when it broke there was soft tissue inside which was still present that was weird I'm not sure if they were able to extract DNA probably not okay let's let's Google this. Okay. Um, soft tissue T-Rex femur. Yeah. Check it out. So, flexible blood vessels, etc. were discovered in the in the in the bone inside the bone of the dinosaur. But they were not able to discover any DNA. I'm sure if they did discover the DNA, they will not have publicized it. So that's interesting. It's happened more than once that soft tissue has been discovered in the bones of dinosaurs. That's more interesting than than this uh so-called mummified dinosaur which is simply a wellpreserved dinosaur. Okay. Uh 6P70 delta says Bashkir are said to have the highest R1 concentration. Direct descendants of Yamna perhaps. Why do some people from Caucases look somewhat like Indians? Okay. The the most prevalent haplo group among the Yamna people is R1B. R1B and uh the most prevalent HLO group among the Indian and European people is R1A but both are descendants of R1. So yeah. Now the bashers um but if you ask me okay let's let's let's take a look at this okay R1B versus R1A distribution R1B distribution R1B distribution it's like out of India you can see you can see everything except for India and R1A if you look at that you will find a totally different story India and parts of Russia and parts of U Europe where you have the highest distribution of R1A. Now if you go for R1 itself R1 distribution what do we find? You're going to find a combination of R1 A and R1B. Right? So does it mean that the Bashkir are direct descendants of Yamna? I can't say for sure if you if you so do we have more people who belong to R1B compared to R1A no R1A dominates over R1B in terms of population you have more than 1 billion people who are part of the R1A HLO group that more that many Indians belong to so uh you know so maybe it's R1 A which is not Yamna Yamna is is a sister Hablo group. R1B is a sister HLA group of R1A. Now, why do some people from the Caucases region look like look like Indians? You'll see many people from the Caucases who look like Indians, especially Armenians and Georgians, right? Many of them look like Indians. There is some ancient connection. The Turks hate the Armenians and the Turks like to call the Armenians Indians and they they use it as an insult apparently. Right. Um there is some connection. We I'm not sure what the connection is. I know for sure that you had Hindu temples all across the Caucasus and Central Asia before the before before 1 AD. And in Armenia, some of these Hindu temples were converted into churches about 2,000 years ago. Because Armenia is one of the oldest countries to become Christian and today because of the Armenia Turkey thing and Azarbaijan thing those churches have now been demolished and mosques have been built on top of those. So Hindu temple to Christian church to Islamic mosque is what's the what the state is today. Uh but the point is that you know there is some ancient connection between the people of India and the people of especially Armenia and Georgia. Dimnos has basically confirmed news that Israel pays7,000 for one pro-Israel post to famous influencers in the West and in India as well. By the way, can't trust anyone. Why should they not do it? If people are up for sale, if media outlets are up for sale, why would you not do that? 7,000 bucks is not a whole lot of money for a a post that is projoration. I am I would say why doesn't India do this either India also do this? India should also do this. Why shouldn't India play the game? The Pakistanis, the Chinese, they pay influencers to put out various narratives on social media, right? The Americans also play pay influencers who take all shapes and forms. What kind of influencers? business people, politicians, uh, YouTubers, including people who stay in Germany and so on. So why can't India also play play the game? I don't understand that. Why does India have to stay out of this? India should also play the game. And I have absolutely nothing against Israel doing this. They they doing the right thing. They're doing whatever is in their best interests as should everybody else. Pankage says Indians are still called culling khing in Southeast Asia but we don't know how much we don't know much about Odisha's contribution in Southeast Asia. Your opinion please. Yeah, if you go to Indonesia and Malaysia uh Indians are called Kolinga today. What is Koling historically? It's Kolinga right but it's now called Odisha for some reason but historically it was called Kolinga. So, Kolinga has had this tremendous contribution in Indianizing and Hinduizing the whole of Southeast Asia. Um, the people of Kolinga were traders, merchants and they were seaf farers. Ships from Kolinga used to cross what is now called the Bay of Bengal. It should be called the Kolinga Bahasagar. And they used to go to what what they used to call Sar Nabumi which is Thailand and eventually Indonesia, Java, Sumatra all of that and even Vietnam and so on and this was going on for at least 3,000 years before today. So around 1,000 BC at least even most likely before that you would have ships crossing from Kolinga all and crossing the crossing the Bay of Bengal and trading with Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam etc. And over the years this had the effect of slowly gradu gradually Indianizing and Hinduizing the whole of Southeast Asia and lots of people from India settled over there. The kingdom of Funan was founded by a merchant from Kolinga called Condinia who married a local princess and that set up the king the kingdom of Funan. Similarly, you had the Champa Empire which was a maritimeratic empire which was completely Indianized which was based out of Vietnam. So the people of Kolinga have done tremendous tremendous work towards Indianizing Southeast Asia and today it's all forgotten which is sad. Arunar says I am proud of Indian ancient achievements but terms like Agnivan are metaphorical. Russ Raseratakura mentions sulfur and salt peter for alchemy not explosives no evidence like sources of usage of gunpowder exists before the muggles. Okay, thank you sir for your opinion. Thank you sir. Dn Singh says we are ruled by the people we are not allowed to oppose. How true is this? What would that be? I wonder who are these people in India? We are ruled by people we are not allowed to oppose. Well, generally in any country that you are in, whether it is in Asia, whether it's in Europe, whether it's in Africa, you're not really allowed to oppose the government, are you? You can express an opinion that is contrary to what the government says. You can if if if you're in a democratic country, you can register a protest and if if your protest is approved, you can go and demonstrate on a certain day and certain time, but you can't really oppose the government, right? I suppose that that's the case everywhere. In India, you have way more freedom than in the West. If you live in the west, you know it's a police state and if you cross certain lines lines, they're going to shoot you. No questions asked. That's not the case in India. In India, you have way more freedoms than that. And you actually can abuse the government and and oppose the government in so many ways. I mean, look at all these various people who are opposing the government all the time. Um, so it depends on the country. It depends on the system. In China, you dare not oppose the government. You're going to it's going to end up very badly for you. In Japan, you can certain do certain things against the government. opposing the government vocally, verbally etc. In France to some extent you can do it if you belong to certain communities um and so on. It it depends on the context. It depends on the geography. It depends on the on the country. Can you oppose the government in the US? Well, yeah, you are allowed freedom of speech and certain things you can do, but certain things will get you shot. No questions asked. It depends. Da says, "Congrats for 300 live streams." Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Watching your videos since 2021. Well, thank you. And currently also reading your books. Learned a lot. Thank you very much, sir. I really appreciate you and all the viewers. Thank you very much. Thank you. Vishal Nafa says, "What's quantum chromodnamics? Is it significant in understanding dark matter and energy?" Quantum chromodnamics is the study of the strong nuclear force color charges. So the strong nuclear force you're talking about quarks there. Quarks are the constituents of the of the protons and neutrons which make up the nucleus of atoms. Quarks are not constituents of electrons. By the way, the electron is a fundamental particle. But the proton and the neutron, they are not fundamental particles. They are made up of quarks. And there are six kinds of quarks. Up, down, top, do, bottom, strange charm, right? And quarks have color charges, which is why you have chromodnamics. And the mediators are the gluons. So that is what quantum chromodnamics is all about. It's about understanding the properties of quarks and gluons and uh all of that. So that's quantum chromamics. It has most likely no significance in understanding dark matter or energy. Dark matter is most likely something associated with gravity and possibly the weak force, the weak force possibly, but definitely not uh the strong force and dark energy. We don't even know what it is. Okay. So, quantum chromodnamics has essentially very little if any role at all to play in trying to understand dark matter or energy. Florence says, given the Israeli influence across US politics and institutions, why no Jewish president yet, does this prove that the real power lies be beyond the old office? It proves nothing. It's interesting that you are mentioning that there's been no Jewish president yet. Interesting. Yeah, probably there's been no Jewish president yet. You've had Christian presidents and one possibly Muslim president Obama. Possibly, possibly not sure, but definitely no Jewish presidents, but that obviously the absence of evidence is not the evidence of absence or any any such thing. So it doesn't prove anything as such, right? But Israel definitely has a significant influence in the US in politics in institutions which is clear from the fact that the US gives its unconditional support always to Israel. There's no question about that. But is there a conspiracy behind that? And is Israel the real power behind the whole office? I would not venture so far as to claim that. It's possible definitely but there's no guarantee. There's no proof. Divor Singh says Fodor Dostovski led me down a dark dark path. Worth reading. It's certainly Dostovski is definitely worth reading but not all always the most pleasant experience but you would learn a lot about the human psyche from someone like Duvki for sure. Fast snail says are morning people more effective I won't try. I'm not sure about that. I mean getting up early in the morning and doing stuff is definitely great. I have personally been a morning person as well as a night person. You know there have been times significant parts of periods of my life when I've been someone who wakes up really early like 5:00 a.m. 4:45 a.m. I've done that for many years. I've also been a significant night person. Like right now also I'm doing it two sleeping at 2 a.m. 2:30 a.m. but I'm going back very soon to being a morning person. So it depends on you. Do do what is best for you. Do what what what suits you best. Some people can't wake up early morning. It's okay. Wake up late morning. Some people work best at 2:00 a.m. 3:00 a.m. That's also right. Some people are are are super creative in in in the you know darkness of the night. They do their most creative work at like 2:00 a.m. 3:00 a.m. when everyone else is asleep. They feel super creative at the time. If that's you, then you do you do that. Other people feel super creative early morning, 4:00 a.m., 5:00 a.m. when no one's awake yet. Whatever it is that that works best for you, you should do that. And you should experiment. Try both and see what works works better for you. We know the ring. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. Shuham Shubhham Vare says the earth is trillions of dollars in debt to whom Jupiter how to extract more tax from the ultra rich with the without them leaving the country. Uh I'm not sure who who we are in debt to. I'm not really sure. It's all a scam actually. It's all a scam. this entire debt thing, Jupiter, maybe maybe Uranus. Uh how to extract more tax from the ultra rich without them leaving the country? Why do we have to regard the ultra rich as as bad people? See, ultra rich are bad people. If your system is evil and corrupt, if your system is evil and corrupt, it means that only the evil and corrupt can succeed in it. which guarantees that the ultra rich are going to be evil and corrupted. But if your system is not corrupt, it's not evil, then it will ensure that good people succeed, which means that the ultra rich are going to be really good people who provide a lot of genuine value to society. And maybe your system is a mixed system which has good aspects and bad aspects. It has corruption, but it has some redeeming qualities also. In that case, some of the ultra rich are going to be really evil, corrupt people and some of the ultra rich are going to be good people. The point is we know you know because India has gone through a thousand years of foreign occupation and the people who have succeeded have generally been crooks. That's why Indians generally see rich people as people who are who most likely have succeeded through cutting corners and and possibly stealing. But that is a bad mindset to have. I would like everybody in India to be rich, to be ultra rich, why not? And if that is the case, do you want everyone to be taxed very badly? Uh so I would say that tax that that taxation should be simple and it should be transparent, clear rules and it should not be like if you are richer, you should extract extract more tax from that person. It should be the same rules for everybody, same percentage for for everybody. So if you are richer obviously you'll pay the same percentage but the output will be more. That's how it should be. AJ Sharma says how Hollywood dig media creates propaganda. I don't know what dig media is but Hollywood how does it create propaganda? By making movies that tell lies. It's as simple as that. Make um for example who won the second world war. It's the Soviets who won the second world war. The the better question is who defeated the Nazis? It is mostly the Soviets who defeated the Nazis. They did most of the fighting, most of the dying and most of the winning. But if you watch Hollywood movies, they will show the Americans as the great winners and the great champions and the great saviors of the world. So that's how you do propaganda. You tell lies through movies and TV series. That's how you do it. For example, the movie Dunkerk, not a single Indian was present in the movie Dunkerk when in in the actual actual historical events, you had a lot of Indians there. So just erase the truth and show lies. That's how you create propaganda. Divor Singh says AQI Delhi went hellish after Diwali. Is firecrackers really that important? It started after 1947. Raan Dhan was started in in 1947. Indians have been bursting crackers for hundreds of years. That is a part of recorded history. The AQI in Delhi, it is hellish because of the burning of stubble. What is stubble? Uh it is something that's burned by farmers after harvesting their crops. Whatever is left behind, the stubble, you know, let's say you are harvesting wheat. So you're going to cut the wheat plants and the stems will be left behind. So what happens with the stems? You want to plant a new crop now, but you have the stems of the wheat plants there which have dried out. So what you do is you burn that. Burning that will also have the effect of fertilizing the soil. So burn all of that. That's called stubble burning. And stubble burning is practiced all across uh various parts of northern India. I will not take the names of the states unnecessarily. Take a flight from Delhi and look outside of the window. You will see lines of flames all over the place and big columns of smoke rising everywhere. That is what is causing the poor EQI in Delhi and it's going to get worse every winter. It's not Diwali. It's not one one or two nights of cracker of bursting crackers that is doing this. We It's very important for us to note this. Okay. Um so it is the stubble burning. It is the practices of various of of farmers widespread larges scale practices that are causing this hellish AQI. It is not Diwali firecrackers. Look, it's part of tradition. It's part of what it's what we've been doing for centuries. So I would say let's not go after Diwali and we have to find ways to address the real issue, the real problem. Kiran Mo sir, thank you very much. Thank you sir. Thank you. I was a big fan of your wicket keeping and your batting as well. Satellite says uh if Russia Okay, there are too many emojis here. I'm not able to understand what's going on here. If Russia is a bear and India is an elephant, they get too strong. Any chance that eyes of China and USA teaming up together defeat Russia? India and China. Um, no. The US and China won't team up. They are natural adversaries and so is China and Russia and China and India. So, I don't see the Chinese and the Americans teaming up. Maybe they could perhaps, you know, it makes no sense for China to to do something that that will cause the downfall of Russia because then because then the Americans will be able to give their undivided attention to China. So it doesn't make sense for that to happen. Yeah. Will the US get and China get together to do something to India? That is that is more of a possibility. But not Russia. Well, not Russia. Shubhham Var says, "How to tell a statistic is made up or fake?" Okay. How to tell that a statistic is a fake statistic? Uh the average IQ of Indians is 72. That is one statistic that is that that is very popular, right? How to tell? You have to look up the source of that claim. So if they okay let's try and find this okay what's the average IQ of Indians what's the average IQ of Indians the average IQ of Indians where is it come on 76 and 99 these figures are highly controversial exactly that's my point highest IQ in India where the so if if If you get this claim that the average IQ of India is 76, what's the source? What's the source? Oh god. The source of the claim that India's average IQ is is 76. So we have to look at the research paper that has made this claim and then you have to look at the research method methodology. Ah the controversial works of psychologist Richard Lynn and political scientist which is the misnomer Tatu Hanen. Okay. And these people they took very small tiny small unrepresentative samples and they use that to represent the entire nation. You understand how you can tell lies through statistics. You go to let's say an orphanage where the children are let's say hypothetically malnourished and they are underage not adults and then you do some IQ tests in the English language and you apply those to those children who don't even know English. So they're going to perform very poorly and then the average IQ comes out at 76 from a collection of let's say 20 students and then you claim that the average IQ of Indians is is 76. That's how you make up fake statistics, make fake claims and then the world starts believing them. That's how we do it. All right? So you can tell this only if you understand how fake statistics are constructed. You have to understand these things otherwise you can't tell otherwise you'll be misled. So you to educate yourself. If your teachers and your schools and your in universities do not educate you, it is important that you take the responsibility yourself that I will educate myself and I will learn how these things are done. All right. 6 P70 Delta says Kushell and Abijit Aritra support Israel stating that the historical homeland of Jews it is. Yeah. Okay. But when it comes to Ukraine and Russia, a different set of logic applies. Ask them why this hypocrisy. Look, I don't know what some what other people say. I am not responsible for what they say. I don't know if this is what they claim. I have not I don't watch podcasts. I don't see do all that. And I'm not going to ask them why this hypocrisy or not or whatever. I am responsible for what I say, right? Uh and and people have various reasons for for coming to various conclusions and they have the right to come to whatever conclusions they want. It's up to them. Um, what what is my perspective on Israel? It is indeed the historical homeland of the Jews and Israel has the right to exist and the people of Israel have the right to that nation. That is my clear uh unambiguous perspective. When it comes to Ukraine and Russia, I'm not sure how we can apply the logic of Ukraine to logic of Israel to Ukraine and Russia. Historically, Ukraine was also part of Russia. Okra means borderlands. Anyway, that's that's uh I've spoken about this in depth and what Kushal Mea Abhijitra says say or don't don't say I'm not aware of it and and yeah, it's up to them. They have the right to make whatever um to have whatever views they see as right and they those views don't have to agree with my views. That's fine. Vignor Singh says Indian lobby in California managed to force Gavin Museum new Gavin Newsome to veto important bills prohibiting foreign nations from interfering in the state. Indian lobby in California managed to force Gavin Newsome to veto important bills prohibiting foreign nations from interfering in the state. So what's the effect of this? So first of all the Indian lobby has forced Gavin Newsome. So they have something on him do they? They have tremendous leverage apparently. Otherwise you can't force someone like Gavin Newsome to do something. And Gavin Newsome has vetoed bills that prohibit foreign nations from interfering in the state in of California which means that now foreign nations can interfere in the state of California. How is it in the interests of the Indian lobby unless India can interfere in California? I'm not sure. I'll have to look into this, sir. I'll have to look into this. Interesting. Interesting. Vive Singh says Indian defense is conducting a triforce exercise in in Rajasthan and Gujarat. Okay. Followed by a no sale zone in Goa and Karvar. Is this just the preparation for something big? What are my views? Can't say. Look, if you want to do something big, you don't you don't announce it. You don't telegraph it. If you want to do something big like let's say do something to Pakistan, you don't announce it in this manner. You do it sudden suddenly, quietly. But of course, if you want to do something big, then if you start moving the armed forces in a big way, then it looks like you know you're start you're preparing for an invasion. So you could say it's just a military exercise exercise that we are doing. So that also that logic also works. So is this preparation for something big? Maybe, maybe not. I can't say. I don't think something big will happen at this point in time. I don't think so. Maybe I'm mistaken in in which case I'll be happy to say I was mistaken. If something big happens, I'll be actually happy. Right? It's high time something big happens but I think it's unlikely. I think it's unlikely at this point. Rahul G says why is Russia strategic conducting nuclear forces drill? Because you have to be always prepared. You have to keep see why do nations conduct military exercises. Why is it done to keep the armed forces in a state of readiness? The armed forces should not become complacent or lethargic. So always keep drilling, always keep doing some military exercise or the other so that you are always fighting fit and ready. That's why you do it and that's why this is being done. Dins says says will oneyear military conscription solve civic sense problem? It's not practical. Let me tell you why. India has a population of 1.4 billion people, right? How many people turn 18 every year? Let's ask Google how many Indians turn 18 every year. Let's see. Approximately 12 million Indians turn 18 every year. Okay. 12 million every year. approximately and obviously half of them are going to be males. So let's say you want to do one year military service for every year for 6 million males. Can the Indian armed forces do all that babysitting and handholding of 6 million men every year? Don't they have anything else to do like taking care of the borders and whatever else? Not possible. Let's say you do only 10%. Instead of 6 million, six lakh even that is a huge number. Okay, you do 1%. But then it doesn't solve any problem. You see, it's not practical. That's the problem. Kanesh Koshik says how and when or when and how did we go from Sanskrit to Hindi through many intermediate sta stages. Hindi did not suddenly appear one day out of Sanskrit. Before Hindi, you had other older languages. Praits, right? Uh so one of the older praits we know about is Pali. Pali was spoken about 2 and a half thousand years ago in the Magad region of of Paratwash. It was the language that was spoken by the Buddha to communicate with the local people because Sanskrit was by that time already seen as a high language and not the vernacular language the people that that the language that people spoke commonly. So that's why Gotham Buddha preferred to do his preachings in Pali instead of Sanskrit. So even 2 and a half thousand years ago we had moved on from Sanskrit in in in in you know in terms of the vulgar language the the common commonplace language. So you had multiple stages multiple languages. For example we have a language which is a very major language in India which is the Marati language. Did Marati emerge out of Srit straight away? No. A thousand years ago you had something called Maharashtri Prait which is the ancestral language of of Parathi. If you talk about Gujarati a thousand years ago you had something called Gurjari, old Gujarati which is the ancestral language of not just Gujarati but also of the of the Marawadi and Vadi languages. So you had multiple languages that emerged over time and these flowed continuously from and and and the languages changed and evolved over time. So that is how it happened. It is the upper branch upper branchization of Sanskrit that happened. All right. Next travel guide and tip says what will be the outcome of the Trump Xiinping meeting? I think Trump will want to make some concessions so that Xiinping can start selling rare earths again. Most likely I don't think Trump has a lot of leverage over Xi Jinping this time. Yeah. So most likely the US will offer to make some concessions to China. That's what I think will happen. A gore a chasm. A goricasm. Okay. Says what happens if Russia suddenly stops all crude refined products and gas exports right around the winter? I guess Russia contributes about 10 to 12% to the world. It will cause a spike in in demand and uh spike in oil prices in the world. Um yeah, it will certainly certainly have a significant spiking impact on oil prices and um gas prices etc. around the world. See which are the major nations that that purchase Russian oil? One is India. India may be on the verge of potentially reducing some of the purchases because of US pressure. I don't know. Uh another one is China. Um and then you have India purchasing Russian crude and refining it, turning it into various other products like diesel and whatnot and then exporting it to Europe and other nations. So that could also be hit. So if Russia suddenly stops all crude, all refined products etc. You're going to have a surge in oil and petroleum product prices across the world. 6P70 delta says serious question need detailed answer why TFR of Israel is so high despite TFR of Jews in Russia and US being around 1.1 to 1.5. No other high income nation has such high TFR. Look, I am not an expert in Israel in Israel's policies. But if the TFR of the people of Israel is about let's say three or three and a half, let's find out. Let's find out what is the TFR. Israel TFR uh about three children per woman. So, so significantly higher than Western countries and other countries. Why is that so? I'm sure the Israeli government has offers incentives uh to people to have more children. That's what I'm assuming. I don't know. I am not an expert in Israel policies and all that, but I'm telling you that most likely there are incentives that are given to the people of Israel to have more children. I cannot give you a more detailed answer than that. Rashid Shirasav says, I asked about zero earlier. My friend's dad got fired after he founded team reported to US embassy. He founded cops came to his college his scholarship revoked zero. What is co zero? Let me let me find out what is zero. Let me Google this. What is cir? Canadian investment regulatory organization. I'm sure that's not what you're trying to talk about here. Uh okay. I'm not sure what zero is. Your friend's dad got fired after he founded team reported to US embassy. Cops came to his college. His scholarship revoked. Your cops came to his college. Which country is your friend's dad in? Is he in the US? Is he in Canada? Is he in Germany? Is he in some other country? Is he in India? I'm not able to understand what the context of what you're saying is sir. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Uh, Dnos says, "Big Mayan owl god." Okay. Kokulkan, which Mayans invoked when fighting Spaniards turned out to be a owl like dressed guy on psychedelic drugs who got killed in minutes. Okay. A god is is an idea and sometimes the idea is represented in the form of a an idol or paintings or carvings of whatever. It's not some guy, right? Or if some guy is is cosplaying a god and he's on psychedelic drugs, you're going to get killed in minutes. Obviously, you fight the Spaniards who've got metal weapons that the that the uh Mayans don't have, Aztecs don't have. So yeah, right. Spade says, "For the past 5 days, I've been getting tweets from anti-Hindu account. This has been happening since Diwali. Why are left-wing accounts always spewing venom against India? It's it's fashionable right now to be hindophobic and there is no action. There is no consequences of being hindophobic. Look, if you are let's say Islamophobic, there will be consequences. you may be banned from from the platform or maybe somebody will come and take your head off. Um, if you are anti-Semitic, there will be the platform may ban you and there may be some legal action taken against you depending on which country you are in. Uh, if you are anti-Christian, I suppose nothing much happens to you, but something may some perhaps happen to you. Some kind of consequence of some kind. But if you are Hinduhobic, you can do it with impunity and there's no consequences. And Hinduism is the last evil religion left, right? We are the last polytheistic religion standing. Despite having being been under foreign occupations for a thousand years, we still stand. And that is unacceptable to the west. So makes sense. Uh Dimnor Singh says, can the drug cartels supposedly trained by ex army men make a dent against US army if they fight? No. No chance. But the point is, why would the drug cartels fight the US army? Why do the drug cartels exist? To supply drugs to the US, right? And why are drugs available on every street corner in the US? Aren't drugs illegal? So why do all Americans take drugs at some point in their lives? Why is it a why is it a right of passage or of passage in the US? Why am I giving a French accent here? Why is it the passage right of passage in in the US? Why is it so? Maybe there's some connection. Maybe maybe it is being done maybe it's being done on purpose. Maybe the drug cartels serve a purpose. You know, maybe they serve some clients. So why would they fight the US army? that that that performative thing is done once in a while but overall they play a a role. Okay. Pratik Bora says are mushrooms food of the future? Why is awareness limited? Are mushrooms food of the future? Mushrooms are fungi, edible fungi. Some of them many of them are very dangerous. Don't eat those. Yeah. Uh and uh they are pretty good sources of protein from what I know. and they taste kind of like meat. Are they the food of food of the future? I'm not sure about that. What's the food of the future? The food of the past, I suppose. Why do we need a different food of the future? Um, yeah, I'm not sure if mushrooms are are the food of the future. I'm not sure about that. Why is awareness limited? In India, people don't really eat mushrooms, right? Yeah. It's not been been something we have been accustomed to eating traditionally. Not sure why, but it is what it is. Divor Singh says this Soros guy has a god complex. He runs left wings of too many countries. Can't figure out if he is a pawn of the deep state or an enemy. He is not an enemy of the deep state. A person of that stature, if he tries to be the enemy of the deep state, he will not exist for too long, right? He certainly has a god complex. did he once took down the British economy to a certain extent and he has penetrated the cabinets of so many different countries through his assets. He's definitely not an enemy of the deep state. I'll tell you that Mistri says what if we would want to contribute to our nation and culture as an atheist most of our cultural aspects are tied with religious scriptures and beliefs. Okay. So let's say you are an atheist and you want to contribute to the nation and its culture as an atheist. Most of the cultural aspects are tied with religious scriptures and beliefs. Okay? So you could contribute to the nation maybe as an engineer, you know, maybe you build roads, maybe you build highways, maybe you build bridges, maybe you design aircraft, maybe you design submarines, maybe you design um you know ships, maybe you design helicopters, maybe you build helicopters, construct construct stuff. So that's one way you could do it as an atheist, right? uh but you want to contribute to culture as an atheist maybe you could be an architect and create new architectural styles that doesn't have to be tied to religious scripture and beliefs so I'm sure there are many avenues that you could explore which are not necessarily tied to uh religion and religious beliefs and scriptures right it's possible parasi is a new member thank you very much sir and welcome to the channel I really appreciate your become becoming a member. Thank you very much. Past snail says, "Visited Hampy heritage site and was amazed by archaeolog archaeological marvels." Uh, highlights the greatness of prosperous Vijayagar Empire of the 16th centuries. urge others to visit. I would also urge others to visit for sure. I should visit it myself. I've never visited Hampy. I should. I should. I've seen photographs and all that. So clearly a magnificent archaeological site and of course painful to visit but we should visit. So I agree with you sir and I would also urge everybody whoever can please go and visit this wonderful amazing archaeological site and it'll give you an idea of how prosperous and how great the Vijayagoga Empire was and what was taken from us. Divor Singh says, "Can God create a rock heavy enough that God himself can't move it?" The sentence, this sentence basically logically disproves an all powerful God. H interesting. Is this a logical self-contradiction? Can God create a rock heavy enough then that God himself can't move it? H so this was this would assume that God is a physical creature right because if God is the designer of the universe who has designed the universe let's say coded the universe and decided what are the rules that the universe will obey then God doesn't really have to maybe the universe is far bigger than God actually is. Let's say God is a programmer. Okay, we we're talking about the simulation hypothesis here. Let's say God is a programmer who has programmed the universe in a simulation. In that case, the simulation is a non-physical simulation. It is physical for us but not for God. So, I'm not sure if this sentence logically disproves an all powerful God. It disproves an all powerful God only if you assume if we assume that God himself is within the universe that he has created and God himself is physical. If God is not physical, if God is not part of the universe, maybe God is outside of the universe or God is the universe and is non-physical then this logically does not disprove anything. So you know think beyond physicality. Paras Vidi says thank you for your knowledge. Thank you very much sir. Thank you so much. Divor Singh says what is the best argument for the existence of God for you? Ontological contingency argument first more argument I don't know. I am a hopeful agnostic. I am not by any means an atheist. I to be very honest I think atheists are idiots. Yeah. No, no disrespect meant to anybody. It's just how I see it. But I I have not seen any evidence of God, of the existence of God. I have seen a universe that exists which follows a set of rules, some of which we understand, most of which we don't understand at all. But it has a set of rules. Now, does it mean that that a god has created it? It doesn't necessarily mean that. Maybe there's no God at all which would be which would be very disappointing. So I'm hopeful that God exists and all that but is there any argument for the existence of God? I am not sure. I have not delved that deep into philosophy. Can't say for sure at all. Vive Singh says without Islamic and British rule would India have become a global leader in science and technology and how would the world look like look today? Well, that's an interesting question. Would India have become a global leader in science and technology? Did India have what the Europeans had that that that burning desire, that burning drive, that that urgency to to develop technology at a fast pace, fast rate. I think one of the one of the criticisms you could make of Indian civilization is that it was very content. It was very content that it knew a lot of things about the world and maybe there was to some extent a lack of urgency. I mean why did Indians never invent the bicycle? Why did Indians never invent the bicycle? It doesn't take a tremendous amount of technology to to invent a bicycle. Why did that innovation not exist? A bicycle is something. See the wheel existed for thousands of years in India. The wheel. So why didn't any Indian put two wheels together in that manner? We had steel, we had iron, we had metal for thousands of years which you could have used for a chain. So and you can even make a bicycle out of wood, right? So why didn't Indians ever invent the bicycle? So to some extent it looks like there was some lack of urgency, lack of innovation, right? the the Europeans once they acquired certain technologies they just took it to the next level in a very very rapid time in a very rapid way in a very short time frame we went from the dark ages to to nuclear energy in just a couple just a 100 years India never did that right so I'm not sure if India would have be become a global leader in science and technology India was the greatest knowledge superpower Yeah, we invented education. We invented the concept of the university, but maybe we lacked some of the urgency and some of the qualities of the of the Europeans, possibly. Yeah. Paris says, why not build a public system to track how government funds are spent across sectors? If everyone could see the money flow could greatly cut corruption and laundering. What do you think? Okay. The idea is to build a public system that tracks how government funds are spent across sectors. H a public system to track who will build it. How will we know what funds are being used where? Are you talking about a third party system which is not affiliated with the government? If you are not in the government, you don't quite know where the money is going, right? You know what the budget is, what the government has announced. You know how much money is allocated to X project, Y project, Z project, whatever, whatever, whatever, right? We know all that. But how is the money actually being used? How will we know it? You can only know it if you are part of the government. Which means that the government has to create this public system to track the funds. But if there is allegedly any corruption in the government, will this public system be high fidelity? Will it be reliable? You see, you see what the problem is. Ideally, you should have everything you know that is the this these systems should exist. Ideally, everything should be transparent. Ideally, but it's not an ideal world, right? And if somebody decides let's say within the government to to to build a system like this which makes everything available to the public in transparent manner if there are sectors of the government that are corrupt and that are very powerful will they allow this to happen right so in in in theory it's a great idea and if the system starts exposing where the corruption is will that not cause a big problem for whoever is running the system. Right? So in theory it's a great idea. In practice it will never happen until we change the system and and you know launch a war on corruption. Ashoto thank you very much sir. Thank you. Sharma says American Senate has Roman eagle and fascis which symbolize Rome's authority over America. dollar also has the Roman eagle. Yeah. So you see the west regards Rome as one of its uh foundations of western civilization. Rome was not a civilization. It was an empire. But if you ask the west the people of the west Europeans and European origin people what do they regard as the two or three foundations of their of their civilization which is not really civilization they will say it's it's Rome some of it's Rome it's Egypt and it's u it's Israel as in the the the Jewish people Jewish culture Judo Roman values Judeo-Christian values that sort of thing So, if you look at the American Express credit card, I suppose I could show it to you. What you will find is that it has a Roman Centurion on it. Let's see. MX credit card. What's it look like? There you have it. What is this? It's a Roman centurion, Roman soldier. So yeah, it doesn't mean that Rome author Rome has any authority over America. Rome doesn't even exist anymore. It's Italy which is a vasal state of the US. So it's the other way around actually. Okay. IPK_1 says but sir Arian invasion theory is true. 100% literacy sir. I know sir. I know. I know. Ran invasion theory is 100% gospel truth. Yes sir. 100% literacy. 6P70 Delta says, "Hope you remember my question about Buryats. Did you see a knife duel between a Yakut and a Ukrainian soldier that even Elon Musk spoke about? Guess who won?" It was the Yak the Yakut person. I remember. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I had seen that a couple of years ago. I think it was a couple of years ago. I don't remember your question about Buryats. Was it What was it? I've taken too many questions today. Uh but yes, there was a Yakut soldier who was fighting who who's a Russian citizen and he got into a knife fight with a Ukrainian soldier. He lost a part of his ear or something, but he won and he got an award from Mr. Putin, didn't he? Yeah, I I'm aware of that. Yes. Okay. Kiran Media says, "Congrats on the third 300 episode. Thank you very much, sir. Keep on keep it going. Cheers." Cheers, sir. Thank you so much. Thank you for your encouragement and your support means a lot. Thank you sir. Divor Singh says treaty of Tripoli says US is not questioned. My goodness. What is the treaty of Tripoli? I'm not aware. Let's Google it. Treaty of Tripoli. What is that? Treaty of Tripoli. What's it say? Tripoli. Um let's quickly see. Uh, it's between the US and the tree Barbari. Okay. 1796 Libya. Okay. Authored by Joel Barlo. And what's it say about Christianity? Uh, okay. This is interesting. It's cited in discussions regarding the role of religion in the US government due to a clause in article 11 of the English language translation that was ratified by the Senate and signed by the president which says which states the government of the United States of America is not in any sense founded on the Christian religion and modern translations of the official treaty confirm that no such phrase exists in the Arabic text. Okay, that's interesting. A pretty interesting historical curiosity, I suppose. And if the US even even if the US did sign such a treaty with uh Libya in 1700, whatever, is it binding that does it change the nature of the US? I'm not sure it does. Not sure. So, I'm not sure what what the real truth is, whether the Arabic text also has a thing. It looks like it doesn't. So I'm not sure why that English version English language version of the text which says the US is not Christian was ratified. I'm not sure why. Yra Singh Shakawad is a new member. Thank you very much sir. Thank you very much. Dib Yayan says what's the story of AQ Khan Abdul Khadr Khan? Abdul Kadir Khan was this Pakistani nuclear scientist who apparently was working in Europe in the early 1980s and who allegedly stole blueprints of a nuclear reactor or some kind of was it centrifuges was it a nuclear reactor what was it I'm not quite sure but some kind of blueprints he stole apparently probably from the Netherlands and he brought those back to Pakistan And that's how he was he was able to start Pakistan's nuclear program which ended which culminated in the development allegedly of nuclear weapons by Pakistan. That is the story of AQ Khan that what that's what we are told. I personally don't believe that Pakistani nuclear scientists had the capability to develop a an indigenous Pakistani nuclear weapons program or even a nuclear energy program on their own even with the help of blueprints donated by the west. So that's the story we are told but most likely the Pakistani nuclear weapons are American nuclear warheads given to them on loan. Silia thank you very much sir. Thank you. Okay next question. Arman Madwani says what are the historical and socioeconomic reasons for Indians becoming carb maxers who don't prioritize protein. India is the only nation in the world where protein consumption is negatively correlated with disposable income. Wow. Really incredible. One of the reasons why Indians have become carb maxers. You know if you see the typical Indian breakfast it's carbohydrates. It's going to be aloo paratha which is all carbs with uh I don't know some dal or some cholay. If you look at the Indian breakfast in in in southern India, it's going to be idlies and dosas and all that it's just carbs, carbs, carbs. If you look at your regular lunch, it is roti which is carbs. If dal, chaval, dal has a little bit of protein. Chaval is all carbs and some subabzi. Why is it like this? One of the reasons why our diet became carbscentric is because we faced several hundred years of artificially engineered famines that were imposed on us by the British. So we had to eat whatever was available and that became somehow carb ccentric carbohydratecentric. Another relig another reason is religion. We became very pacifistic. No meat, right? No meat. And we now imagine that our ancestors were all vegetarians. Uh maybe this is the the influence that Buddhism that Bodha Dharma had on Indian life. See Bod Dharma emerged about 2 and a half thousand years ago during the life of Gotham Buddha. But it was an obscure fringe uh path of dharma. It was an obscure and very fringe dharmic path in India until it was catapulted to national and global eminence by Ashoke by Emperor Ashoke. And both the dharma Buddhism is all about nonviolence and and uh not eating meat etc. And that became mainstream in India as a consequence. And today Indians imagine that their ancestors did not eat meat and Lord Ram did not hunt a deer and so on and and what I'm saying right now will right now offend a lot of people who are watching right now. I know that um and so on you know so these are some of the reasons why Indians have become carb maxers that we we we believe that we should eat carbs only you know don't eat protein meat is evil and uh yeah that sort of thing. So multiple reasons, one is this the the starvation diet that we had to adopt which became part of our tradition and culture and secondly this this thing about not eating meat. Okay. Divor Singh says was the B2 designed by an Indian who then betrayed the US and gave the designs to China. I think it was a parci person. It he did not design the B2 the entire B2 aircraft. He designed the stealth technology, right? Let's let's quickly Google it. It was a parc uh engineer. Par engineer B2 stealth spy. Okay, that that should be enough enough uh keywords. Okay. Noshir Gowadia Indian Indian board born pari engineer who was instrumental in designing the propulsion system for the B2 stealth bomber and he was later convicted to espionage and uh yeah selling classified information to China. Yeah. So he was a par obviously of Indian origin and he's the guy who is now in prison. I think he's still alive. So he's in prison and he's been sentenced to about 30 something years in prison. Amisha says, "Is a Tarhan dress the world's old oldest woven garment?" Is it? What is the Tarhan dress? I'm not aware of it. Let me see. Okay, let's see. Uh, Tarhan dress. What is that? Okay. Cairo, Egypt. It's over 5,000 years old. My goodness. It has to be the oldest woman garment. It's more than 5,000 years old. How did it survive? Because Egypt is so dry. Because Egypt has a very dry climate, very little moisture. That's why such organic material was able to survive for so long. More than 5,000 years. Wow. Definitely the world's oldest surviving woven garment for sure. An says followup catch 22 governance versus education system what are the first steps towards improving government's governance system you generally talk about fixing education to fix bat what are the first steps towards improving the governance system the government the first step is to launch a war on corruption Okay, if you can wipe out corruption, what else can you ask for? That will be the only improvement improvement we need. Another improvement, structural improvement is that you know we should move to a presidential system. So that's two improvements I can think of. But first of all, where is the war on corruption? Where are those achadin? Yeah. So the first step is a war on corruption. There should be consequences for corruption. Guaranteed consequences, not pleasant consequences for for indulging in corruption. That will shake up the whole country if you if you do that. It'll shake up the whole system. Secondly, a presidential form of government. Thirdly, a more centralized, less federal system of government. So these are some of the things that need need to be done because right now the states have too much power and the center can often isn't doesn't have sufficient power to to make necessary changes in the country and implement necessary reforms. Uh so you know overall I would say the entire system is rotten. The entire system is nothing but a continuation of the British system of the British colonial system. The objective the purpose of the British colonial system was to oppress India and Indian people and the exact same system still continues. So ideally we want to end that system and and and implement a new system a system that is rooted in Indian culture, civilization and values. But who will do that? Nobody. So I would say that the more practical pragmatic thing to do is to launch a war on corruption then eventually move to a presidential form of government. That would be a better way of doing things somewhat incremental improvement. Rajat Chhatriji says the CNB dipole is the largest uh temperature difference in the CNB. The largest temperature difference in the CMB. Okay. the the the cosmic microwave background radiation it has a temperature and the temperature fluctuates obviously there'll be very small microscopic not microscopic but very small tiny fluctuations in the temperature the CNB fluctuations and that was first discovered when we launched the cobe satellite that was in the what ' 90s was it 80s let's google that cobe satellite co satellite Right. Yeah. When was that launched? Yeah. 1989 to 1993. And it gave us the first indications of a fluctuation in the cosmic microwave background. There you have it. See the W map is far more detailed. But the Kobe satellite for the first time showed us that there were fluctuations. Okay. So, so that's what you're referring to. That's what you're referring to. Okay. I read an article but why it matches with earth's equinox I'm not able to understand earth's equinox what does equinox mean okay let's google that equinox look one of the two year times in the year when the sun is above the imagined line around the center of the earth equator and day and night are of equal length That's the equinox. Okay. Equinox is two times per year when the sun is exactly over the equator and day and night are the exact same length. That is equinox. Now, what does a temperature difference have to do with the equinox? I'm not sure. I'm really not sure. Even I'm unable to understand. It matches with the earth. Okay, let's Google that. CMBB dipole earth equinox. What is that? C MB dipole equinox. What's the deal? A normalous alignment between the cosmic microwave background CMBB dipole and earth's equinoxes. Uh CB dipole etc. Okay. One side of the sky appearing hotter and others opposite side appearing cooler. When the dipole okay the temperature difference older slide it's draw equinoxes two points anomaly. The surprising finding is that the axis of the CMB dipole appears to be aligned with the earth's earth's equinox points. This alignment is not predicted by the standard model of cosmology and suggests an unknown large scale physical correlation is considered an normally because it suggests a potential large scale preferred direction of the universe which is unexpected given the cosmological yeah all that an isotropy all that homogeneous isotropic on the largest scales yeah I'm not sure I'm not sure I wasn't even aware of this one this this particular thing that's a correlation between this and that shouldn't be, right? Makes no sense. Makes no sense whatsoever. Anyway, I shall look into it. It doesn't look like there is an answer to the to to this question, but uh thank you for bringing this to my notice. Very interesting and perplexing for sure. Okay. Divor Singh says, "Why don't we own Sri Lanka yet? It's right here. Right there." I believe that's what Joseph Stalin asked once. The apparently the story is that an Indian ambassador went to present his credentials to Joseph Stalin and uh they somehow ended up discussing the map of India and Joseph sen points to this island. He says what is this island? What part of India is this island? And the Indian ambassador says no no sir s this is not an Indian island. This is Sri Lanka. He stalin says what is Sri Lanka? to the Indian ambassador says this is a separate independent country and Stalin says why is it a separate independent country he was perplexed he was puzzled and he looked at the Indian ambassador as if he was mad do you people have any sense whatsoever why is this a separate country should be part of your country and uh that's the question that diving is asking it's right there why don't we own it I don't have any answer why don't we own it. I mean it's culturally, ethnically or or people. Why don't we own it? Why isn't it part of us? I have no idea. Yeah, because India lacks ambition. I suppose hit the complete all book reviews before ending 8our live streams. All right, sir. Your wish is my command. I shall attempt to do as much as possible. So, thank you. Uh AVM says, "Do you think souls have male and female characteristics? Is that a function of the host that they inhabit?" Look, like I said a while ago, I am a hopeful agnostic. What does it mean to be an agnostic? It means that you don't know for sure whether the supernatural exists. as in the existence of God and complement to that is the existence of the soul. Right? So we have no evidence that the soul exists. There's no evidence. But I hope it exists. I hope the soul is is something that exists. I hope it is immortal. I hope we have transmigration of the soul. I hope we have reincarnation. I hope there's a god that exists. I I hope all of that. I'm hopeful. But I don't know for sure. So if I don't know for sure, how do I think whether souls have males or female characteristics? But let's say let's say the soul exists. Okay. Do souls have male and female characteristics? I would say no. No. Because if you if you if you consider the concept of reincarnation, a person a soul can be reincarnated as male or female. Typically, it is said that a soul is reincarnated thousands of times. And I would say it's statistically likely it's 50/50 male and female each time. So, I don't think souls have uh gender characteristics. I think it's a function of the body body that they choose to inhabit whenever they are uh born. Uh Ammon Madwani says is there a scenario where in which we peacefully or coercively reintegrate with the temporary nation? Is India making any efforts to subvert it from within? Look, if India is making efforts to subvert the temporary nation from within, those are not supposed to be known to us. that's supposed to be done in the utmost secrecy. So is India making see I mean the government of India has not told me of any efforts that they are making in case they're making some so I can't answer that question do you understand now is there a scenario in which we can peacefully or coercively reintegrate with the temporary nation maybe in a 100 years time let me tell you why because when we're talking about Pakistan the temporary artificial nation it's got a population of what 160 million what's the population of Pakistan let's quickly Google that Pakistan population what's the population 255 million that's that's a massive population right these people I'm sure there are many really nice people in there but most of them have been taught to hate us from the time that they were born. This hatred is systematically inculcated in these people and a significant percentage of the population has terroristic tendencies. Now is there any scenario in which we can peacefully reintegrate with this nation? I don't see any scenario in which it can lead to any peaceful outcome. Right? So what needs to happen is Pakistan needs to be ideally peacefully balconized. Synindraesh needs to become independent. Baloistan needs to become independent. Kyber Pakuna needs to reintegrate with Gandhar with Afghanistan. PJK needs to reintegrate within India. Even that will be a that even that will be a problem. And Punjabistan can remain whatever it is. Then we need to have a cooling off period of maybe 50 years, 100 years, multiple generations come by and then those are gradually dradicalized and then we can think of perhaps reintegrating at that point in time. Maybe in 50 years, maybe in 100 years right now makes no sense whatsoever. It'll be a disaster. Prattana says where did Harapans expand from? Before urbanization period, there were local cultures that got taken over and local cultures reappear post 2000 BC. Where did Harapans expand from? Where did they come from? They are Indians. India has been inhabited since about 80,000 years before today. If the out of Africa migration theory is correct then India was the first found settler first place where the out of Africa migrations permanently settled the original founders zone and that's where our ancestors have been living for 80,000 years. The Harapans are not some separate species of individuals sir. These are our ancestors and their ancestors were the people who were living in India for 80,000 years. So in this region of India, northern and western India, you had what they called the industy civilization or harapan civilization which was simply a phase of our history and that was an advanced phase of civilization with urbanization with advanced technology with standardization of weights and measures and so much more. Right? So it's not like local cultures were taken over. It is the same culture that evolved into something higher. And then about 2000 BC, you had massive climate change events. The Saraswati dried out to a significant extent and our ancestors had to abandon the big gigantic metropolices they had built and they had to either migrate westwards or eastwards and that's what happened. So it's the same culture, same people that's continuing being influing. It's not like the Harapans came from outer space and they took over this place and then they disappeared back to outer space. It's not like that. Okay. Okay. Sager Gare says big fan. Thank you sir. Thank you so much. What is the justification of for animal sacrifice to deeds in Hinduism? I have no idea. I don't know. See even I'm dassinated. I haven't studied this. I don't know based on ancient text. And how does this practice compare to sacrifice in Islam during Eid ala I have even I I still understand my culture I don't know anything about Islam so I can't do a comparative thing why did sacrifice happen sacrifice see I can't say for sure why animal sacrifice happened but I know why human sacrifice happened look we had some goddesses called examples uh Kali Chamunda these goddesses it is said that they sometimes demanded human sacrifices. Does it mean that this this is evil stuff? No. The goddess would never demand the sacrifice of a good person to please the goddess you had to sacrifice evil people. Your enemies the enemies of the culture enemies of civilization. That sort of thing. So I think that justification I can understand. So see for example the goddess Chamunda she is the kulvi of various chhatria clans chhatrias are warriors and if they want to keep their mother goddess happy they have to go and kill the evil people who are the enemies of the civilization which makes sense so that I can explain that I understand apart from that you know pashubali animal sacrifice I am not very clear about that so I won't be able to answer that part of the question okay shubat shukl class says watching you for the past four years. Thank you so so much. So much seen you evolve. Thank you sir. From the most blunt and non-compromising in your views from one of the fastest growth YouTube channels to 949K. I know I know that's an evolution, isn't it? Hats off to your commitment for the cause of civilization. Thank you so much, sir. I really appreciate your kind words, your your being a viewer of this channel for the past four years. It started very rapidly. It's it I mean I had no intention of of having a YouTube channel. And then one day in what was it in 2020 I I think I I did a pilot episode of Ask Kabit. I think in early 2020 or something and uh it was just one episode then I didn't stop doing anything. Then in late 2020 I made a video about Chinghan. why Ching Khan refused to invade India despite being on India's doorstep and that's a that's been an open question for 700 years in history and I I gave my answer to that question and that video blew up and then again I did not do anything on the YouTube YouTube channel this channel for like six seven eight months but the subscribers kept on growing so then I revived the Ask a Bijit show in uh June 2021 and it's been going on ever since and it is driven entirely by you all my viewers. It's not me who decides what questions I will answer. It is you who decides what questions to ask and I do my best to answer the questions. That's what I do. And for some time the channel grew very fast. Now it is apparently going to be at 948 949 for some time depending on what I don't know what factors that's not in my hand so I don't care. I'm just happy to do what I'm doing. So thank you Shubat. Thank you to everybody else as well. Shardul Despand says see Bharati Navy mind speaker mind sweeper strength. What are my views? Let's see. Indian Navy mind sweepers. Indian Indian Navy mind ah mind sweepers. How many do we have? uh category mind sweepers of the Indian navy uh ka bundicherry class mind sweeper and bodified versions of other mind sweepers India revives a mind sweeper plan to counter various threats okay what's your point sir my my views my views is that we that mind sweepers are an important component an important asset to have especially when you are a nation with such a gigantic coastline. What are mines? These are explosive devices that float on the surface of the ocean or float slightly below the surface of the ocean and they just wait there passively for a ship to come and if the ship comes in proximity or or hits the mine, the mine explodes and causes significant damage to the ship or even sinks the ship. So you can you know deploy mines at sea and create and cause havoc for the enemy and we have enemies obviously. So that's why we need to have it is important for us to have these ships called mind sweepers and if we are acquiring more of those I would say it's a good thing. Okay. Arman Madwani says as of last month India has cut its Russian oil imports. I have personally looked through the data. Why are we bending the knee to Uncle Sam? Is it because of Uncle Sam? Is it not because of Uncle Sam? I'm not sure. Maybe the Americans are imposing some kind of pressure on us that we are not that we in the public domain are not aware of. Maybe there are some threats that have been made to us. And see, the US is the world's most powerful nation, right? They can destroy any nation if they want to. Make no mistake about it. If they want to destroy a nation, they can actually destroy it completely. They can destroy the economy, ruin the economy. They can re they can send the nation back to the stored age because you haven't seen that happen. That's why you feel that you know maybe we have some leverage against them. They have flattened entire nations. Look at Iraq. Look at Libya. Look at so many other examples. So maybe the Americans may have made some threats to us that the government have may have decided that you know what it's not worthwhile standing up to them. The long-term future is what's more important than short-term buckling to the threat, bending the knee. I don't know, maybe it's the case. I I don't know what's what's going on. So you have personally looked through the data and India has cut the Russian Russian oil imports. I would say if that is the case then it's most likely because of threats from the United States. Threats of what kind? What nature? I don't know. But they have all kinds of leverage against us. Yeah. Uh so it's possible that we may entirely stop buying Russian oil. Even that's a possibility. Would I be pleased with that? I would not be pleased with that. But you know what? And what pleases me more is that we we we have a long-term future. So yeah, Geopolitical Dubai says full hypothetically, allegedly, supposedly potentially support, sir. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much. I really appreciate uh your viewership, sir, and your questions. Thank you, sir. Divor Singh says, "Does hard work and discipline bit beat talent and genetics? Can a teacher's child become a conqueror greater than any so-called warrior people? Does hard work and discipline beat talent and genetics? Usually, it does. You may have talent, you may have genetics, but if you're lazy, well, then you're going to be defeated by those who work hard. I would say hard work and discipline beat talent and genetics if talent and genetics is lazy. So if you are someone with endowed with great genetics, you know, but you never go to gym in lift weights, then an ordinary person with regular genetics will become a better bodybuilder than you if they spend the time and if they work hard. Similarly, when it comes to achieving something in life, if you are super talented, super intelligent, but you sit around smoking weed, then a person with regular IQ who works tremendously hard is going to outperform you. Uh so can a teacher's child become a conqueror greater than any so-called warrior people? Well, if the warrior people want to sit around doing the thing, then a teacher's child can become a conqueror. So I think overall hard work and discipline can beat talent and genetics as long as talent and genetics are lazy. But if talent and and genet if if if you have two people one is a regular person one is a person with talent and genetics and they both both work equally hard then the person with talent and genetics will win every time. An says please make videos debunking bharata misconceptions. All right. So thank you very much for your suggestion. I will look into this very seriously sir. Thank you and possibly make it. All right. Uh DN Singh says is it wise not to punish the perpetrators of the anti- sick programs in Delhi 84 Sajjan Kumar etc. They live free among among us. There has to be justice. Whoever has done whatever crimes have to be punished for that. So anybody who committed crimes has to be punished otherwise we cannot function as a as a proper society. And if some individuals are living free despite having committed various crimes then it's it's a travesty travesty. And why is it the case that the punishment has not been you know meated out for that we have to introspect as to what is wrong with our system that you know criminals are living free amongst us so I would say anybody who has committed crimes has to be punished otherwise your society will degrade it will stop functioning properly and then yeah that's not what you want Dan Patel says the direction uh yes I agree with you. So what Dash is saying that if um being able to speak multiple languages like like French, English, Hindi, Gujarati, it can help me to work at the United Nations organization and in a a post in this direction, it certainly can. If you can speak multiple languages, it's it's always uh going to be an asset for you. Especially if you want to work in an organization like the UN, you know, it's also an asset if you are in business. It's also an asset if you are in diplomacy. If you have to deal with multiple people from multiple countries on a regular basis, it's always great to speak multiple languages. And of course you have to speak languages that are widely accepted or widely regarded as as as international languages. So historically the language of diplomacy for the past two 200 300 years was was French right even today senior diplomats they typically speak some form of French broken French good French okay French but they speak French right uh for example Dr. Kaval Cibil he speaks French. Dr. Shashi Tarur he speaks French. So you will see that and when it comes to diplomats of other countries also they will speak French. Um so yeah it's always an asset to be able to speak multiple languages and if you want to work in the UN it's it's a great advantage to have. Anonymous scientist says he how have wars in Ukraine, Middle East and Afghanistan? How will these wars reshape global geopolitics? Question from Sam the Gamer. Sam the Gamer. How do these wars or how will these wars Ukraine, Middle East, Afghanistan reshape global geopolitics? Look, you go back to the time before 2022. How was the world like? It's a pretty peaceful world. You did not have the Middle East issue, right? You do not have the Ukraine war. And today the world is very different. It's like pre Ukraine, post Ukraine. pre- Ukraine war, post Ukraine war. So before February 22, the major crisis in the world was the pandemic. You could not even speak about the pandemic. You could not even speak about the corona virus on YouTube otherwise the video would get demonetized and Spotify would put all kinds of things and stuff, right? There was a major crisis in the world. But now we have a war and that world has polarized the world that war. So you have Russia and China and Iran and North Korea on one side and the the the US-led western order on the other side and you have nations like India which are kind of neutral and uh the Middle East war it is Iran versus Israel mainly also Gaza Gaza is mainly solved now uh so that also is creating tensions in the world Afghanistan Pakistan is not that much of a major issue globally But for us over here, it is something to be concerned about. So, so when it comes to the Ukraine war, it has become the the starting point. You could say officially if historians 100 years from now, write history, they will say that the second cold war started with the Ukraine war. Right? So that is a major turning point, inflection point in global geopolitics. And each of these issues, each of these wars has its own effect. So yeah, uh Varun Sharma says, "I see companies like Google opening more offices in India to evade Trump regime's actions. While I do see them increasing taxes on the service sector example TCS, what will happen to for example Google India Limited, Amazon India Office, etc. From what perspective? Let me just reassess what you're saying. Okay. Companies like Google are are opening more office offices in India to evade the Trump regime's actions and you see them increasing taxes on the service sector. You see whom increasing taxes on the service sector? You mean the Indian government. If you increase taxes on the service sector, you are disadvantaging the service sector, right? What will happen to Google India limited Amazon? What exactly are you asking? I'm not really sure. Who is increasing taxes on the service sector? Is India increasing services on taxes on the service sector? I'm not sure about that. Has India taken the step of increasing taxes on the service sector which brings in so much money for India? Doesn't make sense, right? I have not I've not seen that. or is the US increasing tax? I'm I'm not really clear about what you ask me sir. What will happen to Google India Limited Amazon India office they will continue as far as I see? I'm not sure if India's increasing taxes on them. I'm not sure. Not sure. If you had been a little more clear about what you're asking, I would have been able to I would be happy to answer you sir. Uh DN Singh says uh so Arabs created algebra algorithms algebra algorithm. So if there's an al it's it's Arabic, right? So that's what we are told and that's what lots of people believe and that's the kind of propaganda you will see on social media that the Arabs created algebra algorithms and so on. those things came from India but because those were transmitted via the Arabs into Europe with Arabic sounding names like algebra al whatever that's why we are we are taught today that these uh that algebra came from Arabia and so did algorithms but clearly that's not the case mandate dictator you think Modi assassination attempt How many questions are you trying to ask over here? Nathan Gadgkar is ethanol mandate like dictator Modi assassination attempt real if yes did China and Putin really help Modi to escape why did China help who caught CIA agent who killed CI agent in or Russia China okay let's slow down first of all ethanol I have no idea okay I don't discuss internal politics forget about it um do I think the Modi assassination attempt story is real I have no idea I think it could be just pure speculation I don't know. But assuming maybe it's real. Do I think Putin China actually helped Modi escape? Well, if he came back and escaped and did not the attempt did not happen, maybe they did help him. Why did China help? Because they don't want something like that horrible to happen on Chinese soil. Who killed CI? I have no idea. All of this is just pure speculation. There is no evidence whatsoever that this happened or did not happen. I don't know who has planted these stories in in in social media but it's like becoming a very big thing now. I have not seen any evidence that something like this would have happened. Obviously if an attempt happened and it was foiled then you will never see evidence of that. But then what's the point of discussing it? Yeah. It's just an academic exercise, a a theoretical exercise. So I don't know. I can't say I can't com I can't possibly comment because I have no idea. I have no information. So Shant Bharaj says Joty thank you for bringing us from darkness to light. Thank you so much sir. Such such very very profound words. I am too small a person to be that to play that role but I am doing whatever I can and I'm very grateful for people like you and everybody else for being my viewers. It is truly an honor and a privilege. Thank you very much to all of you and to you as well sir Susan Budwaji G. Thank you so much. Varun Sharma says experiment civic score based points system in India mandatory for all colleges and jobs. Civic sensebased points system in India mandatory for colleges and jobs could work. Perhaps one could potentially try it out in some parts of India as as as a as a trial project and see whether it has an actual effect. Could it work? It can only work if if it can reliably give you points. For that to happen, you need a system that follows each individual around everywhere they go and sees everything they do. How do you make it work? And isn't that a horrible infringement on on a person's privacy? Of course, civic sense is all about what you do outside of your home. But how will you track a person's actions and activities reliably every time they're outside their house? How will you do it? Is it feasible? Do we want to make India a surveillance state where you have CCTV cameras every goddamned where? Do you want that to happen? I I don't think it's a good idea just for civic sense. It's better to to reform the education system and make people understand why civic sense is important. And secondly, instead of having a pointsbased system, just ensure that anytime someone is caught breaking the RO rules, they are punished harshly. That's what would make more sense. Duv Ary says R1 A Z 93 originated from R1 AM417 and we do not find any ancient skeletons containing basil R1 AM417 then Arian migration is right. Do you understand sir? Everybody everybody we have these theories right? Arian invasion or Arian migration. Now if we say arian invasion they will say you are living in the 20th century. It is Arian migration not invasion. Migration invasion never happened but there was migration. Now let us understand what is the core claim of the Arian invasion. migration, tourism, picnic theory. What is the the core claim or core set of claims the first you see they may they over complicate things to hide the real claims. What is the real claim? The first claim is that Hinduism is foreign to India. It came from outside. And second, the second claim is that Sanskrit is foreign to India and it came from outside. These are the two core claims of the Arian invasion, migration, whatever theory and to obfiscate that they will go into genetics they'll go into everything. Tell me something. What does genetics have to do with language or religion? H is Tulsi Gabbad somebody who carries Indian genetics but she is a Hindu. Right? So Arian invasion migration is not about genetics. It's about the it's about the language and the religion. That is the real claim. They are trying to claim that your language and your religion are foreign to India and your you all are descendants of invaders and you don't belong in India. That's the claim. You will never be able to prove or disprove it through genetics and all of this. Whatever you're saying, I don't know, man. I'm I'm I'm done with this genetic stuff. I am no longer aware of I have not been keeping track of what's happening week by week by week. What new research has has happened in recent times? Right? The core claim is that Sanskrit and Hinduism are foreign to India. What does that have to do with genetics? So yeah, there you go sir. That's it. Vamshi Khalim says, "Congrats on this milestone." Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Earliest humans have been found in Africa. But this is not enough to conclude or prove that humans originated in Africa. I completely agree with you. Thus far, we have found the earliest evidence of humans in Africa. So based on that evidence, we can perhaps say that humans originated in in Africa. But it is not sufficient evidence to conclusively prove that humans originate in Africa. Maybe sometime in the future, maybe in 50 years, we will find evidence that is older of humans, maybe in Eurasia somewhere. So based on that new evidence, we will have to change our our understanding of the world. So we have to always remember that we must always keep an open mind and when new evidence and new facts come in front of us we have to change our model of the world accordingly. Right. Right. So thus far the earliest evidence is from Africa. That's why we said that there was an out of out of Africa migration of homo sapiens. But in the future if if we find new evidence that shows something else we're going to have to change our model. And that's how it works. Arya says, "I think modern day Afghans look very European uh because of Kaukazin Muslims from West Asia migrated to Safawid Afghanistan and Kizilbash ethnicity are descendants of Kizilbash soldiers of Anatolia. The Kizilbash are Turks of Turk origin ethnicity. Modern day Afghans look very European. Not all the average Afghan looks like a north Indian but there are some Afghans who look European. So for example, the AANs who are of Tajik ancestry, they look way more, you know, European-like than subcontinental. If you see Afghans of uh of of of Usuzbek ancestry, lots of them are of Usuzbek ancestry. They're not the original Afghans. The original Afghans are Pashons. Even among the Pashons, you have some people who look more European than most. But the average Pashtun looks like a North Indian. Understand that. When Mr. Muttaki came to India, did he look like a foreigner? The Afghan the Afghan foreign ministry came to India for a week recently. Did he look like a foreigner at all to you? He's a standard looking pashon. The average Afghan looks very north Indian. Maybe somewhat taller on average. If I go to Kabul, I keep my hair open right now. It's it's tied. If I grow my beard for a couple of weeks and I keep my I keep my hair open, I will look like a Talibani. Larger than the average Talibani. My point is my point is the average Afghan the average Pashon looks like a North Indian. Look at the Afghan cricket team. One or two of them may look kind of European. Most of them look like they could be Indians. Some of them look even darker than the average Indian. For example, what is his name? Um, Muhammad Shazad. Let's let's go there. Uh, Muhamad Shahaz Shahazad. Yeah, the Afghan cricketer. This guy, he looks darker than the average Indian. He's a pun. So, let's not, you know, stereotype things. Um yeah the average person looks like a north Indian person that's the fact ICMBBS says congratulations on number 300 thank you very much um was at a Diwali event here in the UK and a diplomat IFS had no idea who reform were totally they should know the local politics of their host my god really well that's disappointing I would say as a diplomat in a host country, it is your job to know the local politics of the host country. That's incredible. Was that person newly arrived? Even if you are newly arrived, you're supposed to do your homework before you arrive. Well, that's that's deeply disappointing. Yeah, that's that's terrible. Anyway, thank you so much. uh for thank you so much for for your kind words and uh yeah I agree with you it's terrible. Ritik Thiagi says, "Why does India still reflect a colonial hangover with roads named after Max Mueller who while many scholars continue to praise him for advancing Sanskrit studies in Indian philosophy in Germany? Because we are still a colonized nation. My dear friend Ritik Ryik we are still completely colonized. We are colonized in so many ways. The entire Indian system is the colonial system. We haven't changed a thing. Very little has changed. The same system continues. The same institutions continue with different names. What used to be called the IC is now called IAS. Indian civil services is now the IAS. The same thing we are simply deeply colonized. We are getting more colonized by the day because the system it progressively dassinates Indians. Uh yeah. Yeah. So that's the deal. So we still have roads named after our oppressors, named after people like Max Mueller. Thankfully there no longer is a road named after Orurange in Delhi but so many such things. Yeah. So we so the the the reason is that we are still deeply colonized. We never changed the system. We never overthrew the colonial system. The colonizers, the foreign occupiers left in 1947. But we continued worshiping their system. We preserved it and that that system is one of occupi of of of oppression and and dassination and further colonization. And that's why we are the way we are today. I mean ask yourself this question. If you don't speak English well, will you get a good job in India? You go for a job interview in India and you speak an Indian language. What's going to happen? They're going to laugh you out of the room. That's the problem. We are all still mentally coronized. Oman Pata says, "Why do most of Indian historians hate Rajuts?" There are many Indian historians who also who also hate the Maratas. By the way, whoever served India, whoever fought for India, whoever died for India, those people are hated. Okay? And that's why there are these attempts to create this this hatred and and mutual animosity between Maratas and Rajpos between Gurjars and Rajp and God knows what other things man it's it's this constant attempt to create divisions between Indians and the Rajpus they fought the Turks for several centuries starting from the 7th what 7th 8th century AD all the way until the the Turk the Turk Empire became an empire from a kingdom, the the the Muggal Empire. Until that time, the Rajputs fought and they fought for centuries, right? And that obviously is is something that is a hateful characteristic to have to fight the Turks, to fight the occup the oppressors and occupiers. And that's why many Indian historians who are mentally coronized and who are India haters they hate ratch and many of them hate the maratas also because the maratas destroyed the tur the turic muggal empire the maratas did that they established hindi varajia and that's why many historians hate the maratas too so rajuts and maratas and make the two fight best naran says how to take oneself self out of slavery mindset. What are the top five subjects one should learn in order to earn a good lifestyle and be respected? Top five subjects that one should learn in order to earn a good lifestyle and be respected. Top five subjects you should learn how to communicate effectively in whichever language works for you. You should know how to communicate effectively verbally and communicate effectively in writing. That's very important. That's the first thing you should learn. The second thing you to learn is critical thinking. What is right, what is wrong, how to differentiate, how to say, how to tell what is the truth and what is lies. critical thinking. Critical thinking is is is super important. Without critical thinking, you will never succeed in life. Third thing to earn a good lifestyle and be and be respected uh personal finance. You know, if you whatever money you have, how to manage that, what to do with it? Why why don't they teach that in school, college, university, personal finance? And next how to earn how to earn you know how to make money it's very important without being a slave I mean it depends on you what you consider to be slavery some people would consider working 15 hours a day on a business to be slavery some people would consider a 9 toive job a slavery it depends on on who you are so you have to determine What's the best way for you to earn a good livelihood? You should know how to make money. So these are some of the things you need to have. You need you need to know. These are not subjects that you you are taught in school or any academic syllabus, but these are the subjects that are very important, right? Um how to be respected? Well, how to be respected? First of all, make money. be financially independent. That's the number one thing if you want to be respected. You don't have to be super rich. Even if you are just making enough money to to barely survive as long as you don't depend on anyone else for money, you're good to go. You will people will have to respect you, right? And of course, after that, the more money you make, the more respect you you gain from society. That's how it works, right? um and so on. So yeah, and how to take yourself out of slavery mindset. I I'm not sure what you mean by slavery mindset, but uh whatever it is, you to break those those thought patterns and uh you have to adopt thought patterns that empower you truly empower you and uh help you achieve whatever your full potential is. Sir Yep. Abininov says, "Why do albino Indians look white but albino blacks don't? Is the white race albino version of Indian race? I'm not sure." Uh, the white race isn't an albino version of Indian race of the Indian race. Um, the white race u see first of all there's no white race. There are different ethnicities in in Eurasia, some of which have significantly lighter skin color and some have significantly darker skin color. And I'm talking about the Indo-Uropean people. I'm not talking about the East Asians here. So, we are one of the major Indo-Uropean groups. We are the Arians, the Indians, right? Um, and today it is considered that the Europeans are Arians. But the two Arians are us. And and and in the past people knew this. Rudyard Kipling knew this. Let me give you an example. Okay. Redard Kipling Arian. Where's the poem? Now it is not good. Okay, this this little poem. Now it is not good for the Christian's health to hustle the Arian Brown. But the Christian rian smiles and he weth the Christian down. You see who was the Arian here? It's us, right? Kipling knew who the Arians were. Uh so coming back to your your point, why do albino Indians look white? Because we and the European people, we I suppose share the same ethnicity, macro ethnicity. The Indo-Uropean people, right? The facial features etc are very similar. The skin color is different. So if you paint an Indian white, you look like a white person. But African people they have very different uh skin sorry facial features etc right the shape of the lips the shape of the nose the shape of the skull it's different so even if Africans become albino they still don't look like Europeans I would not say that the white race is an albino version of the Indian race like I said there's no white race as such they have different ethnicities but it's overall one extended ethnic family the Indo-Uropean people Okay. Sankit says, "My opinion on CIA whistleblower John Kiriko." Very suspicious person. Very suspicious. Okay. Most likely a plant. Ryik P says, "Your top five greatest military generals of all time." Top five greatest military generals. Hannibal Barka, Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonapad, Mustafa Kimaladay Bakhat. That's five. These are generals. I'm talking about generals, not emperors. I'm not talking about kings over here. So Julius Caesar was a general. He eventually became kind of the ruler of Rome, but he was never an emperor. Animal Barka once again he was a warrior. A general he was not an emperor. Napoleon was a warrior. He eventually became emperor later, but he was a warrior. Mustafa Kabalaturk was a general. And Tubai Bakader was a general, never an emperor. He served the great kingis Khan. Right. Okay. A Bromeier says Nepal has an IQ of 43 on the Lin scale, which is the lowest rank of all plausible. I don't believe all this nonsense for one bit. I'm not sure what the Lind scale is, but an IQ of 43. Come on. So they say that the Indians have an IQ of 76, which again is is a lie. And if the Nepales and the Indians are the same people, same ethnicity, which we are, how come Nepales have such a lower IQ? What I don't believe any of these IQ IQ stories and all that. Um, yeah. So, I don't believe it. Let me first Google what is this lin scale. Okay. Lynn scale L Y N scale. LIN scale. Okay. Lin IQ scale. What is that? IQ scale. IQ L what am I doing? Uh IQ scores compare compare. Okay. Okay. Okay. Lyn and Tatu 100. Same thing. Yeah, that is utter nonsense. I don't believe it for one second. Come on. IQ of 43. Nepal. I don't believe it. Nope. So, okay. Next. Rashit Shvastav says CRO Japan. Cir Japan. His dad got info of team reporting to the US. Okay, you you pointed something out earlier. What is CR Japan? Let's see. C I R O Japan. What is CO Japan? Aha. Aha. Cabinet Intelligence and Research Office, which is their version of the ROW. I suppose it's an intelligence agency. Okay. N National Civilian Intelligence Agency under Japanese cabinet secretary at tasked with advancing national security through collecting okay all of that right okay now what was the earlier question I can't remember now what was the deal I yeah I've taken so many questions today that I don't remember what the original question was unfortunately his dad got info of team reporting to the US and then said there were some consequences Well, you see, okay, okay, something like that, right? One of your friends, his dad and so on. Well, you see, Japan is a nation under foreign occupation. It's under US occupation, and if you do certain things, there's going to be certain circumstances. So, yep. BS001 says, "I am 18 and pursuing engineering. I wish to be good at physics and maths. My professors just want me to mug up the formulas. I don't see myself progressing like this. I need your help. Okay. You wish to be good at physics and maths. Okay, fine. And you wish to progress. Good. But what is your ultimate objective in life? Why do you want to be good at physics and maths? Do you wish to earn a livelihood through physics and maths? Do you wish to become a physicist or a mathematician or would you like to become an engineer which in which once again you need applied physics and mathematics? What exactly is it that you wish to do with your life? What's your long-term objective? I can help you only if I know what your long-term objective is. If you wish to be a physicist for example, then in that case um I can help you understand how to learn physics instead of mugging up formulas, right? I can give you a path. Let's say you want to learn quantum mechanics. I can tell you how to do that. You have to first you have to first master the mathematics. What kind of mathematics? You have to master differential equations. Before that you will need calculus. calculus, differential equations, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, linear algebra. I'm sure I missed one or two, right? Matrices, determinance. Oh, okay. All that um if you want to go into so so you need to master all that mathematics and then you go go ahead with studying quantum mechanics and then I can tell you which books to start off with and which which are the intermediate books, which are the advanced books. Um if you want to learn relativity for example general relativity geometronamics then you have to take a different set of you know a different path you don't you still need to learn mathematical math physics but you will need to master tensor algebra and tensor calculus and then it's it's a different set of books you do so I don't know what your objective is but I can give you this general set of suggestions that if you want to be good at physics In maths, >> you have to start with the basics. You have to, if you want to be good at physics, you have to be good at maths. Not all mathematics, not not the kind of mathematics that mathematicians learn, number theory and whatnot. You need to be great at uh at at maths that's applied in physics, mathematical meth methods of physics. So it is you it's non-negotiable that you have to master mathematics all the maths that's used in physics and then you have to do that through the right books because if you if you study mathematics or physics through various textbooks that are well recommended in India written by Indian authors you will get lost and you will never do well. So the the game plan is master the mathematics. Spend a way more time on mathematics than on physics. If you can do that, physics will be super easy. That's what I can tell you sir. Okay. Kunal Krish says, "Does the Gona dynasty really exist?" I have no idea. Don't know, sir. Sorry. Ashish Yoga says, "Why do the Japanese live longer than Indians? Do they have a different lifestyle and food habits? Has India been affected by GMO foods? The Japanese have a very different lifestyle compared to Indians. Their food habits are very different. They eat more protein and they eat less food. They eat fewer carbohydrates. They eat way less red meat than white meat and they eat a lot of seafood and they walk a lot and they are a developed nation which means that they have, you know, less pollution, less whatn not all that. And because they have continued this lifestyle for centuries and it's a very beneficial lifestyle that's why they live longer. Indians face way more pollution, way more stress, way more what third world nonsense than the Japanese. And Indian diet, the Indian diet is is no longer the great diet we used to have several centuries ago. Today it is a carb maxing diet, very little protein. Indians have very high amounts of stress and so on. I don't think India has been thus far affected by affected by GMO foods. And I hope it doesn't ever happen. But because of all these reasons, the Japanese live much longer than Indians. I'm not sure about much longer, but I'm sure at least a decade longer than Indians. Right. I'm pretty sure. Right. [\h__\h] says, "Next understanding America episode when right now it is on hold." Right. I've got too much on my plate. I'm writing now. I have these book projects that I'm working on and books need to come out. That's a target I've set myself. So right now I'm focusing on that. In the future I will restart understanding America at at the appropriate time but right now it's on hold. Okay. Locks D. Wow. Woo. Okay. In Trump Putin Alaska body meet was Putin body double. How can I say? How can I say if Putin wants to meet with Trump why would he send a body double who doesn't only Putin can negotiate right a body double can look like Putin but they can't negotiate so it doesn't make sense to send a body double but who knows anything is possible 6P70 Delta says Ukrainian outlet claim about Asians weaker than them. Let them clean. Why should we care? Why should we care? Let them say whatever they wish to say. Why do we have to let it affect us? And when they talk about Asians, are we are they referring to Indians or are they referring to Southeast Asians or Eastern Asians? I have no idea. And I honestly I personally don't care. I am least concerned about what people say. Let them say whatever. Kural Krish says, "I have an SSB interview soon. It's my dream to become an army officar." Okay. So, it's my dream to become an army officer and serve the motherland. Any tips for the interview? I am not an army person. I will not be able to give you any tips. I'm sorry. I don't know what the interview is like. I'm not sure what they ask you and what they look for in a person. So yeah, I am not a person with an army background and uh yeah, I won't be able to help you with that. I'm so sorry. So So if you want to prepare for the interview, talk to somebody who has gone through it or somebody who has understanding of what it is that the SSB looks for in a person and that that's how you can prepare. I won't be able to help you with that. I'm very sorry but I wish you all the best sir. I hope you get what you are looking for and I hope you make your you you make your dream come true sir. All the best. All the best. Kunal artib says when will the education system be restored? I don't know if it's if it were in my hands I would implement it right away within a year after planning properly and I would implement it over a period of 20 25 years. But it's not in my hands. So I have no idea. It doesn't look like the government of India, the current government has any intention of reforming the education system. They have done something called what new education policy something NEP blah blah blah which is nothing. It is nonsense. Yeah. So unfortunately I don't have an answer to this question. So sorry. I wish I had. Gorov Gavi says why did NATO let India reclaim Goa from Portugal in 1961? It was a minor matter minor. They did you know condemn India harshly for what we did but go is it like it's a minor matter and it's not like they were in a position to come and stop us. They did it and then it was then it was announced to the world. So and it it did it's not like it it was a month-long operation. It was like a half an hour operation more or less. So Rajendra Chola sir great name love it. Pro-ism protests in the west. Is it organic? Well, it depends. Some of the protests may be organic. Some of these could be manufactured and astroturfed pro-national protest, pro- nationalism protests. Well, overall, if you look at the west, they are very anti-ism. Nationalism is a bad word there. So, if there are protests that are pro- nationalism, I would say that those people who are doing the protests are taking personal risk, standing up, standing up against the system. So maybe some of these are probably organic. People are fed up of being ruled from Brussels, right? Let's say you are in Austria. Let's say you're in Germany. Let's say you're in Italy. Let's say you are in the Netherlands or wherever you are. Who the hell is Brussels to tell you how you going to live your life? And that's what's being done to the people of the EU. And people are fed up with all this illegal immigration and whatnot that's happening. So it makes sense that you know there will be these pro- nationalism sentiments and people will eventually become frustrated enough to protest. So maybe many of these could be organic. Ram Bhakta says, "Shouldn't my diet help me achieve my goal? For example, non-veg increases my urge to perform more physical work while veg food gives me peace and allows me to focus on my brain work. Why most Hindus were wedged? Your diet should Yeah, you I agree that your diet should allow you to achieve your goals, whatever your goals are. So, if you want to be super strong and powerful and physically fit and muscular and all that, well, non-veg will help you a lot with that. Veg food will give you peace because it will Yeah. you know you will get this peaceful feeling that you know I have not eaten something that has caused some living being in pain right um so it's up to you it's entirely up to you what kind of lifestyle you want to have what your goals are and uh your your diet should certainly align with your goals in life uh why were most Hindus wedge it's it's a more recent phenomenon the past I don't know 2 and a half thousand years when I say the past 2 and a half thousand years are a more recent thing. You can imagine how ancient Indian history is, right? Uh I think it it it all began with the mainstreaming of Buddhism by Emperor Ashoke. That's where these these uh ideas of you know super nonviolence and not eating meat and all these ideas became uh mainstreamed in Indian culture. Historically before Buddhism there was no such thing in Hinduism. Everybody I mean nonviolence was regarded a hinsa was regarded as as an ideal but most Indians did not necessarily feel compelled to not eat meat especially those who were warriors you know they would eat meat uh so it's not like most Hindus were veg throughout history during the Vic times most Hindus were not vegetarians right Okay. Chocolate boy says, "Please tell me the origin and historic evidence of Goa's bandi so much. I have absolutely no idea, sir. I'm so very sorry. I don't know. I don't know anything about this. Sorry. But if you ask me about the origins and all that, we all Indians have the same origin, right? We have been on this subcontinent for 80,000 plus years. That's our origin. All sama in India have the same origin. Okay. Santan Banerjee says there's the lack of an attempt to diversify economic development across multiple cities and this results in overpopulation in certain cities such as Bangalore. How to handle this? Great question. Why do people congregate in a few metropolitan cities in India? Bangalore you are seeing this overpopulation this tremendous straining of the resources of the city other metropolitan cities like Delhi Mumbai Kolkata Kolkata not so much anymore because no one goes there that's what I hear I'm not sure but you know Chennai lots of people gravitate towards these massive cities because all the opportunities are there in those cities and there's a lack of opportunities in the rural areas and in Tire two, tire three cities, right? That's a problem in India and and that needs to be addressed. There's also this east west kind of issue divide that there are more opportunities available on the west coast of India compared to the east coast of India. So these issues some of these issues are are are are present at the state level. Some of the issues are there at the at the central level and these need to be addressed. Um so how to handle this? Every state needs to handle this. Every state needs to ensure that we need to have at least 10 cities or or centers where you have all the opportunities that that can possibly be made available to to a person to to whatever people want, right? That sort of thing. States need to take it up. Every state needs to ensure that you know there is sufficient development across the state not just in maybe one city. That's what needs to happen. But that's a state level issue. MK says Porus defeated Alexander. Porus was small. Alexander was large. But why not Indian kings rather than Porus defeated Turks? Um Turks were less than Alexander. Okay. So, Porus most likely defeated Alexander and Porus had the advantage of battle elephants and whatnot. And um yeah, so why did Indian kings not defeat Turks? Because the Turks were a different kind of beast, right? The Turks were nomads who had different tactics from Alexander. And uh the lessons of the of the Greek campaign of Alexander were were long lost. The Turks came to India after 1000 AD. At that time it was a very different India. India was no longer united and to deal with a nomadic force you needed a united India. Yeah, it's an interesting question you're asking here. But you can't really compare Alexander with the Turks. Turks were a different kind of beast. Alexander was this classical invader who came with a big army and uh they had a certain way of fighting warfare which was similar to what the way Indians fought except for the fact that Indians had had elephants. The Turks were a totally different kind of entity and their method of warfare was totally different from what India had seen before. So you can't really compare the Turks with Alexander. Okay. A project smiling Buddha says why no ambitious project in India like a bridge to Sri Lanka east west connection like Swiss canal oil gas pipeline to Southeast Asia. A bridge to Sri Lanka was attempted many many thousand years ago and was done and today if you build a bridge to Sri Lanka we will have to overwrite the bridge that historical bridge and maybe destroy archaeological artifacts. Now ambitious projects need to make sense economically and geopolitically. East West connection like S canal that would be a very very major engineering project you'll have to cut a sw cut a canal through like several thousand kilometers the S canal is tiny compared to what you're what you're proposing here and what how does it help India economically if you create a S canal like thing but a thousand times larger why how does it help us oil gas pipeline pipeline to Southeast Asia, oil gas pipeline to Southeast Asia. Well, Southeast Asia is not a major producer of oil or gas and we still haven't discovered any major oil or gas in India, you know, comparable to what you have in the Gulf. So once again, makes no sense to have a oil, gas pipeline to Southeast Asia. What we can possibly have is oil or gas pipelines or other pipelines between India and West Asia, maybe the Gulf region. That may make sense if it if it it can have significant economic benefits for India. So ambitious you know what kind of ambitious project I would like to see. India should become a space fairing nation. ISRO should become a genuine competitor and rival to SpaceX. India should ISRO should should develop reusable rocket technology and rockets that are comparable to SpaceX's Starship. That's the kind of ambitious project I would like to see. Projects that actually make sense and and advance India's interests and and in India's hard power. That's what I would like to see. We you don't want to have projects just because you know they they are status symbols. They should actually make sense. Kunal Krish says in a Karnataka village the Gore Haba festival went viral wrongly making people think it's celebrated across India and hurting the nation's image. What is a goryhaba festival? I have no idea. And I would if it's something that is going to hurt India's image, I'm not going to search for it on on Google. Uh well, these things happen, right? If there is some some some let's say fringe practice, some strange ritual or or some strange tradition some in some part of India and uh and if it goes viral, well, people outside of India will assume all Indians do that. So yeah that that's always a risk you you you stand you know that can happen. Sure. Uh Rajat Chhattaji says I strongly believe that with technological advancement fading qualia theory will prove soon that consciousness is generated by brain. I hope I was able to explain CMBB dipole anomaly question. Congrats on 300 episode. Thank you very much. I un understood what you're talking about the CNB dipole anomaly with the equinox as well that was strange um so you strongly believe that with technological advancement fading quailia theory will prove soon that consciousness is generated by the brain that is the strong belief that you have okay we shall see we shall see uh I personally don't know where consciousness emerges where does it emerge from does is it is it an emergent phenomenon Does it emerge out of complexity? Is it generated by super complex uh systems like the brain? The human brain is the most complex physical system that we know of in the entire universe actually that we know of. So is is is is consciousness generated by by that is it emergent or is is there a field of consciousness which some people believe? I I have no idea. I can't say but uh let's see let's see let's see if your uh theory whether your belief turns out to be true let's see hersai says what were these different people different sides of the world called and what type of culture they were following before Islam and the Christianity arrived what were these different people different sides of the world called which different people different sides of the and what type of culture they were following before Islam and Christianity arrived. Okay, look um Islam and Christianity, they both are present in Eurasia and Africa, right? Historically, that's where they've been present before Christianity spread across Eurasia, what did you have? You had the old polytheistic Indo-Uropean religion and its various manifestations across Eurasia. The Roman religion, the Greek religion, the Persian religion. The Persian religion was an offshoot of Hinduism which was kind of a rebellion against Hinduism which was the original religion of Persia and these are all polytheistic traditions. So that's what you had before Christianity became a thing. In Africa, you had various polytheistic traditions which uh we don't quite know very well of because it's all been wiped out and nothing was documented. Uh so Islam and Christianity both spread across Eurasia and Africa and eventually they spread to other parts of the world as well. So mainly you had polytheistic practices. Uh what were different people in different parts of the world called? Well, each each region has had different people who were known by different names. I would have to give you hundreds of names then. Uh look in the Americas you had people called the Incas. Inca Empire was there in present day Peru that region. Uh you had the uh triple alliance, the Aztec triple alliance in present day Mexico. You had so many different peoples who lived in North America who have all been wiped out or marginalized um and so much more. Right? So it was a very diverse world. Wamshi Kaleim says not only bad people highest sacrifice issa chakraarti not only bad people highest sacrifice issa chakraarti I have I'm not able to understand what you're saying sir is it a question is it a statement what is it about who is is chakraarti Sorry sir, not able to understand but anyway thank you so much. Fast snail says does hosting 2013 cricket CWG Commonwealth Games add leverage to Olympic bid bid? It may if we can demonstrate that we can organize we can host and organize a global or or or a major sporting event. It could possibly add some leverage to the bid to host the Olympics, but yeah, 2036 or something. It may it may to some extent. Yeah, I think I think it's certainly something that will help in bidding for the Olympics. MK says, why was the Delti Sultan not glorified like muggles by our historians? Secondly, how is Erdogan voted to power despite high inflation? Why is the Delhi Sultternate not glorified like muggles by our historians? Because the Muggal Kingdom eventually became an empire and it it encompassed the entang right. The Delhi Sultan was never able to expand it to that extent. So it makes sense to for for historians to to glorify the muggles because the muggles eventually expanded that much. The Delhi Sultanate never did. So I hope that explains that how is Erdogan voted to power despite high inflation. I suppose he must be popular, charismatic. Maybe people are aligned with his uh ideology and his vision for his nation. I'm not an expert in Turkish politics so I can't say anything beyond that. But clearly if it's free and fair elections then people see something good in him and that's why they are voting him to power. Wamshi Kalim says could the US send China to the stone age? Russia the US can can send China to the stone age. If they try to send Russia to the stone age the whole world goes to the stone age. Maybe even that doesn't happen. Maybe we go back to the age of the dinosaurs after a 10 20 year nuclear winter. Yeah, humanity doesn't survive. If the Americans try to bomb Russia to the stone age, there's going to be a nuclear war and nothing will survive. If the US tries to do that to China, the US will take some damage but they will win. So yeah, Pratik Kumar Roy says, "What are no why are most of the Indian doctors and dentists in private hospitals absolute a-holes? They intentionally do wrong treatments compromising the health of patients. You see in any civilized society, education and health care should be free. The government is free to tax people. Tax the people but provide these two things for free. You cannot turn education into a business. You cannot allow health care to become a business. If you allow health care to become a business then people will become the victims. And the same for education. So today the emphasis is on retaining patients not on curing patients. Now if you cure a patient, the patient is gone. But if you keep a patient sick, you keep on prescribing medicines that treat symptoms, not the root cause, then you keep on making money and the patient can be endlessly monetized. That's why education and healthcare should never be allowed to be commercialized. But today we are commercializing everything and we think it's progress. That's the problem. That's the problem you see. So they want a patient to be a a golden goose, a milk cow. Keep on giving what the doctor wants, which is money, money, money, money until there's nothing left. That's a terrible system. And that's what we have today. Sad. Rajat Chhatraji says I strongly believe that with tech advancement it will show fading quailia theory is true and consciousness is not generated by brain is vidanta says I hope I was able to explain CNB dipole alignment yes you explain that so you strongly believe that with tech advancement it will show fading quailia theory is true and consciousness is not generated by brain as vidanta says I don't think the vdanta philosophy says that the consciousness emerges out of the brain vanta would say that consciousness is an integral part of the universe and consciousness simply is concentrated in in the brain but it's not emergent out of the brain so vanta would say that consciousness is everywhere everything has some consciousness this object also has apparently a little tiny bit of consciousness perhaps. I don't know. Um so I'm not sure about exactly what Vidata says about consciousness but but as far as I understand it's it would say that consciousness is an inherent property of the universe. The universe itself may be conscious. That sort of thing. That's that's what Vidanta most likely says. Okay. Hey, Vun Sharma says, "I was saying that Trump will increase taxes on the what on the uh listen uh I would like to tell all of you that I am not able to anymore remember what you said half an hour ago. I've taken so many questions and discussed so many topics that if you expect me to understand what you had said 20, 30, 40, 50 minutes ago, I won't be able to. I'm sorry. So, I'm not sure what you're saying here. Sorry. Once again, Fast Snail says, "Can't wrap my head around the my head around the fact that 1989 fire incident caused India out of the semiconductor race. If we had a plant set up in 1984, we should be leaders." But yeah, the plant was sabotaged. There was a fire. The fact the plant was destroyed and our wonderful politicians, our leaders, they never bothered to restart that. So we should have been a world leader in semiconductor technology in chip manufacturing technology but now we are starting off all over again as beginners. That's that's what we've had in India. Yeah. Yeah. Dark Knight says, "Congrats for episode 300. Thank you very much, sir. I've been watching you for two years and you have awakened my genetic memory of my thousand-year so proud Indic bloodline and heritage and the need to preserve its integrity. Thank you so much, sir. I'm so proud. I'm so glad to know that uh that you feel this way and thank you so much for having been watching me for 2 years and and and just keep keep learning, right? Be proud of who you are. Be proud of who we are, what our heritage is and what we have achieved in the past. And always remember that the past achievements are there to serve as guidelines to remind you of what you're capable of. But it doesn't mean that we are great forever. Today we are not a great country. We have to become great again. So we have to all work together towards that. So thank you so much sir and keep going. Karthik R says, "Thank you Abijit of the Chaan for being our history teacher. You're very welcome sir. Our education system is garbage. Unfortunately, sadly it's true. Yeah. School education in US Canada is also poor standard. Yeah. True. True. True. That Hindus should send schools to Patanjali gurukuls need dharmic whiff. Okay. I'm not sure what whiff is but yeah sure. Um I know that the education system now in the US and Canada is also not good anymore. It's poor and there's a lot of uh indoctrination these days. They seek to brainwash children into believing various, you know, strange ideologies that are typically not good. Um that's unfortunately the case the case. So yeah, if you have access to guru schools, you should certainly send your school your your kids to those at least on a part-time basis as uh something that supplements the regular education. That way they will be they will have some grounding in in our culture and civilization. So I agree with you sir. So thank you very much sir. Thank you. Karthik G. Pratik Kumar Roy says your views on Apple products versus Microsoft Android. I have used all three. I have used Apple products. Microsoft products Android as well. Android has its own benefits, advantages over Apple. Apple has its own advantages over Android. When it comes to computer operating systems, I have always preferred Microsoft. I've always preferred Windows. I also use a MacBook when I travel because it's a super lightweight thing. But uh if you ask me to make a choice, I would prefer the Windows operating system over over the uh MacBook operating system. Um yeah, so it's it's a mixed bag. They all have their own strong points and weaknesses. Um yeah, but Apple generally makes products that really last and are really good. So if you buy an iPhone, it's going to last you several years unless you are someone who who who likes to change it every year which I don't I would not recommend at all. Uh Anish Panchchal says big fan of yours. Thank you for sharing knowledge. Thank you very much Anish G. Thank you very much. I really appreciate it. Thank you sir. Okay. Priyanu Jen says almost every protest in India is funded by USA. They they are our civilizational enemy not China who is with whom we have border issues. USA seems personal. If you ask me who is more of a civilizational adversary to India, I would say see China I I know they have sought to balconize India. But do they seek to destroy Indian culture and civilization? They don't. They don't care. They don't seek to destroy India's culture and civilization. They don't try to change to engineer or to re-engineer our demographics. They don't try to do religious conversions in India. The Chinese don't. The West does that. The West is will not be content with merely balkcanizing India. They want to eradicate Hindu Dharma. So from that perspective, the west or you could say the US is a bigger civilizational adversary of India than China. I would agree. Dark Knight says being constantly on the defensive against invaders is foolishness. The invader only needs to win once for you to lose everything. I completely agree. You have to take the fight to their home, right? I mean uh if you had kings who took the the fight to the Goris and the Gaznavis in their own backyard, it would have been different. If you had kings who would have sought to invade Central Asia and defeat the the Turks in on their own home turf, which was certainly possible, it would have been different. So being constantly on the defensive is a recipe for disaster. And you're absolutely right. They only need to win once and you're done. And they will destroy you forever. Yeah, totally totally correct. Kajuru Baton says, "Congratulations on three." Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Been watching you since the Ukraine war began. Okay, that's 2022. Awesome. Awesome. Thank you so much. What is the key differences between the Slavs of Russia and the Serbians? Same ethnicity, same religion. Why don't they collaborate more? key differences between the Russians and the Serbians. Well, the only real difference is that these are the two different geographical locations. Let us uh go to the map and let's take a look. Give me a second. Okay, let's put the map on the screen. So, Serbia is in the Balkans region. It's a Balkan country. Okay. So, we're talking about this country here and and you can see that it's it's not very close to Russia. What's the distance between the borders of Serbia and the nearest Russian border? If we ignore Khaledin, it's about a thousand kilometers, right? Yeah. So, that's that's the major issue. Apart from that, they are Slavic people. The Serbian language is different from the Russian language. Same religion, sure. Same ethnicity, for sure. Why don't they collaborate more? I am not really clear about what the deal is. Uh yeah, how did Slavic people end up in Serbia? And yeah, so the main main difference is that Serbia is significantly farther away from Russia. Beyond that, I would not be able to tell you. I have not really studied the history in detail. Serbia, Croatia. Croatia isn't Slavic, is it? No, it's not. The name of Croatia is based on the name of the river Sarasati. Actually, Ravatka. Um, yeah. So, I don't know the key differences between Slavs and Russians. Not not not sure. Rajendula says, "Why have you never spoken even slightly negative about Israel? Are you afraid of Mosad? Is it something else?" Have you ever bothered to see the videos on my channel, the short clips? Have you? I mean, I don't understand how people say as if they speak as if they understand everything and they know everything in on on under the sun. H let's let's let's do this experiment, shall we? Let's open my channel. H Okay, let's put that on the screen. I I I find this really annoying and irritating this attitude of some people. So, here's my channel. Okay, this is my channel. Now, let's search for Israel. Israel. Okay, what do we find? Is Israel a sovereign country? Is Israel US's master? Does Israel have a complicated relationship with with India? Is India Israel India's friend western Wasal something else entirely? Is Israel not a US state? Indians lectured by Israel is on on on TV. Is that a very complimentary thing thing? Does Israel love India? Reality check for Indians. Does it look like something very positive about Israel? H uh why does tiny Israel dominate the the the Middle East? Why I respect and admire Israel etc. Indian Jews in Israel? Racism, persecution, shattered dreams. I am saying that Indian Jews, Indian origin Jews face racism, persecution and shattered dreams in Israel. Have you bothered to see that? I just don't get when people do all this. It's so annoying. What are you trying to achieve? Right. So, I just showed you what the truth is. I have criticized Israel where whenever it's relevant, but do I agree with the various things like Israel is doing this or that in Palestine? I don't. I believe that Israel is doing the right thing when it comes to the way it is dealing with Gaza and Palestine. Right. Okay. Galler says, "Brave DIA Brave Dia scared of CIA Aal. What is DIA? Uh, this happens in nations on a verge. Okay. I don't speak German. I I don't speak German. I'm very sorry. I I speak French. I don't speak German. Uh means security means under I I do get some German. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um but I'm not sure what DIA is. Is USA on the verge? I'm not sure what you're asking there. Um, I'm kind of getting a little bit of what you're saying in German, but I am not really a speaker of German German language, so I can't really say what uh get exactly what you're saying. And I'm not sure what what BIA is. BIA. Yep. Yep. Sorry, sir. Sorry. Very sorry. Congratulations on the remarkable achievement, sir, says Animesh Paul. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you so much. 300. It's quite remarkable, actually. 300 live episodes. It's it's yeah it's not something that happens very often. Uh thank you sir Gallver says I adore your commitment five hours in counting but what we are your HMTS and always and we will be forever Nityanand oh you read the book you read the story borrowed time. Yeah yeah yeah thank you so much sir I really appreciate uh your support. HMT is an all wins you read it. Thank you so much for reading it. I really appreciate that. Thank you sir. Pranov Mur says opinion on Nlesh Oak and his and his research. Look, I haven't unstudied his research. >> Uh like I said like like what how many hours has it been? This has been like five and almost six hours now this live stream is on. In the first hour or so of the live stream I answered a similar question. What's my opinion on Dlesh Oak and his research and the and something similar. Look, I haven't studied his research. There are multiple people who have taken up the work of attempting to date precisely the Ramayan and the Mahabharat based on archoastronomical analysis. Okay. And multiple people have done this work and they have come up with very different dates. So first of all I have to express my heartfelt thanks and admirement and and and and admiration and gratitude to the people who have dedicated so much of their own personal time in doing this research right we should all be thankful to these people all of them because no one's paying them for this for for spending the time on these things and still they've done that. So that's number one. Number two, many of these people who have done this research have come up with very different dates and uh unless I spend my own time and several months of it, maybe a year or two and do the calculations myself and the interpretation of the Sanskrit versus myself and come up with my own dates, I don't know how to have an opinion on X person or Y person or Zed person's research. I don't know. So I don't understand how many Indians decide that so and so person is the right person who has made who has made the right analysis. How do you know by are you an expert in archive astronom arstronomy? How do you deter determine that X person is has made the correct analysis and Y person is wrong? How do you determine do you do it based on who whose face you like or who speaks the best English or who speaks the best Hindi? How do you make a determination? I don't know how to determine that. So unless I go ahead and do the calculations myself, which I'm very capable of, but I don't have the time. Until I do that, I can't say who is right and who is wrong. So I'm going to say I have no opinion right now about this research. But I am very grateful to all of these people for spending this much of their own personal time and effort in doing the research. I am grateful to that to them for this. A tech desk says Arabs translated Indian and Persian mathematical texts but many discoveries like the first mathematical crankshafts, robots and optics were original Arab innovations without even Persian or Indian contact. Isn't it? I have no idea. I don't know. We know that the Arabs translated Indian and Persian mathematical texts. Indian mathematical texts. The Persians also translated our texts. Okay. And those may have been translated translated by the Arabs. But the original texts were Indian texts. Whether they're Arabic or Persian. The Arabs may have translated some Persian texts, but those also were translations of Indian texts. Uh mechanical crankshafts, robot. Did the Arabs have robots? I am not aware of any Arabic robots. uh optics. Did the Arabs come up with optics? I'm not sure about that. So I that's beyond my scope of knowledge. I am not aware of any crankshafts or robots or optics that were Arabic innovations. I'm not aware of those. I am aware of the translations, right? That's what I can tell you. I'm not aware of any of these innovations. Okay. Polarizer says current government wouldn't compromise with sovereignty but what about only fans and insta subscription feature corrupting youth that could be game from deep state I think omni fans one sorry only fans is is is an abomination it's it's ghastly is it available in India I am afraid to even open it here I don't know what what will come up on the screen. So I I'll not do that. I know Tik Tok is banned in India. Is is is only fans available in India. In when you say Insta subscription, you mean Instagram, I hope. Or is there some other Insta somewhere? Um I know that people have this tendency to take the phone and do real read real real like several hours a day. I know about that. Um and that's obviously what what do they call it? brain rot right it destroys the brains um should India ban only only fans well if you can ban Tik Tok why not ban only fans why not are Indian people or you know creators on only fans I hope not so much degeneracy coming from the west which is you know sad to see terrible terrible yeah congratulations on completing 300 episodes. Thank you so much. Always got to learn a lot. Thank you so much, ma'am. Thank you for your encouragement, for your support. Means a lot. Thank you very much, ma'am. Thank you. Uh 6P70 Delta says around 2015. US special forces wanted to set up manufacturing of Russian machine guns PKM and NSB in United States. Even NATO countries like Poland and uh BG, Belgium still manufacture them to this day. But many still say Russia makes crap. What's my opinion? I don't think Russia makes crap equipment. Um maybe the Russian equipment isn't as sophisticated as the American equipment. Maybe it is not that complicated. Maybe it is not that expensive. Russian equipment is robust. It's reliable. If you look at their military helicopters, they're like flying tanks. You can shoot as many rounds of ammunition you want at those. They'll take it. They'll take the hits. They'll keep flying. You You can hit them with missiles. Chunks of the airframe will fall off, but they'll still take you home. I think Russian equipment is super robust, super strong, and super reliable. The AK-47, it works under any conditions. You dump it in water, you take it out, it'll work. Sand goes into it, it'll still work. You do that to to an Uzi or or M60 and see what happens. Yeah, the same thing. Uh, so Russian equipment isn't super sophisticated sophisticated like the American one sometimes, but it's it's it's very good. It's very reliable. So I don't agree at all that Russian equipment is crap. Not at all. Okay, Ano Patel. Well, thank you, sir. Thank you very much. So I'm a massive fan of yours. Thank you so much. Your channel and content and intellect is absolutely amazing. Thank you very much, sir. Once again, I am born I'm a born and raised and proud Canadian of Gujarati descent. Okay. My family is from East Africa, four generations removed from India. Anyways, well, thank you so much, sir. I'm I'm glad to hear from you. You are a proud Canadian of Gujarati descent from East Africa, I suppose, Kenya or Tanzania. And we know what happened in that part of the world in the 1960s and '7s. You had the rise of Idi Amin Dada and there was this very strong and very unfortunate anti-Indian sentiment and because of that lots of Indians were forced to migrate out of East Africa. Some of them, most of them went to England. Some of them went to Canada. Various uh some went to Australia. Very few came back to India. I have met a few who one was a practicing doctor and so on. Yeah. So anyway, thank you so much sir for your contribution for for your very kind words and keep doing well sir. Keep doing well. MK says, "Rank Turic empires with respect to damage done to India." Um, the Turk invasions of India were not launched by empires. They were launched by various opportunistic nomads. So you had the Delhi Sultanit which was a Mamluk dynasty, wasn't it? A slave dynasty. Gulam dynasty and they came from which Turk empire not an empire and when it comes to u the Muggal Empire the Muggal kingdom which eventually became an empire for a brief time brief period of time uh there so gentor was was this guy called Zahiruin Baba who came from Vana he was a prince he was not from an empire he was from a small kingdom and they did tremendous damage to India for sure the muggles and so did the uh the Delhi Sultterate and the Goris and Gaznavids and also Nad Sha who was a Turk ruler of Iran. So can't really rank them as empires but they all did significant damage in various various different shapes and forms. Sir MK uh sorry Akil Krishna Kubar says I stay in the Netherlands. Thank you for first of all reaching out and uh you're staying in the Netherlands. All right. Recently they're beginning to build two asylum centers there. Asylum centers. Okay. My question what is the position or say of Netherlands in NATO and in the world? Congrats on Thank you very much long-term subscribers. Thank you very much Akil G. So um so Netherlands is building in the Netherlands they are building two asylum centers there. Asylum as in refugee asylum. I suppose that that's what it was me because you don't you no longer have mental asylum centers anymore. Okay. Okay. So, two refugee asylum centers which means illegal immigrants who come into the country and who have to be sheltered or whatever. Okay. The question is what's the position or or stature or standing or say of the Netherlands in NATO and in the world? Well, if you look at NATO, you have a bunch of European countries and two North Africa North American countries. Which two North American countries? Canada and the US. And of all the members of NATO, there is no question about the fact as to who is the hedgeman. There's only one. There's only one leader. There's only one boss. It's the United States. All other nations are followers of the US. And among these nations that are part of NATO, some contribute more, some are more significant, some are less. For example, Germany kind of contributes more to NATO. France kind of contributes more to NATO. Netherlands also plays a significant role in NATO as a host of US nuclear weapons. Let me just double check that. Does the Netherlands host US nuclear weapons? Let's check it. Does the Netherlands do the Netherlands does it do the Netherlands host US nuclear weapons? Yes, the Netherlands hosts US nuclear weapons. Approximately 15 nuclear bombs, right? Um so that gives the Netherlands kind of a privileged position in NATO. This is one of one of the chosen vasals. Yeah. Chosen to deploy American nuclear weapons on its territory. And obviously those will be aimed at either Khaledrad or Russia proper. Obviously not China or something else or not not any NATO nation. Uh so that's the kind of thing you have. Uh so all NATO nations apart from the US are followers of the US and some of them get some special privileges like the Netherlands has been allowed to host nuclear weapons on its territory. Really now says I'm fascinated by how Naji had so much influence. How was he able to be welcomed by the Germans and the Japanese? What did he bring to the table? Yeah, that's that's a great question. Nit gi when he went to Germany he did not go there as a head of state. He went there as someone who was a rebel against the British occupiers of India. As such he came as a supplicant. He was he came there to ask for help and somehow he was able to meet the top leadership in Germany as well as Japan. So clearly they saw something in him that this man has some ability some leadership ability that is exceptional otherwise you the doors never open to you right never open for you to meet the top leadership impossible I mean go to Delhi ask to meet the prime minister of India what happens they'll ask you why do you want to meet the prime minister what what do you seek and why should the prime minister who is so incredibly busy, why should the prime minister spend some time, invest some time meeting you, right? How does that benefit the nation? So clearly the Germans as well as the Japanese who are fighting the British and the Americans, they saw something in Niti. They saw it in such a way that they felt that meeting with him, investing that certain amount of precious precious time meeting with with him will be beneficial to them and their cause. Maybe as a long-term investment, maybe he will be able to to defeat the British and uh throw them out of India potentially and that would be beneficial for their cause. So that sort of thing. So what did he bring to the to the table at that point in time? nothing but the potential that he had, the leadership ability and yeah and and and his track record also like uh he was what the topper of the I uh Indian civil services and uh he already had demonstrated that he had the ability to you know lead political movements. He had become the president of the Indian National Congress before he was outmaneuvered by Mr. Gandhi. So he already had a track record and he you could see that he had tremendous potential. So that's most likely why he was welcomed by both the Germans and the Japanese. MK says should we prefer Chinese gadgets over US gadgets with respect to data and surveillance? I think it's about choosing which you know which brand of poison do you like the best. That's how it is. Whether it is data or surveillance, both will take your data. Bast will do some kind of surveillance on you. So it's just two different brands of of poison. That's how it is. Karthik says King Ashoke was already a Buddhist during the Kolinga war. Correct. Contrary to what is thought to us. Yes. He had already begun practicing the precepts of both the dharma before the Kolinga military operation before the Kolinga campaign before the Kolinga war. So what we are taught is that Ashok was this Hindu king who fought in the Kolinga war and he triumphed. He triumphed. His army triumphed and he saw the death and destruction that his military campaign had brought to the people of Kolinga and he was filled with a great remorse and because of that he he gave up his evil religion Hinduism and turned to the superior pacifistic Buddhism religion and converted to Buddhism. That's what we are taught. Buddham saram gachami that's what we are taught. But the fact is that he had already started practicing the precepts of Bodha Dharma officially before the Kolinga war and he fought that war as a Buddhist not as a Hindu. If you want to create a differentiation between Buddhism and Hinduism then he fought as a Buddhist. Okay. Okay. Rajendra says when the US left Pakistan and Afghanistan and created a power vacuum, why didn't we bribe them and make them our vasal? What what went wrong with the Indian government? See when the US see first of all background background story Pakistan was created by the British to serve the British geopolitical interests in the subcontinent region and the Gulf region West Asia region. Pakistan is kind of a bridge in this region right uh and its objective was also to to prevent India from accessing central Asia by land. So that's why Pakistan was created and Afghanistan was a different story. Now Britain very quickly became a second rate world power in the 20th century especially after 1956 the so campaign so crisis and then the US became the big daddy of Pakistan and this relationship became very important especially important uh after 1979 the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. So the US started funding and financing Pakistani terrorist activities at this time much of which was later diverted into India. So Pakistan was a US facile for the longest time. Then around 2012 the US left Pakistan alone after the Osama bin Laden thing was done and all that and at that time Pakistan was left without a big master to serve which is why they chose China. to they chose to serve China. Now why didn't India bribe Pakistan make Pakistan it's our vasal because Pakistan is its definition the definition of Pakistan is anti-India not India the nation was created as an enemy towards India right the nation was created as a rejection of India and Hinduess and the the uh the justification that is given to the people of Pakistan for allowing the army to rule as as the dictatorial power is that without the army India will destroy us. So the army could never be in a position where it would take Indian bribes and become an Indian masal. They would always if they did that they would lose all legitimacy in the eyes of the people and you would have a civil war and the people would try to oust the the army from power. So that's why Pakistan could not do that and that's why they chose China and China obviously had deeper pockets than India. India could never match the kind of bribes the Chinese could give to the Pakistani generals. So there is also that factor. Now Afghanistan the US of uh the US occupied Afghanistan for about two decades right and they they left Afghanistan in the year 2021. They withdrew from Afghanistan in 2021 and they handed power to the to the Taliban. And before handing power to the Taliban, there was this this DHA agreement between the US and Afghanistan and the Taliban with some secret clauses. And it has been alleged by very very uh reliable sources that the US pays the the Taliban a stipend of between 30 to 100 million in cash per week in exchange for certain you know certain things that the Taliban does for the US like keeping China out of Afghanistan. So even when the US left Afghanistan, withdrew from Afghanistan, they had they had placed the Taliban in power and they were paying the Taliban. So India could not bribe them. But see today, India and the Taliban are on good terms. Aditi, thank you very much ma'am. Thank you. Sedhart Gupta says, recommend book on Nazi stem pre and old indic. recommend book on Nazi stem pre and I don't know sir anyway I don't know any book on the Nazi stem uh so I I won't be able to sir Khan says fan AC what is my preferred perfume okay I use two or three different perfumes one is uh something by Dio. I think it's a dark black perfume. I forget the name of the perfume. Uh there is one by Lacost. It's a white one. So that's two. I also have used uh Isa Miyak is Myak. One of the nice perfumes by Isaak. So I don't remember the names but uh yeah I just keep on buying the same one. Yeah. Anyway, thank you sir. Thank you for being a fan. Appreciate it very much. Okay, how many hours has it been? 6 hours plus. It's been a long session. Rudra says, "Congratulations." Thank you very much. Thank you. Watching you for the past three years. Thank you very much for being a longtime viewer, sir. Being a life have been a life-changing experience even after decades. We recognize this as one of them. Thank you so much. That is truly an honor for me. Thank you very much, Rudra G. Thank you. Slendy's says, "Uh, I see Indian hate online skyrocket during Diwali. Why do white people demonize us and how will it be in the future? Also, neighbors deserves as much attention as Zoho. Please visit their site once. I will check it out." Neighbors, uh, why do white people demonize us and how will it be in the future? Look, from the West's perspective, we should have been eradicated as a civilization. We are from their perspective a defeated culture. We were defeated once and the way they see it cultures they defeat disintegrate and disappear. You will see that all across the world. Look at Africa. They colonized Africa. There's nothing left of African culture and civilization. Nothing at all. They conquered North America. What is left of the native American culture? Nothing. Right? They conquered Australia. The Australian Aboriginal people, do they even exist anymore? Do they even are they even relevant? No. New Zealand. So everywhere they have gone and whatever they've conquered, they've destroyed. But we were conquered and occupied for two and a half centuries. But we still are here and we are once again growing as a nation. And that's what they hate. So that's why there is this hatred towards us, right? That's why MK says would defeat at Deutsland better be UK would a defeat at DE better for UK seeking illegal immigration I'm not sure what you're asking sir would a defeat at Deutsland de Denmark deutsand what is it Germany better for UK seeking illegal immigration. Would it have been better for the UK to lose to the Germans if they would not have to face illegal immigration today? Is that what you're saying? I'm not sure. Sorry, sir. Blue Moon says, "Views on Zoran Mandani as the next mayor of New York City. He looks like a snake to me. Serpent. Serpentine guy. Don't like the guy at all. Can't stand him. He'll be a terrible mayor for New York City. Terrible. It'll be a huge mistake to vote for him. GH polarizer says, "Predicting this as the last super chat." Let's see. Looks like it's the last one. Looks like it's the last one. I don't see any super chats after this. All right, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. Polarizer. And thank you very much everybody else. This is this has been in excess of 6 hours and it looks like we have more super chats. Amit Rao says, "Thank you for the work for the resurgence of Indian civilization. Congrats on number 300 and best wishes always." Thank you so much. Thank you very much for your wishes, sir. Thank you very much. I really appreciate your wishes, your kind words. Thank you very much. Injured soccer player says, "Congratulations on your 300th episode." Thank you very much, sir. Pan since summer 2025. Thank you. What is the fascination with Stonehenge? Been there and wasn't impressed one bit. Okay, you've been there, you were not impressed at all. What's the fascination with Stonehenge? Well, it's an ancient artifact. In the UK, uh in Europe, you don't have so many ancient artifacts. Their their culture, their their adoptive culture and religion, it's pretty new, right? Christianity and uh and somehow they have turned stone hedge stone hedge into this iconic site. There are many other sites like these with men's standing stones and sites that are aligned with you know the the summer or winter solstice or whatever it is right but somehow it's it's been u it's been turned into an iconic site. It's all the power of marketing and whatnot. Um, yeah. So, I'm I'm not really sure what is so special about Stonehenge. There are many other, you know, Neolithic uh sites in Europe, not just in the British Isles, but outside of that also, which are potentially far more interesting. So, it's just the power of narrative, the power of propaganda, the power of marketing. That's all it is. All right. All right. I think that brings me to the end of today's session. I won't be able to take any more. It's been a long one. Long long one. I know there are a million more comments out there. But I think it will be it will make sense for me to end this now over here. So let me end this session at this point in time. It's crossed 6 hours 18 minutes. Thank you so much everybody for for all your questions for your viewership for your wishes and everything else and we continue the ask a show continues it shall continue. All right everybody thank you so much keep asking questions keep raising your standards keep learning and I look forward to seeing you in the next live stream. Until then take care I'll see you soon. Thank you. Bye-bye.