[music] Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Heat. [music] Heat. >> [music] [music] [clears throat] >> Hello, good evening and welcome to the Askab show episode 320. I hope you're all doing great. Today I'm going to take questions that you have asked in the comments and I'm going to discuss geopolitics as well as history. Maybe take a mixture of reasonably equal amounts of both uh questions from both topics. I'll take about 20 questions today and then I'll take some questions from the live chat or super chat and uh that shall be the agenda for this live stream. But before we start, let us see who all is there on the live chat. Minimalist Maverick Sajjit Gokul has become a new member. Thank you so much Sajjit Gokul and welcome to the channel's membership. I really appreciate that. Geopolitical [snorts] Dubai is here from Indor Mac 4J1U. Uh Aush Singh is here. Pranamar G Rocky Gaming good evening Jind realmir Putin Jam G Nirvana Shanks Kodi Jar Nirvana Shanksan Swami0709 Mr. Jam Radhir Radi rogue gamer Manhattan real bhutin dwit ashwini air is manticor hello abishek shukla live says 500% tariffs are coming we'll see looks like that could be humanity survives Ramnam Albert Davis good evening sir Anand Anandam S2825 hello lazy gamer hello Swami is here from Jaipur Swami0709 says, "Am I going to sing or something?" Well, I am not going to sing. [laughter] Uh, Suganta BKS, namaste. Crazy brain, hello, good to see you. Crazy brain. Mr. Gap Patel, good evening. Good evening from Otawa. Random Skull, hello Kerkar, hello, good to see you. Ramshes 7757. Lazy Gamer. Ramsh says, "Please continue the series off." Off off. Okay. Jay Guman is here and it is morning in Quebec. Mojour miss you Jay Guman. Hitan Shua good evening from Gujarat. Good good evening to you. Arismantic Himmanu Rajit from Chennai. Ram Ram Manisharu namaste. Namaste. Vikash PJ good evening online Mahadev bro. Uh advocate Sam Achara. Hello. Who else do we have? Adit Ashini Crazy Brains. Um Ram Shreas Abishaka live is here from Kpur and Shul Takur Radhira Mahita Bushetti good evening ma'am good to have you Rohit is here from Chennai Hidar Pab hello Swami have I seen once upon a time in the west I'm sure I have yes uh Ragavir Singh Wir once again Vikash PJ Priyanka Priyanka Javalia hello namaste good to have you ma'am good to see you John M funk hello sir namaste to you as well. Good to have you. Adwit Ashwari Jaguan. Um, who else do we have? Moan Sharma is here from Jaipur. Monkey Luffy Hoola. PG is here from Germany. Uh, Moan Sharma from Jaipur. Manhattan. I6W. Kavish Razap. Asalamu alaikum to you as well. Rocky Gaming from Rajasthan. Uh, he buati. Hello. Um Ramsh says please continue the understanding America series. Well there seems to be significant demand for that. I may have to take it very seriously. Okay I hear you noted partapati is here from J uh from Japan not Jaipun Jaipur Japan. Uh Mat from Pune and Orishnik strikes Manhattan says orishnik strikes did not do much well they were not designed to do a lot of damage. They did not possibly have warheads. Ornic missiles are IRBMs, intercontinental range ballistic missiles >> and they are actually designed to they're supposed to carry the big stuff nuclear warheads but those were used to hit a gas facility in western Ukraine. Um so the objective was not to cause devastation. The objective was to deprive Ukraine of of its winter reserves of gas because of the strikes that Ukraine did on and attempted to take the life of President Putin. That sort of thing. So, you know, there's going to be action reaction. That's how it goes. Um, Sat Satyam Ja is here from Vladim. Vladivosto. Well, that's a good place to be in. Very cool, I suppose. And okay, General Subutai is here from Mongolia. All right. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, uh let us now stop. U I'm going to say from the Philippines. Okay. So, let's take the questions now. Okay. I will not be able to greet you all individually as you know. But uh let's let's get going with the questions. What questions do we have today? Let us begin. Okay. Uh this is from Rushabare. Given the recent developments in Venezuela, how do you see the role of bricks ahead? Recently there was news that a Russian tanker was seized in the Atlantic. Moreover, Iran, one of the top suppliers of oil to China is facing crisis. Oh yeah, they are facing a crisis. So what op options do they have now? Could Russia now escalate the war in Ukraine? And can China now make a move on Taiwan or does it face the risk of being encircled? And how does this impact India and our neighborhood? And what cards do we have now? Okay, a lot happening. A lot happening. See, first of all, the US last year, just a couple of months ago, came up with uh uh this national security strategy, this new document in which they have operationalized a 21st century version of the Monroe Doctrine. The Monro Doctrine was an old US foreign policy from 1823 which said that the US will no longer allow any external non-hemismic power to interfere in the Americas, North America or South America. No European power, no other power will be allowed to interfere. Only the US will be allowed to be the sole hedgeman and the global super cop in the Americas. That's the old 1823 uh Monro doctrine. Now there is a Trump corollary to that that's been added on top of it. It says that that not only will external non-hemismic powers not be allowed to operate and and interfere in the Americas but even local regional actors such as governments that may not be aligned with the US objectives or US interests or cartels or whatever even those will not be allowed to operate and the US will go after any of them to hell with international law and that's what the US is doing now. So the Americans have now see we know they did a regime change in Venezuela. They they kidnapped they abducted the president of Venezuela, Mr. Maduro and his wife who are now in prison in the US awaiting some sort of trial. Um and the the Americans have said that Venezuela will now operate as per American demands. All the oil that Venezuela sells will be sold through the United States. So it's it's like the good old good old East India Company situation. Whatever India exported while under British occupation was exported to Britain or through Britain and all the profits were taken by the British with a little bit trickling back to India just to kind of stay stay semi-conscious that sort of thing. So that's the East India Company colonial policy that which is exactly what the US is now operationalizing in Venezuela. And to make this happen, if you want to ensure if you are the United States and you want to make sure that Venezuela's oil only passes through American channels and American hands, whether it's sold to the US or to third parties, it has to be sold through the US. That's how the US controls everything. Now if you have tankers, oil tankers or other vessels that are that are carrying the flags of other nations like Russia for example or China or whatever and they come to Venezuela and take oil the Americans will not allow that. If this happens then the American Monro doctrine and Trump corally corollary goes for a toss and it loses credibility. So the that's why the US has gone ahead and seized this Russian tanker. I think it was not carrying any oil. Was it carrying something else? We don't know. It's not been declared. But the Americans went ahead and boarded the vessel and captured the vessel and its crew. There's a couple of Indians on board. The there's a bunch of Ukrainian citizens and some a couple of Russian citizens also maybe. Uh that sort of situation is there right now. So what's the status of the crew? The vessel. It's it's it's a work in process right now. We don't quite know exactly what the situation is. Right. So the last we know is that the Americans boarded and captured the vessel and its crew. Um now you say rightfully that Iran is facing a crisis. You know there's tremendous demonstrations and whatnot in Iran. The people I suppose have been have been fed up of the Islamic regime regime in Iran. I think that's that's an organic sentiment that comes up from the ground level. It's not astroturfed. It's not manufactured. I'm sure there'll be some Iranians who will be aligned with the Islamic regime, but I I think it's pretty clear that the the majority of the people uh aren't aligned with the Islamic regime in Iran and they seek a change and that's that's that makes Iran fertile ground for a US regime change operation or US-led regime change operation and it it do dubtales perfectly with US interests in the region. Right? So if the Americans take Persia, take take Iran, okay, the effect of regime change and bring back the son of the sha or whatever. Yeah. Then you will have Iran, this big powerful nation in West Asia just west of the subcontinent, it will now become a US asset. It will become operationalized as as a US asset. Right? And if that happens, then the Americans control essentially most of the oil supply, energy supply in the world. Venezuela 20% of oil reserves. Okay. [snorts] Uh we know that the Venezuelan oil is is special oil. It's heavy oil. It's sour oil. There's only three or four refineries in the world that can process that, including one in India, right? But still, it's 20% of the world's oil reserves, proven oil reserves. Now, if you take Iran, the Americans already control Iraq. They control the UAE. They, you could say, control Saudi Arabia to a large extent, right? The Saudis can't do much against the US. Then if they control Iran as well then that becomes a huge problem for a nation like China which then becomes very dependent on Russia because even other nations like Angola, Nigeria, whatsoever all these nations are also alligned with the US. So if if the Americans take Iran then they can essentially clamp down on China's energy supply on demand and make China completely dependent on Russia. Right? So and and We are also seeing other movements in the region. For example, Somali land is being recognized now. It's been recognized by Israel. The UAE has also defacto recognized Somali land. So that becomes a piece of the puzzle that the Americans can now put in their kitty because they can now start dominating the Gulf of Adan the straight the straight of Babal Mandab region. They can choke off all the u goods supplies etc. That's that that move into China. We Indians talk about blockading Malaka. The Americans will blockade Babal Mand and Hormuz. Why blockade Mala? The Americans think 20 steps ahead. So the Americans are essentially putting the pieces aligning the pieces in the geopolitical chessboard such that they can to China, start the process of choke of of being in a position to choke off China on demand if whenever required. Right. And um could Russia now escalate the war in Ukraine? Well, I suppose they could. They are in a position to do that. They have the the resources, the the the military capabilities, etc. And there there is some escalation of the war in Ukraine. The Russians uh just a few hours ago launched a series of missile strikes in western Ukraine. They took out a big uh gas reservoir which uh supplies Ukraine with energy in winter. Winter is here and Ukraine is now is going to lose that energy. Right. So the Russians used ornik uh IRBMs intern intercontinental I'm sorry intermediate range ballistic missiles to strike at this uh gas reservoir or plant or whatever it was. And the Orishnik apparently the warheads did not contain any any any explosive charges but they were sufficient to devastate the thing the the oil res the gas depot. That's what it looks like. It's it's still to be asserted and verified. Right. Uh so that's the situation right now. Could Russia make could Russia escalate the war in Ukraine? Possibly. So the Russians are the Americans are also bringing in legislation that could uh target Russia with 500% tariffs and impose secondary tariffs on nations like India, Brazil etc. China 500% tariffs on on us. Yeah. So that will further u have and the objective is to devastate the Russian economy and to prevent other nations from purchasing Russian oil which is one of the major things that the Russian economy depends on. Right? So the Americans are are acting. See, there are nations that talk. There are nations that act. The Americans act. Okay. Can China now make a move on Taiwan? Well, I suppose they can, but they will then that will the Americans will turn Taiwan into China's Ukraine, right? It'll start bleeding the Chinese economy. You see, you see who's the most powerful nation in the world. I've been saying this for the longest time. China is not a superpower. Not even not even close to being a superpower. The only nation close to being a superpower is Russia. Let me put something on the screen. This is my power index of the most powerful nations. This was calculated last year. I will recalculate it this for this year. I mean this was for 2024. Not not much much has changed. So the most powerful nation in the world is the USA with a hard power score of 93. Next is Russia with a hard power score of 54. Russia at least fights. China doesn't fight. It hides behind other nations. China. China hides behind Russia. China doesn't dare fight the US. The Russians fight. The Russians dare to fight. You can see the difference between China and Russia. So here we have Russia at number two. The American hard power score is 93. Russia's hard power score is 54. 54. China has a hard power score of 15. and India has 4.9. These are the four nations that matter. Israel has a hard power score of 0.62. But actually um this is just a row hard power score. Actually, Israel is one of the five sovereign nations in the world. Only five sovereign nations in the world exist. I'm going to have to recalculate the stuff for the year 2026. Okay. Um yeah. So, Israel actually should have a sovereignty score of over one. So, that's the situation. Now, how does this impact India? It's going to impact India in a variety of ways. If the Americans bring in their legislation to impose 500%, you know, secondary tariffs on India, that's going to devastate the India US trade relationship. Yeah. $120 billion or so. It's the trade relationship that will devastate any prospect of Indian exports going to the US, right? It's going to be a big setback for the Indian economy. I wonder what it does to the Indian IT sector. We I'm not sure we've looked into that. Um and it's going to be a huge leverage that the US has over India to align India forcibly arm twist India into forcibly aligning with American uh policies, objectives and interests. Essentially the US seeks to vasalize India. If that happens, if that succeeds, well then it's back to the good old East India Company days for India, right? So it it affects our neighborhood also. Right? So that's the situation right now overall. Now let's discuss the next question. [snorts] Okay. A couple of questions. One is by Brianka Shaker Biswas and one is by real Vladimir Putin. Do the unusually smooth US dealings with Deli Rodriguez point to a covert US Venezuela secret pact, Maduro's swift capture, fast oil deals and her brother's previous involvement. Why did the US intervention in Venezuela? Why was it so easy for the US? Neither China nor Russia came to save Venezuela. Even Venezuela didn't resist. Chinese and Russian defense systems failed. I think there may have been some agreement, some back room deal with Venezuela. The go government of Venezuela and the US and the US Venezuelan president would have agreed with it in fear of US military. What's my opinion? Okay. See, we what do we know for sure? The Americans were able to smoothly execute their military operation in Venezuela, the regime operation. They came in, they killed a bunch of guys, Cubans, they abducted Maduro and his wife and they left and they left and and and they they kept everything else intact. So when the American helicopters and aircraft were flying over Karakas, the city of Karakas, what resistance did Venezuela's armed forces give? Essentially zero. There's only one known launch of an of a surfaceto-air missile, manpad missile from the ground in Venezuela in Karakas. One guy did his job. I wonder what was done to him. I don't think I I doubt if if that person is alive today right now. So, one Venezuelan person, military personnel launched a manpad missile and that was it. There was no other resistance. the Chinese and Russian defense systems failed. I'm not sure they failed. I don't think they were operationalized. And if they were operationalized, I mean, the radars must have captured the American aircraft coming in, you know, rotary aircraft and fixed wing aircraft, whatever, they would have seen that. Uh, but the Venezuelans have the S300 system, which is the older brother of the S400 and 500, right? The S300 is a reasonably capable system. Why was it not used? Why was there no AC fire, anti-aircraft gunfire from the ground? Nothing. Right? So, it's not that the Chinese and Russian defense systems failed. It's that the military chose not to use any of that. Why did the military not use any of the assets, the pretty powerful assets they have? They they have Sukcoys. They have much more. They use nothing. Why is that? probably there was a backdoor deal. Okay, some kind of inside job maybe. See, from the American perspective, what was their objective? To capture Maduro and to send a message to everybody in the region, including the Venezuelan government. So, the best way to achieve this is without really fighting. The best way to achieve this is by bribing the key people. Maybe key people perhaps in the Venezuelan government and maybe key people perhaps in the Venezuelan military. You give you bribe them. You tell them to stand down when the operation happens. Stand down. Stay away. Nothing will happen to you. Okay? And those who resist will be wiped out. So when so Mr. Maduro had this personal guard, personal bodyguard who are all Cubans. Those were all apparently it's it's being said that they were all executed in cold blood. So it's not that these defense systems failed. most likely key members of the government or military or maybe both would have been bribed by the Americans. So you achieve your objectives without facing any real danger. That's what the Americans did. And from their perspective, it makes sense. Why take a risk? Why take risks where multiple aircraft could be hit, targeted? The Americans don't take such risks in Yemen, do they? the Americans don't take such risks of flying their aircraft, helicopters, etc. over Yemen but they did that in Venezuela. So because they clearly were sure that that no action will be taken against them. So uh there could have been some kind of agreement some kind of bribery deal or something. Yeah. Is Madame Deli Rodriguez involved in this? I can't say for sure. Maybe maybe not. Maybe she's not. Maybe somebody else may be involved. Maybe somebody else was bought out. Maybe you don't need to involve the government. Maybe you just need to bribe the armed forces because the armed forces are the defenders of the country. Just bribe the key members in the armed forces. They'll ask their guys to stand down. Then the government is powerless. That also is a possibility. Uh so that's the situation, right? We don't know exactly what happened, what went down, but the Americans were able to achieve their objectives without any damage, without any casualties, which can only be guaranteed if you can if you have bribed the defenders. That's what's happened. Right. Next, Singh says, "US is taking out its anti-nations, its adversarial nations with no difficulty whatsoever, while China and Russia are just giving statements. If it continues like this, China and Russia will soon be allyless. They will have no allies. Is this the end end plan of the US? Maybe tackle them separately." You see my dear friends all that really matters in the world of geopolitics and in the world real world is hard power. You have all these Indian analysts who have been claiming China is a superpower, Russia is this, China is most more powerful than Russia and so on. What is China doing? What action has China taken? It's given out some stern statements. Karinda like you say in India that's all China has been able to do. Even the Russians have not been able to safeguard their their vessel that was recently boarded and captured by the Americans. The Americans have essentially it's a slap in the face of Russia. Humiliation. Go on, do what you can. We tried assassinating your President Putin. Now we are taking your vessel in the Atlantic. What can you do? What can you do? Show us what you can do. That's what the Americans saying. That is hard power. the Americans can act with impunity wherever they want in the world. So once again, let me put this on the screen. These are 24 2024 rankings, but they are still valid today. The US is the sole superpower with a hard power score of 93.32. Russia is like half of the US in terms of hard power, 54, slightly more than half. And China is nowhere next to them, 15.23. And India, India is 4.91. If you see these hard power scores, the US has overwhelming superiority over Russia or China. And let's not even talk about India here. China is overwhelming overwhelmingly stronger than India, right? So please understand these events hopefully have shown you that all this talk of China being a superpower, it's a joke. There's only one superpower and they are now acting like a super superpower. They're stampeding through the through the through the jungle, right? So what's the um end goal of the US? What's the end plan? The end plan is to first of all look we discussed the the Monroe doctrine and the Trump corollary, right? And people have been saying that this the Americans are retreating into hemispheric defense. They will only defend their hemisphere now and they will leave the rest to China. Do you really think that's what the Americans will do? It's hemisphere first, not hemisphere only. So the US is now not going to allow anybody to put even a foot wrong in the western hemisphere. The moment somebody does that to hell with international law, they'll go and grab the whistle or whatever. They'll do whatever they want. This is now naked imperial power that's being shown to you and that's how it's going to continue. Okay? So the Western Hemisphere, the US will rule it. Nobody dares interfere and nobody can. Nobody has the strength, the power to do it. In the eastern hemisphere, the Americans will interfere everywhere. Okay? They will most likely go after Iran. Now, the conditions are ripe on the streets of of of Iran in the major cities, Thran, Mashad, wherever. People are sick and tired of the of the the regime of the ayatas. The people of Iran probably do not want to be ruled by by the moolas. They want uh freedom. They want democracy. Whatever. The Americans will give them exactly what they want and they'll portray that as a liberation. So Iran, it's it may be a matter of hours or days or weeks. It's it's going to change very rapidly in Iran. Okay. I get the get the feeling Iran is going to fall to the Americans soon. maybe a combination of America and Israel together. Uh that's what it looks like. Now let's say the Americans do that and effect a regime change in Iran. So Iran is now then if that happens Iran becomes a US asset. So in West Asia, Iran is a US asset. All the Gulf nations are US assets. Yemen can be dealt with once this is done. Right? Pakistan is a US asset. It's in the subcontinent. Yeah, Iran is the bridge between the subcontinent and West Asia. So, Pakistan is a US asset. Iran is a US asset. I mean, so what is left? So, Iran is one of the major uh players in the in the Russia China access, right? It's Russia, it's China, it's Iran, it's North Korea. Maybe the Yemen is the Yemen is rather insignificant without Iranian support. So if Iran is taken out, the Chinese lose about 15 20% of their oil supply, energy supply and they lose a big asset and the Iranians are also supplying Russia with drones and whatnot. The Russians lose that. It's a huge setback for both China and Russia. So at the end of the day, what's the end goal of the US? The end goal of the US is to vasalize everybody including India and then deal with China and Russia only. That's the end goal. And that the Americans have calculated they will win. If they play the cards right, China is easier. Russia is not. But if Russia is completely isolated, what do they do? So that is the game. That's the game that's being played. See, the US has overwhelming superiority in in hard power. It's not like the 20th century cold war where the US and USSR kind of equals in terms of hard power. kind of roughly it's not the case right only saving grace is its massive arsenal of nuclear weapons then you can deal with a nation like Russia in other ways I suppose creative ways in China what hard power do they have they have economic might they have the industrial base but do they have the sharp edge that the Americans and Russians have the Chinese don't have it they are untested in war China and Russia under tremendous pressure and so is India by the Brazil Abijit Chabda Light says, "Is it true that having nukes can save you from a potential US invasion?" Look, to be a sovereign nation, a necessary condition today is nuclear weapons. So unless you have nuclear weapons, you're not going to be sovereign today. That's the deal. It's a having nuclear weapons is a necessary condition. But is it sufficient to have nuclear weapons? Take the case of the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has nuclear warheads that they have made on with their own hands. But those nuclear warheads are mated to American missiles. Okay. So if the UK wants to dispatch a nuclear warhead somewhere that nuclear warhead will not go anywhere unless the American missile takes the nuclear warhead there. And who controls the American missiles? Do you think the prime minister of the UK controls the American missiles? Do you think so? I guarantee you that's not the case. Whoever is the current prime minister of the UK, who is it right now? Kir Starmer, that that fellow, he doesn't control those nuclear missiles. That big red button doesn't sit in London. It sits it sits in Washington. So the UK's nuclear deterrent is actually American de facto American nuclear deterrent. So the UK has nukes, but the nukes aren't in its control. So if if the Americans tomorrow morning decide to send 10,000 troops to London, what will the UK do? Absolutely nothing. It has nuclear weapons. Aha. Big haha. Take the case of Ukraine. The USSR broke up in 1991 or thereabouts, right? And one of the nations that emerged out of the break up of the USSR was Ukraine. And when the UK when Ukraine was part of the USSR, they had nuclear weapons on their territory. So when the nation broke up this free independent Ukraine that emerged, it had nuclear weapons on its territory which it controlled. And then Russia and the US promised Ukraine, you know what? We're going to guarantee your peace, security, blah blah blah blah blah. You give up your nuclear weapons. Give give them up to Russia. We will guarantee your security. So the Ukrainians said, "Okay, thank God somebody is guaranteeing our security." The promise, thank God we have this promise in words. So here, take our nukes. Done. So even if you have nukes, what's the what's the moral of the story? Even if you have nuclear weapons that you control, if your leadership is stupid, you may see a situation where your nuclear weapons are given to your adversary on a platter. Please, please, sir, take it. So, the moral of the story at the end of the day is that nukes are not sufficient to save you from a potential invasion by whoever. The sufficient condition is nukes plus the right leadership, competent leadership that understands the national interest and will do whatever it takes to act on the national interest and put the national interest first and foremost. Nukes plus the right leadership. Your country can have nukes, but if you have a not the best leader, not the optimum leader, your suboptimal leader, God knows what he or she will do with your nukes. May give it s please take full support, sir. Take our nukes. We are a peaceloving nation. We don't need nukes. Nukes are bad. Having nuclear weapons is morally reprehensible. We will we are Gandhian in nature. Please take away our nukes. Dismantle them. Our nuclear program is only for energy. It's peaceful. That could happen with the wrong kind of leadership. Okay. Okay. Next question is by Ritik Pawar and Nitishh Kumar Sharma. If Iran falls, what could what would be the what could be the consequences for India, Russia and China? In episode 318, while discussing Venezuela in the context of China, you named China's sources of oil. You mentioned some countries that but skipped Iran. Did I did I skip Iran? Okay. In public documents, Iran doesn't come up as a major source of oil for China. But my own digging shows that about that a lot of Iranian oil is relabeled to Malaysian, Omani, Emirati tankers flagged to yeah those those nations before going to China. In that sense, Iran supplies about 10 to 15% of oil to China. U of course China Iran uh 25 year partnership is also there. With that in mind, a lot of things start to click. I think Iran might topple rather soon and the US is very rapidly making gains to encircle China. It's all happening in front of us. Fascinating thoughts. Okay. I'm not sure what I said in episode 318. I do remember I listed the sources of oil in the context of Venezuela. What's happening there for China? So about 15 20% comes from um from the Saudis, 15 20% comes from Russia. I would say 15% plus will also come from Iran. And I must have mentioned at some point in the episode that the Chinese have this 25 year strategic agreement with Iran in which one of the one of the clauses and whatever it is. I mean it's kind of a secret secret agreement but what's known is that the Chinese will make massive investments in the Iranian energy sector and other other sectors and in exchange the Chinese will receive copious amounts of pretty cheap energy from Iran which is oil. So yeah 10 15 maybe 20% of of Chinese oil comes from Iran. Now if the Americans topple the regime in Thran and bring about democracy and that democracy will be controlled by the US. So Iran will become a US vasal which means the US will once again control Iranian oil the way it used to be before 1979. Before 1979 who controlled Iran's oil? It was the US. And now once again once if this happens a regime change in in in Thran in Iran then the Americans will once again control Iranian oil. Maybe they will allow the Iranian a new government to export some oil to China. Maybe they will not. So that then becomes u you know um the Americans can exercise whatever choice they want. That's that becomes the situation right. Uh so it looks like Iran may fall soon. Then the question is uh what could be the consequences for India, China, Russia. Okay, let's first deal with India. Uh we haven't opened the map yet. So let's let's go and take a look at what the map has to tell us. Okay, let's see the map. And uh here is the map. Let's remove the question from the screen for a bit. So we're talking about Iran here, right? Iran. So north of Iran, you have the Caspian Sea. You have the Caucasus region, Azarbaian, Armenia etc. You have Turkman many stone, you have Afghanistan to the east and and Pakistan to the east. Okay. And uh down south you have the Persian Gulf, the straight of Hormuz and the Gulf of Oman. So if the Americans take Iran, effect of regime change in Iran and Iran becomes American property essentially, then everything will change in the region. the Americans can they don't anymore need to blockade the trade of hormones. Uh the support that that the Yemeni Ansarah faction or the Houthi faction gets from the Iranians will stop entirely which will make it very easy for the Americans to um I mean not very easy but easier for the Americans to do a regime change in uh in Yemen as well. Um what else will happen? Armenia could fall. See Armenia is being the Turks and the Azarbaijanis want to erase Armenia from the map of the world. The Turks want to create a pantheran corridor from Turkey all the way to uh Turk Manistan across the Caspian Sea by wiping out Armenia from the map of the world. They want to the Turks want to conclude what they what they started in the 1890s all all the way to 1915, right? They want to conclude that and Armenia is surviving because India is supplying weapons to Armenia through Iran. So the Iranians are delivering Indian weapons to Armenia by road. So Armenia could very rapidly fall. If Iran becomes a US asset, then if Iran becomes a US asset, then look at the subcontinent. Iran is a US asset. Pakistan is a US asset. Afghanistan is kind of dependent on the US for for money etc. Yeah. So what you could have very soon if Iran falls to the US is you could soon have American troops in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. In in in recent years you had the situation where you had Chinese troops in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Right. Correct. You had that situation. You had you had Chinese troops in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Now China and Pakistan are no longer in that relationship that they had. Okay. Um the Pakistan is now a US asset, US Vasal. If Iran also becomes a US vasal, then that gives Pakistan tremendous strategic depth. It gives the American strategic depth in the region. Um the Balasthan issue goes is over. They will be able to deal with it. And the Americans may even have American troops coming all the way into Pakistan occupied Kashmir and knocking on India's door. Okay. And in case there is an operation 2.0 then Iran will come to the aid of Pakistan. So that's these are some of the implications for India. If Iran falls, we know that it's the regime of the moolas. We know it's deeply unpopular in Iran. We know that the people of Iran want freedom from this. We I understand I I completely understand that and from the perspective of the Iranian people maybe they need a need a change. Yeah. But for India from India's perspective it's going to be a disaster the moment there's a regime change in Thran because it's going to be a pro- US and pro Pakistan regime that comes into power. They will say nice things about India. Okay. Indians love nice words. And the moment there's a regime change and new regime says nice things about Indian India Indians will start dancing. No, everything is good. No, there's no no problem. Wait and watch. Ignore the words. See the actions that will come later. So if there is operation sindu 2.0, Iran will support Pakistan and you will have most likely soon American troops or maybe Iranian troops, not Ian troops, maybe American troops in Pakistan occup. Uh what about uh China? If Iran falls well then China loses you know potentially loses the 15 20% of um you know energy that it imports from Iran. So if you look at China's pi 100% pi 15 20% comes from Saudi Arabia 15 20% comes from Russia 15 10 15 20% comes from Iran then you have nations like Iraq then you have nations like uh Nigeria and Angola and so on it's got a basket you know it's a diversified basket of places from which it acquires oil and gas chunk chunk now is controlled by the US which is Iran Iraq is also controlled by the US Saudi Arabia UAE All of that is also controlled by the US. Nigeria is also controlled by the US. Everything essentially whatever China imports from, all the places now become controlled by the US except for Russia. That forces China and Russia closer together. And what's the consequences for Russia? Well, Russia can no longer acquire the Shahed drones and whatever drones it was buying from Iran, it loses an ally south of the Caspian and it gets more isolated. Right. So yeah, it's it's going to be a domino effect if Thran falls and it looks like it could fall any time now. Real Vladimir Putin says why does Taliban and Pakistani dictatorship keep on fighting if both are US vasals? Abinov Singh says if both Pakistan and Afghanistan which is Taliban are effectively US assets, why does Washington allow them to remain adversaries? Wouldn't it make more strategic sense for the US to broker peace between the two? A united front would seemingly give the US more control in the region and a better position to control India. Right? So why are the Taliban and the and the Pakistanis at loggerheads? Why are they enemies? Why do they hate each other? Why do they keep fighting? Both are American vasals. Now, how do we make the claim that the Taliban are US? They're not quite US was but they are on the US payroll. Look, the Americans had a long series of negotiations with the Taliban before they handed power to the Taliban in 2021. And then after the long series of negotiations, there was the Dha Accord between the US and the Taliban. In the Dha Accord, there are secret clauses that have never been revealed to the world. So it is alleged by very credible sources that the Americans pay the Taliban a stipend weekly stipend of between $50 to $100 million in cash and that helps the Taliban to run Afghanistan and you know take care of business of running the nation and what do the US get in exchange for the money they are spending on the Taliban? Well, the deal most likely would be to keep the Chinese out of Afghanistan. The Chinese have this great ambition. This belt and road initiative, one belt to rule you, one belt to ru rule you all and that sort of thing, right? One ring to rule them all, something to bind them, that sort of thing. Um, [laughter] so the the Chinese want to use Afghan territory to push westwards and create infrastructure to Afghan territory, road, roads, rail, whatever. And the Chinese want to invest in the Afghanistan copper sector, the oil and gas, gas gas sector, maybe other minerals and so on. And the Afghans have never allowed this to happen. Ever since they came to power, ever since the Taliban came to power, it's not happened. Nothing has happened. So maybe that's the deal. You keep the Chinese out. You don't allow China any access to Afghan territory and Afghan resources. And maybe you keep the Russians also at arms length. In exchange for that, we will give you whatever amount of dollars we're giving in cash every week. You hold your end of the bargain, we hold our end of the bargain. That's the deal between the US and the Afghans. And the Taliban. So the Taliban from that perspective you could say is kind of a US asset. The Pakistanis we know are American vasals, bootlickers, shoe shiners, right? That that's what aim is. So why can't the Americans ensure that Pakistan and Afghanistan don't fight? Well, that's not in America's control. Let's understand the two perspectives. This here is Pakistan. This here is Afghanistan. Pakistan. All the Pakistani generals, RB people, etc. Their bank accounts, they have secret bank accounts in the west probably in London or whatever. And all their relatives live in the west. Some live in the US, some live in the UK, etc. So, they are all actually invested in the west. Their entire family's future is in the west. Their all their money is in the west. And whatever they're doing in Pakistan is to extract more money and send it to the bank accounts. That's what the Pakistanis are doing. The Pakistanis. Now, name one Taliban commander who has any assets outside of of the of Afghanistan. Name one Taliban commander who has family in in the west. I assure you the num the number is zero. Okay. So there is no leverage the Americans have over the Agans in that manner that they can force the Taliban to behave in this way or that way. The Taliban are pashon nationalists. They hate the Pakistanis and they want their territory back. So the Americans are in no position to dictate to the Taliban to become to to to hug and make up with the Pakistanis. That will never happen. Okay, that's the situation. There can never be unity between the Pakistanis and the Afghans, especially as as long as Taliban the Taliban is ruling. Even when you had a non- Taliban government ruling Afghanistan, the the relationship was pretty chilly, pretty cold between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Um the Afghans, the Pashons regard the Pakistanis as their blood enemies with ancient with an ancient feud that goes back to the 19th century, right? And the Pakistanis occupy Afghan territory, Pashon territory. you're never going to have peace between the two until um you know the territorial dispute is resolved and it has to be resolved in such a way that the puns regain their territory which means the map of Pakistan has to change and karakuna has to become part of Afghanistan that is the only long-term solution to the issue but the Pakistan is not will not allow that right big territory big resources why will they allow that so that's the issue so the Americans can't do a thing about that they can't force the Taliban to make up with the Pakistanis will never happen. Rushup tar says could you please explain about the Russia sanctions bill? Howard Lutnik's admission not admission claim Howard Lutnik Lutnik's claim that the trade deal between the US and India is not happening because Prime Minister Modi has not called Mr. Trump. Trump is releasing hats of make of making India of making Iran great again is threatening Kame Kame. Uh moreover he has demanded Greenland which could very well make NATO obsolete. My question is what exactly is Donald J. Trump trying to achieve by creating chaos across the world and destroying the world order they themselves created. Look Donald J. Trump is just doing what he is supposed to do. See the president of the US is not the final decision maker of what happens in the US. Okay? He's not the ultimate power in the United States. The power lies somewhere else. President just does what what he supposed to do. And there have been presidents in the past who have refused to do what the real power wants. And then you have situations like 1963. So DJT look Donald. Trump wants to be remembered as the greatest, biggest, baddest, greatest president in American history since Abraham Lincoln or since George Washington or maybe the greatest ever. I'm the best president ever, right? That sort of thing. So, he's happy to have the full might of the US establishment be behind him. When he was president from 2016 to 2020, he was essentially just a lame duck president. The establishment was against him. But this time he has kissed the ring and the entire might of the establishment is behind him and he's carrying out their agenda. Right? Uh is he creating chaos across the world and destroying the world order? The question you to ask yourselves my dear friends is this world order that the Americans created post 1945 it served US interests. It allowed the US to expand its military footprint across the world to expand its power projection capabilities across the world and they created this this you know rules-based world allegedly rules-based world order etc. But by the late n 20th century early 21st century who did this world order serve more it served the Chinese. The Chinese learned they understood how to how to use the system for their own benefit. Right. It served the Chinese. It and now you have this the spectre of multi-polarity coming up. The Americans don't want multipolarity. They talk about G2. They want a G1. They want to be the sole hedgeimon across the world all all around the world. They're not creating chaos. They're reorganizing the system in a way that suits them better. Now, okay. So, they want to be the one stable, powerful, rich, magnificently rich, lavishly rich country in the world. and all other nations have to be supplicants, minions, vasals. That's what the Americans want. And to make this happen, you have to do surgery on the world order, right? Surgery. Surgery you to do on the world order. That's what the US is doing right now. Um, yeah. So, okay. Now, coming back to the sanctions bill, Russia sanctions bill. So, this is a bill that's been proposed by what, Lindsey Graham and whoever else. Yeah. Not sure who the names are. Um, and the bill says it's not been passed in in in the US legislative process thus far. Donald Trump has green lit the bill which means that it will go to Congress or whatever it will have to go um and and uh go in front of the Congress and they to vote on it and if it passes then first of all the bill will apply 500% tariffs on Russia in case Russia is not co cooperating in ending the Ukraine war or whatever which is like it's a given right so it's going to apply 500% tariffs on Russia it's going to impose all kinds of sanctions further sanctions on Russia and so on so the objective was to devastate Russia and constrain Russia economically. Then the bill also has secondary sanctions applied at N which will be applied on nations that purchase Russian oil because that obviously uh finances the Russian war machine, Russia's war on Ukraine. So nations like China, India, Brazil, etc. who purchase Russian oil, they're going to be hit with 500% tariffs. So for India it will devastate India's trade relationship with the US because we don't have a trade deal thus far. If you have a trade deal then that is exempt right but the trade deal isn't hasn't happened. So it be it will be very bad for India India US relations. It will put India in a position where we have to choose this or that. We either choose to continue purchasing oil from Russia and then our trade relationship with the US goes for a toss completely utterly or we stop buying Russian oil which is we have fallen prey to the arm twisting then the Americans will progressively impose more demands on India. So this is the road to vasalage the road to wasalhood status. That's what the Americans want for India. They want India to become an American vasal. Well if if you were the US you would want that obviously. Come on. about the trade deal. See, Lutnik has claimed that we had the trade deal all set up. All that was needed now was for by Mr. Modi to pick up the phone and call Donald Trump and Mr. Modi was not comfortable doing that and that's why the trade deal hasn't happened. So, Lutnik is putting all the blame on India. Do we know that he is speaking the truth? There is no guarantee. There's no assurance that he is speaking the truth. This could just be another pressure tactic. Lie on camera. The Trump regime is is known for for making all kinds of, you know, fantastical claims. I have stopped seven wars. I stopped Star Wars. Yeah. Star Wars was happening in a different galaxy. I stopped it. He's claiming that he stopped all kinds of wars and he's the most peaceful president. Peaceful. Okay. So, look, whatever they say, it doesn't mean it's really what what happened. I imagine there was no trade deal that was that was finalized. And if there was a trade deal that was good good for both countries, Prime Minister Modi would have done whatever it took, including calling Mr. Trump or whatever to get the deal finalized and signed. The Americans are adopting a maximalist position in their negotiations with India. They are saying, "Open your market completely. Open your market totally the agriculture sector, the dairy sector. Let us dump our GMO genetically modified products into India. So India will soon have all the all the health problems the Americans have. Right? Open your market 0% tariffs on American goods. So what happens if we do that? There are people in India who are complaining that the American tariffs 50% that is there right now it's it's really hurting Indian industries and businesses. Okay, for sure it'll be hurting Indian businesses. Imagine if we if we bend the knee. If imagine if India caves in and says, "Okay, America, we are opening our market to you. Zero tariffs. Do what? Dump whatever you want into to to dump into India." Then India becomes a big market, captive market for the US. Hen the Americans dump all their goods into India, which will put all Indian businesses out of business. Then who's going to take care of those businesses? If Indian businesses are being hurt right now, imagine what happens if we open up the market. All Indian businesses and industries will close down, shut down because the Americans, they will dump their goods at the cheapest rates. Their goods, no question, you know, apart from dairy, all that, apart from agriculture and dairy, the goods are high quality and they'll price them such that they will price, they'll outco compete all the Indian manufacturers. India wants to become a manufacturing nation, right? This is going to be the death blow to that. So the Americans want to essentially vaselize India in multiple ways. Vasalize India by by destroying India's manufacturing sector by turning India into a captive market. Vasilize India through other means by by controlling all the all the oil that flows into India and forcing India to show to stop buying Russian oil. Versalize India through other means. all kinds of means are there uh by by supporting Pakistan perhaps if Iran fourth then Pakistan Iran combined will be against India so that's the situation India is going to face a lot of pressure going forward okay three questions and there's plenty more but I've taken three as illustrative questions um for this for this particular question okay Vladimir Putin says Saudi Arabia is a US vasal in that case why does it export petroleum to China and also have the have the dealings in in Chinese yuan interesting question ultimate power a1 says what's the issue that's going on between Saudi Arabia and UAE I saw you speaking about it in a recent podcast can you please explain it and brianka biswas says with Saudi Arabia's potential purchase of Chinese jets through Pakistan is Riyad trying to drift away from US influence especially as as backs rivals to uh US aligned UAE forces in in South Yemen. Also, if not, why is China allowing this as technology can fall under US supervision? See, okay, first let's talk about the jets. The the Pakistanis owe a lot of money to to the Saudis, right? The Pakistanis owe a lot of money. They always go to the Saudis with a begging ball. The Saudis always bail the Pakistanis out by giving them some loans. Do the Pakistanis have to repay the loans at some point in time. The Pakistanis are saying, "We don't have money. We have some fighter planes that we purchased from from the Chinese or maybe we are jointly developing some fighter planes the JF7 or whatever with the Chinese. We will sell we will give you some of these fighter jets in lie of the money that we owe you. And the Saudis are interested. They are willing to buy. Now these fighter planes JF7s that the Pakistanis are building jointly with the Chinese. These are export versions. That's not the full version. The full the Chinese don't even use the JF7. It's it's a MIG 21 derivative with some advanced more advanced uh features. That's what it is. And it's it's simply an export version variant of of export fighter jet. The Chinese themselves don't use it as far as I understand. They have other fighter planes. They use more advanced fifth generation etc planes and they have the Sukhoy knockoffs and all the Chinese and so on. Yeah. So um this technology is not that that sensitive. If it falls into American American hands, the Chinese the Chinese are okay with it. It's not it's not like some big uh technological secrets are going to fall into American hands. Okay. So the Saudis are very strongly considering acquiring these Pakistani Chinese fighter jets from the Pakistanis. Uh the Saudis have been selling oil to China and they have been taking the money from the Chinese in Yuan which is very naughty very naughty naughty. Uh and then there's the issue between Saudi Arabia and the UAE. H so there's lot of complicated stuff going on here. What is the complication? How do we unravel the complication is the question. See the Saudis Saudi Arabia is a much larger country than the UE much larger country. And the Saudis want to survive the 21st century. They know that oil is not not going to be the end of you know won't be around forever. You know in the stone age everybody needed stones and stones were valuable but today stones have no value. Similarly in the oil age everybody needed oil and that's why Saudi Arabia became so prosperous but eventually the world may move on from oil and into other sources of energy. Then what happens? So the Saudis are trying to plan for that and the Saudis they are you could say aligned with the US very strongly. They recently purchased a tremendous amount of American arms ammunition weapons that pleased Mr. Trump. But the Saudis also have their own interests and the UAE is very closely aligned with the US and Israel also. Okay. And uh the Saudis in the UAE are on opposite sides kind of in Yemen. The Saudis and the UE are also allegedly on opposite opposite sides in whatever is happening in Sudan. They are backing opposing factions. Rapid support Fox forces and the other one that sort of thing. So there is a rivalry between Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Okay, there is a rivalry and the UAE is more closely aligned with Israel and the United States and Saudi Arabia wants to diversify, wants to perhaps hedge its bets bets and have have diverse friends, right? U so that is the situation. Um and the UA seems to be kind of you know brotherly nations and all but but that is the deal. So Saudi Arabia is because Saudi Arabia has been dealing with China selling a large amount of oil to the Chinese and and dealing in yuan real yuan kind of thing. uh that obviously is not going to please the Americans or the Israelis and uh and the UAE is also a you know pretty robust actor in the region. They also have a reasonably strong military and so on. So that is the rivalry that's happening right now. Uh how it will turn out, how it will go, we'll have to wait and watch. Right. Next. Okay. Ritik Pawar says, "Why does Trump want Greenland? First, if he makes a move on Greenland, will it would it trigger NATO's article 5? Secondly, how would the EU respond?" Karthik says, "What's Trump's real intent behind his threats to take over Greenland?" He keeps mentioning it's for national security. Yes, it does, right? To cover against Chinese and Russian expansionism. But the US also already has an army base in Greenland. Why aren't they trying to go their conventional route of not of of having more bases in the country and vasilizing the country? Right. Right. Right. So, what does Trump want? Why does he want Greenland? So, to see, let's go to the map and let's understand where Greenland is located and what's the uh strategic importance of Greenland. Let's put the map on the screen and and navigate to that part of the world. So we are talking about we go west west west west west west west west west west west west west west west from India west west west west west west west west west west west and then we are in the arctic ocean and this here is greenland it looks gigantic from here it's not that big it's because of the projection the way things are projected okay and greenland belongs to Denmark Denmark this little country over here yeah Denmark um whose capital is Kubern heaven. So Denmark somehow owns green uh Greenland. Okay. The how how does it how did it end up owning Greenland? That's a whole different story. We'll not go there. Now if you look at it from this perspective, Greenland sits between the northern Russian region and North America. And if the Russians were to potentially let's say launch ballistic missiles um at the US uh if you have early warning uh stations etc in Greenland then you can very quickly uh detect such launches and send a warning back to the United States and Greenland obviously it's a large large region and it has substantial deposits of oil and gas. It also has substantial deposits of other resources, other minerals and so on. So, it's pretty valuable. The United States wants to acquire completely sovereign, it wants sovereign capture over large territories that are rich in resources. In the case of Venezuela, that's a whole population that lives there. So you can't you can't acquire it in the fact in in the sense of having sovereign control over Venezuela. So you vasalize Venezuela. When it comes to Iran, you can vasalize Iran because you have a big population that you can't put boots on the ground. But Greenland is mainly empty. How what's the population of Greenland? Let's quickly take a look at that. Maybe a couple thousand people, maybe 10,000. I don't know. Let's see. What's the population of Greenland? Population of Greenmen. What's the population? 56 to 57,000 people. Give each of them a million dollars. Done deal. They will all vote to uh become US citizens. And uh so because it's got such a small population, it's a huge territory, it makes sense for the US to just take it over, you know, just gobble it up. And what can Denmark do? Nothing. What what what are they going to do? defend some soldiers. Come on, that's not going to work. The Americans already have this thu base or whatever it is, but they want to acquire the entire territory and use it for a variety of purposes. They want they may put up more military bases. They set up mining operations and so on. Uh the Americans want to take formal sovereign control of as many resources as possible. There's also the Russian angle like I said the Chinese angle also the Chinese may may have interests in the region. the Russians and Chinese as we know are cooperating. So that's the that's the thing. So uh Trump wants Greenland and it's most likely going to happen sooner or later. So that's why Greenland is is something that Trump desires. It makes sense from a material perspective from a security strategic perspective from the perspective of the location geographical location of the place from the perspective of it having oil and gas minerals and other resources. Yeah. So now the question is if the Americans take Greenland, will it trigger NATO's article 5? See Denmark which owns Greenland is a member of NATO. The US is the owner of NATO and the and a member member of NATO and you have a bunch of other countries that are members of NATO. The deal is NATO's article 5 says that if any of the NA member states of NATO comes under attack, it's to be treated as an attack on everybody else and everybody is supposed to come to the defense of the nation that's a member of NATO that's been attacked. But that article 5, it talks about external attack from a non-NATO member. But what if a NATO member attacks a NATO member? What happens then? and that NATO member is the US, the overlord, the supreme hedgeim, the owner of NATO. What happens? There's nothing NATO nations can do about this. This will most likely lead to NATO ceasing to exist as a as a functioning block, as a functioning alliance. It may fragment NATO. It may destroy NATO entirely. NATO may no longer operate after this. other nations may perhaps potentially withdraw from NATO and the US maybe that's what the US wants. Maybe the US wants to deal with every nation onetoone instead of dealing with a bunch of nations together. It actually makes sense if you're really powerful to not have these big loose alliances or whatever. Deal with each nation one to one. Vasilize each nation one to one. Put your armed forces on each nation one to one on one. That way you have better, more rigorous, more granular control than going through the NATO bureaucracy and all that. Maybe it makes sense. So maybe the Americans have decided it's time to end NATO and u maybe Greenland a move on Greenland could be the trigger that that ends NATO. Uh how will the EU respond? So the EU is not NATO. It's a different thing, right? The EU is is this bureaucratic block based out of Brussels. What will the EU do? How could or would the EU respond? Well, the EU will issue protests. [snorts] The EU will uh issue strange uh strong statements. The EU may do some strong diplomacy. The EU may decide to impose sanctions on the US. [laughter] That sort of thing. Yeah. I don't think the EU will dare impose sanctions on on the US because the bureaucrats who run the EU, they can be very badly, brutally sanctioned by the Americans and that will make their life lives miserable. So I don't think there's much the EU can do about this. So maybe the US has decided it's time to end NATO. We will deal with all of these European nations onetoone, one-on-one. We will manage them individually instead of managing them as a coalition. that gives the US way more control over each individual nation. So you can recreate the EU the the NATO like circumstances individually with with with each each nation and make it even more rigorous, right? So maybe that's what the US wants. So looks like Greenland could happen soon. Greenland is there's no urgency there. The Americans can wait maybe until Iran is done or something. So you're going to see a lot of changes maybe in this year 2026. Aush Singh says other powers fight from their homeland but the US fights in their homeland far away from its own land its own territory. Don't you think it alone is a very large advantage they have the Americans they don't have to worry about their nation they can cause as much destruction as possible in other nations. What my take what's my take on this? So it's the advantage the US has. You know the US is the sole hedgemen in the Americas. Let's go back to the map. Give me a second. Let's put the map back on the screen. Okay. The US is the sole hedgeimon in the Americas. Okay. We'll go to the Americas. The Western Hemisphere, the US is the only nation that matters. All other nations in North and South America, they cowtow the US. The US controls the the fate of every nation and and essentially dictates the policies each each nation should have. Um right and the great advantage the US has is all the nations over here in the region none of them can pose any kind of military threat to the US. It's impossible that Canada or Mexico or Venezuela or Colombia or Nicaragua or Brazil or whoever Arantina. None of the these nations has anything like the hard power the US has. The US faces no threat whatsoever. They have engineered the situation wonderfully. And when it comes to national security from other nations, non-hemispheric nations, well, the US is protected in the east by the Atlantic Ocean. in the west by the gigantic Pacific Ocean, right? Um, so the US is super secure and the US has more than 800 extr territorial military bases spread across the world. The US owns Australia. The US owns the five eyes nations. The US owns Japan, South Korea. The US controls, you know, all the nations in the region, Southeast Asia. They're aligned with US objectives. They don't dare cross the line with the US. The US essentially owns Africa, EU, NATO, all of that. So you see the US, it has built up built up these capabilities over the past century or so. And it is essentially kind of invincible. It has the most destructive power of any empire ever in in human history. And see this did not happen overnight. They worked really hard for this. So whatever they have today, they have worked for it. They have built it up and they deserve it. And since they have it, they're going to use it. They won't allow any any other nation to to rise up and become a competitor and adversary. They have made that mistake with China, but they're going to they're putting all the pieces in place to cut China down to size and they'll deal with Russia as well. And they want India to be vitalized. So the Americans can unleash war on any country they want and they don't have to worry about war coming about war visiting them in their homeland. That's a great advantage a nation can have and they have it. Yeah. Swami says do you think India as of today is on the cusp of change? I did the math. If India grows at 10% for 30 years or 7% for 45 50 years or 4% for 100 years, India will surpass everyone and become the largest economy in the world. Also, what should India do to ensure this? Everyone is against us. How will we win if the superpower is against us? But the superpower will naturally be against you. See, mathematically, you are absolutely right. See, India has all the potential. India has the territory. India has the population. India has the resources. India has a wonderful geographical location. Forget about the kind of wonderful labors we have but geographically we dominate the Indian Ocean region right India has all the potential to be a dominant power perhaps to be the dominant power in the world in the next 50 years maybe it'll start showing signs and symptoms of this in the next 20 years in 50 years it will probably be the largest economy or the second largest very close to the largest economy [gasps] but that is assuming India's economy keeps growing at whatever percentage let's say it's 7 8% even if it's 6% 50 years should be enough yeah for India to be close to the largest economy in the world so mathematically it just makes sense just keep doing okay work 6% growth per year it's enough but the other nations won't allow this to happen they don't want this to happen the US doesn't want that to happen the Chinese also don't want want this to happen so the question is what should India do to ensure this? Everyone is against us. Number one, India has to ensure it anyhow remains a sovereign nation. Don't allow someone to vasalize you. Very very very hard thing to ensure. But if India loses its its sovereignty then no matter what economic growth you get, the beneficiary is going to be the overlord sitting outside. So India has to anyhow retain its sovereignty. Secondly, India has to ensure it doesn't get embroiled in some kind of military situation, right? Any any kind of military conflict because military conflicts will drain your GDP growth. They'll drain your economy potentially and cause damage potentially. So at least 20 years India should not get involved in any major military conflict. Taught sharp war somewhere it's fine but nothing major nothing. to nothing that could be a damaging factor to the Indian economic growth. And at the end of the day, if you have a 100 million Bangladeshes in India, then what's the point of your mil of your economic growth? They're going to multiply faster than you. And all this economic growth you're making, you're building up, you're going to hand it to their descendants. So what the hell is the government of India doing? So that has to be to be dealt with. potentially 100 million Bangladeshes in India, illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators and god knows how many other what what kind of people. Yeah, that's an issue. And then if you have economic growth, you're growing but the quality of your population is low, then what do you do? What's the point? If your population is mentally colonized, then what's the point of economic growth? So you have to reform the system. You have to reform the education system. You have to reform clean up the bureaucracy and whatn not. Whatever issues exist, those have to be addressed. So all that needs to be done. We can't say that okay, we will start doing this when when we are 10 trillion economies. Why don't why not start right now? The Chinese put all the pieces in place when they were smaller than India's economy. They started reforming the education system long long ago in the in the 1980s and '90s when they were not even $4 trillion economy. India is pushing all those reforms and all those all that hard things all those all all those hard things to the to the future. Maybe the future generations will do it. The future generations will be completely mentally colonized. So these things need to be addressed. But the most important thing is do not matter what happens don't lose your sovereignty. That's what India needs to do and that lies in the hands of the government. Real Vadir Putin says couple of questions related to the Myanmar civil war. First of all, what's the issue with Myanmar? Second, who are the big players in the Myanmar civil war? Third, how does it benefit them? Fourth, what's the role of India in this? Okay, let us go to map. Here is map. Where is Myanmar? We go back to the subcontinent. Okay, this is India. And to the east of India, we have this large nation called Myanmar, right? And we have this trijunction here. India, Myanmar, China. And if we go down south, we have a trijunction here. India, Myanmar, Bangladesh. Where is Pakistan? And then Myanmar has a border with Thailand, right? And that's about it. And also a border with Laos. So that's Myanmar. It's supposed to be it's look historically it's it's been part of Indian civilization. Uh the people of Myanmar culturally are pretty much Indian. Uh they are probably more Indian than most Indians including Yeah. So that's that's Myanmar. Now what's the deal? What's the issue with Myanmar? See uh since the 1940s Myanmar whenever Myanmar got its independence which year was it when did Myanmar become independent? When did Myanmar get independence? Uh 48 1948 is when Myanmar became independent. Since then Myanmar has been ruled by the military of Myanmar. Okay. The military wanted a strong nation to be its supporter. They would have liked India to be that nation. But India was never interested in in being strong itself. So the Myanmar's army militia ha it aligned with China. Now so Myanmar was aligned with China for the longest time. It kind of still is to some extent. Okay. Myanmar is rich in resources, natural resources, oil, gas, a lot of gas and rare earths. If you go to the north of Myanmar, okay, not far from India, you will see all kinds of rare earth, you know, mines being being operationalized. Where do we have it? Okay, I need to put that part of the map back in. Um, where is it? Is it here? Okay, I'll let's see. Let's quickly zoom in here. Do we see? Yeah, here we have something. These are rare earth mines. No, probably not this but somewhere nearby you will have okay mine pit rare earth mining is happening here. So very close to the Chinese border we have a rare earth mines okay that the myanmaries are working on and all of that is exported to to the Chinese. Let me see here quickly. Do we have something happening here? Yeah you have some mining activity happening here. So if you know what to look for and if you have the time to look into it, you will you will find significant uh rare earth mining activity happening here. So if Myanmar is a nation that has rare earths and it knows how to process them, that makes Myanmar a very important nation. The Chinese are benefiting from the rare earths that the Myanmaries are processing. The Americans want that. the northern part of Myanmar. Okay, let's go back to the map. So, the northern parts of Myanmar, okay, these used to be Hindu, these were Hindu regions. For example, the kingdom of Manipur had an alliance with the kingdom of Pong in the north of Myanmar. And the king of Pong after a joint military campaign with the king of Manipur which was successful, the king of Pong gifted a Vishnu idol to the king of Manipur. So, the northern part of Myanmar was Hindu. Today the northern part of Myanmar is entirely converted to Christianity. So the British who after the 1940s spend a lot of time the British actually the Americans who spend a lot of time in the far east of India converting Nagaland Manipur Mizoram all these people to Christianity. Manipur still survives but Nagaland is almost completely converted. They are doing that in Arunachal also now. So while they were converting India's northeastern people, far eastern people to Christianity, they were doing the same thing in Myanmar as well. So in the northern parts of Myanmar, you have Christianity all over the place. And those people are no longer aligned with the government of Myanmar. They don't they they don't they don't see themselves as Burmese anymore. They are culturally western Christian. In the same situation the Americans have done across Southeast Asia, Laos, uh Vietnam, the in the mountainous regions of Vietnam, they converted everybody. So wherever you have these conversions, you have militancy, you have insurgency, you have antinational movements, you have breakaway separatist, separatist movements and so on. Uh so that's the situation. So today Myanmar is in civil war. Okay. The Myanmar is aligned with the west for a while. They had Sanansuchi who was their leader and who became the the the prime minister, president of Myanmar, whatever, right? But then she became a Myanmar's patriot and she tried to crack down on the Rohhinga terrorists which is why the Americans uh stopped liking her and then there was a coup recently in Myanmar and the army took over again. So today the army of Myanmar is kind of in control of half the nation. The half the nation is aligned with China or whoever is going to willing to pay them the best money and we have the entire cookie land for Christ issue that comes out of this this this matter. uh the the west wants to create an artificial Christian Pakistan out of parts of northern Myanmar, Manipur, Misoram etc. right to cut India's access to Eastern Asia. We our access to northern Asia is cut off. Our access to western Asia is cut off by Pakistan and China. Now they want to cut off our access to Eastern Asia. In the past 70 80 years, India has not built a single road, single highway that connects the far east of India, Manipur, etc. to Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, wherever we have not bothered to do a thing. Our governments have been sleeping. So since we have been sleeping even in the past 11 years, now we have a situation and now Manipur is under cookie occupation. Half of Manipur and that's that's a situation. So India's role in this is and and these folks they not only do this rare earth mining and all they do opium mining. Opium is then refined into heroin or whatever drug it is. Cocaine not cocaine probably heroine, right? Um and and that's how they you know they acquire money to to purchase arms, ammunition and all that. Uh and that's also happening in India's Manipur, right? So the big players in Myanmar civil war, who are they? It's the US and China. It's a proxy war. The northern part is controlled by the Chinese. The Americans also have the cookies on their side. And the government of Myanmar, the military wants to somehow remain independent somehow. Maybe we'll see about that. And that's the deal. So it's a geopolitical issue. The civil war is is being instigated from outside. And what's the India's what's India's role in this? I don't know what role India is playing in this. We have allowed I don't know how many lacks of Myanmar's origin cookies to squat in Manipur and take over our territory and and and uh besiege the people of Manipur in the small impal region. uh Manipur is the last bastion of Hinduism in India's far east apart from a little bit in Tripura. Um I'm not sure what India's role in this is. India's role is always reactive. Nothing proactive ever right. There was some talk of India gaining some Myanmar's territory if the cookies become on India's side. Some some sort of nonsensical dream like that. See these folks they don't identify with India. They have no allegiance to India as a nation. They have no allegiance to India as a civilization. Um they not even they don't even have allegiance to Burma. You can't trust them. Um and they are allied with the west. And there are some other nations also involved in this that I will not name here. Okay. There are certain other full support nations involved in this. Sharma says, "Could you explain how and why the northeast of India is now majority Christian and how it all ties to Manipur and Bangladesh? It seems really complex. How does the US have a role to play in this and what's the ultimate objective?" Okay. See the Chinese and the Japanese they encountered a taste of Christianity in the in the previous centuries during the opium wars that were forced upon China by the west in the 1800s which the Chinese called the century of humiliation. At that time the Chinese were forced to allow Christian missionaries in China who then converted Chinese. And the Chinese wrote that the Chinese who get converted to Christianity for a bag of rice, they called them rice Christians and they said that they develop extr territorial loyalties. They become loyal to the west not to China. The Japanese also wrote the same thing. The Japanese also also faced the Christian people the problem. So the west see the west treats Christianity as a political religion. What they do is they will go into your region if you allow them. They will convert people who are generally people who live in isolated regions like tribal people. They'll convert convert them to Christianity. These people have no leadership of their own. So they will give them external leadership. The external leadership will report to the headquarters in in some big capital city of the world or somewhere. So then these people they become assets of the west. Okay. And it's kind of well known that in in various parts of the far east of India, Nagaland etc etc it's the church that runs the show not the government they collect taxes they they they decide what happens they decide what policies will be implemented who can buy land who cannot buy land in Manipur we have this apartheid act you know def factor apathide act where Hindus can't buy territory outside of the infal region but others can um that sort of thing. So it's it's um now why is the majority Christian? Because Mr. Nehu the great magnificent Mr. Nehu in his great wisdom he decided that no Hindu uh religious people could go to India's far east to India's northeast. Okay. But he allowed American Baptist missionaries to go all over the place. So around 1900 I would say almost 0% of Nagaland was Christian. By 1980 almost 95 99% of Nagaran must have been Christian by by 1980. So that's what happened. Now they are trying to push that into Arunachal Pradesh. Now even the Hindu Manipuris the Mateis are now getting converted to Christianity. Maybe one or two lakh of them also have converted. So it's the objective is to turn the whole of India's far east into a Christian territory which will then no longer have allegiance to India and then you can create trouble and create separatism and what not. >> [clears throat] >> The objective is to make India lose the far east, the northeast. That's the objective and we have the chicken's neck which connects. So that also is a is a big impediment for India. East Pakistan has now reemerged out of Bangladesh and you know there could be trouble coming out of there. is pretty complex but the overall objective is very simple to re-engineer the religious demographics of the far east on an industrial scale to make the far east completely non-Indian culturally and civilizationally and then to have the separatist movements that say that we are minorities being victimized by the evil Hindu hindutwa government of India and we want freedom you will see all these groups on Facebook etc cookie groups and whatnot who are not really even Indian who claim that we are being oppressed and we are a nation under Indian occupation and what not. Yeah. All that is going on and you have certain Indian activists who are also involved in these matters. Big surprise. Yeah. Big surprise. So that's the objective. The objective is to break the northeast or far east of India away from India. That's the objective. The objective is to cut India down to size slice by slice. salami slicing or maybe the whole slice goes away that sort of thing. The objective is to destabilize India. The objective is to eventually fragment India, turn India into a collection of the I don't know 30 40 states or whatever that sort of thing and then colonize each one of them individually. Right? The objective is to recreate the princely state system of India or each of them is a vasal of the west. That's the objective. Ultimate [snorts] power says is downfall of Europe because of illegal immigration. Is this downfall beneficial for India's selfish interest or not? Currently when I see such videos from Europe, I stay neutral and I don't react. Sometimes I feel it's better for India that Europe is declining as it will give us more opportunities to move forward. However, at the same time, if illegal immigrants offer certain ideology take over the European countries one by one, European countries will become more anti-India. What should we as people whose interests are in India do? Should we support anti-immigration in Europe or support immigration in Europe? I know both of the options have their own merits and demmerits. But which is relatively more beneficial to us? So you did indeed say in here that you know if let's say London London becomes Londonistan and the UK becomes let's say an Islamic republic by 2050 is it going to be good for India or bad for India? See we not the European nations have historically opposed and oppressed India. Various European nations tried to extract whatever they can could out of India. The Portuguese, the French, the the Dutch, the Danes and obviously the English, the British. Their objectives were not good. They were evil evil objectives to destroy plunder India and to totally beggar India. That's the that was their objective. So when you see this happening to the European nations a [clears throat] and even after 1947 after India became a republic India became independent even in the 21st century all these nations are aligned against us. If you look at the activities of Germany visav India those are very very anti-India activities. um the the reporting that they have about India in their in their media, their diplomatic activities, all of these are aligned against India. Of course, some of them will have trade deals and agreements because they seek to benefit from them from that. But overall, the European nations are still mostly most of them are still anti-India. So now if the European nations become let's say Islamic republics like you're saying, will that benefit India? It may actually be even worse for India possibly. Yeah. Because in because of the way India is being portrayed and uh for example when you have people like Sadi Khan who's the mayor of of of London is he pro India is he neutral? No he's he's strongly anti-India. When you have someone like the Mamani fellow who's now the mayor of New York he is anti-India. He's not neutral. He's not pro- India. He's anti-India. Even though he's of Indian origin. Even Sadik Khan is of Indian origin. Pakistani which is the same thing. Same blood. Same blood. You see DNA doesn't matter. Blood doesn't matter. So if these European nations all fall one by one like you say through immigration they get demographically re-engineered and they become let's say Islamic republics or whatever. Will it be good for India, bad for India? Overall it'll be perhaps perhaps worse for India perhaps maybe 5% 10% worse for India potentially but the question is look Europe is facing this problem of illegal immigration right and the Europeans are are pained by it but they can't do a thing because it's the EU governments the EU regime that is imposing immigration on the European nations they can't do a thing about it but what about India do we fail to recognize that we are facing tremendous mendous illegal immigration way more than Europe. In 2014, it was said in parliament by the government of India that there may be about 5 crore Bangladeshes, illegal Bangladeshes in India. That there are about 5 crore illegal Bangladeshes in India. In 2014, 5 cr is 50 million. If the number of illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators in India in 2014 was 50 million, today it may be double of that potentially double. So potentially we may have 100 million illegal Bangladeshes in India. This this dwarfs what Europe is facing. This is Europe is facing nothing compared to what we are harboring. So what are we doing about this? That's the real question. If Europe is facing this and we are worried about their their future, what about our future? We are facing a problem that's orders of magnitude worse than what the Europeans are facing and we are not even aware of it. We're not even aware of it. I don't know where India is going really. How many Bangladeshes have been have we deported in the past decade? I wonder what are we doing? Bala Gi says, I found most of the Christians in Goa defend the Goa Inquisition. Mukunda says, do mind that most Goan Christians defend the barbaric inquisition and don't forget the best breast rippers that Francis Xavier used. So I discussed this in a previous uh episode, right? The Goa Inquisition. I discussed this in detail. uh the barbarity, the atrocities, the the inhuman practices of the Christian missionaries and and this person Francis Xavier who brought the Inquisition into India all of that and and it's interesting that most Goan Christians they defend the Inquisition which was applied to their own ancestors. So why was the Inquisition applied in Goa brought into India brought into Goa? Because the Indians, the Hindus who the Portuguese had converted to Christianity, they were secretly practicing Hinduism. So the Portuguese brought in the Inquisition and they proceeded to brutalize the hell out of the Hindus and they have burned the records of the institution which means we will never know how many lacks of Indians they killed and tortured and how many people's hands were chopped off and whatn not. must be in the tens or hundreds of thousands. They've destroyed the records of their atrocities and brutalities because it must be horrific. And then they brutalized the the converts so badly that they became proper zealous converts. They had no choice but to become proper militant Christians and their descendants are the Christians of Goa today. So that zealousness, zealatry, whatever you want to call it, has been passed down over the generations. So they defend their oppressors. They defend the evil people who brutally converted their ancestors from their original civilizational belief system to this foreign religion. See when the slave takes up the whip and whips himself then the master's job is done. So that's what we have in India. Deeply deeply mentally colonized people. They these people know what was done to their ancestors and they still defend it. Imagine the amount of mental colonization and mental slavery these people have. It's terrible. That's what India is dealing with. And not just the Goans, even ordinary Indians are deeply mentally colonized and they're not they're not even aware of it. Right. Um [snorts] let's see what I have a whole bunch of other questions. Let's take some more interesting questions. Okay. Uh Somi says, "I have seen that whenever someone points out that America is a stolen land on Twitter, a lot of white people gloat about it in in saying that it was conquered and the natives were univilized wararm mongers. What was America like before the whites came in 1500 1492?" Yeah, that's when Christopher Columbus stumbled into the Americas and he imagined he had finally discovered India. Columbus was looking for India and he ended up discovering for the white people the Americas. Now what was what was the continent like before the whites came in? And is it true that the you know what the what the whites say that the the natives were barbarians who were constantly fighting each other, killing each other, murdering each other, always doing warfare. They never built anything of any importance and that's why they were inferior savage barbarians who had to be civilized by the superior whites. That's what the narrative on Twitter is and very prominent people espouse this narrative. Now the the question is this claim that they make that the native Americans were barbarous. They were always at war with each other, always killing each other. Where does this narrative come from? It comes from the records written by the Europeans in the European invaders. Now the European invaders will do their best to justify their brutal barbaric conquest of the land won't they? If you are, if you do something like the Portuguese when they did the Goa Inquisition, eventually they they burned all the records of the of the Inquisition. Just a few records survived in in Rio the Janeiro. Everything else was burned because what they did was incredibly brutal and horrific, genocidal. So they had to hide the evidence of their atrocities. Similarly, the Americ the the European colonizers, the European occupiers of the Americas, they wrote records and and and and testimonies to justify their brutal invasion and occupation of the Americas and their large scale genocide of the natives. So, you have to say that, right, to justify what you're doing that these people were barbarians. They were killing each other. So, we put an end to the killing. >> [clears throat] >> You will, you know, see these records from the Spaniards for example in Miso America that the Aztecs, okay, they were brutal people. They practiced large scale human sacrifice. They had this pyramids on which they would have these horrific sacrificial displays of human sacrifice. They would take a knife and cut a man's heart out and throw the body there and they killed millions of people like that. That's what they claim. That's what they claim. You know what happened during the French Revolution? How many thousands of people were were killed in the same manner in public? If an Aztec person were to visit Europe or France and Paris at the time, would he not say that the Europeans were bloodthirsty barbarians who sacrificed people for whatever reason? When the Europeans were burning witches alive, if an Indian were to go there, what would that Indian person see? And what would the Indian person recount that the Europeans do human sacrifice for their religion and the Europeans hate women? That's what they would say. Now the question is how many um people were sacrificed? Let's say it's a sacrifice. Okay? How many uh persons did the Aztecs sack sack re sacriice per year let's see what this this uh what the AI has to say uh estimates ranging from a few hundred to tens of thousands okay best estimate best estim estimate what's the best estimate common estimate 1,000 to 20,000 now how many people are executed uh in in China every year how many people are ex let's see okay how many people were executed how many people were executed in England per year in the 1700s S let's see 100 per year 6,000. So once again we don't have the exact number bloody code during the a during the 1600s. Let's see 1600s what do we have? Um okay 25 to 30 but 10 100,000 people and so on. So the point is maybe the Azik were were simply executing war criminals or or war captives or maybe criminals once a year you bring them out. We don't know but the Spanish said that these were all ritual sacrifices, human sacrifices. The the Europeans committed human sacrifices. I mean public executions are human sacrifices. So you can portray any culture as bloodthirsty, barbaric. I mean look at the way India has been portrayed. He forced millions of women allegedly to burn themselves alive per year. That's what they claim about us which is an utter lie. Sati was incredibly rare. Incredibly rare. But the the common portrayal today on Twitter about India is that our ancestors burned their women alive routinely. So these stories are all you know fabrications. I don't believe them. Now what kind of land was America before the whites arrived? It was a prosperous land. The after the whites arrived about 90% of the population was genocided in variety of ways. Some of it was because of European diseases. Some of much of it it was because of just massacres and murders. But more than 90% of the population was genocided across the Americas wherever the Europeans um you know captured the territory. So you had vast civilizations, very advanced civilizations. The Aztecs, the Misoamericans, they discovered zero independently of India about 2,00 2,000 years ago. They had calendars that went back hundreds that went back that could tell you astronomical events centuries in the future. They had sophisticated poetry. They had their own education system. They had their own bureaucracy. That's the Aztec, the Triple Alliance Empire around Mexico City, Tenotlan. It was a vast metropolis. Imagine Venice with its canals, but a thousand times larger. That sort of thing. They were very sophisticated. Um, down south in in present day Peru, etc., You had the Inca Empire that was incredibly sophisticated once again. They uh had their own agricultural revolution maybe 10,000 years ago. And the Inca Empire which emerged out of the coast of Lake Titikaka. It was also extremely prosperous, incredibly sophisticated bureaucracy, um a very homogeneous population, uh very effective bureaucracy and and very high levels of prosperity. All this was destroyed by the Spaniards. In the north, you'll you'll be told that the natives of North America were all barbarians. They had big cities like Cahokia and whatnot. sophisticated, you know, uh, architecture. Uh, they had agriculture. They they had in in North America, it's all been destroyed. In North America, it's it's like they have destroyed and wiped out all all traces of of non of pre-Uropean civilization. It's like it's just barren land. Um, so it's been one of the great tragedies in human history. what what the Europeans did to the to the Native Americans. Yeah. And and whatever you told about it, it's all lies. Even we know the kind of lies they still tell about India. They did the same to the Native Americans. Yajjnalia says, "What was the Mori genocide and how did the pacifism adopted by Moris in the 16th century aid the occurrence of this genocide?" the Mori genocide. Well, that's well that's something we don't really discuss a lot. So, we're talking about Oceanania. Let's go to the map and let's figure out where exactly is the place we're talking about. So, let's put the map on the screen. We are right now centered on India. Let's go eastwards. Let's do Let's go eastwards and into the southern hemisphere. We are in Australia now. Let's go further eastwards. Now we have New Zealand. Let's go further eastwards of New Zealand. Let's zoom in. So if you look at the map of New Zealand, to the east of New Zealand, we have Cham Island. Okay, Chitham Island. And this group of islands around Cham Island, it's called the Chaum Islands. And it is here that you had a group of people roughly 2,000 in number who were called the Moriori. They were a Polynesian people. Okay. According to their oral records, they their ancestors came from eastern Polynia somewhere in this region. Okay. And they were genetically and culturally related to the Mauies who who are one of the major you know indigenous who are the indigenous population group of New Zealand. So in the 1800s the Mauies decided you know the Maues were were up against European colonization. English British colonization and the Mauies were fighting each other and the Mais are a very warlike people very very you know bleos warlike people so two Maui clans let's say or two Maui Maui tribes they they hijacked a British vessel ship and they sailed to Cham Island and they landed on the island and they proceeded to enslave the people, the Mori people. The Mori people were about 2,000 in number. So the Maui arrive over here and they declare that this land is now ours and you are our property. You are our slaves. And the Muriori people, okay, now that you understand the geography etc. Let's talk about what exactly happened here. So the Mori people, they were a pacifistic society, very Gandhian society. A few centuries ago, the Mori were also fighting each other. So one of the great Mori chieftains he said that you know what we need to stop fighting each other. We need to have this moral code of nonviolence. Whatever disputes we have we have to resolve them through nonviolent means. Maybe ritual battle or something but no actual violence. And from then onwards for a couple of centuries two three centuries the moriori became entirely pacifistic entirely nonviolent. Okay. So no matter what happens you have to be nonviolent. That was the that was their code. Now the Maui arrive who are maybe 800 900 and the Moruri are 2,000. So the Mori outnumber the Maui is 2 to1 more than 2 to1. But they decided that we will not abandon our our code of nonviolence. We will not fight the Maui. So the Maui and so when the Maui arrived and enslaved a number of people, the remaining Mori went to some part of the island and had a big conference. What should we do? They all gathered together in large numbers and they decided we will remain nonviolent. But the Maui saw that they are gathering in a large number and they interpreted that as a challenge. So they went and massacred a few hundred of them and they brutalized the rest of the Mori. They imposed humiliating and genocidal conditions on the Mori that you can't speak your own language anymore. You can't have children with other Mori. That sort of thing. So by the 1850s or something this happened 1830s to 1850s 1860s and by 1930 there was only one pure blood Moriori person left and that was it. So today you have people of Mori ancestry but who also have mixed Maui ancestry and this is kind of recognized as a genocide. So the pacifism that the Mori Mori people had you know in part of their ethical code or whatever that did not cause the genocide but it contributed to the conditions that that that aided uh the the Maui conquest of their land. If they had fought back the Maui perhaps would not have won and would not not have potentially enslaved them. But they chose not to fight back. It was like Tibet a century later, right? The the Tibetans did not really fight the Chinese. The Chinese walked in. They had a small army and they don't really put up much of a resistance. So that's the mori genocide. You know vi nonviolence. This is what happens when you are like you know committed to non nonviolence no matter what happens. Swami says, "Can you talk about the harrying of the north? Why were there no consequences and no generational hatred?" What is the harrying of the north? We're talking about English history. The harrying of the north happened in the 11th century in the winter of 1069 1070. The year 1069 1070. What is the what are we talking about here? So in the year 1066 1066 the Duke of Norm okay let's let's let's go to the map uh where's map here's the map so we're talking about England here uh the northwest portion of France it's called Normandy Normandy okay that's where you had Vikings who settled there and they they intermingled with the local French people and became French Vikings Normans so in this region you had and the and the the first Duke of the Vikings in Normandy was a guy called Rolo. His greatgrandson or great great grandson was William who was illegitimate. Okay, so he was called William the Bastard. He himself called himself William the Bastard. And in the year 1066 AD, William the Bastard landed in Hastings with an invasion force and he was able to defeat the king of England, Harold, King Harold of England, Harold Goodwinson. And that's how William the Bastard became William the Conqueror and conquered England. And he became the king of England through conquest. Now when he became the king of England, he had to subdue the locals, you know, the local Anglo-Saxons who had been ruling England for a very long time, for several centuries. He had to subdue them. He had to he had to impose his rule, his law on England. And he was able to do it. But there was tremendous resistance in the north of England in Yorkshire. You see the city of York here. Um it was called Yorvik by the Norwegians by by the Vikings. So the city of York and there is Durham somewhere over here. Where is Durham? Dirham. This is Dirham. Right. So in Yorkshire and Durham there was tremendous resistance against William. William Williams occupation of England. William's soldiers were killed. The garrison of Yorkshire was destroyed and the soldiers were killed, massacred. So there was significant resistance against Williams rule in the north. So in 1069 in the winter he decided to to launch a massive military campaign in the north. Um it was a campaign of destruction. It was it came to be known as the harrying of the north. So he decided that he's going to employ scorched earth tactics in the north. He's going to destroy the people's crops. He's going to destroy the people's fields. He's going to destroy their livestock, all the all the all the animals that they have. He's going to kill them all. and he's going to massacre as many people as he can. And that's what he did. He personally led the campaign, the military campaign. And he devastated the north of England all the way to from between Yorkshire and Darham. And I don't know 100,000 150,000 people are said to have been affected. I don't know if it means killed or what, but maybe. So the population of England at this time was about 2 million and about 150,000 people were affected. It's about almost 10% of the people of England were affected and the entire region north was completely devastated. It was made unusable for agriculture, farming, animal husbandry, whatever. The people were were massacred in large large numbers and for even a decade later the place was a wasteland. That's how that's how destructive Williams harrying of the north was. And the outcome was that he was able to then impose his laws, his rule over the north of England. He was able to replace the local lords with the local Anglo-Saxon lords with Norman French-speaking lords who were who had allegiance to William. And it is said that you could even see the the uh the consequences in satellite images because the way the villages are spaced apart today uh they are spaced about very evenly almost mathematically which is very unusual and very artificial. So the whole place apparently was so badly devastated that the villages had to be uh refounded in a certain way that essentially is is still visible from satellite images. If you are a trained historian, you'll be able to figure out what exactly was the consequences of what William did. So that's uh William the Conqueror's harrying of the north. From his perspective, it was a necessary act. He tried his best to subjugate the north, but they resisted. So that's why he had to resort to brutal force and by through brutal force he succeeded. Um why were there no consequences, no generational hatred? See, he was so powerful. His might, his hard power like we discussed in geopolitics was so overwhelming that there could be no consequences. There were no consequences. The people of the region, they were smashed. They were defeated badly, devastated. How can there be consequences? Generational hatred. Well, over time, the Anglo-Saxons and the Normans intermingled over centuries. We're talking about a thousand years ago. Over time the people intermingled and nobody today see if you go to England today who identifies as Norman who identifies as Anglo-Saxon nobody. They're all intermixed. Today you have the original the original population was Celtic. Then you had Roman blood that came in during the Roman occupation of England. Then you had the Anglo-Saxons and the Judes who invaded from Germany about 450 AD around that time. So then they intermingled with the with the with the with the Celtic people and the in the Roman descendant people and created a mixed population. And then you had the Normans who invaded between the Yeah. Then they had the Normans who came in but before that there were the the Vik Vikings who invaded England and and settled in parts of England, northern parts of England for a couple of centuries. Then you had the Vikings the Normans who were of Viking origin. So today you have a very mixed population. Nobody identifies as Saxon or Celtic or Norman or Viking, whatever. They're all pretty much mixed. In the north of England, you have a different kind of English that's spoken. The accent is different. It's more like the, you know, the the languages of the of of the Nordic countries. The accent is more like the flat wow, etc. Uh that's the only remnant of the Viking era. But there's no generation hatred because everybody is mixed now. It's a mixed mainly mixed populations. Okay. Next. Udith Mahesh says, "What led South Africa to give up its nukes to other nations? Did Israel get its nukes from South Africa? If so, how could they convince the South Africans to give them nukes?" The South Africans did not give the nukes to Israel. See the South Africans by the 1980s had had built about six nuclear weapons, six nuclear warheads. Okay. And so they had access to to uranium mats and they were able to make six nuclear warheads as as a consequence of of of that. And the South African nuclear weapons program cooperated with the Israeli nuclear weapons program in terms of resources, knowhow, etc. Uh but there was no sharing of u nuclear weapons. The South African nukes were South African, the Israeli nukes were Israeli. The Israeli nukes were based on plutonium. Uh they had the negative plant where the nukes were where the plutonium was was bred and the nukes were possibly assembled there. Um the the South African nukes were mostly most likely uranium based nukes much larger, heavier and so on. But there was cooperation. There was probably one joint test between the South Africans and the and the Israelis. The VA incident 1979. Let's go and Google that. Uh and that that gave rise to the discovery essentially of of gammaray bursts very important in astrophysics. Va incant 1979. So it's an unidentified event a double flash which is a characteristic of a nuclear explosion. Yeah. Uh it was detected by an American VA satellite in 1979 over the South African territory near the South African territory of Prince Edward Island islands in the Indian Ocean and most likely it was a joint South African Israeli nuclear test. These VA satellites were put in space by the Americans to detect these characteristic double flashes. A nuclear explosion if it is not bel the surface if it's a surface explosion it has a double flash. there's an initial very rapid burst of of photons and gamma rays and whatnot and then there's a slower secondary flash. So that's characteristic of a nuclear explosion and that's what the VA satellite detected. The VA satellites were put in put into space to detect such clandestine nuclear tests but they also ended up detecting gammaray bursts which is a very important astrophysical phenomenon in astrophysics. We'll not discuss that here. So um eventually by the 1980s the South Africans decided that we have to now reintegrate ourselves into into the world. Um the cold war was winding up. Um the Cubans were withdrawing from Angola. The Soviet threat was almost over and South Africa had to essentially the the Americans or whoever must have pressurized them to give up a path and become a normal nation which means have a democratic election and which means the majority will now rule. The majority South Africans are of obviously black people, right? African origin people. The South African white people are a minority who were oppressing, subjugating and ruling the majority people. So the Afric so the African National Congress would come to power. Nil Mandela would come to power and FWD clerk and his and his people his party they said that you know what these nuclear warheads these weapons should not fall into the hands of the African National Congress and the majority population of South Africa. So let's dismantle these. So the nuclear weapons were dismantled. The uranium was recast and given to I don't know the IAE or whatever. So it was it was disposed of and South Africa gave up its nuclear weapons um program. That is what happened. It did not give the nuclear weapons or the facile material to to to Israel. That is not the case. Okay. [clears throat] Um, Amisha says, "Why did Latin die out as a language after the fall of the Roman Empire, but English, Spanish, French, and Portuguese persisted in all of their colonies after their dis disappearance from them?" You could say that you know what why did Sanskrit die out in India? But Hindi, Marathi, Punjabi, Bengali, Gujarati, Asamis, all these languages, what do they still continue? The fact is all these languages that I just mentioned here, Hindi, Marathi, Punjabi, etc. These are all languages that are daughter languages of Sanskrit. They evolved out of Sanskrit. Similarly, you have something called the Romance. Excuse [clears throat] me. Give me a second. You have something called the romance languages. Okay, let's list them romance languages. So which are these? Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, Roman. You also have Catalan, Roman, Sardinian. All these languages still exist. And these romance languages they evolved from Latin. Wulgar Latin is the everyday spoken language of the Roman Empire. Languages evolve. So English persists. But the English that is spoken today, it's not the English that was spoken 500 years ago. Okay. um the English that was spoken in England in 1,000 AD, if you were to read that, you would not recognize a word of it. The English that was spoken in about 1500 AD, maybe some of it may make sense. The English from 1700 AD, a lot of it will make sense, but it'll still sound quaint and and and different. Languages evolve. So out of old Latin wulgar Latin which is the common language which was the common language of the everyday language the everyday language of the people of of of Italy of the Roman Empire that language even eventually evolved into other languages such as Portuguese, French, Catalan, Spanish and so on so forth. Right? So languages evolved just like Sanskrit never really died. It still lives in various forms from the perspective of vocabulary and grammar in its daughter languages. Similarly, Latin still lives in the same way in its daughter languages like French and Spanish and Italian and so on so forth. Right? It wasn't it wasn't a dis disappearance. It was simply evolution of the language. And because Latin was spoken in various parts of the Roman Empire and then the Roman Empire disintegrated then these then these local these other various regions the languages evolved differently in these regions over the centuries. That's why you have French that is different from Italian which is different from Spanish. But if you know French you can kind of understand a lot of ital Italian and Spanish. So that's that's how it went. [clears throat] Um let us see some more questions. Amisha says why were the Armenians hated so much in the Ottoman Empire that the genocide happened? Okay, first of all the Armenian genocide let's understand this. It's it was not one single event. It it's a process that began in the last quarter of the 19th century. There was the first wave of genocide was was probably in the 1880s or something. There was a major event in the 1890s or maybe 1890 itself and then the it continued and then there was a the final the final nail in the coffin was 1915 when the major event called the Armenian genocide happened but it was a process that was going on. Now [clears throat] why did this happen? Were the Armenians hated a lot? The Armenians and the Greeks are the native original inhabitants of Anatolia. Let us go to the map and understand what we are discussing here. See the majority of Turkey is today's Anatolia or today's Turkey. See this is the nation of Turkey. Here we have Istanbul which is the the which sits across the the imaginary fake dividing line between Europe and Asia. To the west of Istanbul, you have the region that the Romans called Trace and that is this little little part of Turkey that is European Turkey. And to the east, you have Anatolia, this gigantic peninsula. Historically, this was Greek and Armenian. There was no Turkish person there. Then the Turks conquered the land and they took over the place and they ruled the place and so on. So the Armenians still were able to survive during the Ottoman Empire. They had to play pay jizia tax and whatnot, but they were able to survive. They were able to have their own religion and they were also able to play an economic role in Anatolia and in the Ottoman Empire and they were able to make a niche for themselves economically and they they became merchants and artisans and craftsmen and so on and they became reasonably prosperous and successful under the weight of the Ottoman Empire as part of the Ottoman Empire's uh economic system. So Armenians existed under the Ottomans. Then in the 19th century the the the Ottoman Empire started crumbling. Turkey started being called the sick man of Europe. The Ottoman Empire started crumbling. There was decay everywhere. There were military setbacks all over the place. There were economic setback setbacks all over the place. And when this happens, you have to find somebody to blame. and someone who's who's doing well economically, you're going to be jealous of them. So he start pointing fingers at the Armenians. You are not Turks. You are working with our enemies. You are aiding the Russians. The Russians and the Turks had had territorial disputes and they had warfare. Yeah. So you start uh accusing the Armenians of being antinational. You start saying that you are you're Christians. You're not Muslims. You're not Turks. You're working without enemies. You are stealing our money. You are you are wealthy. How dare you be wealthy? How dare you be alive and so on? So that's how it starts. So the blame started being put on the on the Armenians for the decline of the Ottoman Empire. There was tremendous jealousy towards them. And by 1915 when you had the young Turks government, the the triumvirate of Enoir, Jamal and Anir, Jamal and Talat those three, the three Pashas they by that time Turkey was in dire straits. They had lost multiple military engagements with Russia in the north. They had aligned with Germany in the first world war and they were being beaten very badly. They were losing territories that were formerly Ottoman territories, right? Uh they lost parts of Greece that they had occupied for a long time. The Saloni, they called it Salonica. Um so the empire was in freef fall and the young Turk said that you know what we need to be you need to we need to shore up Turkey. We need to ensure that there are no um traitors within within Turkey. We need to cut down the Armen Armenian population. They are aiding the Russians in the north and so on. So they decided to displace the Armenians, put them on this forced long marches which had no end. The objective of these long marches was to kill them off and that's what was done to the Armenians. So it's not like they were actually hated but the hate was engineered. They were turned into scapegoats for the decline of the Ottoman Empire. the the Turks wanted to find some somebody to blame for what happened and the Armenians were this convenient target and that's why this happened. So the objective was to bring the population of Armenians down below 5% so that they will never pose any kind of threat to to the Turks to the Turks and the objective was to create a Turkey only for the Turks. That's something that even Ataturk was aligned with. Atatur was never involved in the Armenian genocide, but the Armenian genocide did actually benefit him indirectly because it aligned with his objective of a Turkey for the Turks. So that's about the Armenian genocide. [cough] [clears throat] Amisha again says, "What has been the effect of alcohol on history with regards to events and characters? How was alcoholism viewed throughout history? Look, alcohol alcoholism has never been viewed positively throughout history. No matter which culture, which civilization, which empire we're talking about, alcohol has never been regarded very positively, right? Whichever whichever place. Now, what's been the effect of alcohol on history? Well, I can think of one incident that that I can recount today. When Alexander, Alexander the Greek, when he conquered uh Persia and he finally conquered the great capital city of Persia, Parshapur, the Greeks called it Perspace. So he finally was able to conquer Parropolis. And then to celebrate he gets drunk. So Alexander gets drunk and at night in during his drunken state he says set fire to the city and his troops said of course sir we'll do it and they set fire to persipalis the great magnificent parhapur the capital of the Persians was burnt in one night the morning Alexander is okay and is horrified allegedly horrified with what he did and the blame is then put by Greek historians on some woman companion of Alexander that He instigated him. So she's to blame, not Alexander. Come on. And it is said that if you visit Parraur today, the ruins of Persolis, the persons called it Para. Now you can still see the scorch marks, the burn marks caused by the fire that Alexander lit. So yeah, he did this in a drunken state. He got drunk and he ordered the the burning of the city, the great city of Parapur. So that's one example of the kind of effect that alcohol can have historically then I can recount. I'm sure there there must be so many more. Okay, there are so many more questions today. Let's take one more before I go into the live stuff. Sahaj Dang says, "What if only taxpayers were given the right to vote in India?" What if only taxpayers were given the right to vote in India? In that case, all Indians would vote because all Indians pay tax. You don't believe me? Go buy something anywhere. Yeah. Go buy a kilo of tomatoes. Go buy whatever, you know, something that cost 20 rupees. There's going to be GST on everything. Maybe if you buy tomatoes from your local street vendor, you may not have to pay GST. But anything else that you buy, maybe you order something online, you paying GST. You paying local taxes. What VAT tax, whatever it is. Every single purchase you make, there's tax. If you are buying petrol, there's tax on it. If you have a vehicle, you're paying road tax. Every Indian pays tax. Income tax. Maybe not all everyone pays that but that doesn't matter. If you make purchases in the Indian in the Indian economic system, you are automatically paying taxes. And your local vegetable wall, he also pays taxes to his local local people, he has to pay taxes, nonofficial taxes allegedly. Everybody pays pays taxes. That's why all Indians have the right to vote. Even if you make only taxpayers eligible to vote, still all Indians have to vote because all Indians pay taxes. Okay, let us see what is going on in the live chat. I can see a thousand plus comments and 32 super chats. Yeah. Okay, let's see. Minimalist Maverick says Musk has given free Starlink in Iran for regime change. Elon Musk believes in democracy. Elon Musk believes in regime change. We will coup whoever we want. You can shake your fist at the sky. That's what he has tweeted. So no surprise. Sajjit Gokul has become a new member. Thank you so much sir. Welcome to the membership of the channel. Thank you very much. Jagjit says how to solve Pakistan issue when the US has permanent interests. As long as the US has an interest in Pakistan, we can't solve the issue. The only solution is for India to get stronger over time. Okay. Right now the most powerful nation in the Indian subcontinent is the US. It's not India, it's the US because of American power production capabilities and other capabilities. So as long as the most powerful nation in the subcontinent is the US, we can't solve the Pakistan issue. So what's the solution? We be we grow we become more powerful eventually we become more powerful than the US is in the subcontinent. Then things may change. Right now there is no solution to the Pakistan issue. as long as the US is throwing its full weight behind Pakistan. Right. Uh, next question. Chirat says, "A person named David Peterson from the Swiss VPN company ProtonVPN, I saw that, has reportedly encouraged bypassing digital security checks in Kashmir by hiding his his by using his app to to spoof to hide its true identity." So if you see a calculator, it could be the app the the the ProtonVPN VPN app and then I wonder what's going to happen if we allow Starlink. I have said this from the very beginning. I've been saying this for a very long time. The government of India will make a huge mistake if it allows Starlink to operate in India. You can see this David Peterson etc. the kind of uh things they are seeing on social media. They are saying that there is repression or suppression or operation or whatever in Kashmir and people um should use ProtonVPN VPN and and use the spoofing or or hiding masking feature to to to mask the the ProtonVM VPN act as something else like a calculator or something. So this is nothing but blatant interference in the internal affairs of India. That is like one step away from the attempt to change regime in India. Right? The government of India I'm very clear about this it should not allow Starlink to operate in India and should take action against people like these David Peterson or whatever if his company is maybe we should block his company and and and its products its apps in India if we can block Tik Tok we can block ProtonVPN too he's openly defying and challenging the the rule of law in India something should be done about Rook Naluak. Okay sir, thank you very much. Thank you so much for your contribution. Appreciate it. Uh Krishant Bordaloy says you have said that India should be should for the next 20 years not fight any war as the US is the most powerful in the region. You have also said that in the next 2 three years we could go to war with Pakistan. If it happens will Pakistan lose territory? See, sometimes a war is forced upon you, right? We don't want to fight a war, but maybe a war is forced upon us. That that situation could potentially happen, right? If the Pakistanis instigate trouble in India, I see this is the last thing we want to see happen. But what if they succeed in some new terrorist misadventure in India? Then the government of India will have to respond, right? It could happen sooner rather than later. Yeah. Um, so what if this happens is the question. What if India goes to war with Pakistan? Will Pakistan lose territory? It depends on a variety of factors. Ideally, Pakistan should lose territory. Yeah, ideally it should lose P or maybe it should lose Sind or something. Uh, probably probably P. But that will happen only if we fight a lightning blitz creek war and we end the war in less than 72 hours. It's definitely possible the military of the Indian military is fully capable of doing that. So I can't say if war if if Pakistan will will lose territory or not but ideally it should the next time there is war Pakistan should be made to pay a much bigger price. The price of territorial loss that's what should happen. Bijua says, "You said button of UK nukes is in Washington, but do you have any proof or strong hints?" How will such proof be available in the public domain, sir? The fact that that nuclear warhead of those nuclear warheads of the UK are mated to American missiles. That is the proof. Beyond that, you will get no better proof, no more proof. Okay? So, it's not like the UK will publish this report. Look, this is the red button. It is in on Trump's desk. They will this will never be done. Right. These things are not ever disclosed in public. Right. [laughter] Okay. Girish Kumawat is a new member. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for becoming a member. Really appreciated. Uh Bijua says, "What no why allies gave Napoleon exile instead of death?" Probably because there were a lot of supporters of Napoleon in France. A lot of people who truly admired Napoleon. And if Napoleon had been executed, there could have been, you know, chaos in France, a rebellion and maybe it would have been um harmful to the interests of the UK. So, put him in exile, claim that you are giving him dignified treatment, but just keeping him away so that he can't he can't fight us anymore. That that makes sense. And then perhaps poison him. Maybe that's what happened. Yeah. Uh, Rishi Barat says, "Poster check and hydration reminder. Thank you for the hydration reminder. Let me drink some more of this transian juice." Thankfully, it is still liquid. Thank you for the reminder, sir. Micor says, "Could Iran instead of being regime changed, they could be forcibly neutered, forced treaties, non- nuclear, etc. by the US and Israel. Müller regime would survive but Iran could be partitioned into two. So the US wants to acquire all the resources that Iran has and the Moolah regime will never accept being neutered like like you're mentioning for is for Iran to be partitioned. You will need military intervention. The Mullah regime will never will never accept a partition unless it's done by force. Right. Um and if it's done by force then the regime will any anyway happen because the people seem to be fed up with the with the regime. So it's not feasible that it will happen this way. U the current government of Iran will never give up. They consider the US to be shan the great Satan the great shaitan. They will never enter any any such any such humiliating treaty with the US. They may enter into negotiations. They even did the JCPOA in the which Trump walked away from. So the Iranians are willing to negotiate but they won't accept any humiliating conditions. So yeah I don't see it going that way unfortunately. Um Sumesh Pande says can this pressure from the US to India and China force them to create good relations between India and China like solving border issues? That could happen. If the Chinese feel that they are under tremendous pressure from the US and the only way to withstand this is by mending fences with India, then they could somewhat involunt involuntarily um maybe resolve the border issue with India. We are not there yet. But yeah, if India refuses to vasalize itself to the US, if India refuses to vasalize itself and Iran falls, then China may be forced to mend defenses with India. But it will also try and calculate if I mend fences with India and then India becomes a US vasal later, what happens? That sort of thing. So there's going to be all kinds of calculations. It's it's pretty complicated. But yes, eventually if the US pressure becomes significant, the Chinese may uh very seriously consider resolving the border issue with India which they have kept open deliberately. Aries manticor says wouldn't controlled in fighting among US vasals enrich the US military-industrial complex if India becomes a vasal could this also be a possible fate? See why do you vasalize a country? You vaselize a country so that you can essentially manage its resources and you can control the resources. So let's say a nation has a lot of oil. So you vasalize the country, their regime becomes your puppet and then all the oil trade is done either to you or through you. You always get a cut and you control where it goes and you decide where it doesn't go. So that gives you not just wealth, it also gives you power and power comes from order in that country. If you have two vessels fighting each other, that will cause disorder. You will lose power. You will lose access to resources. You will have chaos. So if you vaselize a country, you want the country to be in great shape. You want it to be orderly. You want law and order, your law and order, etc. Right? So it doesn't make sense for controlling fighting for the military-industrial complex. You create wars elsewhere not among your vas but others whom then you can sell weapons to. Okay. Vin Vinci Vinci VMA says Hindu men grow mustache and trim their beards but Muslims do the opposite the right right to left. Why isn't it a deliberate tradition? I don't know about the Islamic traditions and Islamic um why why the Islamic culture isn't whatever it does. I I am no expert in that. So I I don't know. Uh when it comes to um writing right to left um yeah we write left to right, right? But the old brahme script it could also be written written the other way. So these systems evolve over time. The brah script could also be written right to left. Yeah. It was an ambidextrous script so to say. But now we have the tradition for the longest time, at least 2,000 years of writing left to right. I'm not sure why the the Arabic script is the other way around. I haven't studied the history, so I can't really comment about that. And the mustache and beards and all. I I don't know the origins of the Islamic traditions. I don't know. Pamire says, "Why do Native Americans typically have brown skin tones considering North American angosphere have historically had cold climates?" Well, you see, if you go to [snorts] Yeah, actually if you look at North Americans and indigenous North Americans, they have brown skin tones, don't they? But further north, if you look at the Inuit people who are also Native Americans, they have pretty white skin tones or they look more like the Mongols. The Mongols also live pretty far up north and they they experience pretty harsh climates, but they aren't white as such, right? They aren't white. Mongols aren't white people. They they are brownish. You could say light brownish. So, it's all all to do with the climate. It's all to do with the climate and the amount of sun that you exposure that you get. Your skin tone is a is a is a factor. It's a function of the amount of sun your skin is is hit with sun exposure is your skin is exposed to u throughout the year. So if you go to certain parts of Europe like the Scandinavian nations, that's where you have very little sun exposure and that's where you have the whitest skins. If you go to Mongolia, it's not like you have English climate there. You have pretty harsh sun sunlight a lot of the time of the year. And the same applies to the North American Great Plains, etc. So that's why it made sense most likely for the skin tones to evolve in such a way that there was melanin not a lot of melanin but some melanin at least like light brown that sort of thing. So probably that's why native Americans in North America have brown skin tones. When when you talk about Miso America, Mexico, etc., it's very natural for them to have the exact skin skin tones that Indians have. Right? Aries Manticor says, "Is the US a thought? Is the US reaching hyper power status? Can it still be called a normal superpower with with will ASI and quantum technology propel it into a new class of power? And what would that be called as new hard score? right now it's the sole superpower. Even the Chinese have AI. The Chinese are also doing their best to to you know o overtake the US technologically at least when it comes to AI and in quantum technologies. So the US and China perhaps could be neck in these technologies. Maybe the US has other technologies like UFO like technologies that they have not revealed and so on. Um but the US isn't that far ahead of China technologically. where they are far ahead completely is their power production capabilities unmatched. You know if the US can conquer space through Elon Musk and SpaceX, well that could make it a hyperpower. Right? If by 2030 the Americans start establish a permanent colony on the moon and by 2040 2035 2040 if they establish a permanent colony on Mars that starts taking them into hyperpower realms because now they have not just an earth-based superpower and hgemony they you know expanding their hedgeimonyy to to outside of the earth. So it is space that's going to be the transformative factor I would I would imagine. Yeah. So I would say the US will be a hyperpower if it neut on the planet earth if it if it is able to neutralize China as well as Russia in that case it becomes the absolute hedgeimon globally that you could call a hyperpower if that's not the case then the US colonizing moon and the Mars that perhaps is something you could call a hyperpower thing. uh died in plane crashes. Should people in India stop being delusional, obsessing over soft power and start realizing that so so-called international law is all nonsense after Trump has shown that might is right? Well, I have been saying this for a long time now. You see a very prominent intelligent people on Twitter saying the same thing. Soft power is nothing. Hard power is the only thing. Hard power is what matters. I have been saying this since 2021, haven't I? That time Indians were harping about soft power, soft power. The same people on Twitter are now being you know thought leaders and saying that hard power is all all that matters. Hard power is all that matters. It is high time Indians wake up to the fact that only hard power matters. Soft power is relevant only if you have a hard power. If you have zero hard power, your soft power is worth nothing. So forget about soft power. Start building hard power. That's what I would say. Virin Chiharma says, "How did untouchability come into Indian society? It didn't happen during Muslim rule or British rule. We must blame the outsiders, invaders, no mistake of us." Look, every untouchability there see in every society there are some issues. You go to American society, you will see issues there. Every society has issues. But we Indians have this habit of self- flagagillation. But now the question is untouchability. No, I have never seen with my own eyes untouchability in practice. Never. I've never seen that. You travel across India, you go to a cafe, you go to a restaurant, do you care who's serving you, what that person's cast is? If you're in an airport, if you're in a train station, bus station, wherever, if you're in a crowded street, do you care who's touching you? Do you even bother? Nobody cares. It's only in some parts of India we had these issues. And all of this happened during the past 1,000 years of foreign occupation. Understand that. See most of you have watched Harry Potter. Harry Potter if you have watched Harry Potter or read the Harry Potter books you will know that in the Harry Potter society the wizarding society there were four casts. Four casts uh Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, Gryffinder and Slytherin. Four casts. There was also the cast of slaves which was the elves right which was the underclass the the hidden underclass of of wizarding society who were oppressed who were enslaved right now how when a kid came went to the Hogwarts school how was their cast determined there was a sorting hat which will determine which cast the boy will go or the girl will go into. So that was the system of sorting the new population into the four casts. Then you have the evil guy Voldemort. So for centuries you have the tradition of the sorting hat and that's how based on your merit and aptitude you go into a certain cast. Now let's say imagine the situation where Voldemort wins and he destroys the wizarding traditions and he destroys a sorting hat and Voldemort let's say he's immortal. He will rule for 1,000 years over the wizarding society. Then what will happen to the society? How will new children determine what cast they go into? the sorting hat is destroyed. So then what will happen that they are afraid of Voldemort who who's oppressive every every family will decide that whatever cast the dad was in that is going to be the cast of the boy or the girl because we have no sorting head. So we have no choice but to now rigidify the system because we are under oppressive rule our our normal way of of determining our life is gone. We have to somehow survive. So let us now make the cast system hereditary instead of using the sorting hat because it's gone. And the elves we will keep them enslaved and we will we will treat them as untouchables. So when a corporation or a society comes comes under bad leadership all kinds of evil practices creep in when Apple went out of Steve Jobs control and went nearly bankrupt. Whose fault was that? Was it the fault of the employees of Apple or was it the fault of the leadership? See my dear Indian friends, you need to learn how to think critically. You have been conditioned mentally to take a whip and keep whipping yourselves. Keep blaming yourselves for everything. Keep blaming your ancestors for everything. The foreigners did all this to us and they taught us to blame ourselves for everything. I am not condoning this or that or whatever. I do I believe in cast. I don't believe in cast. Why do we still even have cast? It's because the government mandates it. They claim we want to annihilate cast annihilate. We don't we don't believe in cast. But then they require that you should have your cast on your birth certificate on your school living certificate and everything and you vote based on cast. Why? They are the ones who are perpet per perpet per perpetuating cast because it is pol politically beneficial. End cast. and annihilate cast completely. That's what I would say. That's what needs to happen in India. Remove all mentions of cast from all official documents. Then see what happens. It is your politicians who are keeping this alive. Just like the the foreigners introduced all these problems in Indian society for their own benefit, today the politicians are keeping this alive for their own benefit. Who suffers? We suffer. Sam the Gamer says, "If the US vasalizes world, what happens to RA?" Well, if the US vasalizes the world, can RA stand up to the US? Well, it's going to be very difficult for that to happen. It's not impossible. Not impossible, but very difficult. Uh, Brown Leprechaun says, "Why do we suddenly see Qatar's name everywhere?" Qatar is has it's tried to stay stay pretty quiet and under the radar. Qatar is a big player. It's it's a very very loyal minion vasal whatever you want call of the US. What is it what happened in DHA? The DHA accords between the US and Taliban. DHA it does all kinds of it it provides all kinds of very important services to the US. So it's not surprising to see Qatar's name in various places. Okay. Uh I would I would like to request everybody please stop taking super chats because otherwise this will go on forever and uh we need to end maybe at a reasonable time. So so please please stop taking super charts. Now I obviously dispose of all the remaining super chats like almost 30 of them. Okay. Aries Mandor says a thought experiment. India can only progress with the proven path. Shadow dictatorship masquerading is a robust democracy hard to find and hidden like the Americans. Your thoughts this on this way? Well, it's worked for the Americans, isn't it? And for the Chinese, an open dictatorship has worked. And the Americans say that Russia is also dictatorship. But whatever it is, it is working. The only path that actually works is some form of dictatorship, political stability, full control. That's the only path that works. If you go down that road of democracy, you're digging your own grave. Every democracy has failed or is failing. Look at the EU nations. What what what has democ democracy given them? They are all right now in the process of digging their graves. So I agree. I agree. Uh Maka says give Trump the Exon Mobile peace prize already. I would say give him all the peace prizes. I I'll create a new peace prize and give it to Trump. Please sir, take it. Enjoy. Stop destabilizing the world. But it it won't make any difference. He wants all of that but he also wants to grab gobble up the entire world. Virihma says in this nature many animals are killed untimely by other animals. Why is nature going against its design? Is there any scientific reason behind it? In this nature many animals are killed untimely by other animals. Why is nature going against its design? is then if an animal kills another animal, that animal that is killed is going to die what we could perhaps call from a human perspective an untimely death because if the violence was not perpetrated on it, it would have lived until so and so age. But this is the design of nature. You have predators and you have prey and all of this exists in a balance. The predators ensure that the prey the prey animals don't multiply into too large a number and don't overrun the earth. A balance is needed. And nature is pretty brutal. Nature is full of violence. Violence on various scales. You have tigers eating large animals. You also have little wild cats eating little little creatures, squirrels and whatnot. That's also pretty brutal if you see it. Nature is is violent. Nature is not a hins. It's not nonviolent. It's not all peaceful. Nature is brutal. Nature is nature is unforgiving. This is the design. This is the design. This is evolution. Survival of the fittest. This is nature. This is this is nature. This is the design. Aries Manticor says, "I see our people waking up to chhatria after goddess Kali reminds us of how ruthless the illegals will be. It would not be pleasant at all." I suppose so. Perhaps I would say before any of this happens, the government of India should get it get its act together and deport all illegal infiltrators. I'm not saying deport any legal illegal um immigrants to India. If you have come through the proper legal channels getting a visa and whatnot, you're welcome to stay as long as the va v visa allows you. Those who have broken Indian law and infiltrated in in entered India illegally, thus doing a criminal act, those people have to be deported. That's just law. So the government, what is it doing? Do it. Please get rid of these people. Deport them legally. I'm not saying beat them or whatever. No need to use violence. Just deport them all. I don't know why it's not being done. Uh Aries Montor says, "How brutal were the witch trials? I see many in the new generation of the US taking talking about bringing it back. Jenzi is being actively radicalized towards more alt alt-right conservative values. Why is this? I have no idea really. I I I wasn't aware of this." Okay, in case that's happening, are people in the US talking about bringing witch trials back? Well, that's a very Christian thing to do, I would say. Yeah. The witch trials were absolutely brutal. Absolutely brutal. the the the most popular book in Europe for or the second most popular book in Europe for several centuries was the Malus Malfearum, the Hammer of the Witches, which was a manual about how to identify somebody, a woman who is a witch or a person who is a witch and how to make them confess and how to execute them. Absolutely brutal stuff. So, you make them confess through torture. One way of doing it is to um tie heavy stones to a woman's ankle and legs and immerse her in water. And if she floats despite the stones being tied to her legs, it means that she is supernatural and she's a witch, which means she must be killed. And if she drowns, then the poor lady was not a witch. Thank God. I mean, what the hell? And then if somebody was identified as a witch, they would typically be be burned alive or they would have some other horrific treatments, you know, tortures before killing and all absolutely brutal stuff. Okay. Prashant Taman Prash Prasham Taman Tamahhan says after hearing the reports of US Department of Justice that Pakistan paid 5 million to to stop operation Sindor if Porters can be bought why are we paying this game playing this game in hard mode we tariff our economy is 8% with tariff or economy is 8% without it would be 10%. Okay, I've not seen this report that Pakistan paid $5 million to stop operations in Sindur. For the US, $5 million is not even peanuts. It's nothing. The US intervened, interfered, whatever you want to call it, not because Pakistan paid them money. They interfered because they are on Pakistan's side. They have always been on Pakistan's side. They want to use Pakistan as a counterbalance to India. It has nothing to do with money. If Pakist some Pakistani if the Pakistanis hired some lobbyist and paid some money to that person, it's not that what that that stopped operation zindur. Okay. Um and if we employ lobbyists and if we give $100 million to the US, they will still work against us. It has nothing to do with money. It's something to do with much more than money. It's about control of the world. Money is not going to solve the issue. Uh, Slendy says, "What are short-term objectives and long long-term end goals of the deep state for the whole world?" Look, short-term objectives, whatever is happening right now, we can see the short-term objectives playing out in real time. The long-term end goal is global domination, one world government. The deep state, whatever you want to call it, let's call it the deep state. It will the objective is to rule the entire world and control every single person. That is the end goal and to do that you have to take various actions and put the pieces in place in the jigsaw puzzle which is what's happening right now. Dian plane crash says what's your opinion on Igor Girkin X FSB who downed the Malaysian Airlines 17 founder of Angry Patriots Club Putin incompetent and asked for his resignation. I am not aware of this person. I'm not aware of this angry patriots club. I am not aware of somebody calling Putin in incompetent etc. I'm not aware of this sigor giri girkin. Uh sorry I'm not aware of this person. Slendy's says what will life be like for a child born today into a family that's part of the deep state? I suppose a life of privilege. Right? All doors open for you. If you are let's say Indian and you are born in a wealthy family, you still have to apply for visas whenever you go for various part of the world. If you are born into that family, everything I suppose everything opens for you. Your you know life of luxury, life of privilege, life of access, life of endless opportunities, that sort of thing I suppose. Yeah. died in plane crash says will Trump's US make move against the hermit kingdom I don't think so the hermit kingdom not which is North Korea not only has nuclear weapons it has the means to deliver them and deliver them across the Pacific [clears throat] uh Trump's US will not make a move against the hermit kingdom see they have bought their security and sovereignty through nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them. Ru Jen George says, "Can you share all what resources do you read regularly to catch up on geopolitics and history like magazines, newspapers and all?" Um, I don't read newspapers. I don't read magazines. Uh, most of the information, history, look for history, you read books. You read books for history. Uh you don't read history. No, of course. If something you want something additional from what you've read in the book, you what I I typically do is I read uh research papers, academic papers uh related to archaeology or or or or genetics or whatever. So that's something I would do for history. For geopolitics, I read online publications. I don't watch television. I don't read newspapers. I don't read mag read magazines. I get most of my information online just you know look at everything from 360 360deree perspective. Read the New York Times, read the CNN, read Fox News, read foreign policy, read the diplomat, uh read the Chinese Shinoa, read uh Deutsch Chaveel, the Indian publications which essentially just echo the West. Read the Korean Yonhap news agency. Read Nikai, read the straight times, everything, okay? And look at what's what people are saying on social media, on Twitter and so on. So that way you get an idea of what everybody is saying. Then if you have your own orientation, your own perspective, you'll be able to figure out what actually is happening in the world. So that's kind of what I do, sir. Um, yeah, that's that's that's how I do it. Akash Sudhar says, "Is Turkey also a Vasal state?" Yes sir, it is. It is. It's a very ambitious one. It knows how to play the game, but it is still a vasal. One example of the Vasal Horde I can give you is look, let's let's do it together. Okay, let's do it in real time. All of us, let's go to Google. Let's ask this question. Does Turkey host US nuclear weapons on on its territory? Yes sir or no sir. Yes sir. You see Turkey hosts US nuclear weapons about 20 tactical nuclear bombs at Inurik air base as part of NATO's nuclear sharing program. Um these weapons remain under sole US control and require US authorization to use. This is the signature of a vasal. Okay. And I can give you lots of other examples but here's a classic example of a nation that's a vasal. Akashtar. Thank you sir for what you do. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you for the support and thank you for the contribution to the to the channel. Thank you very much. Sedat Singh Rajpur Hoit says what could be India's strategy to resist America uh American arm twisting and remain sovereign and how can I contribute now as a student I want to join the air force India's strategy to resist American arm twisting is to find allies or partners who will have similar objectives those allies or partners can be Russia and China I suppose who else stands now Iran Iran may soon fall. I don't know. Is it still there? Only RA if they come together can stand up together together to the US. Individually they'll fall one by one. Um and India should find a way to keep growing economically. Yeah. And India should ideally find its own oil reserves. These are the things India can do. What can how can you contribute as a student? You want to join the air force? Well, if you join the air force, you can contribute. If you want to contribute in other ways, well, excel in whatever you're doing in life, right? Become wealthy, use the wealth to help the nation in some way. There's plenty of things you can do as a student right now. You can't do a thing. You can do a thing if you become a person of substance. So, spend the next 20 years becoming a person of substance. Okay? Spend the next 20 years investing in yourself. Spend the next 20 years being selfish. Then when you are a person of substance, maybe you have a hundred billion dollars. I wish you that. Then you can help the country in a more substantial way. That's what you what you should do. So don't be impatient. Don't be in a hurry to contribute. Contribute once you are a person of substance. All the best. Sad Rukalak says, "Can you comment on pre-Islamic goddesses alat?" I am not aware of I I know the name Alat. I know that there were multiple goddesses. I know that in Mecca there was this temple with polytheistic temple with multiple gods and goddesses. uh but I don't know their their their you know what the goddesses signified what their function was and what the polytheistic pantheon was like I don't know I'm not aware so I can't possibly comment on this sorry about that says leftists in India often argue that even if Indians had unal alived all British in India then Britain would have invaded India again and colonized us yeah how would They do that if we had un if if our ancestors had unalived them all and if our ancestors had unalived them all. Don't you think they would be capable of unaliving more of them? Leftists have no actual logic. Okay. They only have an agenda. They only have falsehood to pedal. Especially Indian leftists. So BJA says how why Holy Roman Empire was called. So it was neither Holy nor Roman nor really an empire. Uh the Holy Roman Empire. It was based in Germany, wasn't it? Carolus. No. Who was it? Um I think it was controlled by the Vatican. That's why it was holy. It was not holy of course by its actions. It was pretty nasty. It was not Roman. It was based in Germany mostly. Yeah. And it was kingdom but it was see anything can be called an empire, right? um anything you can call an empire. I mean they speak about the ona empire which is a little kingdom of the Richard the Lionheart and so but they call it an empire. So if you have an inflated sense of your importance you will call whatever your your people did as an empire. Uh yeah so that's see it's a very euroentric perspective. You're right. It was it wasn't holy. It wasn't Roman. It was more German than Roman and it was a kingdom more than an empire. So you're right on all these fronts. Uh Amisha says, "Freedom at midnight. Should I read this book? Is it Salman Rushi?" Let me just double check that. Freedom at midnight book. Oh, it's by Dominique in Larry Collins. I haven't read this so I can't comment. Um if it's a white man or white men who wrote it, Indians will obviously give very good reviews. As you can see, it's got a 4.5 rating on Amazon India. Uh I I don't know really. I haven't read this. I haven't read it. It seems to have a good rating. Maybe you can perhaps if you feel so inclined, read it. I haven't read it so I I can't say. Sorry. Krishant Bordaloy says, "If Pakistan loses land to us in war, will the US force us to give back the land or will they place economic sanctions or will they tell us that we are intolerant to minorities?" Look, if they tell us this or that, it doesn't matter. What they actually do is what matters. Their words, who cares, will the US force us to give back the land? They may try to do that. Will they place economic sanctions? They most likely will place economic sanctions. Yeah. So if you play big boy games, you're going to have big boy consequences too. So you need to have the appetite to play the game and you need to be aware of the consequences. So if the consequences if if the benefits outweigh the consequences, then you can go ahead and do such things. Yeah. But the US will definitely try their best to force us first of all to not take the land. But if we take the land, they may try and force us to give it back or they may put economic sanctions and try to strangulate India's economy. These things are very much in the offing for sure. James J says, "If India is so great, why can't it capture Antarctica?" See, India isn't that great today. Okay. When we're talking about greatness here, what is the what is the definition of greatness you're talking about? We're talking about hard power. So if you want me to issue a reminder of what our hard power is like from India's perspective, take a look at this. This this ranking scale still stands. The US hard power score is 93. Russia 54, China 15, India is slightly less than five. As you can see, India is not that great from a hard power perspective. India was great in the past. It was great culturally, civilizationally. It was great as a as whenever we had major empires in India like the Morian Empire, the Kushan Empire, the Gupta Empire, the Chola Empire, the Marata Empire. But right now we are not that. We have a hard power score of 4.91 and we can't even reunify the Indian subcontinent at this point in time. These are just facts. And we have India I don't think has any ambition of capturing Antarctica. So [laughter] anyhow good to see you James the trader says your podcast with Vishal Malhotra about Nehu Gandhi doubt ruling for 50 plus years Vishal Malhotra that's a long time ago okay ruling for 50 plus years with worst policies by the party why US sponsored terror to Pakistan and India if we aren't performing well at the time see it's not whether we are per whether we were performing well or not it is what India's potential is even when India was was limping along with the Nehuvian rate of growth 2% per year 3% per year even then if India changed its policies India would had the potential to grow very rapidly and become a very powerful nation even today India has the potential to be a very powerful nation so the Pakistani angle is because it the US understood India's potential that someday maybe in the next 6 months if a new leader comes in India and implements all the right policies and gets the nation on track India will very rapidly become a very powerful nation and that's why they kept Pakistan as a counterbalance and that's why they always kept Pakistan on the offensive against India through terrorism and whatnot that is the reason why fast snail says if India I love the name fast snail if India exits the quad and improves India China relations. The Quad is mostly dead now. The Quad is mostly dead. The Americans are supporting Pakistan against India. In that situation, how will the Quad exist? Right? The Quad is dead. The Quad is in on is on ice. You have Pax Silica. You have other things now. The Americans are no longer talking about the Quad. So, we don't have to officially exit the Quad. just put just stop attending quad mate meetings or if there's a quad meeting send a junior minister or a junior diplomats to attend it that's it right uh will this improve India China relations while the only thing that can India improve India China relations is how much pressure the Americans apply on China that is what will determine whether India China relations improve or not if the Chinese come under intense pressure from the US they will probably decide that you know let's let's mend fences with India And the way to do that for China by the way if Chinese people are listening it's to resolve the border issue the undemarcated India Tibet border which China has refused to demarcate for decades. That is the core issue. Okay. Agent Ford says does the British crown hold power over India till date? I doubt it very much. I doubt it. uh there are there are there has been speculation that there may have been some secret clauses in the India independence act or whatever but uh I am not aware of those and I doubt if I doubt that the British crown still holds any kind of power or India Golhaha says Iran will become a puppet state why are Indians celebrate celebrating I don't understand what are my thoughts from so from India's perspect perspective it will be a bad thing because now you will have a second Pakistan west of Pakistan if Iran becomes a US puppet then it is also aligned with the with the US just the way the Pakistan is aligned and that's bad for India we lose Chabahar we lose the relationship we have with Iran currently and Pakistan gets a very major ally right you may even have US troops in Pakistan occupied Kashmir as a consequence so Indians obviously don't understand the way things work many of them unless they watch the ch this channel the ones who don't watch watch this channel will be celebrating some of them are saying that you know what uh the US coup in Venezuela is is actually good for India I don't know on what basis these experts have concluded that the US regime change in Venezuela has has actually had a good effect on India or it's going to be good for India in the long run I don't get it how there's all kinds of people who are misleading Indians let's say through their uh analysis And that's why Indians are perhaps celebrating this. It's stupid. Bijuya says, "Recommend some interesting books on economics." No, economics is not my thing. I I don't know. I can't recommend books on economics. Sorry. Uh Anu Jayen says, "Does MK Gandhi have any connection with MI6?" Well, he's dead, so he can't have any connection. But did he have connections? Well, if Mr. Gandhi had connections with the MI6, did the MI6 exist back then? Let me see. Did the MI6 exist in the 1940s? Let's see. Did MI6 exist in uh World War let's say 1930? Uh yes it did exist. It's its predecessor organization existed. So yeah the organization that would become the MI6 did exist back then. Did Mr. Gandhi have connections? Well, if there were any connections, we don't know about those. U if there were connections, the British would have records of those, but they will never never make those public. So, yeah. We for says, "Thank you for all your efforts." Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much indeed. Fast snail says, "If NATO done, is NATO done if Greenland happens? Does the US care?" NATO is mostly done if if Greenland happens. NATO is mostly done. Yeah, maybe that's what the US wants. Maybe the US has decided that we'll take over Greenland and that helps us kill two birds with one stone. We also get to end NATO so that we can now micromanage each nation one- on-one and have an even better effect than we had with NATO by dealing with each of these nations oneon-one. That way we'll be able to control them even better. So yeah, if Greenland happens, NATO is done. Kedar Bhatt says, "Do you think religion plays a major role in geopolitics as the world seems to be against Hinduism since the invasion till now?" Why is that? Well, the West hates Hinduism. Hinduism is the only old polytheistic religion that still stands. It's the oldest civilization on on the planet that we know of. The longest continuously existing culture and civilization in the world. and uh the religion that the west now has it's a it's been able to end the the original religion of the west you know the polytheistic tradition of the west were were all destroyed but India somehow still stands that's why they hate it that's why they still that's why they hate Hinduism uh does religion play a major role it does play a significant role yeah certain religions especially the Abrahamic religions are political religions they are religions of control and power. They are religions of command and control and these religions can be leveraged or utilized for geopolitical or political purposes. So, religion does play certain religions play a major role in geopolitics. I I think it's very obvious which religions these are. Hinduism is not one of those because Hinduism is Hinduism is not a an organized religion. It doesn't have the top- down military command and control structure. That's why Hinduism is kind of irrelevant geopolitically because it's more civilizational than religious. Right? Vir Kamat says why is North Korea not fully sovereign according to you? Because it is completely dependent on China on because of so many things. It is constrained by its dependence on China. See it has nuclear weapons. It can deliver the nuclear weapons, but it still needs the benevalent protective shadow of the Chinese state for its long-term survival. And that's why it's not fully sovereign. Yeah. When you are constrained by your external dependence on another nation or another set of nations, that's when you are not fully sovereign. Um, and [clears throat] most likely the Kim dynasty has stayed in power because of Chinese help. I don't think they can stay stay in power on their own. The the North Korean military has so many soldiers, so many generals, so many officers, right? Why do they all um you know pay their allegiance to the Kim dynasty because of China right that's so that's why North Korea is not fully so sovereign uh Krishna Bordal says when west turns right wing it becomes extremely conservative and brutal to women when we are becoming more right wing we are becoming more liberal truly goes to show what society was really which society was really more free clearly absolutely clearly No question about it. Um, [clears throat] yeah, I mean I have nothing to add to this. You're absolutely right. When Christian societies become conservative or other societies become Christian conservative, right-wing, they they oppress their women, right? But in in our case, it's the other way around. So it tells you which societies were actually more free. No question. No question about that. Avid Kumar, thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much indeed. YT user says, "My American friend says before them, the natives didn't have a country and used to fight among themselves." Same old story. Same old story. We discussed that. And they also did the same thing in nothing wrong. Conquer and rule was the law of the time. Yeah. But don't then don't portray yourself as the as the world's defenders of human rights and democracy and all that. Right. See the as we can see today in geopolitics all that matters is hard power. So then don't claim that the they were e they were evil. They were fighting each other. They didn't have a country. They had their own way of living. The nation state system came from the west. The American natives did not have that system. They had a different system, their own indigenous system that is none of your business. But you people destroyed it and you people genocided the natives. And now you claim that they were backward, they were primitive, they were wararmongers and that's why it was important to civilize and Christianize them. Stop doing this fake justification. Be very open about the fact that you are imperialist and you genocided a whole continent. That's that's the right thing to do. I would say it shows that there is some guilt somewhere somewhere back in their psyche. Dilly print died in plane crash says is it possible that India has missiles that can reach Washington DC but GOI doesn't want to reveal these also your opinion on recent defense acquisitions and suffic successful tests is it possible that India has ballistic missiles that can reach Washington but the government doesn't reveal these it is entirely possible it's uh entirely possible yeah but we don't talk about these we don't reveal these um [clears throat] my opinion on recent defense acquisitions in the successful tests. I'm not aware of the specific acquisitions, but the successful tests are great. India has one of the most advanced missile programs in the world. Yeah. And the tests prove that. So very good and very happy to see those tests. The ones over the Bay of Bengal, the Indian Ocean extended all all the way into the southern Indian Ocean. Good to see that. Absolutely. I am Koshik says, "Will China overtake the US's number one superpower?" Not going to happen. Absolutely not. No, no, no, no. And USChina war incoming in next 5 to 10 years. And how do you see India, China, US, etc. in the next 5 to 10 years? First of all, China is not going to overtake the US as number one superpower. It's not even number two superpower. It's not even a superpower. It is much weaker than even Russia. Okay? US China war incoming in next 5 to 10 years. Doubtful. The Americans want to win without fighting a war with China. If there is a war, there will be a war in Taiwan. If the Chinese are stupid enough to to make a move on Taiwan and America will turn Taiwan into China's Ukraine. Uh how do I see India US China in the next 5 10 years? Hard to say. Hard to say. The US will be the sole hedgeiment for the longest time. India India will be very lucky if it doesn't get vasalized. China China will be under intense pressure from the US. That's how I see it. Uh KLCC says, "What's up with silver trade, China, US, UK angles?" I haven't been paying attention to that. I have been I I haven't been tracking the the silver ups and downs the trade, so I can't say. Sorry, I I'm I'm aware of something going on, but I haven't really been been tracking that. Yeah. Duru bithorn says do you foresee a possible future where it is advantageous for the government to re reveal the truth about subashindra and stop using Gandhi India's go global branding yeah once India becomes powerful that we don't have to care about what the west says and how the west demonizes us that's when it could happen that you know we could reveal the truth about subashandra and stop using the branding of Mahatma Gandhi Mr. Mahandas Gandhi it's possible for that India will have to become a much more powerful nation minimum $10 trillion economy maybe more maybe 10 20 perhaps 15 20 it's going to happen in the future hopefully but for that India needs significant more hard power than what it is right now says based on what he just said about North Korea isn't Israel fully sovereign well that's that's a Great counter argument. No question about that. But Israel is fully sovereign. [laughter] That's all I can say. Because of the amount of see because of the amount of leverage it has in the US. Let's just put it that way. Okay? Let's just put it that way. Israel is fully sovereign because of the amount of leverage it has over the US. internal leverage let's say all right okay Arian Rajput says thank you for this videos Jah Jah sir thank you so much thank you Arig lolha says why episodes on Friday these days see when I travel I have the choice of either not doing an an episode or moving the episode around prefer to do two episodes a week because I really enjoy this tomorrow I'm traveling so I thought instead of canceling the episode I'll do on Friday and that's why it's here today. So today there's an episode and there's an episode on Sunday but not tomorrow. Vir Kawat says is India now very likely to get vasalized I think there is a high probability but not 100% probability maybe 60% probability but 40% no so I am very hopeful despite the mathematical difference of 60 over 40 I'm still very hopeful that India will remain sovereign I'm actually confident that India will remain sovereign it's going to be a tough road ahead for India but yeah we're going uh prevail. All right people, that brings me to the end of today's live stream. Thank you very much for all the questions. Really, really fun, really interesting geopolitics and history questions from the comments and these live stream questions as well. Thank you so much everybody. Please keep learning. Keep please keep asking questions. Please keep raising your standards. I'll see you in the Sunday live stream. Until then, take care. See you soon.