[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the 261st episode of the Ask a Bijit Show. I hope everybody is doing great and let us say see who all is there on the live chat with us today. I can see Shiva Sai Yashwan Sudair Adjut Web of Dangra Sumitagarwal Priyanchi Sud Jimmy Geopolitical Dubet from from Indor I think web of Dangra is from Tokyo in Japan Davik Shrian Gojo uh Vine Esman Satish Kumar Sharma Truthful Penguin Pratam Sharma Slayer Arnab Mahita Busetti uh Shivastai Shri Ramachandra Namaha Animesh Paul, Sumit Agarwal, Vinman again, Gojo Shuba, Shou Agarwal, Sam the gamer, Slayer again, Anurraha, Vinyas, Gopagor again, Sarang, Ninali, Sentin, SP, Satish Kumar, Sharma, Ganapati, Ra, Raja, Akash Kumar, Sumitagwal, Rohan, Sunja, Summit Garwal again, Prrenet Paul from Kolkata, Manisha, Kardo, uh, who else do we have? Shubhanker, Kulkarni, Sopesh, Kawas, Pritam, Jimmy, Mandar, Hadkar, Aayush Singh, Ashish, Udash, Vinyas again, Sumit, Agarwal, Ichino, Senpai, Suba, Jit, Gosh, Adita, Jal, Sarang, Ninali, Sudashan, Ragavan, Ankit, Mahapatras, Caitanya, Rashmir from Rajasthan, Bridesh, Sri Jandas, Pratam Sharma, Sudendra, Desai, Abijit, Raal, Akila, Narayan, SKK Pritam Kumar Rout meet mystery Ashish Pandel and many many other people adai SHX XR11 Arpan Sam the gamer Keshav and so many other people random skull again helloar Kalborgi anonymous scientist is back xenomorphosis mlevin is here Ankita is hereund and so many other people. So, thank you so much for being here on the live chat and let's take some questions. What questions do we have today? Let's take this one first. Sam the Gamer says, "Can somebody Okay, here I am. I found it. I saw it. So, I'll take it." Uh, the Vakhan corridor of Afghanistan, how is it important for India? What's the Vakhan corridor? Why is it important? How is it important? We'll have to go and take a look at the map. I'll have to crack out the map. It's not open yet. Let me open it. Let me deploy it. Uh let's deploy the map and take a look at the Wakhan corridor. Now what is the deal with the Wakan corridor? Okay, where's the map? We start today's session with the map. So here is the geography of the subcontinent and we are talking about the Wakhan corridor which means that we would go to northern India and beyond the present day boundaries of northern India. So the Wakhan corridor is this strip of land that belongs to Afghanistan which is sandwiched between Pakistan occupied Gilgit Baltasan Jammu and Kashmir and Tajakistan and some part of it is also connected to uh Shinjang Chinese occupied Singinjang that is the Vakhan corridor now in the future when India uh regains uh the territory that's currently temporarily occupied by Pakistan which is Gilgit Baltistan PJK PO Gilad Baltistan etc. Then we will have this connection with Afghanistan via the Vakhan corridor the Vakhan National Park. Now this is a very mountainous region. If you look at the satellite image, you can see it's all mountainous. Mountains all over the place. It's fully frozen as you can see, right? It's a very mountainous region. It's very hard to traverse. And uh that's the deal. So the importance of the Vakhan corridor is that when we once again have our connectivity with Afghanistan, this part of Afghanistan will be our u essentially our corridor or our gateway to Central Asia. That is the importance of the Wakhan corridor which is pretty evident from uh the map. So that is your answer sir. Now let's take some of the super chats. I can see Shubhankar has a question. I failed to understand why the current regime in Iran has problems from with Israel from the start. Their prime enemy was always Saudi Arabia. Why pick a fight with Israel? Iran fights with while Saudi prospers. Well, I could give you another 90-minute explanation or you can just watch you can just watch the episode that just streamed live like 5 minutes ago, which is geostrategy episode 7 in which I have gone deep deep into these matters. I've done a very deep dive into what is the deal between Israel and Iran. They used to have cooperation. They were allies of of of sorts during the regime of the Iranian dictator the the Sha Muhammad Raza Palvi. Then there was the Iranian revolution 1979 where they became enemies and the Iranian regime saw Israel as an illegitimate state and the small shaitan the shaitan abuser was the US and so on. Then there was the Iran Iraq war 1980 to 1988 in which uh the two nations Iran and and Israel were officially enemies publicly enemies but privately and secretly they were allies and Israel was supporting arms and ammunition to Iran to ensure that Iran doesn't is not defeated by Saddam Hussein's Iraq and then once the war was over they again became full-scale enemies and Iran started developing a nuclear program and Israel sees that as an exist existential threat. They say that they should be the only nuclear power in the region and Iran should not have nuclear weapons and so on. So it's a long story. If you want to get to the bottom of that, please watch episode 7 of geostrategy that will be available on the channel. Now um Gapati, thank you very much sir. Appreciate your contribution. Rohan Suna says his majesty Karan Tapper says operation cinder was a blunder. Well, I don't take Mr. Karan Tapar seriously. So let's there's no point discussing his opinions. Ananda Kishor says was Ambedkar on the team Gandhi or team India. Look once again let me reiterate I have not studied the life and career of Mr. of Dr. Ambedkar. So I don't know which team he was on. Dhiraj Khmed says I was born in Bahrain. I have lived in Bahrain where my family still lives. The US fifth fleet just left Bahrain leaving them leaving Bahrain vulnerable to Iran. What are their reasons to worry, let's take a look at the map. Okay, so that everybody understands what we're talking about. Where is Bahrain? Small small little nation but important nation. Very small nation but important nation. This here is Bahin. See this little tiny little nation here. Even smaller than Qatar. Um so the US fifth fleet apparently has just left Bahrain. I'm not aware of that but obviously since you are from there you will know what is happening. Does it mean that if the US fifth fleet leaves Bahrain does it mean that Bahin is now vulnerable to Iran? So we are assuming here that Iran is is a crazy nation that wants to destroy everybody and Iran is a big threat to everybody in the region. I don't think that's the case. Iran in my opinion just wants to be left alone and let us do what we their message to the world is that allow us to do whatever we want. We are a sovereign nation. You got you don't get to tell us whether we can have nukes or not or what kind of military capabilities we can have. We are a sovereign nation. We'll develop whatever is best for for our interests. And maybe it is possible like some claim that Iran has ambitions imperialistic ambitions of its own. Well, many nations have that, right? But does it mean that if the US fifth fleet leaves Bahrain then Iran is now guaranteed to smash Bahin to bits? I don't think so. Bahrain is a very important nation and a very important ally of the US. And if Iran for no reason attacks Bahrain, well, it will invite significant trouble on itself. So I would say that this event of the US fifth fleet just leaving Bahrain for whatever deployment it is not necessarily a reason to worry. What could be a reason to worry? A significant further escalation in the conflict. maybe more Israeli strikes on Iran or maybe if the US gets involved in the war and tries to decapitate do a decap decapitation strike on Iran or if it tries to destroy the the the um Iranian nuclear facilities like Furo for example if such things happen then there could be a reason to worry all across the West Asia region all across the G Gulf region it would mean that Iran may hit all US military bases in the region and and potentially US allied nations as well. That would be a reason to worry. So, I don't think Iran is going to do something crazy unless something crazy is done to it. Okay. WRV 1313 says, "Why has Trump changed his stance on Pakistan?" Well, I would recommend that you watch my episode 5 of Geost Strategy in which I've give gone into exhaustive detail as to what Trump's dealings with Pakistan are. Uh where is that? Let me put that on the screen. One second. Give me a second. Uh, okay. It's it's Geost Strategy episode 5. Give me a second. I'll put that on the screen. Watch that. You will know exactly what the deal is. I have I've gone into incredible detail in that. Nobody else has does this analysis, has done the analysis. It is this episode here, Geost Strategy episode 5, in which I've spoken about the Ahmedabad air crash and also about the Trump Pakistan connection. So if you want to understand why Trump is suddenly in love with Pakistan, well then please watch that episode. I will not repeat all of that over here again because it'll be counterproductive. It'll be redundant. Watch the episode. I have answered your question in great detail in that episode. Tjis says, "Is Udu considered an official Indian language? If yes, in which state I see hatred towards Udu in many parts of India. How should we Indians look at Udu? Um I have no idea if Udu is considered to be an official Indian language. I've seen sign boards in some parts of India in certain very major cities. I've seen sign boards in Udu which kind of indicates that it seems to be regarded as a as a as one of the official Indian languages. I am not sure which state. Okay. And uh well hatred towards Udu or whatever that's a whole different story. Look, you have to understand what udu is. Udu is a mongrel language. It's it's an amalgamation of multiple languages. And this language udu, what is the meaning of this word udu? The word udu or udu means camp in the Turk Chagatai language which is also a word in the Mongolian language because the Turk languages are connected are related genetically to the Mongolian languages. So it means a military camp. So this language udu it emerged it it it evolved in Turk military camps in India. These military camps were part of the uh infrastructure of occupation of India. And in these military camps you had people of various language with various languages who had to communicate to each other with each other. So you would have some Indian vasals who who would speak various prait based upper branch languages which were derived from Sanskrit. Then you would have tur speakers who would speak Turk languages like Chagatai. Then you would have Persian speakers who would speak Persian and you would have people who would speak Arabic. So all these languages amalgamated and a new hybrid Mongrel language evolved which was based on Sanskrit grammar. a lot of Sanskrit vocabulary but also lots of loan words came in from the Turk languages from the Persian language from the Arabic language and that gave rise to this language called Udu so it's a it's an Indian language sure it evolved in India but it has a lot of foreign influence and foreign loan words and and it's it's not what you would call a purely Indian language some some could argue that way right so maybe that's the reason why some people have a hatred towards it I personally have no great love for Udu right I don't have any hatred for Udu but I don't have any great love for Udu and so on okay uh book rev says namaste first of all what roles are Russia and China playing in the Iran Israel conflict how might their involvement shift the regional dynamic so I have gone into that also this question in the episode 7 of geost strategy that just concluded it's there on the channel you can look into it but the deal is this look I'll obviously answer your So both nations are allies, you could say official, unofficial, whatever, but they're allies of Iran. What's the relationship between Russia and Iran? First of all, Iran is supplying um has been supplying Russia with drones, kabikhaza drones, shahed drones for use in the uh Ukraine conflict. That's been going on for at least 2, three years. And u so that's a great help that Iran is providing to Russia. Russia is also providing various kinds of military and other assistance to to Iran. It is supposed to sell be in the process of selling uh one of the variants of the Sukoy fighter plane to to Iran. So that is an ongoing situation. So uh there is this close relationship that Russia has with Iran. And then there's China. So, China and Iran have st have signed a few years ago a strategic deal, a 25-y year strategic agreement in which China will invest, I don't know, maybe $500 billion or something worth of of money into uh Iranian infrastructure and industries and Iran as part of the agreement will give China will will sell to China tremendous quantities of energy which is fossil fuels mainly oil and gas mainly oil at reasonably discounted rates. So, Iran is very important for China a significant amount of cheap energy. China will get from Iran and if Iran suddenly becomes US vasal then it'll be a it will be a big setback not just for Russia but also for China. So it is in Russia's interest it is in China's interest for the Iranian government to continue to exist and for a regime change to not happen in the so they will play various kinds of roles in this matter. they will Russia will probably want to mediate between u the US and Iran and and and reach some and ensure that some kind of agreement is reached between the two nations. Mr. Putin could offer his good offices uh for the in this regard to Mr. Trump and to the Iranian leadership and um so from Mr. Putin's perspective he would want some kind of agreement to be done to be signed some kind of deal to be signed between Iran and the US which may kind of cap Iran's ability to pursue its nuclear program and so on but it it will at least ensure that a regime change doesn't happen. So both Russia and China are deeply invested in Iran and they both would be would not want a regime change to happen or a destruction of the Iranian military capabilities to happen. Adwit says, "What impact did Ronald Reagan have as president?" He was a very he was one of the probably the last great US president. Um he was obviously a Republican, was a conservative and he was a he probably was the guy who presided over the slow disintegration of the USSR and his economic policies were good. He launched a war on on drugs in in in Central and South America, Operation Condor. I don't think anybody remembers that today. So, he had a pretty big impact as a US president. He was president for two terms and in my opinion, he's the last great US president. After that, you we've not had a great US president. Now, Chiket says, "Won't Israel have a major fuel deficit if war breaks out?" No, they won't. They have a good understanding with various Arab nations. The Arab nations also see Israel as a threat or see Iran as a threat. So, Israel has a good understanding with various Arab nations like Saudi Arabia, like uh the UAE, like Qatar etc. And they will get fuel from these nations. Of course, if a war breaks out, if there's a closure of the state of hormones, if there's instability, then there's going to be a fuel crisis globally, not just for Israel, but Israel is in the region. So, it'll be actually easier for for Israel to get fuel. It'll be more difficult for the rest of the world to get um continuing supplies of of u of fossil fuels, mainly oil, from the Gulf region. Um, your average tech enthusiast says, "If the US had stayed in the JCPOA, would Iran have delayed its nuclear program?" Well, according to the terms and conditions of the JCPOA, the joint comprehensive plan of action, Iran was supposed to cap its nuclear program and the the details you can you can look up. But yes, if if uh the US had stayed, if the US had not walked out of the JCPOA, then what would have happened is that there would have been sanctions relief for Iran. So some of the sanctions would have been undone and in exchange for that, Iran would have capped its nuclear program. It would not have it would have allowed IAEA inspectors to oversee its nuclear activities its nuclear program and they would have agreed to not cap to not uh enrich uranium beyond a certain limit. Maybe it's 60% maybe it's some other I don't remember what it was but there was a cap. So then Iran would have delayed its nuclear program for sure 100% if the US had stayed in the JCPOA but the US said that we have received intelligence that the Iran is going ahead with something or the other and that's why this deal is no longer valid and Mr. Trump walked out unilaterally of the JCPOA which then has given Iran the excuse or the go-ahad the green signal that if the guy I signed the deal with has walked out then I can do whatever I want. So that's how it works. Uh VS says, "What's the most authentic or accurate book on the JFK assassination?" I have not read any books on the JFK assassination. I would imagine if you want to know more about it, you would want to read uh um Oliver Stone has written a book about this. He's a filmmaker of course is also made two movies about this. One is a is a movie that stars Kevin Cosner. It's called JFK. And then more recently he has come up with a with a you know an updated documentary about the JFK assassination and uh and I'm sure I believe Oliver Stone has also written a book as an uh to accompany the documentary. So maybe that is a good place to look into. I personally have not read any full any entire book on the on the matter. So I can't can't recall properly but I would say look into the documentary by J by by Oliver Stone. You can watch the movie also and there's a book that accompanies the second more recent documentary. So maybe that will be a good good place to uh get authentic and accurate information. Of course there are lots of people who will say that it's it's conspiracy theories. There are lots of people who will say that what the Warren Commission says is the right thing. But clearly the Warren Commission is wrong. The Warren Commission said that there was a single shooter who shot the president from the back from behind. If you watch the Zapora film, you can see it's clearly somebody from the front front who has shot JFK. You can see his head recoil backwards while his head explodes. So, come on. Okay. He's Manticor says, "What could dark matter be useful or for if found out? We have no idea." uh see dark matter right now it's a complete mystery. It is clearly some kind of particle or family of particles or something that um interacts only gravitationally most likely cold dark matter and if it interacts only gravitationally if it's so small that there's nothing we can do about it to use it with the current state of our technology. We are an electromagnetic species. The world we live in is an electromagnetic world. without electromagnet without electromagnetism we see nothing we sense nothing and gravity is something we perceive only very weakly so even if we discover what dark matter actually is I don't think we'll be able to utilize it in any way whatsoever scientifically industrially commercially or whatever for a few centuries in the long run I I don't know maybe if dark matter can is a is is something that can be annihilated to produce energy maybe that could be a fuel source long down the road. So maybe the dark matter could annihilate. For example, if dark matter is made up of primordial black holes, quantum bound states of primordial black holes, then maybe you could somehow induce it to annihilate, which would give you Hawking radiation, which is a tremendous source of energy potentially. So maybe down the line, a few centuries down the line, we could potentially use it if that turns out to be the case. Um, feminist slayer, etc. says, "Why didn't Russia colonize Americas like the European powers?" Well, Russia, if you look at its geographical location, it's a Eurasian power. Um, now let's go to the map. The map will tell us, will give us the answer. See, if you look at the map, yes, we can see, see, today Russia is just gigantic nation. But historically, Russia has been this region around Moscow and Kiev. the Kiev region. Kiev was the original capital of the RS people, the Kiev and Rus. And then later after the Mongolian yoke was thrown off. Moscow became a big deal and Moscow became the capital. So this region was essentially the the homeland of the Slavic the Roose people. Okraina was the borderlands and Moscow and its principalities surrounding principalities St. Petersburg etc. Sank Petersburg etc were the major cities and that's what where Russia was. So it was a um an a Eurasian landbased power. It had access to the oceans but to the sea but all frozen the north the north sea the baron sea uh and so on. Then later Russia expanded eastwards eastward eastwards it was able to go all the way to the far east and it eventually took possession of Alaska which it eventually later sold to the US. So because Russia had so much territory that it had conquered and expanded into uh and because it was not a seafaring power, it was just a land-based power. That's why it did not colonize the Americas like the other European powers which are all maritime powers like the UK which is an island, like Spain which is a peninsula that is out there in the Atlantic Ocean essentially and the Mediterranean and the Portuguese once again a maritime nation and of course the the the Danes etc. they also historically were a maritime power. Belgium later became a deal but in Africa and so on. So because Russia's because of Russia's geographical position location that's why because of that geography is is of course one of the decisive factors in geopolitics and and and in history and that's why Russia did not uh proceed to colonize the Americas the way the European other European maritime powers did. Uh Amisha Mishra says what prize did Mr. Munir Aim Munir of of Pakistan pay for his free lunch with Trump. It was not a free lunch. I assure you and that's why you asking me about the price. Well, once again I would say if you want the answer to your question, a detailed answer to your question, I would highly recommend you watch episode 5 of geostrategy in which I have gone into the Trump Pakistan connection. Okay. So Trump is Trump is is hoping to grab a piece of the Pakistan pie. He's his family his business empire is invested is is investing in Pakistan's cryptocurrencies uh scene the stable coin scene etc. They are going to make investments in Pakistan's oil and gas se sector. They want to tap into Pakistan's rare earth sectors and all that and all of that is going to that access is going to be given exclusively essentially it looks like to the Trump empire business empire. So that's the price Mr. Munir has paid and the military is very much involved in this the Pakistani military. That's why there is this great love that Trump has developed for Pakistan because the total value of all of this is in is is around I would say 65 is it billions or is it trillion? It's about 65 trillion overall the assets. How much can be extracted remains to be seen but that's the deal. So that's the price you pay for a lunch with Trump if you are the Pakistani dictator. The price is you sell your country. You sell your country's resources. Please Indians, my dear Indian viewers, see it this way. Pakistan is our ancestral territory that is currently temporarily occupied by terrorists. It's our ancestral lands. Pakistan it's for thousands of years it's been part of our ancestral heritage right our lands and those resources are our resources that are temporarily occupied by terrorists and who is now going to plunder them the Trump empire that's the price Mun has paid sold of his country to get a lunch with Trump MK says is India trying to have its own ASML like China well eventually Look, ASML is not a Chinese entity. ASML is Dutch. ASML. Let's let's Google ASML, shall we? Quickly, let us go to our friend Google. These days, I think people do chat GPD, right? I I I still do Google. I'm I'm oldfashioned. What is ASML? So, ASML is a Dutch multinational company that designs, develops, manufactures, etc. Semiconductor equipment. Okay. So, so ASML is Dutch and the the major thing they make is those photo lithography machines that make that that etch do the etchings and and create the architecture on silicon that is the basis of the chips the microp processors the chips the GPUs and so on. So without those photo lithography machines you will not have those incredibly complicated and powerful chips GPUs etc. Right? So it's a very important technology to have and this technology has been developed over decades and decades by this company and I think it's it has a more than 90% global share if I'm not mistaken I don't remember the exact numbers right now but very significant global share u ASML has so for India to become a major semiconductor player a major semiconductor manufacturer exporter etc and to be completely self-sufficient in semiconductor connectors we will have to develop our own technology similar to what ASML has and that is obviously the the great goal. Now, how long it takes remains to be seen. We want to become a major player by the 2030s. By 2030, essentially the next 5 10 years maximum. So, we'll have to do a lot of um a lot of growing up essentially. We'll have to develop very very uh difficult technologies in this time period. But yes, we would like to do that and we that that is the the mission we have given ourselves. That's the mission that the government has given to India and to itself. Okay, Suranjun Kumar Biswar says, "What are your thoughts on Pakistan's Molana Tariq Jum claiming he's a descendant of Pritar Johan through his son Ramdev Johan?" Look, I'm not aware of of of this claim by whatever Molana whatever. It's possible that this molana may have Chawan ancestry. There are lots of Pakistanis who have Rajput ancestry. But the moment you change your religion and you start hating your ancestral land and culture, I would say you are no longer Rajput. The what what is the prime characteristic of of a Rajput? You love your dharma and you love your culture, civilization and you love your motherland and you fight and die for it if required. These these Pakistanis who claim to be Rajputs, they want to destroy India. They hate India. They hate their own ancestral culture. How can they then claim we are descendants of Pira Johan? Even if they are, who cares? You have betrayed your ancestor, your great ancestor by by by being who you are today. So I don't know. I don't care about the veracity or not of this claim. It is just uh maybe it's it's uh something this gentleman this individual is doing to to to uh position himself highly and and to create some kind of a buzz for himself and some kind of name for himself to claim ancestry from a great man that sort of thing. I don't even know if Pritur Johan had a son called Ramdev Johan. So maybe this is all fabricated. Even if it's true, I don't care because once you once you convert to a foreign religion, it's fine if you want to. But once you do that, you're no longer a Rajbut. Once you hate your own ancestral culture, once you hate your own ancestors, you hate your own motherland, you are no longer a Rajbut. Come on. So I don't care. Har says, "Genealogologists confirmed that prototuric people had mixed and Caucasian ancestry. Western Gauthur had nearly European 100% europe European uralic ancestry even before migrating to Anatolia showing deep roots in Eurasian genetics. Well, I'll tell you the actual prototype. Okay, I'm sure this is done. Okay, I've not looked it up, but uh I'm sure you must have done your own due diligence and you must have found this. That's why you're telling me. So u noted first of all noted what you're saying. Secondly the real protokurks were the sh new people. Let's Google it. Okay. Who are the sh new people? It's a very strange uh spelling that we have. Okay. But let's go here. The new people. These were a nomadic confederation. The they were essentially the cousins of the ancestors of today's Mongols. Okay. And if we look at the where these people had an empire, they essentially had an empire where the the Mongols exist today. So the Sha and the and the Mongols were essentially the same people. If you go back maybe 2 and a half thousand years or so. So if we go back to Indian history, how did things work? You had first of all uh Indogreek kingdoms in the northwest in the in the Gandhar region right Indogreek kingdoms you had great dharmic kings like Milinda etc manander and so on and eventually the indoor Greeks just assimilated into the Indian population then what happened after the Indo Greeks is that the skitans invaded the shakas invaded India north northern India started from Gandhar and then eventually they settled down in western and conquered and settled in western northern India and so on so forth the great bahhatrapas The Skians were the same people as us genetically. But why did the skithians invade? Because they were being pressurized by the Kushans. So why were the Kushans pressurizing the the Skithians in their territory? Because the Kushans were being pressurized by the Huns, the Shu, the people who originated in present day Mongolia. So those are the actual protot Mongol Caucasian ancestry. That's about 2 and a half thousand years before today. If you go back to the so-called prototypes from 18800 years ago, they may have mixed mixed kaucan industry. If you look at the prototypes from 1500 years ago, they may have definitely Caucasian ancestry mixed with ancestry. But the original shu from 2 and a half thousand years ago, they were purely Mongolic Turk. No Caucasoid ancestry that I can think of. And the the Kushans of course had what today they would call Caucasoid ancestry. If you look at the Tarin basin river mummies, you will see that many of them have red hair or blonde hair and they seem to have light skin. But if you look at the gods they worship and the language they spoke. There's nothing cockazard or European about that. It's very drabic and so on. So history is super complicated. Super complicated. But interesting fact that you brought out over here. So thank you for that. Hershey says what's a honey trap and when was it started how does it work in other different countries was it used in ancient India honey trap is vishkanyas you know chanaka wishtuk chanaka had this practice you want to trap officials from from uh enemy nations or enemy enemy territories you honey trap them using wish kanyas wish kanyas would sometimes poison the guy or sometimes ent trap the guy in in a love affair and that's how by entrapping the guy and fascinating the By seducing the guy, the official, high-ranking official, you can get all the state secrets. That's a honey trap. As simple as that. What's a honey trap? It's compromising a high ranking or important person by having them engage in a romantic or sexual affair with one of your agents who is pretending to be a normal person, usually a female. That's a honey trap. Okay, that's that's what that's the term they use. It's it's I suppose it's always been around. You read about read read the Art Shastra you will find that there right the Artastra was written two and a half thousand years ago roughly and I suppose every country has its way of doing things the Chinese use this technique against Americans as of now and uh so on so yeah that's a deal um UC says can you tell us what the CIA is the central investigative agency gency. The CIA is one of the two threeletter agencies that I know of that I can think of off the top of my head. The other is the FBI, the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The FBI is the domestic intelligence agency within the US within the territorial boundaries of the United States. And the CIA is the foreign intelligence wing that does spying activities, destabilizing activities, regime change operations, quasi terroristic activities, drug operations, all the nastiest things you can think of in the world, the CIA does that. So as the US, the United States has this foreign intelligence and and destabilization wing, which is the CI, the CIA, and they have the CIA field manual. And some of these things have been declassified. If you read them, they're pretty nasty stuff. But you know, if you're a nasty person, you you'll learn something from th those things. And they are the ones who taught the Afghan mahin how to use terrorism as as strategy of course for liberating Afghanistan from the Soviets. But then that was then repurposed to the Kashmir terrorism. And they also had similar practices in South America, Central America and so on. I mean why why is why is there so much drug cultivation in these regions? Well, there has to be a reason for that. The first question you ask yourself is who is consuming all the drugs? Okay. Aries Manticor says, "Is it possible due to the green revolution dals legumes were selectively grown to contain more carbs instead of proteins? Should we try to create superior GMO variants to reduce carb and increase proteins? I don't think the green revolution had the uh objective of of increasing the carb content of legumes, dals, etc. The green revolution was the objective was to create sufficient crops for Indians by focusing on just a few crops. So India has always had this tremendous biodiversity. All kinds of different uh crops existed. Crops that are almost unknown today. Very few people eat them. Uh these days it's again becoming slightly more popular. You know crops like bajar, jawar etc. various kinds of mazes we had in India and so on so forth. Today it's just two three kinds of rice and two three kinds of wheat. In wheat also we had so much diversity but only a few strains of wheat are now prevalent in India. So a lot of the bio biodiversity was was wiped out because of the green revolution. So it did solve the problem that India had of being a tremendously impoverished and uh undernourished nation. It solved that problem but at the cost of India's biodiversity. It could have been done better for sure. No question about it. But it did not have the effect of selectively growing legumes in such a way that there's more carbs carb content and less protein content. That's not the case. I don't I don't think that's the case. Um should we try and create superior GMO variance to reduce carb and increase protein? I think it's never a good idea to try and fiddle with the genetic makeup of uh organisms in an artificial way because you may introduce certain issues that will be apparent only 20 30 generations down the line by and by that time there's nothing much you can do about it. Uh because see if you if you tweak some genes it's going to have an effect on the other genes in some way or the other that we don't understand. There is something called the dark matter of DNA. So if you look at our genome, human genome, pretty complicated gen genome, right? We only understand 3 4% of it about 95 96% of our genome, we don't understand it at all. It seems to be non-coding. It seems to be bits and pieces of DNA code that are that don't code for any proteins or anything. They don't they don't seem to have any purpose, but it's still there in our geo genome and it's being passed on generation after generation. So maybe it has some use and if you mess with that it may end up doing something terrible to you down the line 20 30 generations down the line potentially. So the point is you know it is it is very tempting to play god when you have the tools but you have the tools and you tweaking stuff but we don't understand really what the long-term effects of that are going to be. So I think it's not a good idea in my opinion to try and create superior GMO variance without fully understanding the genome and what it does. Okay. Arun Arun says does Turkey still deserve to be called the drone superpower after the failure of Bikar in the three-day war? Look all of this is just uh much much of this is is is propaganda and narratives. Okay. uh a nation that produces lots of drones but none of them have been tested in in warfare. You can't call that nation a drone superpower. And then when the drones are actually tested in warfare, we know what ended up happening in the three-day war between Pakistan and India. We destroyed all their drones. The drones were completely ineffective. I'm not sure what all drones were used. Was the Kizilma used? Was the by by car used? Were other drones used? But whatever drones were used, many of them were Turkish. Those were all wiped out by India. So, I think that has caused a significant dent to Turkeykey's so-called reputation of being a drone power. And I don't think Turkey really deserves to be called a drone superpower or whatever. Of course, they have certain drones that seem to be very high-end stealth with stealth characteristics like the Kizilma drone, the Red Apple and so on, but I'm not sure if that has been battle proved anywhere anywhere. So any system you can tout it and and praise it to the high heavens but the only real test is its it its performance in battle. So that is that still remains to be seen. So thus far I would say Turkey doesn't deserve that sort of title of being a drone superpower. Naman Singh says the history of the US says that we can't rely on the US. We are heavily dependent on the US. we should make our own technological ecosystem like our own messaging application social media because the US can choke us if they decide to do so by banning. Well, I agree with you Naman Singh, you are absolutely right. I myself have been saying this for quite some time. I have been uh uh doing these shows for about 4 years now and I have been saying this from the beginning that we cannot uh have these dependencies that could one day come to bite us in in our backside, right? uh for example India I think we we have a substantial amount of the um I'm just giving a different example here but we our territory our land is is home to about at least 10 to 20% of the world's rare earth minerals but we don't have the industry to extract them we don't know how to extract them that's why we are dependent on China and others and now China has put export restrictions on rare earth metals and rare earth magnets and because of that we are in a significant amount of crisis right now. We have reserves only until the mid of June. We have been forced to to stop exporting rare earths to Japan even though we have an agreement with Japan. So when you have the when you have the raw materials and resources but if you don't develop them then you're going to end up dependent on your enemies and to develop the industries and the knowhow and the capabilities and technologies to to extract and process the raw raw earth in India and in a usable way it's going to take us a decade at least if we start now a decade that's how stupid we have been when it comes to other technologies only when something bad happens that that's that's when we wake So once again when it comes to social media if the if in the future the US decides to cut off India from social media then we will suddenly find ourselves in position where we can't communicate with each other as a nation as a as a as a society. So you are right we need to have our own technological ecosystem. The Chinese have their own complete stack. They don't need the US. They have banned US apps. They've banned US uh platforms from China. The Russians have their own things. they have uh Yandex is a search engine and they have something else for social media and all. So Russia and China have made sure that they are not dependent on the US. We have done no nothing of the sort which is very short-sighted and very disappointing. So I agree with you it needs to be done. Paris Viri says why is Iran so against Israel? Yeah. Well, look, long story. If you want to understand properly, watch episode 7 of geost strategy that concluded 15 minutes ago. Concluded 45 minutes ago. I explained in great detail why the current situation exists. There was a time when Iran and Israel were allies during the dictatorship of of uh Muhammad Rai the sha of Iran who was a US asset a western asset who was selling his country's oil reserves to the west at deeply discounted rates and then Muhammad Mosad the prime minister took over and he nationalized Iran's oil industry which is why operation Ajax happened and the Americans got rid of him and then the sharkam back as a dictator and then there's the Iranian revolution, the Islamic revolution and they are pro Palestine. So the new regime was pro Palestine and they said that Israel is an is is is is a col colonial project and so on and so forth. Long story if you want to understand properly watch that episode 7 of geost strategy in which I have explained everything in proper detail in great detail. Uh WRV13133 says will we ever get Axai back as China is far stronger than us also why don't China ally with India India and China together will be unstoppable well when you are a much stronger nation you don't seek allies you seek vasals that is the nature of power if you want to understand why it is so read texts like the earth shastra etc so then you will understand Why China doesn't want to ally with India? China would rather see an India that is broken up or an India or an India that is very weak or an India that is a Chinese vasal. They don't want to ally with India. Historically we have been the far greater civilization. But today we are a weaker nation because of the history of the past whatever years right few decades few centuries and so on so forth. Essentially the past eight decades that's why China is about three and a half or four times more powerful than us today. So why will they want India to be an ally when they can make India potentially a vasal, right? And India is the one Asian nation that they fear because they know that India still has the potential to become the next China in the next 15 or so years if we get our things right. If a lot of things go right for us. So why would China want to align with us? They would rather keep us down. So then the question is will we ever get accession back? Someday we will. History is long. We won't get it back in the next 5 years, 10 years, 30 years, who knows? It's possible. 100 years very likely. It all depends on what we do and where we take our country. So we should not look at the next two weeks or next 3 months or next 3 years. We are the oldest civilization. We have a history that goes back now I would say 12,000 years at least. So for us, what is 20 years, 50 years? What's a 100 years for us? It's nothing. See it that way. Don't think as a small little nation state. Think like a civilization state. Of course, it goes beyond our lifetimes, but so what? Our descendants will get it, right? So we will get it back eventually. We'll we may get a lot more in the future. Who knows? Who knows what where where history will take us. So let's not be, I would say, pessimistic. Let's not be defeist. things will work out and we have to make things work out together. Vishal says Iran launched 150 missiles on day one, 75 on day two, 40 then, not 10, 15, 20. It's decreasing day by day. How long can Iran save its ballistic missile launchers? Well, it remains to be seen. It remains to be seen. Iran may also be signaling to the world that look, we want to end this nonsense. We want an end to this war. They've also signaled like I said 50 minutes ago they've also signaled to the US by our various mediators like Oman and Qatar etc etc that we would like this to end if is if Israel stops the attacks we will also stop the attacks so they are signaling that they would like the war to end right it doesn't mean that they they it doesn't necessarily mean that they have lost their capabilities uh they may still have a lot of aces up their sleeve believe um and it is also likely that Iran has way more ballistic missiles than Israel has iron dome missiles. That's also a likelihood and even the US may not be able to u you know fill that gap potentially. So maybe Iran is trying to say that you know what we are willing to deescalate if you are willing to deescalate and maybe if deescalation doesn't happen then you may see a much bigger surge of missiles coming in from Iran potentially or maybe you are right and maybe they their capabilities are being degraded day by day and maybe they are becoming more and more helpless that's also a possibility but without us being there we don't know so I think we have to be cautious I don't think Iran is that that helpless right Aris Manticor says the opposition parties are promoting language racism to divide our country. Many influential people have also started supporting this foreign toolkit. Well, this is not something I'm going to take today. I'm going to take I'm not going to take local politics. I generally never take local politics. Right. But I would say in answer to your to your to your uh statement and question it's very unfortunate and u it's very likely that there could be a foreign influence behind this. I think it's almost guaranteed that there is a foreign influence behind this and we the people have to ensure that these forces whoever they may be I'm not naming anybody but whoever they may be they should not succeed. It's for us to ensure that that such ps, such tactics, such strategies do not succeed. Webhav Dangra says, "Shouldn't countries teach correct history?" Way of dangra seems to be in Japan. So, shouldn't countries teach correct history? in Tokyo Yakosuni Shine Shine Museum. They glorify and worship the Japanese Second World War army. There is incorrect info information regarding Manuria. There is no mention of unit 731. Okay. Shouldn't countries teach correct history? Well, I would say ideally everybody should speak the only the truth. But if you read the Artastra, you will see that nobody speaks the truth. So we don't live in an ideal world right everybody is lying everybody is trying to pedal narratives so then as an every nation will also try to promote its own narratives now I'm not saying what what happened during the second world war the conduct of the Japanese imperial army during the second world war was abominable no question about it but is it the only army that was abominable do you have any idea of what the other nonaccess forces did that's never mentioned. So, shouldn't we also ask the same question about the allies? And if we are not asking the question about the allies, then why are we only asking questions about the defeated Japanese? The Japanese were defeated. They were smashed. They have been colonized. They have been brutalized. They've been enslaved. They're trying to hold on to some shred of pride of some kind. Right? So I would see my point is first of all as an Indian who lives in Japan I would say we should respect whatever the local people are trying to do. Okay. We should not be judgmental and if you want to be judgmental we should be equally judgmental towards everybody. What the Americans have done on Japan they tested two nuclear weapons on on the civilians. That's not the only thing they have done. what they did in Germany. What they did in Germany after the fall of the third. Do you have any idea what was done in Germany? It was essentially genocide of the Germans in various parts of Europe. I mean there's so many horrors that have happened that are completely suppressed. So shouldn't countries teach correct history? They should. But why are we singling out only one country? The country that has suffer essentially suffered more than most countries. So yeah, theoretically you're right. Everybody should teach correct history. But shouldn't the US teach correct history? Shouldn't Europe teach correct history of what they have done in Africa? Shouldn't the US teach the history of what they did in the continent they stole from the natives? Right? They they portray themselves as the champions of human rights and democracy while living on a land that has been genocided of the natives and where natives today even today live as secondass citizens. That that goes for the entirety of the Americas by the way overall. So the point I'm trying to make is that nobody is going to teach correct history. Everybody is going to tell lies. That's the way the way of the world at least in the current cycle of that we're living in. Kalyuga, everybody is going to lie. That's just the way it is. So, okay. Coral Jane says, "What do you think is going to be Pakistan's role in the Israel Iran war after Aim Munir's US visit? Is the US going to use Pakistan's air bases? If they do, how would the whole situation pan out?" Well, first of all, please understand one thing very clearly. Pakistan is a complete 100% certified US wasal. Okay. Trump is deeply invested in Pakistan personally. His empire, the Trump business empire is deeply invested in Pakistan. They stand a lot to gain from Pakistan. That's why Trump has this tremendous love for Pakistan. Now in exchange for Trump's attentions and benevalence towards Pakistan, Pakistan will give whatever the US needs. So right now one hears that there are American u aircraft that are flying over Pakistani territory uh looking into what's happening in Iran. Okay reconnaissance aircraft and whatever u various kinds of aircraft American aircraft are flying over Pakistani territory. So Pakistan has opened its airspace to the Americans. Do whatever you want. It's all yours. We know that the Americans have been using the Nurhan air base and even Pakistani officers are off limits over there. The air base is off is off limits to Pakistanis. It's it's controlled by the Americans. The Nurh Khal air base. I think that's now pretty much known to the world, right? Um so what could happen is the question in this Israel Iran war. So if the US decides in the next few days, maybe in a week, maybe in 3 days, maybe in 30 days, whenever they decide possibly that they want to launch some kind of operation on on Iraq, which means on Iran, which means that the US, if they decide that they will get involved in the war, then they they could very much use Pakistani air bases as the staging grounds of their air strikes or whatever, right? And if it happens, there's nothing much Iran can do about it. Maybe Iran can try and hit hit Pakistani air bases. Maybe Iran can do that. Um but if the US gets involved, it's going to be a big big big glo not global but regional war. If if it is happening from Pakistan, then even Pakistan gets dragged into the war and Pakistan may take some damage from from Iranian missile strikes and so on. So if the US decides to use Pakistani air bases in territory, then even Pakistan will get dragged into the war. That's how it could pan out. But if the US decides that it's going to get involved then it's then it's uh going to be very bad days for Iran because the US is all powerful as we know. Arun says recent times now article said that Israel wanted to strike Pakistan nuclear site. India said no. I also heard US made Israel stops the stop their plans which is true. Well, we don't know. There are multiple versions of the story story going around right now. What I had heard or read back in the day whenever it was years ago is that Israel decided to pull out at the last moment. Now some people are claiming that it was the Indian prime minister Mr. Moraji Desai who stopped Israel from using Indian air bases or and and denied Israel permission to to use Indian air bases. I am not sure which story is true but understand it from this perspective. Pakistan has always been a US asset for decades and Israel and the US have the special relationship. So the question is why would Israel destroy u something that is a US asset doesn't make sense right I think there is some some kind of understanding let's like in the episode of geost strategy that I just concluded today we we saw that there was a US there was a secret Iran alliance in the 1980s when Saddam Hussein and Iran were fighting and Israel was supplying Iran with arms, ammunition, etc. despite officially the two nations being enemies. So I think there could be similar situation between Israel and Pakistan. Okay, that's what I think. I have no evidence to back it up, but I have historical precedents which I just gave you that such things happen. Um, and it is also possible that the Americans may actually have told Israel, don't go ahead and bob the Pakistani nuclear facilities. We want this to be an eyewash so that we can provide Pakistan with our nuclear weapons and then claim that these are Pakistani nukes. That's also a possibility. So we don't quite know what the real story is. Various people will will make various claims. But what evidence do they have to back up the claims? I'm not sure what evidence they have. Even I don't have evidence to back up the claims. But I can offer you historical precedents that show you that things happen in the in in such ways. Schubam says, "Some people are praising and glorifying Portuguese trade and architecture, ignoring reality. 300 plus pilgrims were burned in 1502. Goa massacres in 1510. Two centuries of torture and forced conversions during the Goa Inquisition. What's my take? My take is that the Portuguese were barbarians. The Portuguese were utter barbarians. They came into India. They captured some territory. They they violently violently oppressed the people. They destroyed temples. They built churches on temples. They forced Indians to become Christians by force, by coercion. Those Indians who refused to become Christian even after converting they were burned at the stake. Okay. They they had these these activities called Ottoaf in which people were burned alive because they were secretly practicing their their ancestral culture despite officially becoming Christian and so on. Absolute horror show. The the Portuguese were utter barbarians. Their conduct was barbaric. And today if some people are praising and glorifying those people they should those people should be ashamed. How can you glorify and praise what the Portuguese did in India? They were their behavior their conduct was barbaric. It was abominable. And the people who are praising that should be ashamed of themselves. That's my take on that. MK says duara is 9,500 years old. It's mentioned in the Mahabharat. The rigveda is older than the Mahabharat. So riged could be over 9,500 years old. Look, the duara, we know that duara is maybe 9 and a half thousand years old. Okay, we have uh carbon dating evidence from a piece of wood that goes back about 8,000 something years and it's most likely older than that. So maybe it's 9,500 years old. Maybe it's 10,000 years old. Duhara. Now Dara is mentioned in the Rigveda and in the in in the Mahabharat and in the Mahabarat it is said that there was a major earthquake and Dara was swallowed up by the sea during the time of the Mahabarat. Okay, I agree. But it is is it not possible that Dwara may be 5,000 years older than the Mahabharat and it was still existing during the time of the Mahabharat. It's possible, right? So maybe the Mahabharat was written I'm just giving a completely hypothetical date. Maybe let's say the Mahabharat happened let's say hypothetically 5,000 years ago and Dara existed then. But maybe Darka also existed 5,000 years before that. And let's say the Riga we know it's older than the Mahabarat. Maybe let's say hypothetically the Riga is 3,000 years older than the Mahabarat. So the Mahabharat hypothetically happened 5,000 years ago. The Rigida was written 3,000 years before that hypothetically. So the Rigida is 8,000 years old and maybe Dara was existed even before that possibly. So that way the math doesn't add up. You understand what I'm saying? So the rigida could possibly be over 9,500 years old or maybe it's younger than that. We don't know. We don't know for sure. The clearest way of dating the Riga is by looking at the evidence of the Saraswati. We know at what point in time the Sarasati was at her peak. We know at what point in time the Sarasati started declining slowly as a river. We know at what point in time the Sarasati dried out to a large extent. And the Rida mentioned the Sarasati as a river in her prime. And the Sarasati was last in her prime around 6,000 BC. That's around 8,000 years to ago. So it indicates the rigida is more likely to have been written around 6,000 BC than around 1500 BC. That is the best estimate I can give you. Beyond that, I can't say until we find further evidence of some kind. Yesh, are we heading towards World War II, 1919, Spanish flu, 1929, Great Depression, 1939, World War II, World War II now? The same thing happens. COVID recession, World War II, so many wars happening. Well, maybe, maybe not. I hope not. It is not necessary that the pattern that happened 100 days ago has to exactly happen in the same way this time. Maybe it will happen in a different way this time this this time around. So the pattern you saw in the beginning of the of the 20th century there is no reason for it to occur exactly in the same sequence, same order and same magnitude all over again. History is cyclical but it's not a carbon copy of what happened in the past. So one hopes that it doesn't go in that direction. I know there are lots of wars happening. We are we are in a in a period of geopolitical instability. It's it's getting worse, but hopefully there's no world war. We've had the the the COVID which was terrible. Uh so the pattern seems to be there, but hopefully it doesn't occur exactly the same way as before. That's what I would say. It's not guaranteed that it will happen that way. But yeah, it's kind of concerning. So I agree with you. It's concerning. Only gems says which countries would be part of a bhat. It's up to you. Entirely up to you. Historically Akandarat was jammudep the whole of the subcontinent south of the Himalayas plus Gandhar and all and so on. Historically our boundaries the India central Asia boundary was at the gates at a certain gate in Tajakistan. Yeah, that's so when Chingis Khan crossed that gate, he was in India which was currently about 100 kilometers inside Tajakistan and so on. So India had a huge huge huge sphere of influence. Um geographically it was Jambodep. So we would have Afghanistan, Pakistan is part of it also uh Nepal uh present day Bangladesh and the Ca regions which is Sri Lanka, Maldi etc and so on. And civilizationally we went much beyond that which is the whole of the sword Nabumi Southeast Asia and so on so forth. So it's up to it's open to interpretation but I think the subcontinent was akalat mainly the subcontinent. Go says uh today prime minister Modi said Trump did not immediate ceasefire to which Trump replied he did. How should Modi respond? Now Mr. Modi should ignore this nonsense from the honorable president of the United States Shri Donald Trump. There's no point engaging in this verbal slinging tit for tat thing. Trump is blatantly lying. He also lied today that Mr. Modi was just just now in the White House before Mr. Munir was there. Trump Mr. Trump is known to to to to preicate. So Mr. Modi should not respond to Mr. Trump. Geopolitical Dubet says, "Did the Gupta Empire start building grand temples?" I'm not sure what the grand see the problem with the grand temples that we have. All all are in ruins. The problem is that we don't know how to date them. You can't carbon date rock. Rock is inorganic, right? The problem is we can't carbon date rocks. So, I'm not sure how these so-called historians and archaeologists assign various dates to the temples. For example, in in Egypt, if you look at the pyramids, if you look at the Sphinx, the Sphinx is clearly way older than the pyramids. And yet they say it was built around so- and so date. So these people, they come out with these dates, they they pull the dates out of a hat, it looks like. So we don't know when we started building the grand temples. It's possible that many of our grand temples are way older than what historians claim. For example, the Padvanabas Swami temple in Kerala, it has coins that date back far far before the temple is supposed to be built and so on. So I'm not sure when we started building grand temples. We've always had great dynasties, great kingdoms and empires in this country that go back way beyond the the um Nanda Empire way before the Nanda Empire. We have all these lineages recorded, you know, in our history text. Some of them survive but these are not mapped one to one with various uh uh archaeological sites because we kind of have lost uh that continuity. So it's possible that grand temples were being built way before the Gupta Empire. It's possible. One example is is Kaneshka. Kaneshka built a grand stupa which kind of still exists in Peshawar today but it's today a slum. There's a slum on top of it and so on. So it's possible that grand temples were being built before the Guptas also. But classically they say that it's the Guptas who began this great uh practice of building great temples which I I find hard to believe it. I'm sure it was being done before the Guptas also. So I really don't know for sure. Rahul says large Shia Muslims in India trace their roots to ancient migrations from Syria, Lebanon, Iran. Um, backed by history, genetics confirm liantine haplo groups absent in non-Muslims but present in Shia Muslims. Forgotten history. Uh, it's possible. Look, people forget history especially when it's not written down. Especially when your records are destroyed or whatever. For example, do most people today know who their great great-grandfather was? Who one of the great great grandmothers know grandmothers was? Do you know the names? It's so easy to forget history. And if you've been in India for let's say 700 years, 800 years, even 500 years, you kind of, you know, the the origins are lost in time. They become kind of legends or even myths. Uh but yeah, genetics is good in bringing these things out. So maybe it's forgotten history. U Syria, Lebanon, Iran, even Yemen, even Yemen has, you know, some some kind of there is some Yemenist component also in various Shia Muslim groups in India. So it's it's part of history. It's it's it's part of how things go. People go back and forth, back and forth. There is no one, you know, a single line of migration or whatever. It's always waves and waves and back and forth, back of mouth, migration and so on. Especially when you have a gigantic place like this Indian subcontinent which is so rich and capable of of of sustaining gigantic population. You'll have people coming in all the time and settling down. So not surprising but clearly forgotten history. So yeah, you're right. Okay, I'm going to do another 15 minutes and then we're done. Right. Tip says Kiev was a Viking state. How did the Slavs bounce back? Well, that's a long history. You'll have to go into the history of the Kiev and Roose. The the leaders were were Vikings, of course, but the people were Slavic and eventually the Slavs just they were just larger in number numerically and so on. And that's how so the Slavs were not colonized by the Vikings but they had a um it's kind of you know it was kind of like uh the Mitani kingdom the Mitani kingdom mitani empire was an Indo-arian arian Indian origin Arian superstrait over a local Hurian population. So the royalty was Indian Indo-arian they spoke Sanskrit but the people were the Hurian people who spoke the Hurian language but the empire was of Indo-Aryan origin but eventually today there's no Arian language being spoken in the region in Syria in in in um the Anatolia region where the Bitani Empire used to exist. So the people there would still today have a little bit of Indian ancestry but nobody will know about it. So that's how eventually you know the superstrates they dissolve into the population and then the population its cultural identity takes over. So that's I suppose how it happened uh for for KV the kavan roose shaspbat says how might global society have evolved differently if a universal language like espiranto had achieved the worldwide adoption and integration I have no idea. I've been hearing about espiranto since I was a kid. It's an artificial language similar to various European languages made up and some people speak it. I don't know what's the purpose of it. It's completely artificial, completely made up. And Espiranto means hopeful or something. But what difference does it make? And why would somebody adopt a foreign language? We, for example, let me tell you, we in India have language have a civilizational history that goes back 10, 12, 15, god knows how many thousands of years. We have our own languages which are the oldest languages in the world. Why would we accept a foreign madeup artificial language? Why? Why? Makes no sense. And why do we need worldwide adoption and integration? Why do we need the whole society to speak just one language and become a monoculture of sorts? Why? The world is beautiful because of genuine diversity, regional diversity. We don't want all the diversity to be in one place. We want that when we travel to different places, we find different cultures, different languages, different ways of life. That's what makes the world beautiful. If we impose just one language, one culture on the whole thing, it makes the world ugly. So I am not in a favor of aspiranto or whatever. I've never understood it its import, its purpose, its meaning. Kind of a delusional kind of thing to do like uh what was his name? like the guy who wrote the book utopia during the time of uh Henry VIII more Thomas Moore utopia there's no such thing as utopia in the world okay Gorav Singh says what's the origin of the Rajput people of India and is their lineage the same as the chhatrias from the past similar to how the Brahmans have a continuous lineage please do an episode of it on it if possible an episode will be okay but I can answer the question Look a thousand years ago in the in the year 1,000 AD nobody called themselves Rajuts. Nobody did. The word did not exist. Then eventually this term called Rajautra came into existence and that's the origin of the word Rajaput. So who are the Rajaputras? They are the descendants of the original dynasties of India, the royal dynasties, royal clans. And according to various authors and sources, there were about 33 royal uh dynasties in India dating back to post rigidic times dating back to the Vic age. So these dynasties have been around in India for thousands of years and uh 33 in number apparently and the the the descendants of those dynasties, the descendants of the old royalty, they called themselves the Rajautras and they were at the forefront of fighting the Turk uh invasions of India and they fought for several centuries and eventually others took up the good fight eventually later like the Maratas and so on so forth. So the origin of the Rajput people is the origin of all the people of India but they were the aristocracy the royalty. So they were warriors of course but their lineage is not necessarily the same as the other chhatrias. The chhatrias are the the warrior class of India. They were the people engaged in warfare but they were not necessarily the descendants of kings so on. So we all have a continuous lineage. All of us, no matter what your lineage is, whatever your u cast so-called cast is, we all have lineages going back tens of thousands of years. Okay? So, it's not just that the Rajputs or so and so or the brahinss or whoever has ancient lineages. We all have tremendously ancient lineages. We are the oldest non-African population on the surface of the planet and we are all essentially the same people genetically. Okay, that's what we remember. Geopolitical Dubai. Thank you so much sir. Thank you. Very kind of you. Uh Arun says why countries like Thailand, Cambodia and many Southeast Asian countries don't hate the Chola invaders from outside. Usually the the people who are invaded hate their invaders. Well, the Chola invasion was a one-off event. The thing is this. See, we have to understand this one thing and get it very clear. It was not the Chola invasion of Shri Vijaya that brought Hinduism and Sanskrit into Southeast Asia into Sward Napi. That's not the case. The Indianization of the whole of Southeast Asia began at least 3,000 years ago. It began with the voyages of the great merchants from Kolinga across the sea of Kolinga today called the Bay of Bengal into Subarabumi. That's Thailand, Indonesia, Cambodia and so on so forth. All of that and this happened over centuries over thousands of years and slowly these regions the people of these regions they absorbed Indian culture, Indian religion, Indian language and they all became Indianized. The first ever Cambodian kingdom was the kingdom of Funan and they that kingdom was founded by a a Cambodian princess and she married an Indian uh merchant called Condinia. So they were the founders of the Funan kingdom which eventually became today's Cambodia and so on. So all of these different regions, the whole of Southeast Asia, all the different cultures there, they all eventually over centuries became Indianized and the Indianization did not happen through force. They just absorbed our culture because they saw it as possibly superior to what whatever lifestyle and culture they had. So they slowly slowly absorbed our culture and they they built such incredible beautiful temples. Ankorwat my god uh prammanan in Indonesia the various Shiva temples in in the Cham Champa region the Priya Vihar temple for which Cambodia and Thailand are still fighting and so on which is a shiva temple. So the Indianization Hinduization all of that happened over centuries over millennia. It was never done by force. The local people local cultures absorbed this willingly and they synchretatized it with their own culture. So wherever you go in Southeast Asia, wherever Hinduism still exists, it eventually became Buddhism. But same thing. So it's a very syncretive kind of culture with lots of indigenous elements, ancestral elements synretized with Indian civilization and culture. The Chola invasion was a one-off thing. It was a it was a geopolitical event. And once again, it was not an oppressive event. We did not go and enslave people, massacre people, and all that. It was just that's a whole different story. So yeah, that's why there is no hate for Indians or chasers. Absolutely none. Because we were never oppressive. We were never colonizers. We were never extractive. We we never enslaved anybody. We never stole people's wealth. We enriched them actually. That's how it was. Yeah. That's why there's no hatred. Wamshi Kalam says no. Bahalika kingdom of Bashma Empire. Bashma uncle and Capisa in Afghanistan. Bahalik. Yeah, it's today that region is called Balk today. Bahalik and Capisa. Capisa is is Kabul. I suppose the names changed eventually. Pushawati. Pushawati became Peshawar. Pushawati was also known as Purushpur and then it became Peshawar. Bahalika became Balk. Uh Capisa became the Kabul region and so on. And of course this is Gandhar. So um the the that element of the Korova people um the the maternal ancestry of the kora was from was from Gandhar obviously right today's Afghanistan and so on uh the rational reporter says is it possible if Iran falls then Pakistan loses utility for the US the US shifts full-time focus on China starts causing up with India Pakistan neglected and effed up well I would love to see Pakistan effed up But that's not the case. See, let's say Iran falls. Hypothetically, we don't want that to happen because it's terrible. But let's say Iran falls. Then will Pakistan lose utility for the US? My dear friends, as long as India exists, Pakistan is very useful for the US. Very useful. The US wants two things for Pakistan. First of all, Pakistan should no longer go and get into bed with China. Secondly, Pakistan should continue to destabilize India permanently. Then how can Pakistan ever lose utility? Iran is a shi sideh show. Iran is a sideesh show. India and China are the big deal. Right now India is useful for the US against China. That's why they want India and China to remain enemies. But eventually India is also a problem for the US. The US doesn't want any new poles emerging anywhere. So Pakistan is not going to lose its utility. Not going to happen. Um, Lkesh Singh says, "Do you know about the breakthrough in quantum computing from DRDO IIT Delhi? I heard that they've achieved some kind of breakthrough in quantum entanglement. Quantum entanglement has been sustained over a distance of more than a kilometer. That's fantastic. Great job. It's a good breakthrough. It's good progress. We want quantum entanglement to happen over hundreds of kilometers. So why shouldn't why doesn't India launch its own version of the micious satellite? Chinese have launched one and they were able to entangle a pair of of particles, photons or whatever it was between the satellite and a ground station in China. So I I think it's great. I'm aware of it. I've not looked into the details but I've heard the news that we have done we have entangled a pair of particles a single quantum system over a distance of more than a kilometer apparently. So good good progress. Keep on going keep on going. Extend it to 10 kilometers and 100 kilometers. Then let's extend it to the Andromea galaxy. It's possible. Rishik says, "Hey Chava, hey Chava, did foreign powers ever try to sabotage India's nuclear program?" Well, I have not been a part of the Indian nuclear program, so I can't say that. But it's very likely that foreign powers have tried to do that. It makes sense. If of all the nuclear programs that exist on the planet, which are the ones? The US was the original nuclear program? The Manhattan project. Then the Russians got some info from there from the Manhattan project via various sources and they did their own nuclear program through that. Then you have the British, the French who all were helped by the US. Then you had the Chinese who were helped by Russia. Then you had Iran. Then you had Israel and South South Africa also for for a while that also got knowhow from the US and other other allied nations. It was only India that developed a nuclear program entirely independently without any foreign help. And of course it is guaranteed that foreign powers would have tried to sabotage the nuclear program. Maybe it's still ongoing but the details will not come out because this a very classified kind of information very highly sensitive information and the details won't come out. So don't know. N says as per physicists neutrino neutrino can travel a light year thick wall of steel without interaction. So why are nutrinos not considered dark matter? Well because we can detect them. Neutrinos are not considered to be dark matter because we can still detect them. We have these gigantic nutrino detectors deep underground in Japan super kamio and wherever else that can detect a few nutrinos in a year. solar neutrinos. Okay. So that's why because they interact via the weak interaction and they do occasionally interact with electromagnetic matter like heavy water or whatever. That's why we are able to detect this through scintillation centilation technology and whatever else. And that's why it's not dark matter. The question is what is dark matter? Dark matter is that mysterious unknown matter that affects the rotation curves of galaxies. So when you see the speed at which galaxies rotating, we can see the speed at which galaxy galaxy rotating. How do how can we see that? I mean if you look at a galaxy it's not moving right but we still know that the galaxies are rotating because of the red shift and blue shift of the stars at the two ends of the galaxy. So we can know which direction the galaxy is rotating in in and at what speed it's rotating. Now if you plot that against the expected speed of rotation, you'll find that galaxies are rotating at a very different speed as if they have 10 times the mass and that's the hidden matter that was discovered through galaxy rotation curves. Dark matter which is not neutrino matter. It is something else entirely. It seems to interact only gravitationally. It doesn't have the weak interaction, the strong interaction or the electromagnetic interaction. It seems to have only the gravitational interaction. It's a different class of matter. It's not neutrinos. So you could argue that neutrinos are also some kind of undetectable largely undetectable particle. But that's not what is causing the galaxies to rotate in a different way. It's not neutrinos. It's something else. And that's the dark matter we are looking for. Hardik says North Korea is also testing missiles. The problem is that you close your eyes and point anywhere on the map and a war is happening. It's on the rise. What are my thoughts? It's all interconnected. The world is bifurcating. there's a visible ongoing bifurcation of the world order maybe triurcation mainly mainly bifurcation so it's the western order the US-led order versus the Russia China order and part of the Russia China coalition you have Iran you have North Korea that's about it more or less so North Korea also wants to ensure that nobody comes and you know tries to do what what is being done to Iran right now. So North Korea first of all they have nuclear weapons a decent quantity perhaps of nuclear weapons we don't know what the number is but decent quantity and they have the missiles to deliver the nuclear weapons so they are continuously testing the missiles and reminding the world don't mess with us and that's a signal to the world uh especially the west so that's the deal right now there are wars happening at the place in other places there's there are conflicts happening in Africa nobody's paying attention to them I mean tremendous amounts of people are being displaced There's a horrific horrific humanitarian catastrophe going on in Sud Sudan right now where the government and the other forces are fighting each other and the civilians are caught in the crossfire deliberately perhaps and so on. So the world is has entered a period of great geopolitical instability. It's because of the rise of new powers and the rise of powers that are still not great powers but that that naturally will rise like India and so on and there are existing powers that don't want this to happen. So there's tremendous churn happening in the world. So that's the deal and this is going to intensify unfortunately that's the direction in which the world is going. Intensified instability. MK says what what lessons did the US learn from the UK's fall as an empire? The UK never fell as an empire. The entity still continues in the form of the US. There was just a transfer of power from Washington from London to Washington. The UK never fell. And of course you can learn some lessons from the UK's followers and empire. The UK was too small. The UK was see the problem of the UK is that it's it's a small island and it's very close to traditional enemies like like like France, like Germany, it's very it's in very close proximity to these enemies. So it's always under threat no matter how powerful it is because if you strike at London, if you strike at the heartland, then the whole empire can collapse like a pack of cards. So what lesson did the US learn? be far away from your en enemies. So look at the map. Look at the map. Okay, I'll show you the map. The US has ensured it is completely isolated from the enemies. If you look at the map, the US is surrounded on two sides by gigantic oceans, the Atlantic and the Pacific. And it has ensured that all the nations in the Americas are their vasals. And they pose no threat whatsoever to the US. So the Americans have learned their lessons very well. Okay, Kumar Kaneska says, "Fascinated about dark matter and dark energy. Could you suggest where to read about and learn about it? Miss your science episodes. Please do it once a month, please." Okay. Well, I would love to do it, but nobody watches. Nobody watches. Nobody cares. I would love to talk about science every day. But nobody watches. I mean, I've got this live stream going on, a recorded live stream on Loop playing about science, about the science episodes. I mean, I typically see there's one or two people watching it. There's no interest. What can I do about it? Um, how to read and learn about dark matter and dark energy? Well, I don't know. Uh, um, popular science books I would have to recommend, right? Um, I Okay, let me tell you. I think I have I think one of the first videos I ever did was a recommendation video about books. Let me see. So, this is my channel. Let's go to the oldest videos and look at these goofy videos that I made here. So, here's a video 14 or so minutes long books for understanding quantum theory and dark matter. I think you should look at this video. In this video, I must have recommended some reasonably good books. Hopefully, not very technical books, but uh books that most people could hopefully understand. So, I think if you look at that video, you should get some answers. But off the top of my head, I don't know any any popular science books about dark matter, dark energy because I don't really read popular science books. So I don't know. Um yeah, so please check out that video. Hopefully you get answers from answers from that. And Ankita G, thank you so much. Really appreciate that. Not asking a question but you. So thank you. Thank you for that. Okay. Rohan says, can the Indian private sector make world-class weapons? The answer in very short and very brief is 100% yes. We saw some of that during operation sindur. W absolutely saw that. So the answer is very much yes. We can. Sam the gamer says, "What geopolitical threat does a pro- US puppet Iran pose for India? What key strategic benefits or perks do would we lose? Love the geo strategy show." Well, I'm glad you love it. And if you watch episode seven of geost strategy that I did just before this episode, you will have all the answers in that. So I'll tell you what briefly. If you have a puppet government in Iran, which is a US puppet government, then it becomes like an extension of Pakistan. So right now you have Iran that is allied with China and Russia and it has good relations with with India. It doesn't do anything that would be detrimental to Indian interests overall, right? and it's not a great friend of ch of of Pakistan. India, Iran and Pakistan don't have good relations. I promise you that. So it kind of keeps Pakistan also balanced out. Now if you have a pro- US government in Iran, it goes back to the 1960s when Iran was very very anti-India. Iran supported Pakistan during the 1965 war against India and so on. So you will have an India that is increasingly isolated in the region and that is terrible uh for us. So that's the short answer. If you want the proper detailed answer, watch out, watch episode 7 of geost strategy. Anyhow, thank you so much. Okay, Galler, thank you. First of all, the question is, how long will embedded C be a relevant skill set? For your information, one of the one of the few software development areas precluded from AI gluttony, for example, open WRT tomato. Okay. How long will embedded C be a relevant skill set? Embedded C and that's not something I have come I have really worked on during my time in the IT industry. I have obviously used C in the past but I use it in the in the sense of using it for physics purposes. Physics I'm not sure about embedded C. I'm not sure not sure. Um, one of the few software development areas precluded from AI gluttony. OpenWRT tomato. Uh, let me try and Google this tomato. Open tomato and embedded C. What is that? Maybe that'll give me some clues. Okay. Embedded seed tomato tomato.com. Okay. So, I'm not familiar with this stuff. Clearly, I have not been using any of this. Um, if I do use any programming today, I would typically use Python. So, I'm I'm I'm sorry. I'm not aware of the context and I'm not aware of of the of of of embedded sea and tomato and all that. So, I'm sorry I'm not able to answer your question, but I think yeah, Gluttony will eventually take over everything. That's what I'm seeing. I mean no matter what uh whether it is NodeJS, whether it is C++, whether it is Java, whether it is Python, AI does everything. So I don't know, maybe it's a matter of time if it is still not part of the AI gluttony. I would imagine. Um Arun says, "Iran getting nukes good or bad for India?" I would say not very good. We don't want more nuclear powers in the region, but I would very much want Iran to remain a sovereign nation the way it is right now and not become a US puppet, one more US puppet in the region. But yeah, I would not be very pleased with Iran getting nukes. Goind says, do you think if Biden was president, he would have supported Israel with the same intensity as Trump is doing currently? I think Biden would have supported Israel, but maybe perhaps not with the same intensity that that Trump is doing, or maybe perhaps with more intensity. The thing is that the thing is that it doesn't matter who is the US president. They always support Israel, whoever it is. So it makes no real difference. So I think it would not really make much of a difference. Uh Wooden Armor says in your TRS podcast, you mentioned the Indian IT industry would collapse soon. As someone who was just starting out my career in IT, what's your advice? Should I transition fields or continue learning AI tools? the majority of the Indian ID industry could collapse because AI will take over all those low-level jobs all the programming testing etc jobs but if you upskill in such a way that you can use AI as a manager would use resources coders programmers then you would do well in AI in in IT so it will continue the Indian IT industry the way it is constructed the way it is architected it's all about labor arbitrage right in the US a programmers programmer will charge x amounts of dollars x amount of dollars per hour in India we can charge one/ird of that so that's why the US companies will outsource to India but now because of AI sitting in the US I will not need to hire any employees I will just have you know get AI agents to do the work for me that that Indian or other programmers would do at a fraction of the cost that even Indian programmers would charge. That's the problem we are facing today. And that's why the Indian IT industry could collapse unless they they they somehow drastically change uh their their their business models and so on. So if you're just starting out your career in IT uh it depends what you want to do. you want to be you want to be a programmer or you want to be an employee in some big corporation in which case your job job could be very very much under threat but if you want to be an entrepreneur for example or if you want to be somebody who is skilled in AI itself such that you can be the manager the the project manager who who handles AI agent employees then you will do well so that's that's what I have to say to you but overall if the typical Indian person who gets into the IT field typically wants to have a long career as a climbing the corporate ladder. You start at the bottom ladder, bottom level as a programmer or a QR tester or something then you slowly slowly become a team leader then a project leader then a project manager then a delivery manager and so on so forth but that is a process that takes many many years and by that many years have passed AI will have transformed everything. So I think the IT field is right now in a you know in a in a period of great transition and if you're at the bottom levels you will be it's very likely unfortunately that you might be made redundant. So my advice is that if you want to remain in IT if you want to be in IT you have to become AI native you have to become somebody who who is AI first and if you can find find a way of doing that I think you will do fine. PRLTP says how RIIA and CFR its branches are able to effectively manage foreign policy while we fail to manage our policy completely. Now what is R I A and CFR? I I don't know let me let me Google that. What is R I A R I I A Royal Institute of International Affairs Chadam House. What is CFR? Council for Foreign Research. They're not managing foreign policy. They are tools of narrative building and so on. They're not managing anybody's foreign policy. They are tools in somebody's toolkit. Of course, they are they are tools in in in creating narratives and propagating narrative. They're essentially propaganda tools. And these are ancient weapons that have evolved over time. And we have not done this. So we also need to invest in these institutions and things and learn from our adversaries. Yes. Okay. I think we need to stop now. I still have so many super chats to get through. Please stop. I'll try and churn through the super chats and then I'll be done. Vivik says during Orurange Z's rule Maharaja Raj Raj Singh and Shivaji formed an alliance against Mughals but the nextg couldn't continue the alliance. Why? So look I am not a specialist. I have I have not studied Mughal history and Marata history and all that. I don't know. The Indian history I am interested in that fascinates me is ancient Indian history. The the politics of the Mughal Turk occupation of India is depressing and that's why I've never bothered to study it. So I don't know I don't know what happened in what year and who who allied with whom and what happened the next generation. I'm not really sure. I'm sorry. Um Sarang says what's next for India and Canada? India versus Canada. What about Kalistthan? Looks like there are good signs. Prime Minister Carney has shown encouraging signs of wanting to have better relations within India. And uh the Kalistthanis wanted to do sabotage Mr. Modi's trip to Canada but did not work out for them. So looks like we are on a on a good path possibly. We'll have to wait and watch. We can certainly trust but we'll have to verify. Canada has a long track record of supporting Kalistan and being anti-India. Maybe Mr. Carney has good intentions. So let's see. Looks like things are better compared to when Mr. Tudau was in charge. But I would not expect the support for the Kalistthan thing to go with it rapidly. It's a very big asset that they have cultivated over decades and they will not give it up that easily. So I think it will remain behind the scenes for now. Maybe it'll be brought out again whenever required but as of now things are okay. the the past few days that we've seen but it's too early to make any to to to jump to any conclusions I would say too early anime says given our low education spending and poor infrastructure in most institutions is re raising the budget the first step to reform we have the talent how do we begin to harness it effectively if you want to reform education educational institutions raising the budget will make no difference it will make no difference you will be wasting more money into the same snake pits Okay. So raising the budget is not the not the step to reform. You have to think it through properly. And I will not get into the details. I have various episodes that I've dedicated to education. If you want to see the episodes I will tell you what episodes they are in which I've spoken about this in great depth in great detail multiple episodes in which I have spoken about education. Let's go let me show you which which those are. I think 28. So ask 28, 30 and 31. Uh the answers you will find in there. What needs to be done about the education system? What kind of reforms need to be done? Spending more money without changing the structure, architecture and quality is going to be a complete waste of money. Uh geopolitical Dubai says, "Any thoughts on British king Charles Third?" No thoughts about him. I don't know. He's just another king. Um yeah, I I really haven't given much thought to him. It makes no difference really. His mom was in charge, now he's in charge. In charge of what? I'm not really sure. Um so yeah, no thoughts as such. No thoughts. Web of Dangra says about the Japanese question. You're right. The correct history is always hidden from the masses. Top players are only showing us what they want to show us. And and this is some it's a pattern you will see all across the world. Even in India, our history is hidden from us. Right? In India, all these textbooks, all these professors, universities, colleges, they all teach fake history. It's it's a big project that started in the 1800s and it's still ongoing. And you will see the same thing all over the world. History is is a form of narrative and propaganda. So, yeah, that's the way things are. Unfortunately, it would be nice if true history was taught, but it's not the case. Prattab VGM says, "Will China and Russia throw their weight behind Iran if ground invasion? If there's a ground invasion, I think there's very little Russia or China can do to stop the ground invasion. So what Russia and China can do, especially Russia, is they can try to mediate and prevent a ground invasion of Iran. But if the US decides there should be a ground invasion, first of all, they will have to spend several weeks and months assembling the armed forces, the army and the components of the ground invasion, only then can a ground invasion be launched. It's not that easy. You need all the components in place. So if you look at the invasion of Iraq in 1991, the Americans spent several months building up the coalition and putting all the pieces in place before the invasion. Even in 2003, something similar happened. Um so it's not that easy to just suddenly launch a ground invasion. It can't happen that way. But if they do that then if they start putting the pieces in place then Russia and China will have some time a certain window of time to make it difficult for the Americans to to carry forward the ground invasion. But if the invasion is actually launched I don't think Russia can come in the way or China can come in the way won't be possible. Uh Vidi says can't bat empower Balo and build new park internally. How Balojasthan is over there. How do we empower the Baloan build a new park internally? We don't want to build a new Pak Pakistan internally in India. By the way, no thank you. That's the last thing we want to do. We may have a Pakistan in India. Actually, so many Pakistanis have apparently been living in India for decades and all. So if you want to empower Baluchistan, it will have to be done in a very different way, in a very subtle way. Maybe Iran can be involved, maybe Afghanistan can be involved if possible. Maybe not. Otherwise, we can use our own ways of doing it. But uh yeah, Arada says are illegal immigrants all illegal immigrants will be again converted in Europe. I have no idea. I am Aries Manticor says we should start should we start using AI to study our own indigenous biology and create an effective nutrition plant medicine tailored to the Indian subcontinent. That's a good idea, right? If you can have an indigenous AI system and uh give it access to a data set of let's say 10,000 Indian genomes that sort of thing then it would be a very powerful tool to have that will tell us what are the potential genetic problems we face what kind of nutrition is best for us and so on so forth that's a great idea and it makes a lot of sense uh Milin says is the deep state involved in illegal immigration in the U in the EU I would say yes if you if you when you said deep state you mean the US I'm sure the US is behind the illegal immigration in the EU to destabilize the EU and make it make sure that it doesn't become a threat again long-term like in the future like you had in the past the marching boots the Hugo boss reforms Bhavy Basar thank you so much sir and Bhavi Baskar has another question do you what's your view on the debate of Chanaki and cautilia being different is there any proof stating them to be the same indologists have debating this. Well, I haven't come across this debate. This is the good old story in India. Try and break everything apart. Try and deconstruct everything. Try and raise questions about history. Now, Chinaki and Kotilia are different people. Really? I haven't heard about this. I'm sorry. I mean, Vasuv and Krishna and Gopal, we have multiple um names. No, Vasuv was not Krishna. Obviously, Vasuv was the dad. But we have so many names for for Krishna. We have so many names for Arjuna. We have so many names historically for all great people, right? Who was Gudake? Gurudake was Arjun. So now we will people start claiming that Gurudakkesh and Arjun were different entities, different people. That's what people can do. I mean that's what leftists do to to try to to try and create chaos in India's histography and so on. Well, ICBM says why did India seals assumption island deal fail? Because of foreign interference because seals is an important strategic location. If India has a base there, naval base or or surveillance bra base it is good for India and then the west doesn't like it. The US doesn't like it. So the assumption island deal failed because of western interference and that's why we have other deals. It's because of foreign interference. Dir Kamat says, "Do Indian national and the Dharmic civilizational interests really align? Why shouldn't Hindus welcome Ayad's fall as a blow to political Islamism?" Look, I will not go into this question again. Uh if you want to understand, if you want to look at geopolitics from a narrow his religious perspective, then you will not understand geopolitics. What can I say to you? You you can view it whichever way you want. I can stop you. But the Iran matter is not to be looked the Afghanistan matter is not to be looked at from a religious perspective. So my point is look if you want to really understand things watch my geostrategy episode that I did before this live stream. If you have the time to watch it watch it properly you will understand something hopefully. Um because if the ayatas fall then you will have a pro- US government there which is the same as a much larger Pakistan and then later on people will cry that India has let let everything fall apart there another another loss for India that sort of thing it's a very narrow perspective to look at everything from just a religious perspective of course I agree that the ayatas have no love for us But they don't they aren't the kind of enemies they aren't enemies for us. They don't have any the Taliban has no love for India but they have no hatred for India either. They hate Pakistan. Similarly, India Iran has no love for India as such. Especially the the the government but they don't have any hatred for India the way Pakistan does. Understand things. There are there are nuances in the world. You have to understand you have to learn to understand nuances. And the big question is do Indian national and dharmic civilizational interests really align? Well, today India is a nation state. India is not a civilization state or a dharmic state. So the Indian nation state is actually very often aligned against our civilizational interests. So that's a good question you're raising and I gave you the answer. Ada says, I've heard of block I've heard the black box the flight recorder of the Boeing is being sent to the US. I'm sure they'll say it's the pilot's fault. The moment you give it away to the US, well, you've lost control of what happens. Why can't we decode the flight recorder and whatever the cockpit voice recorder, the digital flight recorder? Why can't we decode it on our own? I'm sure Boeing is placing various firewalls and APIs and stuff in there, but we should have the ability to decode it on our own. If we send it to the to a foreign country which essentially acts like an adversary, we will never get to the end of what happened. It's it's unfortunate. Uh Sam says Brazil, where does it stand on the geopolitical chess board? Brazil is not geopolitically very important. It's a very big nation, resourcerich nation. But geopolitically, if you look at the hard power, not significant unfortunately for Brazil. Um Rashi Kudin says if the US gets involved in the Middle East war, what's the what's the outcome? Well, if the US does get involved, they will want to effect regime change. Then the likely outcome will be regime change in Thran. Yeah. So how would they get involved? They would want to give Netanyahu a victory. A victory could be the smallest victory Netanyahu can get which can be considered a victory is a proper destruction is the proper destruction of the Iranian nuclear program. That's the minimum victory that Netanyahu will will seek. Otherwise, he has not won anything. It's been a waste of time. So, if the US gets involved, one thing they could do is they could uh destroy the the the the Iranian nuclear facility that's under the mountain. Okay. That's one thing they could do. Maybe that's enough for them. In that case, there is no regime change. But if they decide it's not enough, then they will want a regime change in Iran. So these are the two outcomes I can think of. Either a complete destruction of Iran's nuclear program or a step beyond is a regime change which will be much much much more difficult to actually do. Okay, we are at the end finally of today's live stream. It's gone beyond uh the time limit that I had for myself. I thought it'll be 1 hour, but anyway, happy to answer your questions. Thank you so much for the questions and I'm going to end this live stream here right now. Tomorrow we have an 8:00 p.m. episode of the Indian interest in which we will discuss India US relations and then we'll do another live stream of ask. So, thank you so much for watching and I will see you in the next live stream. Keep asking questions, keep raising your standards, and keep learning. Thank you, and I'll see you soon. Bye-bye.