Heat. Heat. [Music] [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to ask Abijit this special 60inute episode. I apologize I could not do an episode yesterday. The noise levels where I am were too high so there was no point doing it. It would have been a headache for me as well as for you. So here we are today. This is a special episode to make up for that and maybe we can do one more tomorrow if it's if you would like that. So let us see who all is there on the live chat with all of us. I can see Vladimir Putin Aush Singh Himmanu Rajit Bruce Wayne is here. Bruce Wayne from Gotham City. Uh, Himmanshu Rajhit Rasputin. Hello. Gorish KB AJ Rahul. Patriotic, Arya, Kash, Suman, Shakhar, Sarangi, Shivam, Shukla, Rasputin again, Anonymous, Stein Talks, Dharma, Dak, Gorish, KBI, Akash, Patwartan, Adwi, Many, Vidy, Mña, Geopolitical Dub, Amish, Mishra, Aayush Singh, Rishab, Uchiah, White, Mahik, Kata, Shivasai, Raghav, Malotra, Godliness, Ashok, Geopolitical Dubai from Indor, Vinay from London, Raghav Malotra, Bharat, Mayang, Frame player unknown vnu moan navin sai vimuri patriotic polar bear is here bharat again suraj s bhargav gowami dik shrian himanchu d from kolinga well hello shhated bagel and lots of other people all right all right it's so nice to see you allam singing prahit Anupam Singh Anupam Pratab Singh sorry from LinkedIn and Annie Annie is there Prii Sudartik Hardik Jooshi Kanesh Koshik and everybody else all right let's get going with the questions uh let's take as many questions as possible I can see Sy Mahmud Ucho hello and everyone else RPPL from Washington DC is has joined us Himmano is from Chennai and so on all right let's get going with the questions what questions do we have godliness says Trump is frustrated with Ukraine, Russia, with India and China. Do you believe out of this frustration he will use US military might in the future to reestablish the American supremacy? And if yes, in which region? Well, the people he's frustrated with are people that are not that amable to, you know, being being uh being intimidated by military might. So if Trump is frustrated with Ukraine and Russia, well Ukraine is his war. It's not Putin's war or Modi's war. It's an American war. They created this war. The Americans. So they've been blaming Putin for this all the time. It's Putin's war. Putin started this. No, you forced him into it. They forced Putin. They forced Russia into this by crossing by crossing Russia's red lines. It's like uh imagine if Russia goes and interferes in in Mexico and starts doing a regime change operation in Mexico or in Canada. Will the Americans allow it? It will be a red line for the Americans. They did the same thing in Russia in in Ukraine which was a Russian red line and it directly impacts Russia's national security and which is why the war has happened. It is an American war and Ukraine is merely a proxy. So it's it's an American war. It's essentially US versus Russia by proxy. And if he is frustrated, Trump is frustrated with that. Well, that's not anyone's problem. He had it it is a trap that he laid himself by claiming that he would end the war on day one. Well, it's been months now. What happened to your promise to the American citizen that he would end the Ukraine war on day one? It's a failure. Trump has failed. He's immensely frustrated and he's trying to blame people for that. His his minion Navaro is saying this is Modi's war. Oh, really? Should India withdraw the troops from Donbas? Should we? Please, please let us know if we should withdraw our Indian troops from the Donbas region. Would you like us to do that? What? I these people are delusional. They're lashing out at the world. They're blaming others for their own for for problems they have created themselves. So yes, Trump is frustrated. He's frustrated about the Ukraine situation. He's frustrated with Russia because Russia hasn't crumbled. He's frustrated about India because India hasn't caved in to his uh bullying. And he's frustrated with China because China has become a powerful nation. and the technological genuine technological power which is almost neck-to- neck with the US in his frustration will the US use military might it'll be a huge mistake to use to try and use military might anywhere u I mean for to use military might somewhere you need a just cause for war right I mean you can go and bully small nations like Venezuela and all it won't work with the more powerful nations uh the US supremacy is still there I mean they have immense power production capac probabilities. They have uh uh they have a legion of vasals all across the world. The entire EU NATO nations are their vasals. All the African nations are in in the US's thr Japan, South Korea, many Southeast Asian nations unfortunately are under the US domination. So they already have supremacy. They Australia is under the supremacy. New Zealand, uh Latin America, all of that. So it's not like they don't have supremacy but they they're frustrated because their power is kind of declining and you can they can see other powers rising now. So I don't see the Americans uh using military might. They may use proxies. They may use Pakistan to create a war with India. They will first aim they will first arm Pakistan. See we we saw what happened in operation Sindur. Pakistan got a tremendous hammering. No matter what the western media is saying and the Pakistani media is saying and some sections of the Indian media are saying we know the Pakistanis got a hammering. So the Americans will have identified what are the Pakistani weaknesses and they will try and fill those weaknesses with American weapons and whatnot. It may be happening as we speak right now and when they feel the time is right they may start a war with India through Pakistan to create a Ukraine like situation for us. That's one thing they could do for China. Well, I don't see much that they can do unless they want South Korea or Japan to go to war with China, which won't happen, which is not possible. So, with China, it's not possible. With Russia, they've already created the Ukraine situation. With India, they may create a Pakistan situation. So, that is something we have to be cognizant of. In the future, in the coming days, weeks, months, the US may trigger an IndiaPakistan war. They may ask the Pakistanis to go to war with India by by maybe creating a pahelam 2.0 kind of situation, right? So yeah that that the Americans could do but apart from that direct military intervention I don't see that happening. Uh says don't you think that the a small tusidi trap applies for the US visa versus ASEAN because if they get too powerful they can use the leverage of our dependency with with respect to China. No thusidaris trap occurs between peer competitors. It doesn't happen with vasals. Unfortunately, Assean nations are kind of are kind of US allies or US vasals. Okay. In in various ways, economic means, other means, there's no chance of a thusid trap happening between the overlord and his vasals. Unless the vasals start becoming genuine powers in their own right, which is not happening any anyway. Which is not happening. Yeah. How is Assan going to become too powerful? A little bit of economic might doesn't make any difference. Power. What does what is what does powerful mean? It means genuine military power and power projection capabilities. And if it's economic might, it's the kind of economic might that can transform the world. So even India doesn't have that right now. But India could be there in the next 15 20 years. And that's why the Americans are worried about India. Assan. No. Vidi says deep state low key uniting Jamudas. So goat FR. Yes. Yeah, Amisha says, "What are your conclusions from the SEO summit?" It's kind of a reset reset in the India China relationship. Mr. Putin will be pleased about that. And uh it's it's a signal to to the to to Mr. Trump essentially that your bullying is not going to work with certain nations. It's not going to work with India. It's not going to work with Russia or with China. And uh you can see that now Trump's antics, Trump's theatrics and Trump's trade war against the world, it is creating a coalition of the nations that are being targeted and India and China are willing to once again engage perhaps constructively. We'll have to see about that. But you can definitely see a reset in the India China relationship. Mr. Modi and Mr. Xiinping met face to face across the table in a proper formal uh meeting and they also interacted with Mr. the Putin and all all that and the the visuals were very positive, very very very friendly, very warm visuals. So overall you could say you could you could say that it's a reset. It's maybe uh the beginning of something new perhaps possibly uh I think it's still too too early to say whether an RA kind of thing would happen. on Russia, India, China that sort of coalition or alliance I think it's too early for that to to predict that but you can definitely see a reset and uh yeah so overall it's it's a good signs for the free world the free world what's the free world the free world is the world which is not vasalized by the US so it's it's good science for the free world uh feminist says importance of PSUs public sector units in India's sovereignty Everything is is important in India sovereignty. All the uh all the sectors, all the units whether they're public, whether they're private, they are all in in some way or the other important for maintaining India's economic and overall overall sovereignty. PSUs well these are these are industries or or or businesses that are essentially run by the government and uh historically they have been well not performing so well. So I'm not sure about that. But overall everything is important in India's sovereignty. India India India's economy needs to be well it needs to be robust and everything well uh everything contributes to that including PSUs. Shankar Mahadevan says was Trump's crypto business hit in Pakistan well Trump hasn't really started his crypto business in Pakistan right um he had announced well see he's not directly involved with the com with the Trump empire companies that are investing in Pakistan directly means uh he his son or sons or family members are running the running the show but obviously it's his business empire and they have recently invested ed in a big way in Pakistan's cryptocurrency sector. Was that hit? I have not seen any signs of that being hit because the cryptocurrency sector hasn't even taken off in Pakistan. That's something the Americans will be investing in. That's what the Trump empire will be investing in in the coming well coming time. Okay. Uh says US means India. US means India in what? Uh okay. US means India. All right. uh pjari says is ra bigger victory for China than India ra hasn't happened first of all and if ra happens it will depend on what what form of ra happens what's the shape of ra what's the contours of ra what's the agreements and understandings that underpin the ra that will decide whether it's a big victory for China or India or Russia or it's good for everybody everybody at the same time ra hasn't happened what does ra mean it's It it's it means it's an RA essentially means Russia, India, China cooperating, collaborating together, perhaps an alliance or perhaps just a coalition. Um so it hasn't happened yet. It's the Shang the SEO meeting was just essentially a reset. It's the three leaders coming together um and uh showing that they are willing to work together especially India and China that was important. So now we'll have to see how it is taken forward. That is what's going to matter. So how do India and China sit together and work things out? We have major differences, major issues, right? The border issue is a very major issue and as long as that fers the relationship cannot be on the on the right track. So what do we do about that? So RA hasn't happened yet and whenever RA if it does happen when it happens we will have to see what is the shape of RA. Is it is it a treaty? Is it an RC treaty in which the three nations officially create a treaty and and sign it and decide and and and agree to work together in a specific set of ways? If that is the case, then we'll have to examine the nature of the treaty. What what is the language of the treaty? What is what has been agreed upon? If there is no treaty, if it is just an informal thing, well, then that's not really RA. See, so it's too early to say that RA has even happened. And then if RA happens then we'll have to see whether it's a victory for one or the other or all three. We'll have to see about that. It's too early. It's too early to talk about RA. Uh geopolitical Dubai says how strong is the Russian presence in Central Asia? Russia considers Central Asia to be its strategic backyard like India has the slogan, right? We consider the Indian Ocean region to be our strategic backyard. Well, Russia has it's more than a slogan for Russia. They see the central Asian region used to be part of the USSR. So everybody there speaks essentially speaks Russian. Now after the USSR broke up there have been new generations that have been born which have not been that that Russianized as such. Uh but the Russian influence is still very strong and Russia has all kinds of agreements with various nations. Some are military cooperation agreements, some are bilateral agreements of economic, some are uh uh defense agreements and so on. So Russia engages in in in bilateral and multilateral military exercises and other things with all these nations. So Russia has a significant presence in the region. Russia still acts as a guaranter of power or guaranter of security for these nations for many of these nations. Some of the nations have been dillydallying with the US. Some of them have been doing that. For example, if you look at Kygystan, okay, I'm just giving one example. Kygystan, there is an American university there in Bishk. Bishkek is the capital of Kyrgystan. And there is a AUCA there. American University of Central Asia. So the Americans have infiltrated places like Kyrgystan. They have even uh created color revolutions in some of these countries. But still overall Russia has a pretty strong very robust and pretty strong presence in various central Asian nations. And uh there are certain red lines these central Asian nations essentially cannot cross when it comes to uh uh you know not displeasing Russia. Karishka says any update on Tibet as India and China are cooperating a bit it's it's there is no update on Tibet what do you expect what can we expect do you think that Tibet will now suddenly become jointly governed by India and China is that what anyone is expecting there's no update on Tibet even if India and China cooperate more than a bit there's going to be no update on Tibet Tibet is a non-negotiable thing for China is not giving up Tibet Okay. So, yeah, there is no update on Tibet. Nothing. Absolutely nothing. None. You don't even dream of it. Project Smiling Buddha says, uh, many Indian right-wing people have turned many Indian right-wing people turned pro- US ditched India. I'm not sure exactly what you're asking, but I kind of get get what you're saying. See, when Trump came to power, there's so many Indians who are like celebrating. So I hear that somebody even made a temple to Trump and put a Morty of Trump there and they're worshiping the guy that sort of thing. Lots of Indians are saying that these are the glory days of India US that sort of thing. Yeah. Uh um and and you can see that this has been the worst ever presidency American presidency for India. No American president, no American regime has ever used this much economic co coercion against India. Not even the Nixon Kissinger regime co tried to coers India in the way that the Trump regime has done. This is the worst phase of India US relations ever since 1947. Right. U so what happened to all those people? I think they they're staying quiet. Have they ditched India? I have no idea who has ditched India. If you're Indian, how do you ditch India? Yeah, if you're Indian, you can ditch India by migrating to the US and becoming a citizen. That's what you can do. U but yeah overall those who were celebrating well they're quiet now I suppose and project smiling Buddha says why are Indian businesses not selling in Russia as much we just came back last week from Russia and sold a lot of tea spices from Pakistan and Sri Lanka but not India well I don't know I mean if Pakistan and Sri Lanka are selling tea and spices in Russia why isn't India doing a thing I think India is really there's a lot India needs to do about this I mean India seems to be very lacks in this in this matter. Little countries are getting ahead of India in certain ways. India should be monopolizing tea, spices, all of that in Russia. There should be no place for for Pakistan or Sri Lanka. I don't know why it's like this. We are a way bigger manufacturer of tea and spices and whatn not everything else compared to Pakistan or Sri Lanka. So I think the Indian government and the government of India needs to needs to look into this very carefully. What on earth is happening? Are we dozing at the wheel? Yeah, I don't know. I I I don't have the answer to this. Why are not Indian businesses not selling so much in Russia? And when it comes to manufacturing, when is the Indian manufacturing sector taking off? All of this needs to be tak looked into now. Now is a very critical time for India. India is under immense pressure from the US. The Indian economy is going to be hit by the by the Trump tariffs. Okay. There's going to be hit of 0.6 to 0.8%. That's what being what is being projected by by various experts over the next year at least as long as the uh san or not sanctions the tariffs continue. So it is high time for India to to throw away its its lethargy its laziness and uh take these things very seriously. So yeah, I would say that uh it's good that you're you're pointing this out and this is something that needs to be uh looked into and worked upon on a urgent priority basis. Dins says would you personally accept Axai as part of China if China forfeits their claim to Arunachal? Do you think both countries can agree on this? You see that's the problem. That's the problem. I can personally say I can agree to this or that. But if imagine you're asking this to the prime minister of India the moment the prime minister of India let's say hypothetically hypothetically fictitiously agrees to some sort of thing like this h what's going to happen the opposition is going to go to the top of every rooftop and every mountain and start tomtoming see he sold our country to China that's what they'll claim it is they who sold the country to China by allowing the Chinese to take succession in the first place but now if we on paper recognize it and agree to a swap. Then the opposition will will try and go for blood. This is the problem. The what is the deeper problem? The fact that this country is a democracy. Yeah. Where where random people can decide the the fate of the government based on emotive issues, emotional things. Would I personally accept Axai Chain as part of China if China forfeits that claim to Arunach? Me personally, I think I may I may accept that as a temporary measure. Eventually, I want everything back. But right now, I'll say sure. Okay. Right now, let's agree to this. Later, we'll see. Maybe I would do that because right now it's anyway in their hands, right? So, and Arunachal is in our hands. So I think the cleanest way to settle the the the boundary issue the India Tibet boundary issue is to freeze the boundary wherever it is and and declare it the international border. I think that's the cleanest way to do it. That would end all the problems. But uh I can say it sitting here because nobody I don't need anyone's votes. Okay. But if you're the prime minister of India, you need votes otherwise next uh election you're out. So that's the problem in India. That's the problem. Rahul G says, "Will China still trade weapons with Pakistan?" That remains to be seen, right? They haven't told us. They haven't told us. We still have no agreement with China. It's just been a nice reset kind of to some extent that the two leaders can now sit face to face and talk to each other and and walk walk around the hall with Mr. Putin smiling. That is a major major change that's happened. Earlier the two leaders did not even look at each other. They did not even meet each other for several years. So that is the extent of the reset. It doesn't mean that you know now now everything has changed and China will no longer sell weapons to Pakistan. They may still do it. That's the thing. So we still have to see what the situation is. Um what will most likely happen now is that the the the um diplomats of the two countries, leaders of the two countries at at various levels will sit together and try and understand what can be done going forward. What do you seek from us? What do I seek from you? Let's understand each other's perspective. What is that? What is it that you want from me? And what is it that you would what is it that you don't like that I'm doing? How would you like what kind of change do you want? And I can tell you what kind of change I want. So if I'm India, I'll tell tell the Chinese, look, you need to stop dealing with Pakistan. Okay? You need to stop selling weapons to Pakistan. What if if if that's what we want, what would you like from us in return? So they'll say something about the Dalai Lama, they'll say something about something else. So So you to go get down, sit together and and talk everything through, understand very well what what the other guy wants. They have to understand very well what we want. And then there has to be some kind of understanding and some kind of agreement. And a good agreement is something in which both have to make some compromise. So right now it's too early to say. I think China will still be inclined to I think China will still be inclined to sell Pakistan some weapons. I think so. Anything UV says how and when India can have labs like Bell Labs or Deep Mind IMB research? Why do we lack such institutions from the government and private players? It's because most of the money in India the government money goes into freebies funding freebies all these all these various schemes freebie schemes which keep the votes coming because see you see you have to understand this India as a democracy and in India the the most people are uneducated just having passed a certain standard 10th standard 12 standard maybe college doesn't mean that you you have an understanding of the world you you don't you're not taught how to think critically you don't you're not taught what it means to be genuinely self-sufficient, right? So most people still want all these freebies despite having some sort of education. And if the government ends the freebie schemes, then they will stop then they will the the people will not vote for them. Whoever ends all these all these free things that are being given, they will be voted out out of power immediately. So all of the money of of the country a lot of it is being spent on these largely bahhana yojas and god knows what yojas I don't know what it does yeah but whatever so when you have so much money being spent like that how will you have all these things you know bell labs deep mind whatever and when it comes to the private players when the private players only want to make some money money They are happy with a few crores, maybe a few hundred crores, maybe know a few thousand crores. They don't know to think about the trillions of dollars that you can earn by really investing in in genuine hardcore cutting edge bleeding edge research for many years and being patient, right? They want the money now and it's easy to make money now by playing the game of labor arbitrage or whatever. So that's why that's the issue in India. It's it's a mindset issue. There are young people who are coming up now with starters startups and all who are really investing in a small way in genuine research and those hopefully in the years in coming years will become really big going forward. So that's what one hopes basal says demographic re-engineering in Europe by Ghar Raj deep state and so on. What's the reason for that? Is it only because Christianity has reduced so much that they need new ways of control or is it something more? Uh yeah, I mean I'm sure there's multiple factors behind this. See, there is no question about the fact that there is demographic re-engineering happening in Europe as we speak every country and uh whether you look at France. Well, the French are responsible for what happened in France themselves by first colonizing North Africa and then having so much immigration coming from North Africa that now France is like a multi-thnic country and uh so the French are responsible for their own plight. When it comes to nations like the Nordic nation, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, there's a lot of immigration from from specific countries that's happened in the past 1015 years. So much that the whole demography has changed. You're seeing that in Ireland now. It started just a few years ago like four five years ago and now already you can see a major major change. I mean Dublin one here is the center of Dublin looks very different now. England they are responsible for their own PL but overall if you look at it there is re-engineering of the demography happening. Certain kinds of people are being pushed in in large numbers. So the question is why? Who is doing it and why? Look it is all being done by the EU. The EU has refugee quotas or immigrant quotas for every country and every country has to allow every year a certain number of immigrants in. And who decides the kind of immigrants? I think the EU decides what what countries the immigrants can come from. It's usually military-aged males, young males and very few women or children. So that's what they're doing. They're bringing in these people. It's essentially an invasion that is being engineered by the EU. Now the EU is controlled from Washington DC. The EU is a bunch of bureaucrats that nobody elected and they're all controlled from the US. So it's all being done in some way or other through the US by the US. Uh so you could say the deep state is behind it. What's the reasons? Is it because uh Christianity has reduced? Uh it's it's true that of late the past several decades Christianity has really gone down. I mean where the number of practicing Christians has reduced drastically. uh in the 1980s when the pope would visit Ireland there would be millions of peoples on people on the street out there to take a to catch a glimpse of the pope but uh now if the pope visits there the pope will not even bother to go on on on that in that car in public you know because no one's going to turn up to see the pope so the number of practicing Christians has reduced drastically because of various factors uh and Christianity historically in in the west has been uh tool of control. The entire populace of Europe historically was controlled through Christianity rather Christianity has been well essentially overthrown in in in a variety of ways. So how do you control the people right? Uh so so you can bring in a new religion which also is the religion of control and maybe you can do it that way. So re-engineer the religious demographics of the country, re-engineer the ethnic demographics of the country and then control everyone through this new religion. That's one hypothesis that one could put forward, right? Uh and another thing I mean when it comes to nations like Germany, so Germany was well it it it aspired to be great. They've always had this this uh ideal of the white race. uh sometime in the 19th century they they they stole the the word Arya from India and they decided that that the word Arya or Arian means white people that's what they decided unilaterally by stealing our ethnic selfd designation so Germany aspired to be great and their their ideal of greatness was the Arian race the white race so-called white race it's completely fake but whatever so Germany is that sort of nation that the Americans are afraid of The Americans worry about Germany that Germany could once again rise someday if the right leader comes up and once again you could have the whole rigma roll that happened in the 1930s and 40s. So how do you ensure it doesn't happen? See whenever the Americans think of Germany at some some level in their mind in their psyche they can still see those marching boots the Reich matching marching boots they don't want to see that again. So how do you ensure it never happens again? end the the the the the Arian race, have them mix with all kinds of immigrants from everywhere else. So there's no question of the superior race or anything. The German identity itself disappears, right? So yeah, so that's that's one way of ensuring that Germany never rises again because it won't be Germany eventually. It will no longer remain Germany if uh so many people from other countries come in a lot of Turks the there's been a bunch of Turks in Germany for for decades. since the end of the second world war essentially uh I don't know what percentage of Germany is is is of Turkish ethnicity maybe close to 10%. And then you bring in other people from uh specific countries and you and you change the demography even more and uh you have the government uh promote these these multicultural ideas and all that and whatever. So that way you can essentially destroy what it means to be German, the German identity itself. you can simply erase it over over a few generations. So I think that's that's what's going on. It's to ensure that Europe never rises again. And if you want to control the people of Europe, you turn them into non-Europeans over time. And then you use the new religion that's now been uh been implanted there to control the people. It's all about control. The West has always been about control, control, centralized control. Uh so that's what's going on again. It's it's a phase of European history which will end with Europe no longer being Europe. Well, Kanesh Kakoshik says, "I don't know where's my brahminical profit from Russian oil." I know. I know. Pete Navaro has gone crazy. He's he's an absolute imbecile. Trump's minion. Pete Navaro. He went on TV, American TV, and said that the brahinss in India are profiting from oil, from Russian oil. What? Who is this utter He he went on TV and claimed that Brahinss in India are profiting from Russian oil. This is desperation. This is utter lunacy, idiocy. This is I mean I don't know what polite word I can dredge out of my mind to to describe this individual Pete Navaro. And whatever he's saying is Trump's words. It's his mouth and his lips that are fluttering, but it's Trump's words that are coming out. Brahminical profit. Yeah. So in India, the Brahminss are profiting from Russian oil. Ukraine is a nation that's buying Indian diesel that is refined from Russian oil. So is Ukraine funding Putin's war on Ukraine? Is that is that the case? These people in the US, what is wrong with them? Trump has the thing about Trump is that he has hired a a bunch of yesmen. These yesmen, they wake up in the morning, go to the White House, lie down at his feet and kiss his kiss his shoes. That's what they do. They are yesmen. They will do whatever Trump says. They are not picked for their intellect or for their for their qualities or their capabilities. They are picked for being yesmen. Just do what I say and that's it. And JD Vance finds himself in a very tough position right now. So that's the kind of nonsense that's that's coming out of the US right now that Brahmans in India are making profits from Russian oil. Absolute bunch of idiots. Naman Singh says let's think hypothetically. How can India move towards stability dictatorship OPR? What's OPR? One party rule. Oh uh and how can we ensure the growth of India avoiding the curse opposition? I I don't know. I I have no idea how that happens. See right now everything Yeah. How do you do move towards a one party system? Uh for that to happen, one party will have to make all other parties irrelevant in some way, which means that the the public no longer votes for the other parties. And then you have de facto one party rule because then the opposition becomes essentially non-existent. But in in the Indian system currently, you can only have this happen through the process of democracy. There's no other way it happens. India is not the kind of country where you could have a military coup. It's not that kind of country. It just won't happen. It just won't work even if it's attempted. Yeah. Uh it doesn't work. If a military coup happens, then they can only control the building that they are controlling. That's that's how it goes in India. It doesn't work. Uh Raheem change. Well, yeah, that so the thing is how how can India move towards that? it in the current shape of things the way it is the only way to achieve that is through the democratic process it's by one party becoming so powerful and so popular in the public eye that all other parties no longer get any any meaningful votes and you have a deep de facto one party rule and that's how uh you can ensure the growth of India and avoid this this headache of u look in a democracy an opposition actually should be valuable If the government is not doing some things right that they should point it out and and and point it out to the people and force the government to do the right things. But sometimes you have situations in some countries okay hypothetically where the opposition is actually antiational and they they they parrot the propaganda of of outside forces hypothetically in some countries it may happen like that. So that's a problem right if if that's the case for for such countries it's it's a problem. So in India it can only move towards stability or or one party rule through the democratic process. There's no other way it can happen the way things currently are unfortunately. Hush has no question but thank you so much sir. Thank you. Naman Singh says I have observed that NR are pro-Hinduism and not pro India. I know many of these NRIs who go on X or Twitter or whatever and they pro tweet lots of pro-Hindu things. So nine tweets will be pro- Hindu and one tweet will be about India should do this this this this and make Trump happy. I've seen many NRAs like this. Trojan horses. If you go to my Twitter feed and you will you will see some images of Trojan horses and then you will see who those NRAs are. I don't know. Um I'm sure there are many NR who are also pro- India. Uh but the ones but there are also a lot of Trojan horses there. So that's how it is. Okay, Prashan says, "What are rare earth minerals? How can India catch up?" Rare earth minerals are rare uh rare minerals. They are rare earth metals. Okay. Uh let's let's quickly I don't remember the exact name. Well, lithium nedium. Okay. Rare earth names which are the elements scandium the 15 lanthnides. See all these neody neodymium, prometheium, samarium, europium, gadolenium, turbium, disprosium, holmium, aribbium, thulium, etherbium, lute, luteesium, luteia, luteesium. So these are the rare earth elements and these are used in various technologies. Okay, these are used in very high techch. These are these metals are they have very high-tech applications. So when it comes to cell phones, there are some very very minute components of cell phones which need rare earth metals or minerals and without these rare earths, you you you won't have these phones functioning. The same goes for uh for microprocessors and and essentially all high-tech equipment. So that's why you need these rare earths and China controls 90 95% of the rare earth supply of the rare earths globally. So how can India catch up? Well, India also is a gigantic land mass and we also have uh significant reserves of rare earths. We definitely have enough rare earths to become completely self-sufficient in rare earths. But why haven't we caught up yet? It's because nobody has set up the mining and extraction industries in India. That takes time. That's pretty expensive. So that's why we have been simply happy to not do anything here and keep importing from China. And then when China decides that we will no longer sell it to you, what happens? Haha. That's what happens. So it is high time once again for the government or whoever it is to look into this very seriously and set up the rare earths extraction and um extraction and purification industries in India. That's what needs to happen. Yeah, it can happen in in a few years, 5 10 years, it can happen. Galler says for products that are made in India if we label them as such and this be made mandatory e either as government policy or to the Supreme Court su can the WTO oppose can WTO oppose look look at what's happening in the world right now Trump's tariffs absolutely un unilateral tariffs which is completely in violation of everything the WTO stands for so is the WTTO even relevant today have they said a word against Trump. So now that they are completely quiet and silent and inactive when Trump is unleashing a trade war on the world, they better stay stay quiet when a country like India does something that is beneficial to our national interest. So I think um I don't know about Supreme Court and all that but I'm sure the government policy can be such that if products are made in India then they should be labeled as such. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. It's it's an internal matter of India. we decide our own policy and the WTO can stay the hell away. So I think uh there should be no issue and even if the WTO tries to complain we can tell them where where were you when Trump Trump was doing all this he's still doing all of this what have you said about this so if you want to speak about that shut the hell up about this that's what we can say so uh I think this should be this can be done and it's good it will be good if if it's done so we know that which products are actually been in India and maybe patriotic people can support those yeah naman Singh says why is the US looking like a clown these days no serious Well, you see a nation, the way a nation looks, a nation's image depends on what? Well, to a large extent, a nation's image depends on the image of their leader. Yeah. If the leader is a person with with majesty, for example, or a person with gravitas, then the country looks like a serious country. But if your leader is a joker, well then your country looks like a cloud. So you see, if your leader is not serious, your country doesn't look serious. You see, that's how it goes. That also applies to sports teams. You will see this phenomenon in sports. For example, cricket. The entire team eventually takes up the personality of the captain. If your captain is a very quiet, introverted person, the whole team becomes like that. If your captain is this brash, arrogant and and aggressive person then the whole team starts behaving like that. You will see that when Gangoli was the captain the whole team behaved like Ganguli. When Dhoni was the captain, the whole team behaved like Dhoni. And who is it? Who's the captain now? When when Kohli was captain, the whole team behaved like that. And who is the captain now? Ah, it's Gil. So yeah. So you will see the whole team taking up the the persona of Gil as well. So that's how it goes. The leader makes a huge difference. If the leader is a joker, the country looks like a clown. Kl Bora says, "Why do we suffer the common people?" Well, it depends on where you are. If you are in a super rich country, you won't suffer. Or maybe you will suffer in different ways. Look, look, I'll tell you what. This world is a world of Moaya. Lord Buddha said that the world, what is the one truth in the world? It is suffering. Well, that's one way of looking at the world. You can also have a great amount of fun in the world and do very meaningful things. But at the end of the day, there is some suffering in life. Okay? Everybody loses something or other over time. As you grow older, you'll find that lots of things that you had in the past as a kid, as a youngster, those are no longer there. And then you feel a sense of loss. And that's what happens. Suffering. And that happens to common people. It happens to uncommon people as well. Uh apart from that, if you talking about the suffering that's only reserved for common people, well, that happens when you're in in a third world country. If you're in a first world country, the the common people don't suffer so much. So yeah. Okay. Hayes says, "How when can India reclaim P militarily?" Yeah, let's know. At least once in a session, I get the question of P. I I don't know, sir. I don't know. Uh when can India reclaim P? I I was hoping that Operation Synindur will will end with P back with India, but Trump came in the way. So I suppose whenever India and Pakistan go to war next which will happen sooner or later I suppose we can end this once and for all. Yeah because no victory is complete without u an exchange of territory. We hammered Pakistan hard in operation Sindu the three-day war but we we did not take any territory. If we had taken even even half a kilometer of territory okay then the world's media would have been completely silent. So I think whenever this war happens next which is bound to happen now now that Trump is behind is in the hot seat behind Pakistan uh whenever that happens I suppose there will be some exchange of territory. Rahul says Barat is buying more and more crude oil from Russia. Are we heading towards big scale war near the future? Well I hope not but I think a war with Pakistan could happen sooner or later because the Americans want that to happen. The Americans are very upset about India not becoming an American vasal and they want to contain India. They have done so much in the past. They've laid the groundwork for containing India. They did a regime change operation in in West Pakistan in 2022. Aster Imran Khan and Sharif is now the so-called leader and they did a regime change operation few months ago in West in East Pakistan. They got rid of Shik Kazina and brought in a military government and they also started operation project Kukan for Christ. Uh the the the mayhem in Manipur that is all done by them and they also have been playing the game of uh subnational diplomacy and dillydallying with various political parties at various levels all of that. So the Americans want to contain India and one of the steps in the containment policy will and if these steps don't work and India still does well then they will induce Pakistan to go to war with India. So I think that could be happening that could be coming in I don't know in the coming days weeks months whenever it happens it could happen. uh beyond that I don't see any big scale war. A war with Pakistan probably will happen sometime but it may not be a big scale war because uh that would be hopefully a decisive war which ends the headache for us the headache on the western border once and for all. Rail says could you share your insight on the recent student worker protests in Indonesia which articles suggesting a revolution with articles suggesting a revolution may be in progress. Well, I haven't really kept a close watch on this, but whenever these spontaneous student protests happen and the students are typically from very affluent universities in very rich backgrounds, it's generally you would have seen that that sort of thing happen in Thailand also in in in recent years. So it's usually a sign to the government that is running the country that hey you're getting out of line. Get back in line and do what you're told. And that message comes from Washington. Generally it's to be understood. It is an implicit message to the government that when these students start protesting out of nowhere wellorganized students and all that there's always somebody behind that a very powerful entity behind that. So it essentially is an indication. It's a signal to the government of the country that you better get back in line. You're doing something that we don't like. Get back in line and stop annoying us. Uh yeah, I don't know if a re revolution could be in process. If the government doesn't get the hint, then a revolution could happen. Yeah. Like what happened in Bangladesh, it was not a student revolution. It was a coup. Eventually at the end of the day, the the military comes in. That's how it goes. So yeah, project smiling Buddha says, "Why are Indians so afraid of loss in wars like planes or men? Russia throws everything into the war. We can't be powerful. If you're so calculative, how to change this?" It's because India Indians have this mindset. If one aircraft is lost, oh my god, we lost an aircraft. If a few soldiers said, "Oh my god, boohoo." War is like that. You can't be a great country if you don't have the appetite to to tolerate some of this. How many Americans died in second in the Second World War? How many Americans died in the Korean war? How many Americans died in the Vietnam war? Did they go raising a human who cry about this? Did they go crying boohoo everywhere all all over the place? And their population is much smaller than ours. So the I I don't know what it is. It's it's it's the fault of the education system, the media, the entertainment industry, all of that. In war, you will have losses. Even if you win, when the Americans destroyed Iraq, how many soldiers did they lose? How many aircraft did they lose? They lost lots, but they won. And nobody was complaining. But in India, we are a nation of complainers. The Russians have won so many wars. But at what cost? But have they cried? Of course, they honor their soldiers after everything is over. They honor the the soldiers who made the sacrifices, but when when a war is going on, they are they are not afraid to throw soldiers in the fray and to throw equipment into the fray. That's what you have to do in a war. Without that, you you win nothing. So, I don't know how to change this to change things in India. If you want to change the mindset of Indians, you have to go back to the very basics and change the whole education system. Without changing the education system and educating people about the very basics at the earliest age, nothing will change. Once somebody is 20, 25, what will you change about them? You can lecture them for 3 hours or 3 days, nothing will change in their minds. Right? Satellite says, which form of government has been most reliable and stable? the imperial system, empires, emperors, that's what been most most reliable and stable historically over the past few thousand years. Dins said says I think India needs to bring a scheme to bring back all wealthy NRIs back to innovate and build industries. How can this be done without with India's low average wages? It can be done first of all by ending or or sharply curtailing corruption in India. Secondly by making India a completely fully meritocratic country and society and thirdly by by giving the right inducements to people for which would make them come back. How did China get so many people back from the US? How did China do that? By giving them worldclass salaries. The government would guarantee that that you will get the kind of salary you will get nowhere else. You come back to China, we will treat you like royalty. You got to work hard. You've got to you've got to produce the goods. As long as you do that, we will treat you like royalty. That's what needs to happen. Then all the highquality Indians will return to India because India will be a different kind of place then, right? It'll no longer be a third rate mediocre country. Okay. Milan says in Australia there's this anti-immigration protest going on and that turned into an anti-India protest with pamphlets circulating against Indians. Yes, that is the the deal in the western world right now. They are going after India. Indians are the best immigrants anywhere in the world. The model immigrants. Indians work hard. They earn more than the locals and they give more back to society than the locals do. Indians never do violence. Indians don't indulge in crimes. Indians don't do to girls what the Pakistanis do. We do none of that. Right? And yet the hatred is being is being is being unleashed on Indians. That's what you're going to see more and more. It's not because first of all first of all it's a racist thing. The whites have always been racist. at some I'm not saying all white people are racist but the Europeans have historically been a racist society in the past 500 days they've developed the sense of superiority so if you are an Indian in a in a western nation Australia is a western nation even though it's it's in Oceanania it's still a western nation u you're going to be treated well according to law you are all equal citizens but kind of you're going to be treated like a secondass citizen in some ways uh in some ways in some ways it'll It will be very subtle. You may not realize it until you're there for a long time. But you will see there's some difference. And sometimes it will come out very openly like this in times such as these when the US is going after India. The US is very upset about India. Then you will see this sort of hatred being unleashed against Indians. So it's unfortunate. So I would recommend to everybody all Indians, Indian origin people in Australia or in the western world to be a little alert. Right. Okay, we're going to do seven more minutes. This is going to be a 60-minute session, unfortunately. U it's a special session. If you want, I can do another 60-minute session tomorrow as well. So, that's not an issue, but I'm going to have to end this at 5:45 p.m. IST. Another 7 minutes. Let's take one more, a few more. Prattab says, "Do RI countries really shatter the West's dominance?" They can if they actually genuinely work together. Russia, India, China, if they set differences aside. See, India and Russia have no differences. China and Russia have some differences. India and China have huge differences. If we can find a way to set the differences aside and genuinely work together in mutually beneficial ways, then we will in a few years end the west dominance. That is guaranteed. If the forces of India, China, Russia combine and work together, the west is finished in a few years. It will happen. But the question is how do India and China set the differences aside? That's the big problem right now. Prashant says, "Uh, wish our PM could sign EOS instead of the democratic way, executive orders." Well, that would be great, right? But then if you can just govern through executive orders, well, then you're essentially an emperor, aren't you? Even if it's for 5 years, yeah, it would be great. Then things would get done so so much faster without all the committees and all the consensus and all all that nonsense and all the voting and all the consultation with the federal structure and all that. My goodness, how slowing things are in India if the PM could just sign EOS executive orders and get things done done. Imagine how fast India will change. Yeah, one wishes. Kumar Kanesk says as the US is picking a fight with everyone on the basis of its dollar being the reserve currency until it is do you see the US sliding back to post World War II position if things continue like this this decade well if the dollar loses its its uh supremacy in the world if if if it slides back and is no longer kind of the the the reserve currency then the US will slide back significantly. uh sliding back to preWorld War II or post World War II, post World War II position, the US's position post World War II was sup super dominant. It was super dominant. The the dollar was the reserve currency in the world. It was not under question the way it is today. So, so the US is fighting to preserve its supremacy and to preserve the status of the dollar as the reserve currency. That is what the fight is about. Um, how are things going this decade? I think more and more countries are looking for alternatives beyond the US dollar. even India is if that continues then and if the US is not able to stop that then it's going to be bad times for for the US because their whole uh one of the one of the aspects of the dominance is the US dollar's mind which won't exist anymore says will the quizing will the word zalinski enter the US dictionary as a synonym to traitor so the synonym to traitor since the second world war has been Quizling. Quizling was the the leader of which country? Sweden, Denmark, one of these countries, right? And I believe he was executed for treason for collaborating with the Nazis. Let us fact check that. Was he collab? Was he executed? Uh Quizling Quiz Quizling Vick Vic Vickdun Quizling Norway who led a collaborist collaborationist government in German occupied Norway and I believe he was eventually if I'm not mistaken he was eventually executed. He was executed. Yes. Trial and execution. All right. So Quizling was executed. uh but you see for the so this word quizzling entered the English dictionary as as a synonym to traitor because he was regarded as a traitor by the English and by the west but zalinsky is a collaborative collaborator with them right so they won't use the word zalinsky as as a synonym for traitor uh they won't do it maybe others will so it may enter maybe the Russian dictionary as as a synonym synonym for traitor maybe the Chinese dictionary as synonym traitor but not the English dictionary because he's collaborating with the English speaking Okay, I will take two three more questions and then we're done. Mahar says there have been a lot of attacks on Indian immigrants and students in western countries. We have been seeing a lot of attacks in Ireland, Canada and the US. What can we do to stop this? There is nothing we can do to stop it. We what can we do to stop it? Nothing. All I can say to Indian immigrants who are living there is be extra careful. Be extra vigilant. things are no longer the same. Okay? When you are in a place where well a strange place, be be aware, be awake, look around, look who's around you, all of that you to see. There's nothing we can do. The at the best what we can do is we can have Prime Minister Modi protest and urge the leaders of these countries uh the leader of the US, the leader of Canada, leader of Ireland and leader of Australia to ensure that Indian origin people uh their their safety is taken care of. That's the best Mr. Modi can do. That's the highest we can do. Beyond that, there's nothing we can do. So, I would say that look, if you are an immigrant in these countries, be careful. Be careful. Be very careful. Says, have you read the book The Eye of Shoe by Amiur? It talks about how Indians whip be will be the most likely to genetically edit themselves. Wally, I want to check it out. I haven't read it, but I will make sure to check it out. The eye of Shiva by Amori. Okay, I'll check it out. Thank you for the recommendation. Interesting. Priya Bharat says, "Is living in the US dangerous for Indians?" Look, the US is a nation of laws. It's a very legalistic nation and uh overall law and order has kind of deteriorated in the US and it's it's it's possible that Indians could be singled out by racist people uh for violence perhaps. It's it's possible. I think the likelihood is slightly higher now. It doesn't mean it's it's dangerous for Indians. Look, if you are a rich person, living in the US is not dangerous. As long as you take all the precautions u but if you are not a rich person and you living in a working-class neighborhood, the likelihood is higher that you may be in a slightly more danger. Overall, it's it's still safe for Indians. Um, and if you're attacked, I'm sure you can you can go to the take recourse in in the law of the land and so on. My point is just be careful. I think there is a higher likelihood right now that people will go after Indians. Overall, it's not been dangerous. Historically, it's not been dangerous. It's been a great place, but these days things are different. Okay, two more questions and we're done. MK says why post nationalistic revolutions and freedom struggle regimes didn't bring violence at the scale of postcommunist revolution regimes see postnationalistic revolutions freedom struggle regimes were generally nationalistic and they did not believe in the dictatorship of the proletariat and when you believe in the dictatorship of the proletariat which Marxists do then it is your duty to go after the bourgeoisi and and and uh the reef what what are they called the that's there that's a term that I forget right now okay it's a Marxist term I haven't thought of it for a while so the boogeoisi are the are the people who need to be wiped out because they are very naughty and very evil and they amassed all the wealth they became wealthy how dare you become wealthy so when a Marxist revolution succeeds if ever if ever does then once it succeeds they go after the kulaks and and and and the bourgeoisi and uh whoever else. So that violence continues in a post nationalistic revolution or whatever things settle down after the the revolution succeeds. It's a totally different paradigm. Nibbum says motorist unhappy with ethanol. How will government fix it? I have no idea. I have no idea. This is not a geopolitical issue. I have no idea. Sorry. Yeah. It's a it's a domestic uh issue. I'm sure it's it's a it's a problem in some ways. I I'm not aware of the details, but yeah, I don't have an answer to this question. All right. Okay, folks. We have crossed the 1 hour mark. I'm going to have to end it over here. Thank you so much for the questions. Would you like me to to do another live stream like this tomorrow? 1 hour. If you would like it, then I I can I'll be happy to do it. Otherwise, we can do it as as per our regular programming on the weekends. Uh do let me know in the comments or wherever. I can see Bruce Wayne saying yes. Omni movement is saying yes. Amisha saying yes. Animals for laugh is saying yes. Sadhart Amisha Vladimir Putin Priyawat Sar Chandra. Okay. Everybody is saying yes. I'm going to have to do it. Geopolitical dub also Aush also. Pritam. All right. All right. I hear you all. We shall do another 1 hour live stream tomorrow. All right. So I'm going to take your leave now. Thank you so much and I look forward to seeing you in the next live stream. Take care. Thank you. See you soon. Bye-bye.