[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Well, hello, good day, good evening everybody and welcome back to to the Ask a Widget Show. Today is episode 293. We are discussing history, world history and Indian history and everything in between and I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments. These are questions that I have selected myself with my own two hands and I'll take as many of these as possible over the next couple of hours and let's see before that let's see who is there on the live chat. So let's see uh we have Shou nationalist Vishwendra Singh chat DSP with a 2-year-old. Fantastic. Good to have the 2-year-old. Uh Ashima Mahajan, Ain, Latangi, Suresh, um Sumit Agarwal, Mystic SK, Jay Guman, Dnur Singh is here, Wanchada, Jagish Mali, PK Pro 57, uh Vamshi, Kalem, Boxer, Commando, Wanchada, Shrea Sitra from Moscow, Gagan Badigar, Rayan PK Pro 57, Amea Tulpig from Germany, Suchin Yadav Boxer once again Vikash PJ Vnav Nates Chadspir Solanki Omikar Pratar Dana Satellite IPK_1S Gagan Nayan Trianka from Maharashtra Shuri Namaskar Anuman Mahapatra Oscar Madison from Houston Texas uh Kamill Parasar um who else Abu Singh Aayush Singh, Nihal Singh, Vikash PJ, Mr. Sakenna. Um, who else? Dark Knight, Shist, Ashtavakra, TS Po IC. Okay. Uh, Aus439 from Kik. Is it from Kik or is it from is it from Twitch? It's from Twitch. Okay. Karan Nalawat Rishikesh Dascupta Kamal Parasar Chaitan Aradya Omar Mani Aditya Singh Tech Boy right Priyanka Javalia Chetan Vikash VP Bruce Wayne Guruda Marath um who else J25 NIH says pre-recorded hello you think this is pre-recorded sir pre-recorded oh man okay Vishal is also here. Abhishek Nay Gorov Patel boxer. Okay. Krishna Raunat from the Surinamese Netherlands. Okay. Let's get going with the questions otherwise I will I will greet you all day and all night. Today we're going to take questions from the comments. Not from the live chat, not from the super chat. So please don't take super chats. I implore you all. I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments. Let's go. What questions do we have? is the question that we have to ask ourselves now. What questions do we have and what shall we take? Okay. So, give me a second. All right. Let's go. Question number one is from Shub. Uh the the question is about apathide. What was this policy of apathide? What was the policy of apathide in South Africa and how long was it continued and by whom? So as always I I will not address the question right away. I'll go into the background because that's how we understand what an issue actually is. We have to understand the the actual history of the European colonization and occupation of the southern part of Africa before we can even start discussing apathide. Right? So when did European occupation begin in southern Africa? This this goes on this the period of Europe European occupation of southern Africa. It started several centuries before apathy became a thing. There were several centuries of conquest of occupation of settlement settler colonization of conflict of of plundering of resources and overall over time the construction of discriminatory systems once the European rule became u you know solidified. So the first European presence in the southern southern Africa region, it begins sometime in the middle of the 17th century. It begins with the Dutch. The Dutch had something called the Dutch East India Company, right? You may all have heard of it to some extent. Indians are mostly uh uh you know aware of the British East India Company, but well the Dutch had an East India Company. So the Dutch East India Company established a settlement of some kind at the what they call the Cape of Good Hope which is the foundation of Cape Town. This is how Cape Town was founded. The Dutch founded Cape Town. Um and Dutch settlers started you know settling in Cape Town and they eventually expanded. So if you want to look at the map I mean why not take let's take a look at the map. So let's go to the map so that we can discuss it. um in a little more detail. So we're talking about South Africa. Okay, this is South Africa over here. So the Dutch founded Cape Town in the middle of the 17th century. And eventually after once their their colony became settled over there, they started expanding into the interior parts of what is today South Africa. Right. Um and you had indigenous people who obviously lived here who people who spoke bantu people people who spoke various other local languages and the Europeans the Dutch started settling in these interior parts of South Africa and displacing the local people the sub and subjugating the local people that's how it happens that's how settler colonization happens so we're talking about the middle of the 17th century 1650s 1660s7s 80s that sort of thing then around in the beginning In the 1800s, the British took over the Cape Colony from the Dutch. They defeated the Dutch and forcibly grabbed the Cape Colony from the Dutch. Um, and the British. So, this is in the beginning of the 19th century. And then the British introduced their legal system, their their colonial system uh in the region. The Dutch used to have slavery. The British said that they officially abolished slavery. and they instituted different systems which were obviously just the same as slavery but they had different names. So by the 1830s 40s etc the the you know the the Dutch felt marginalized and they started moving away from the British occupied regions and they established various independent republics uh what the Transal uh the orange free state etc. Okay. So these migrations of the Dutch people, so the Dutch, the Dutch settlers in South Africa, they were called the Boers. Okay, they were called Boers and they did not like the British because they wanted to have their own thing. So there was this conflict that began between the British who were more powerful and the Dutch who were the original English occupiers and subjugators of the region of South Africa. Uh so so the Dutch went and settled they created these you know the the Transval region the orange free state these uh these uh you know Dutch ruled areas right and and then what happened is that in the 19th century in the 1800s you had the discovery of diamonds in South Africa and gold discovery of diamonds and gold which what does it mean it means tremendous amounts of Europeans mainly British will come and settle in South Africa. Yeah. So this totally transformed the economy of this region and it brought in a huge wave of uh immigration mainly from England from Britain and eventually there was the competition for resources and that led to two wars the Anglo boore wars. Um the second Angloore war there was a certain sergeant major who was involved in it as a stretcher bearer as the leader of the stretcherbearers his name was Sergeant Major Mandas Gandhi. Okay. uh Mr. Gandhi was in South Africa for over 20 years from 18 and he he returned to India in 1915 and he was there in the early 1890s so you know about 20 25 years Mr. Gandhi spend in South Africa. So you had the two Anglo boore wars and the British obviously won. Yeah. They they emerged victorious. They annexed the Boore republics into the British empires into the empire and around 1910 or something the republic the union of South Africa was formed which was which united all these different bore regions and the British occupied regions and so on into one single uh dominion dominion status. Okay. It was it came under the British Empire and then they instituted new laws which uh set the white man on a pedestal and it subjugated the black man. That's what they did. So the power remained in the hands of this tiny small white minor min minority and they created a system that totally marginalized the black South Africans in all ways. Politically marginalized, economically marginalized, all kinds of discriminatory laws and acts were passed. Okay. So, uh, South Africans, the native Africans could hardly at all own any any land. And, uh, they were discriminated against, marginalized in all kinds of ways, that sort of thing. Um, and they were made to live separate from the white people. There were white, you know, beaches that were allow that were allocated only to the white people. All the good good land, good good everything was allocated to the white people. And eventually these policies, they they became what we now call apathide. So then you had various nationalistic movements uh in South Africa, African nationalism. You had something called the national party. Yeah. All of that. And eventually this all became officially codified in 1948. 1948. So this was the system of apathide. This was a policy. It was a system of institutionalized legalized racial discrimination, racial segregation in South Africa. Okay. And this was implemented by uh the national party government in 1948 and it lasted it lasted until around 1994 when FWD clerics government it officially ended apathide. So you know apathide laws they determined where people could live where they could work where they could go to school where they could whom they could marry uh and all kinds of stuff. And uh the white people were the rulers. They were at the top. And then you had the non-whites which is the black people, the the native African people and also mixed race people and also Indian origin people. Right. Uh so that was essentially a path and it it ended in 1994. Eventually you had the first free and fair multi-racial elections in South Africa 1994 which brought Mr. Dr. Nelson Mandela to power and the African National Congress became the dominant political party in South Africa at this point onwards. So this is essentially the history of apathide. So you can't just it's it's not enough to simply discuss what apathide was. You have to understand how it happened. You have to understand the causality. So it all started in this manner. It's it's got well a multi-layered history that goes back to the middle of the 17th century essentially. Okay. So that's a pathide. Terrible terrible uh system obviously brutal. Now what do we have next? Rinki Chri says why is Jerusalem a contested place for Jews, Muslims and Christians? Okay. Well, okay. Let's discuss this. Let's h go once again to the map and um where's the map? Here is the map. And now we shall move away from Antarctica and South Africa uh to the uh eastern Mediterranean region. So we are obviously discussing uh the region of Israel today and we have something called you know so Israel as you can see it's got all these dashed lines on the map. You have the Gaza strip where you have all kinds of um you know u essentially it's in a state of war right now. And then we have the West Bank. The West Bank means the West Bank of the River Jordan. And over here there's a city that straddles these regions which is Jerusalem. A rather ancient city. And it like you rightly say it's kind of a contested space uh contested place for Jews, for Muslims, for Christians. All three regard the city as uh as a holy place for their own religion. So that's a deal. And so so Jerusalem first of all where is the okay let's let's go to the satellite images. And um so look first of all who are the first people to to live in in this region. It was the Jewish people obviously and uh the Jewish people under King Solomon around 900 AD or so they built this big temple, Jewish temple in Jerusalem. The first temple it's called. Okay. So it was their city. The Jews founded the city of Jerusalem and they had this big temple there called the first temple. Uh this temple was destroyed by the Assyrians or the Babylonians whoever it was. Uh and there was this period of Jewish exile from their homeland. And then the Persians brought the Jews back under uh Emperor Kurush or Cyrus. And then the Jews built a second temple in Jerusalem. And that temple lasted until about 2,000 years ago when the Romans brought it down. The Romans destroyed it in in retaliation in response for a Jewish revolt against the Roman occupation and rule of the region. So to punish the Jews, the Romans destroyed that second temple as well. Today there is one wall of the second temple. That's all that remains there. It still stands and it is called the whailing wall. Let's try and locate that, shall we? Right. Uh whailing wall. So let's zoom in. There we go. So that is the whaling wall. Uh the western wall of the ancient temple. This one here. And that's where that's uh that's essentially the most sacred uh place of pilgrimage for the Jewish people. And it's something that dates back over 2,000 years. And the second temple was built on the location if I'm not mistaken of the first temple. So it's a very sacred place for the Jewish people. This is the western wall. And uh it is said I could be look I am no expert in this but maybe this this uh so then that so okay we we'll come to this in a in a in a moment. So that's why it is sacred for the Jewish people. There is this wall here. Okay it is the wall of of the compound of a mosque by the way over here. We will come to it in a minute. Now why is it sacred for the Christian people? Well, it is sacred for the Christian people because this is the place where um Mr. Jesus Christ was uh crucified. So if we look for Calvary Calvary, where is that? Um via Dolora should be Yeah. So this apparently is the place where Mr. Christ had to walk with this uh cross on his shoulder. the via the Lorosa the the painful way and somewhere here there is this place called Calvary let me once again look for it okay calvary golota golota okay where is it okay so apparently this is the place where Mr was crucified there's a rock over here and uh yeah somewhere over here and next to it there is the church of the holy sepulchar which uh could perhaps be the resting place of Mr. Christ. I'm not 100% sure. I'm not very clear about the Abrahamic religions. If I make some mistakes, do forgive me. My point is that the bigger point is valid. This is where Mr. Christ was apparently crucified. And so it's it's not far from the western wall of the old temple, second temple, right? As you can see, just a few hundred meters away. So clearly this this makes sense that it would be a very sacred place for the Christian people. Not just the place where Mr. Christ was crucified but also the place where he could which could possibly be his resting place, final resting place or the place where he was um he ascended from whatever it was. Yep. So so that hopefully explains why this is uh sacred for the Christians. First we discuss the Jews then the Christians and then let's come to the Muslims. So according to Islamic um uh tradition uh Mr. Muhammad, the the prophet Muhammad of the uh the the prophet of Islam, he apparently visited Jerusalem and the place where he visited was this is where this uh this mosque stands today. And perhaps it could be a disputed place because the mosque could possibly stand on the place where the second and first temples also stood which is why we have the western wall here which is one of the walls of the old temple. So that's why there's a dispute about uh this this uh this dome of the rock mosque over here. So because it is closely associated with the prophet of Islam, prophet Muhammad, that's why this is a very sacred place for Muslims as well. So if you look at the city, the old quarters of Jerusalem, the old city of Jerusalem, we have Muslim quarters, we have Jewish quarters and we have Christian quarters. And that is the deal about Jerusalem. A sacred place for three religions and a very contested place. Everybody declares that it is holy for them. And there seems to be some kind of a dispute between the the Muslims and uh the Jews about who should have the possession of the of the site of the ancient temple, the second temple which is the site of the first temple. And for several centuries this this place was occupied by Muslims you from more than a thousand years. Uh we have Sultan Saladin Salahadin who was the Sultan and who defended Jerusalem from the crusaders. Uh some of the crusaders invol included Richard III of England Richard the Lion Hart Killyong and so on. And Saladan was able to defend the city of Jerusalem from the crusaders. So it's been essentially a Muslim dominant dominated uh city for a very long time. So that's the the the the history of Jerusalem. And that hopefully explains why it's kind of a contested space, a place especially between the Jews and the Muslims. U the Christians I don't think they claim any any site that is sacred for the Muslims and the Jews. Their site is is different. It's Golka and it is the the church of the holy sepulkar. That's uh that is those are the holy places for Christianity. Those are those are not claimed by any other religion. But when it comes to the site of the ancient temple, well today it looks like there's a mosque on top of it and it is claimed by both the religions the Jews as well as the Muslims and that is the wheel. Okay. Uh, Swatnil says, "How do the Spanish flu, which is from 1918 to 1919, and COVID 19, which is 2019 to present, how do these two um these two frightening, terrible, traumatic events, how do they compare in terms of deaths and case fatality rate and the age of victims and the transmissibility, the illness, severity, uh long-term effects, virus characteristics, and so much more. So look, CO is something that we are familiar with. It's something that's happened recently. You could say it's kind of still around. I'm not sure if anyone still has COVID cases that that uh anyone's aware of, but it is what it is. So COVID is is the thing. And so the Spanish flu was much worse. It is something that emerged in the aftermath of the first world war. The first world war ends what 1918 or somewhere around that time. And straight away you have something called the Spanish flu. Why is it called the Spanish flu? It is called the Spanish flu because it was first discovered by the Americans in Spain. But it is something that most likely came from China and it traveled a long road whichever way you know things you know pandemics epidemics they travel they they transmitted through various vectors. So when it comes to the Spanish flu, we're not quite sure how many people died, but it's definitely between 50 to 100 million. Between 50 to 100 million people died that is a massive death toll for the the COVID pandemic. It's about 7 million plus. I mean that's the official death toll. We don't know for sure exactly if there there have been more deaths or not, but the official death toll is around 7 million. And that's uh from 2019 all the way until today. Spanish flu it was just a couple of years in 199 198 and 1919. And in those two years it killed between 50 to 100 million people. It infected more than 500 million people about a third of the entire world's population at the time. Right? And the CFR case fatality rate was in excess of 2.5%. For COVID it's around 1%. And here's where even if you would disregard the case fatality rate and how many people were infected and how many people died, here's where the two pandemics were very different because for the Spanish flu, the people who were affected the most were people who who were between 25 to 40 years in age. Young people, they were the ones who were affected the most. Between 25 and 40 years of age. If you were younger than 25, you were less likely to die as a as a result of the Spanish flu. If you were above 40 years of age, you were less likely to die because of it. But between 25 to 40 is where you had the most fatalities. Weird, isn't it? Strange. For COVID, the people who are who died the most, the you know, that's the people who are 65 and above. So, it's older people who were affected more by COVID and people with uh comorbidities, pre-existing comorbidities. If someone has diabetes, if someone already had cancer, if someone had some other illness or disease and then they got COVID, then they were more likely to die of COVID. But regular healthy people were less likely to die of COVID. So that's that's the kind of thing and obviously you would have uh you know, so the COVID virus is a SARS COV2 corona virus and the Spanish flu virus was an H1N1 influenza virus. So pretty different viruses. Um and they both had their own complications and people died of various uh causes like multi-organ failure and whatever else in the case so in the case of the Spanish flu you had people who died of multi-organ failure lots of that happened in the case of case of SARS corona virus you have people who die who are dying of immune over reaction cytoine storms so totally different mechanisms and also people would know that's the vaccine right people who died of blood clots and all that's the vaccine thing that's the vaccine injury thing. So the vaccine perhaps may have may have killed more people than the virus itself. I remember, you know, I've been doing the Ask a Bij show since when? 2021. In 21, 22, even 23, if I spoke about the Corona virus on one of my live streams, you would have this big YouTube disclaimer afterwards below the live stream, you know, and even on Spotify, those episodes would have big COVID disclaimers that here is the official thing about Corona virus. Don't listen to what anybody says. only listen to the the official science vaccines are good blah blah I know vaccines are good but the western fiser vaccine and all they've killed people they've killed more people than the save saved it and there's also the possibility that this virus may have been human engineered right if you spoke about this 3 years ago they would essentially cancel you they would uh delete all your social media accounts and and so on you could not speak about that But it's possible that maybe this virus was human engineered. So yeah, that's the difference between the COVID virus and the uh and the Spanish flu virus and the epidemic overall. Amisha says, "If Hitler wanted to create a Third Reich, what were the first and second Reichkes?" That's a great question. Why doesn't anyone ask these questions? Very, very, sounds very simple. We had the Third Reich, Hitler Reich, Nazi Germany. What was the first Reich and the second Reich? Great question. So the first Reich was the what is called the Holy Roman Empire which lasted about a thousand years and then you had the the German Empire which starts in 1871. So the Holy the so-called Holy Roman Empire. It begins in the year I think 800 AD when Carolus Magnus the king of the Franks Shagleman was appointed the the first emperor of the Holy Roman Empire by the whoever was the pope at the time. You can look it up if you are interested in in knowing the name of that of that pope. So Charlemagne became the first emperor of what was then later to be known the Holy Roman Empire. And and then you had someone called Otto I who was the first German properly Germanic Germanspeaking uh king of this or or or so-called emperor of this Holy Roman Empire, Otto I or Otto the Great. And throughout history, this Holy Roman Empire, it uh it was located in mainly German speakaking territories, which is why it was mostly a Germanic empire, right? So the word Reich R E I C H Reich, it has the same root as the word Raja in Sanskrit. Raja and Reich is the same thing. The third Reich means the third Raja. So the first Raja was the so-called Holy Roman Empire and you had you know the the founder you could say is Carlos Magnus or Shalimman and you had Otto the first then you had Frederick the first Barbar Roa the the red red bearded fellow then you had the last emperor was Francis or something and so it lasted from 800 AD to 1800 in the early 1800s it was it came to an end because of the Napoleonic wars Napoleon put an end to the so-called Holy Roman Roman Empire. So Napoleon ended it. Then you have the second Reich which is the German Empire which begins in 1871. Right? So there was something called the FrancoRussian War which happened in the 1860s and 1870s and the Prussians. So there was no Germany until 1871 by the way. Okay, here's the deal. And by the way, there was no Germany until 1871. You had all these people who spoke Germanic languages and the territory is today what we call well Germanic lands Germany magna that's what the Romans called it but it was never one country or one kingdom it was a whole bunch of hundreds of different principalities and dukes and whatnot it was unified for the first time ever in 1871 uh by by the iron chancellor Otoon Bismar and Uh it was the unification happened under the emperor Kaiser William the Wilhelm the first Kaiser Wilhelm the first the f the first ever unification proper unification of all the Germanic states of all the German states 1871. So uh the mastermind behind the unification was Ottoon Bismar the iron chancellor of Germany. Um and uh he established a very conservative empire a pretty militaristic empire and a very modern empire with a very modern education system and very modern administration. And then you had the second emperor Kaiser Wilhelm II who was the last was the last. Yeah. He abdicated wasn't he? He he abdicated at the end of the second world war and that was the end of the German empire the second Reich and then you have the beginning of the third Reich which uh was the brainchild of uh of the Austrian painter. Okay. So three different periods of time 800 AD to 1800 AD then 1871 all the way to 1918 and then 1930 is 35 onwards to 45 roughly 10 years the so the first one is a thousand years the second one is what 30 40 less than 50 years and the third one is about a decade okay feminist slayer says what no was the Trail of peers 1830s an unavoidable result of US expansion or a deliberate policy of ethnic cleansing. A really interesting question. Let's go to the map where we oh here is map. We go to the United States. So in the 1800s you you had the you know the relentless westward expansion of the Europeans European occupiers the settler colonizations of the Americas. Um and this is the period before the the the the the civil war. So you have slavery in the US. The United States at the time was much smaller than what it is today. By the way this was not the map of the US at the time. it was simply uh you know mostly concentrated in the south in in the south and the east. So there used to be these uh people you know the native Americans who lived in the southeastern United States. Uh you had various uh native American ethnic groups like the Churroi, the Seino, the Chasaw, the Choto, the Muscogee or Creek and so on who all their ancestral lands were in the southoutheast of what is currently the United States and these people they were forcibly relocated about I don't know the official figures are about 60,000 to 100,000 or something like that so they were forcibly relocated from their ancestral homelands to territories west of the Mississippi River so if you want to know where the Mississippi River is have to go to Galveston Island over Kaba Devaka. Kabad Devaka. That's a whole different story. So you have the Mississippi River here. Okay. This This is the San Hasinto River. Where is the bigger one? Where's the Where's the Mississippi? Where is Mississippi River? Yes. Where is it? Let's try and locate. Uh, okay. We need to zoom out a little. Let's just because we know that. Okay. I I know where it starts. Um, for example, if you go to Minneapolis all the way to the north in the US, just zoom in. We have the Mississippi River here and then then it goes on and on and on and on and on. Goes all the way south. Let's just do this exercise, shall we? This here is the Mississippi. It eventually merges with the with the Missouri River, and that's the longest the largest water system in the world. Obviously, this here is the Mississippi. So, I'm actually tracing the path of the river all the way down south. And here we have Newuel Orleon, New Orleans. Yeah. Yeah. So, I shouldn't have been at Galveston Island. It should have been New Orleans. Okay. So, the Native Americans were forcibly relo relocated west of the Mississippi River in totally different territories which they were not, you know, which which were not their original homelands. So this resulted in the deaths of I don't know thousands, tens of thousands, we don't know how many people. Um and it was horrible. So it it was called the trail of tears. And this was obviously all legal, right? Because uh President uh Andrew Jackson passed he signed a law called the Indian Removal Act or something. So it was all done legally. Okay, there's nothing illegal about this. Totally legal. So these people were all moved forcibly to you know these barren regions of the US where you have desert and stuff and why was this done is the question. So you can see it's it's all barren pueblo and so on. So why was this done? There's a good reason for this because you know, you know, uh all these fertile lands, Virginia, etc., Tennessee, uh Georgia, Indiana, Mississippi, Missouri, all of these lands, well, they were very fertile. There was a tremendous uh amount of extremely fertile agricultural land here. So you could do all kinds of different kinds of farming, cotton farming for example, cotton cultivation, other kinds of cultivation, gold mining and settlement, European settlement in the region. If you have native people living there, then there's going to be trouble. So get rid of the natives. So that's what it was, right? So this was all done legally according to the laws of the Europeans who had settled in the in the United States in in North America. And this uh and how was this done? It's not like you pass a law and you tell them to leave. You have to force them to leave. So this policy, this act was implemented through military force. Okay? Through military force. And this led to the deaths of I don't know tens of thousands of people possibly. I'm sure the official figures are they underrepresent what actually happened. But that is what it is. Was this an unavoidable result of US expansion? There was nothing unavoidable about it. It was perfectly 100% avoidable. But the Americans, the Europeans did not want to live anywhere close to the natives. So they just said, "Get rid of the natives. Just displace them thousand miles away." That sort of thing. So it was a deliberate policy of ethnic cleansing. Definitely 100% nobody can deny this. It was a deliberate policy of ethnic cleansing. Did it lead to genocide? Well, it depends on what you mean by genocide. What's your definition of genocide? 10,000 20,000 people die. Is it genocide or do do you need people to die in the hundreds of thousands or or millions? I'm not sure. So, I'm not sure if it fits whatever is the definition of genocide as per I don't know UN or whatever. I'm not sure about that. But it was definitely ethnic cleansing and obviously genocide has obviously happened. The the formation of the US, you know, well, behind it is is genocide. So you have this nation the United States is artificial nation which it's been created it's it's built on the found on three foundations one is slavery the second is ethnic cleansing and third is genocide the fourth is obviously theft of land uh that's these are facts I mean I'm not trying to throw any shade at the people who live in the US today the descendants of those who did all this it's not their fault but the US is obviously native land it's not the land that actually belongs to the it now belongs to them because they occupy it. If occupation is law, well, there you have it. Then it's the rule of the jungle. It's no longer civilized, you know, rules, but it is what it is. Okay. A feminist slayer says, how critical was Gettysburg 1863 in deciding the outcome of the American Civil War? So, the American Civil War, it starts in what? 1861. I think it's 1861 and it ends in 1865 and uh one of the well triggers of this was the election of Abraham Lincoln to the presidency of the United States in 1860 1860 right so uh so you have this terrible civil war that happens why does the civil war happen first of all it's because you have this clash of lifestyles clash of economic lifestyles and so on the southern states They wanted to continue the practice of slavery, right? And that gave them tremendous economic benefits. In the north, they had they had new technology like what the cotton gin or whatever it's called, which could do the work of I don't know 10 slaves, 100 slaves uh in the time it took for one slave to do whatever something. So, you know, they no longer needed slavery. So, it was no longer economically necessary to have slaves in the north. But in the south they wanted to continue the tradition. They had not been yet been exposed to this technology. So the south said we want slavery. We want to continue it. The north said we have to abolish slavery. And that's why the two sides went to war. They did not simply go to war. The southern states seceded from the US. They said that we are they essentially de facto partitioned the nation. Right? They said that we are creating our own separate nation and that's why there was a civil war in the US. So uh this battle of Gettysburg like you say happened in 1863 and it was a decisive pivotal critical turning point in this civil war which began in 1861. The civil war is a is a whole huge chapter of American history. So you have two sides in the civil war. The union and the confederates. The union means the north. The confederates means the south. So Gettysburg was a decisive pivotal moment. It's a turning point in this in this war. It resulted in a major northern victory, Union victory. And what did this victory do? The South, the Confederate forces, they had this this this great general called Robert E. Lee, and he was in the process of conducting his second invasion of the North at this time. and the disaster, the defeat of the of the Confederate forces in Gettysburg, it halted Robert El's second invasion of the north. And this was this marked the beginning of the decline of the u of the fortunes of the south, the Confederate military fortunes. And this obviously had a critical impact on the war's final outcome, which was a victory of the north. So why was this decisive? First of all, this was the bloodiest battle of the entire civil war. It is said that there are more than 50,000 people who died in this total cumulatively north plus south casualties combined. More than 50,000 people died. 50,000 soldiers died. So Robert Elie wanted to he wanted to relieve pressure from war on Virginia. So you know if you go to the map once again uh Virginia is a territory one of the first territories ever to be established you know in so this is Virginia it is named after Queen Elizabeth um and I've discussed that in in other videos so Robert Lee wanted to essentially uh march into Virginia okay and uh and he wanted to relieve pressure essentially on on on Virginia and he wanted to gather supplies from the north and that sort of thing. So the defeat in in Gettysburg it forced the south the confederate forces to retreat and uh this was the beginning of the decline. So before this they had enjoyed multiple victories the confederate forces and this victory ended the momentum of Robert E. Le's military campaign. It uh had a critical morale crashing uh you know effect on the Confederate forces. It gave uh Lincoln's leadership you know momentum public confidence. The public was now confident that Lincoln will be able to get things done. And it also also showed that the northern forces could decisively repel Robert E. Lee who was looked at looked upon as a superman kind of person at the time. you know the the war's most talented commander that sort of thing and after that the the southern forces became defensive until that that time they were trying to march to the north and invade the north after the defeat in Gettysburg they became defensive defensive defensive and eventually you you you had other other uh battles that were happening at the same time Vixsburg is an example uh that also was was lost by the confederates so this eventually you know had a cumulative effect of uh of eventually leading to the to the defeat of the Confederate forces. So that's that is it. So it had massive uh psychological effects. It it destroyed the morale of the confederates. It had it caused massive casualties and eventually its strategic consequences were such that the south was eventually defeated. Okay. Anul says, "I've got to know that in 1953, Prime Minister Mr. Neu seeded an 11,000 square kilometer valley called the Cabo Valley in Manipur to Myanmar without asking the people of Manipur whether they were okay with this." Okay. And currently most of the various insurgent groups in the of Northeast India operate from this valley. We'll not sure about that but okay. Uh so what are the details about this value that and why did Mr. Nehu seed it to Burma? Uh and what benefits could India have got if this value was never seeded by by Mr. Neu to Burma? Okay. Uh so look a long history behind this. Manipur has been a was an independent kingdom for more than 2,000 years. Maybe more than 3,500 years. Long story. We'll not go into that. Now in the around 1800 1799 to 1800 or somewhere some somewhere around that this time Manipur came under the occupation of Burma. Burma was a big kingdom at the time. It was called the AA the kingdom of Ava. So the kingdom of AA occupied Manipur because Manipur was busy fighting itself you know with the various princes were fighting each other for the kingdom of Manipur. And what happened is that the neighbor comes and takes over. So Manipur was occupied by Burma for seven years. the seven years of devastation is what it's called. Uh and eventually Manipur regained its well independence so to say with British help which means that you're not really sovereign. You become a vasal. Um and then there was a war between the Brit the Burmese and the and the English the Anglo Burmese war the first Anglo Burmese war which ended in 1826. Uh so when the Burmese had taken over Manipur obviously they took over Kabo Valley clearly obviously right because it was part of Manipur. Um after the defeat of the Burmese in 1826 there was a treaty that was signed. It was it is called the treaty of Yandabo. And in this treaty of Yandabo the British gave they transferred control of the of the Kabo Valley to the Burmese. And the the deal the treaty was that the Burmese would would pay compensation yearly compensation to the Maharaja of Manipur. I don't know how many rupees per year or whatever but it was silver rupees sika rupees or something it's called. So from 1826 onwards the Burmese were given control by the British of the Kabo valley but it was not Burmese territory it was Manipuri territory and as as and they paid a rent a yearly rent to Manipur. So you don't pay rent to somebody if that's your territory right let's say you go and live in someone's let's say you are renting an apartment you're going to pay rent to the actual owner of the apartment. If you are the owner, you have no need to pay rent. So the Burmese similarly were paying rent for the Kabo Valley to the king of Manipur. Which clearly means that the Burmese were not the actual owners of the Kabo Valley. The Manipur kingdom, the kingdom of Manipur, the Raja of Manipur, Maharaj of Manipur was the actual owner. But the British created this this complication. They said, "Okay, the Burmese can have it. They can control it provided that they give rent. They pay rent. Otherwise, it's not yours. otherwise they can't have it. So there was a deal. So the Burmese were using it because it's very rich in resources and whatnot. You know it's full of forests, teak wood and whatnot. So it's it's very rich in resources and the Burmese wanted those possibly those resources and that's why they were willing to pay a substantial amount of rent so to say to the king of Manipur. Now Manipur becomes a part of India in 1949 and apparently for a couple more years or whatever the the Burmese paid the rent and then they stopped paying rent and that was it and Mr. Dehu did not look out for the interests of the now that Manipur is part of the union of India then the Kabo Valley becomes part of the interests of the nation of India. It is still Indian territory. If it was Manipur territory and Manipur became part of India, then then the Kabo Valley should be Indian territory. But the Burmese stopped paying rent and the Mr. Nu just let it go just like that. This territory became Burmese. Okay, that's the deal. This territory was always Manipuri territory. And yeah, Mr. Nu was a very generous person. generous to others not to us to foreigners he also okay I'll not go into the list of the laundry list of all the stuff that he's done but that that is a deal okay so that's the history why did Mr. Nu did do something why did he seed it to Burma listen I have no idea why Mr. did what he did. He did lots of magnificent things. Why did he do do those magnificent things? I am not a mind reader. I have no idea why he did these things. I know what he did. I know what what were the consequences of that. I can tell you the things that Shin Neuji has done. And I can tell you what have been the consequences of those actions taken by Shin Neuji. I cannot tell you why he did what he did. That only he can tell us. But he is no longer with us which is uh tremendously distressing that uh that he is not with us today. See very sad for us but yeah so so that's why we will never know why Mr. Neu did these things. Yeah. Uh yeah so it is a value that's rich in resources and so on. Okay no says what is the history of northern Africa in the pre-Abrahamic era? What language families did this did their languages belong to? What religions did they follow? Which ethnicities did they belong to? And what did they look like? The people of north northern Africa in the pre-Abrahamic era. So what's the Abrahamic era? Let's say it's around 1000 AD 1000 BC BC BC. Um roughly speaking, we don't know exactly if Mr. Abraham existed. Probably he did, but we don't know when he exist existed and so on. So let's say it's around 10,000 BC. So that's the beginning of the Abrahamic era. Um now so what was the history of Northern Africa before that? So first of all let's take a look at North Africa what it looks like. Since we are discussing a region we can always refer to the map. So we are referring to this this part of Africa. Okay. As you can see this this part of Africa that's all green. Then you have this rather arid part of Africa which is Namibia, South Africa and then you have the Sahara desert and the regions north of that. So so this is essentially northern Africa over here which is the part of Africa that touches essentially the Mediterranean Sea and the eastern Atlantic Ocean. So it starts from Egypt. It has presently Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco and that's about it. Probably not Western Sahara. So that's that's what we mean first of all by North Africa. Now what's the history of North Africa? Well, the history of North Africa is obviously the human history of North Africa that we're talking about. So if you want to talk, okay, let's go to satellite images. Let's go to Morocco. And somewhere in Morocco, let us say Jibel, Jibel Hood, probably not here. It's some other part of Morocco, somewhere else. But it's in Morocco in a place called Jabel Hud that you find the oldest archaeological evidence of homo sapiens. That goes back about 300 or 4,000 4 three or 400,000 years before today. Roughly 400,000 years. So that's the oldest evidence that we have of Homo sapiens. Uh so that's the beginning so you could say of the history of northern Africa with the history of homo sapiens there. Now there is something called the the desert over here the Sahara desert. Right? So the Sahara desert became a thing about 4,000 years around 4,000 BC. Before 4,000 BC this place was all green green green. You had forests and rivers and whatnot. But because of climate change which has always been a thing uh this place became all deserted. Now what kingdoms did we have in northern Africa before the Abrahamic era? Obviously you had Egypt. Egypt is the second oldest civilization that we know of in the world, right? It its root go its roots go back almost 4,000 almost 5,000 BC possibly. So Egypt the second oldest civilization that we are aware of then. So that so that is kind of the oldest uh civilized uh history that we know of of northern Africa. So you have the uh Egyptian people obviously who lived here. Um excuse me. So language families you had the Afroasiatic language family of which Egyptian is a very big uh language. Then you have what the Nyloic peoples. uh you had the the Nubian people who also were a major uh ethnic group. They are the ancestors of today's Sudanese people mostly. Then you had the people who the Amaz called them the Berbers which is not a nice thing to say about someone but they called them the Berbers or barbarians. So you have the Burbar people who lived all across northern Africa uh Libya, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco uh and they their language family was also part of the Afroasiatic language family and they eventually uh you know set up the big uh uh city of Carthage, the kingdom of Carthage and they fought Rome and all that stuff and eventually it was all occupied by Rome this region. So that's kind of the history of Northern Africa. You have Egypt and then you have the the the Berber peoples. So the major language family is the Afroasiatic language family. Um religions Egypt obviously had its own polytheistic religion. Very uh rich, very complex polytheistic culture. Uh so that's the religion of Egypt. uh the Berbar people also had polytheism and they had animism, ancestor worship and so on. Then you had the Phoenicians who also made their way into the region from the eastern shores of the Mediterranean which is the Lebanon region. And the Phoenicians also they're the ones who set up Carthage uh the kingdom of Carthage and so on. Uh so once again this was a polytheistic set of religions that we had. What do they look like? They kind of look like the people who live there today. Yeah. Yeah, they would have they would have looked pretty similar to the people who live in the region today. Right. Okay. Next. Shub says, "How powerful was the USSR in terms of of its military capabilities as compared to the US at different points of time during the cold war?" So, the cold war begins roughly 1945 as soon as the Second World War ends or you could say 1950 if you want, whatever you want. I I see it beginning at in 1945. And it ended in let's say 1990 or 91. So 1945 to 1990 that's about what 45 years. The cold war lasted about 45 years. So how powerful was the USSR compared to the US in terms of military strength at the time. So it all begins. So the military comparison also has mult different uh subcomparisons. How powerful were the armed were the air forces of each nation? How powerful were the navies of each nation? How powerful were the submarine forces of each nation? How powerful were the ballistic missile capabilities of each nation? And how powerful were the respective nuclear strengths? You look at all of this and and then how powerful were they continentally in Europe and elsewhere and so on. So it's it's pretty complex comparison that we're talking about here. So first of all the Americans are the ones who first uh they first created the atomic bomb right so initially they have this big advantage over the USSR they were the only nation in the world with a nuclear weapons technology weapons of mass destruction then the USSR quickly caught up with the US they also tested their atomic bombs then both nations had nuclear weapons capabilities but the Americans had a huge head start over the Russians or the Soviets. And uh by the 1960s, the Americans had I don't know maybe 25,000 nuclear warheads and the the Soviets had maybe 500, maybe a thousand, maybe 3,000, I'm not sure, something like that. Huge. There was a huge gap between the two nations. The Americans had way better ballistic missiles than the Russians once again than the Soviets. But by the 60s7s eventually you have parity that happens between the two nations in terms of nuclear weapons capabilities and ballistic missile capabilities. The Americans uh they the Russians probably had better long range strategic bombers than the Americans for a significant period of time during the cold war. The Americans dominated the oceans. They had way better power projection capabilities. they were able to cut off the USSR to a significant extent from um the Atlantic and and and Pacific oceans. Obviously, the USSR did have its uh Vladivosto facilities and the Atlantic capabilities and so on, but not the way the Americans had. The Americans had the freedom of the oceans. The Soviets had to kind of squeeze through choke points to get into the big oceans, that sort of thing. So, that that gave the Americans a huge advantage. the Americans um the Soviets had a huge massive conventional advantage in Europe. They had this massive massive ground army, millions of millions of enlisted soldiers. And uh NATO estimated that the Soviets could overrun the whole of Europe in a few weeks or months. That's how powerful they were. Um so naval power, the Americans were better submarines. I think the Soviets also had great submarines, very powerful submarines, uh, nuclear submarines obviously and both nations had these this nuclear triad, air, land and sea submarine based uh, ballistic missile based and and uh, you know, different three different ways of delivering nuclear weapons including a robust second strike capability. The Americans were always ahead of the Soviets technologically in in the in uh in the field of computing. For example, the Americans always were ahead of of the Soviets in space. The Soviets were way ahead of the US for a for a very long time until 1969 or something when the Americans, you know, leaprogged the the Soviets and so on. uh and eventually by the 19 late 1970s and and the in the in the 1980s the Soviets start you know their standards start declining and so on and then you have Gorbachov who essentially you know puts an end to the USSR so essentially that's how it went says who were these Yamna invaders what new evidence do we have of these people I don't know about new evidence but I can tell you who the Yamna um Yamaya. So the Yamaha people were look if you look at the history of Europe, the the old history of Europe, not not the past 1,000 2,000 years, the actual deeper history of Europe around 5,000 6,000 BC. Then you will see that the people of Europe look very different from what they look today. You had people with much darker skin in Europe than the Europeans that we have today. Um, for example, we know of Stonehenge. Do we do you know what Stonehenge is? U, if you don't, we can Google it very quickly. I'm sure you will recognize what it looks like. So, let's go to Google and we will Stonehenge historical landmark. So you see this monument right very famous monument it's a bunch of stones that are standing together and it marked the various solstesses and astronomical events that people observed back in the day now no now nobody cares about that but that's how it was so the people who built Stonehenge are they really the ancestors of today's English and British people not quite to some extent today's English or British people they have the matrinal lineages that come from the Stonehenge era but not the patrineal lineages. The patrinal lineages come from the east. So what exactly happened is the question. See about foreign about roughly 5,000 years before today there was this massive invasion of Europe from the east. It is said that it came from the Pontic Caspian step which is Eastern Europe and Central Asia. So a bunch of horse riding barbarians just rampaged across Europe coming from the east and they conducted a large scale genocide in Europe. They killed off all the men or most of the men wherever they settled and they then inter married or whatever you want to call it with the local women and the people of Europe are the descendants of those unions. Um so that's the deal. So the Yamna invaders were this bunch of invaders who came from the east and invaded Europe and completely changed the genetics and demographics of Europe. The there were tremendous uh conquerors uh they were uh horse riding people and they were far more militaristically aggressive etc than the people of Europe who were kind of settled right. So uh that is who the Yamna were. Now you know it is it is said that uh the these are the original Aryan invaders of India. Well that's uh that's a whole different story. We'll not go into that. So it's not it's not true. Uh so that's who the Yamna invaders were. What language did they speak? It is believed that they spoke some kind of Indo-Uropean language, possibly one of the ancestral languages that gave rise to multiple modern European languages. But they most likely, it is believed, spoke an Indo-Uropean language. Do we have evidence that they spoke an Indo-Uropean language? We have zero evidence for that. It is believed by a lot of scholars that they spoke an Indo-Uropean language. We don't have any actual evidence of it. It is also believed that they practiced the old Indo-Uropean religion which is well as far as we know the Vic religion but the Vic religion or it kind of frowns upon genocide doesn't it? So anyway it is said that it is believed once again that they practiced some form of the old Indo-Uropean religion. Do we have evidence of that? We don't have evidence of that. What evidence do we have from the archaeological record? We have evidence that these people they practiced burials. They did not do cremations. They practiced burials for whatever reason. Maybe wood was not plentiful in the step region. Uh but they practiced burials. Um it was a militaristic society based on the archaeological evidence that we have. It was a patriarchal society based on the archaeological evidence that we have. Maybe it was an oligarchic society. A high status individuals were buried with weapons and objects that that tell you that this this person is high status. And they were buried with red pigment on them, red ochre pigment. And then mounds were constructed on top of the burials, the the kuran kind of mounds, that sort of thing. But they were buried in pits. The word for pit in Russian is Yamna. And that's why these people are called the Yamna people. It's from a Russian word. We have no idea what they actually called it themselves, right? The people of France, they called themselves the Fay, the French people. The people of Germany, they call call themselves the Deutsche people, the Germans. The people of India, we call ourselves Bharata. What did the these people call themselves? They certainly did not call themselves Yamna. We have no idea what they called themselves. So essentially, this is what we know about the Yamaya people. Now, what other question do we have? Uh, AJ Ra says, "You mentioned a Yamna invasion of Europe. So, how were the original Europeans like? What did they look like? Were they similar in looks and genes to current day Middle Eastern and African people? Does it mean that the painter was wrong when he claims that he was from a pure Aryan race? Okay. So, who are the original Europeans? I I said right that the original Europeans did not look like today's Europeans. They were they had darker skin and so on. So So we know that the Yamna invasion happens roughly 5,000 years before today about 5,000 years before today. Before that you had essentially two different uh genetic or ethnic groups in Europe. Um that's what genetic analysis tells us. Okay. One is called the western hunter gatherers and the second is the early European farmers. So the western hunter gatherers are are an older population. They were an older population in Europe and the early European farmers they themselves had migrated from somewhere in the east maybe Anatolia maybe east of Anatolia we're not quite sure but you know you don't go eastwards of of Anatolia you never say that. So, so the early European farmers they had migrated from let's say Anatolia and uh they also had some other older ancestry obviously obviously everyone has older ancestry. So these two groups they dominated the genetic makeup of Europe before the arrival of the Yamna invaders and the complete genocide that they perpetrated the western hunter gatherers and the early European farmers. So what did these people look like? Uh they were different looking from the Yamna. They were smaller than the Yamna. First of all, the Yamna were big guys. 5 10 6 feet. What did the Yamna look like? First of all, the Yamna guys were about 5 10 6 feet tall. They had strong bones, uh strong skulls. Uh they were muscular. Their diet was mainly milk and meat. They were horse riders. The Yamna had dark hair and they had light brown skin, not white skin. So that's what the Yamna looked like. Now we know from ancient DNA that what the uh the pre-amnia Europeans would have looked like. So the western hunter gatherers, they had a weird mix of characteristics. They had dark skin. What kind of dark skin? How do I put it across delicately? Think of the Bangladesh cricket team or the Sri Lankan cricket team. That sort of dark skin. Okay. Uh, so the western hunter gatherers had reasonably dark skin but they had blue eyes or green eyes and they had dark hair. So imagine imagine if the Sri Lankan cricket team had blue eyes. That's what the western hunter gatherers would look like. Okay. So I mean that's what DNA analysis tells us that blue eyes may have been common most likely uh among these people but they had dark skin. Now you also have the early European farmers that we mentioned and these folks they had lighter skin compared to the western hunter gatherers uh but it was definitely darker than the skin that we have that the modern Europeans have today. And these early European farmers who came from Anatolia or maybe further east, they had brown hair, brown eyes and dark hair and uh they did not have light light eyes or light hair. So they had brown skin, maybe light brown skin. They had brown eyes, brown eyes and and dark hair. So that's what they look like. So these are the traits that you had in Europe. You know, that's what the Europeans look like before the Yamna arrived. The Western hunter gatherers were more primitive. Apparently they lived in small groups, tribal groups, small groups, 50 people, 100 people maximum. They were hunters and they were fishers. So their lifestyle was hunter gather lifestyle, hunting, fishing, gathering. They used stone tools and they left behind cave art with bisons and whatnot. And they had various kinds of burial sites and they had no agriculture. And they I think they had domesticated dogs but no other domestic animals. The early European farmers they once again like they came from Anatolia and from Anatolia apparently they brought agriculture and they brought animal husbandry which animals definitely not the bulls right not the Indian cows um and so they had they were more evolved apparently than the western hunter gatherers they had organized villages they had cultivation of crops and they had domestic animals and so on. So that's what the early uh pre-amna Europeans looked like uh what their lifestyles were and uh how much of them survive. There are some people maybe in Spain and the Basque region who still have more of the old European genetics and people from Northern Europe they have almost no uh original European genetics. They're purely Yamna. So how did the northern Europeans develop blonde hair and blue eyes when the Yamna themselves did not have it? Well, that genetic mutation happened sometime later and somehow it was highly preferred. So natural selection. Okay. Amisha says what happened in the battle of Adaspis? Why was King Porus assassinated? Why is King Porus mentioned in Greek records but not in Indian records? So there used to be this river which still exists. We called it, our ancestors called it the Vitashta, Vitashta river. Today it's called the Gilim, the Gilim River. The Greeks they called it the Hidaspis. I have no idea what Hyaspis means, but they called it the Hidaspis. And that's why it's called the battle of Hidaspis. If you go to if you go to Wikipedia, it's going to say battle of Bahai's peace. See, battle of Haida's peace. It doesn't say the battle of Jelum or whatever it will say. Okay, it's also known as something battle of Jalum or whatever, first battle of Jalum. But the primary name they will use is the battle of the Haidaspiece. Does anyone call that river the Haidaspiece? But still they will use a fake foreign name for the for the river. Anyhow, what was this battle? So, we know that uh Alexander the Greek attempted an invasion of India um in what 327 BC until 324 or 323 BC somewhere around that time. Right? So Alexander attempts this invasion of India and the biggest battle in this invasion happens on the banks of the Vitashta river which is the battle of the H highas piece as as that's what the Greeks called it. So the battle is between Alexander and a local local village chief. Okay. Uh who was who who the Greeks called Porus. They they depicted him as this great magnificent Indian king. Um so they call him Porus. We don't know what his real name was. Was it Porova? Was it Purusham? We have no idea. The Greeks called him Porus. And apparently Alexander had had instructed Porus that you need to submit to my authority and you need to pay me a yearly tribute. And apparently Porus refused. I will not submit to your authority. I will not become your vasal and I will not pay you a single rupee and that's why the battle happened. So apparently the Greek forces are on the west bank of the indust and the in and the porous porous his forces are on the east bank of the river and apparently porus had less soldiers than the Greeks 30,000 which is a big big number. Was it that that that powerful a king really? uh most likely he was a district level king okay some kind but the Greeks obviously have overinflated his figures so so apparently Porus had about 30,000 or so soldiers and the Greeks had possibly around 40,000 soldiers and then the battle happens and apparently the son of Porus is killed in one of the skirmishes and then there's a proper battle the Indians have elephants the Greeks don't have elephants but they have great soldiers and tremendous horses and uh and the Indians fight well and Alexander is injured and his horse Busales is killed. But eventually the Greeks being superior people, they defeat the Indians and King Porus is uh is is is captured and brought in front of Alexander. And Alexander says, "Now you will pay me tribute." And Porus says, "No, I will still not pay you tribute because as you know, I'm a king and it's a king's duty to take care of his land and so on." So Alex so allegedly Alexander asks Porus, "How should I treat you? How should I deal with you?" And Pora says deal with me the way you would deal with a king. Alexander is super impressed by the guy. And he gives back his territory and he makes him a local satrap. You are now my vasal. You have your territory back. I'm so impressed with you. That sort of thing. So that's the Greek story. And that's the battle of the vitashta, the battle of the hedaspies. What really happened? We have no idea. Why do Indian records not mention any of this? Indian records don't mention Porus. They don't mention Alexander. They don't mention the Yanas before Silucus arrives, right? Why is it? Look, there could be multiple reasons for it. Maybe one reason is that our universities and libraries were all were all destroyed during the Turk occupation of India. And maybe the records may have existed but you know the destruction of the libraries the burning of the libraries destroyed the records. Maybe that's one reason why there are no records of uh the Greeks of of Porus and Alexander in Indian records. U we do have some surviving records from Tibet and China and uh so bumi and Sri Lanka because you know the the people of these these regions they copied Indian records and and and stored them. So whatever we know a lot of what we know about ancient India comes from these foreign records which are copies of Indian records in the local languages but once again there's no there is no mention of Alexander or Porus and you know we have Takashila in the region Takashila is nearby the great university so obviously you had historians scholars and whatnot over there and there was a significant military presence to to safeguard Takshila and there's no mention of Alexander or Porus or thing. So most likely what happened is that Porus must have been a small district level chieftain and it's also possible that he may have defeated the Greeks and that's probably why the Greeks the Greek soldiers said that we will no longer go for further east. We don't want to tangle with the Indians if this is what we have to face when we deal with someone like Poras. Further inwards further east we have the Nanda Empire. what will they do with us? Right? And that's why they mutinied and they forced Alexander to go back to Macedon. But he could not reach Macedon. He was he died in Babylon. And that's a whole different story. We will not go into that. So there are multiple reasons why Porus or and Alexander may not have been why they are not mentioned in Indian records. Maybe the records did exist. They were mentioned perhaps but the records were destroyed by the Turks. or maybe they were not mentioned at all. So in case they were not mentioned at all, why is it so? Because the Greeks did not have any impact on India. They did all kind of barbaric atrocities in in in uh Persia and on the outskirts of India which is the the the the borderlands of Persia and India. But they never really made any real impact on India proper on the Nanda Empire and and the big kingdoms that existed in western India. So uh from our perspective it was like nothing nothing important. If Alexander had tried coming let's say to Sarashtra and tried coming further inland inwards into India then maybe our restor may have recorded the guy but he would not have succeeded in doing even that. So you know that that's the thing that's the deal. Uh so Field Marsh Marshall George Zhukov of the USSR, he was of the opinion that Alexander actually lost to the to this local king and this defeat was what triggered off the set of events that culminated in the death of Alexander. So most likely it was a disastrous Greek defeat that happened at the hands of this local chieftain. Okay. Nirvana Shanks says, "Why did the Bronze Age collapse happen everywhere? Greece, the Hittites, Egypt, all of them, and all at the same time. And what was really behind this, right? Okay, let's take this question and let's go to the map once again. Bronze Age collapse. We're talking about the 1200s BC. between 1200 BC and 1100 BC is where this bronze is when this bronze age collapse happens and it happens in this region the Mediterranean region. So we have Mcanian Greece, we have uh the new kingdom in Egypt, you have the Hittite Empire in Anatolia. Um and uh the Mitani Empire in present day Syria and so on, right? uh you have the Louvians, you have the Minoans and all of these uh kingdoms, empires, civilizations, whatever you want to call it, they all disintegrate very rapidly around the 1200s BC. All of them disappear. So clearly something happened that affected them all at the same time. And that's the question, what exactly happened? So we should also remember it's around this time that you have climate change in India as well by the way because the Saraswati has kind of dried out to a significant extent by 1500 BC and then by 1200 BC you have Indians migrating out of the of the Saraswati Hindu region abandoning the great cities that we call Harpa Mahindo and so on and moving to other parts of India and some of them moving westwards outside of India going out forever. So there was some such activity even happening in India around this time 1200 BC. But let's focus on the Mediterranean region and the so-called bronze age collapse. What happened? So like I said myian Greece disappears. It it collapses. The Egyptian 10th dynasty endures collapse. the Hittite kingdom empire the the Mitani kingdom or empire the the Louvians the Minoans all collapse at the same time so one of the things that's recorded I mean there are books about this okay I have books but I'll not open the book now so one of the things that is recorded is that there was there was a bunch of people called the sea peoples s e a peoples they were invaders who got came from god knows where and they invaded Egypt, they invaded all Greece, they invaded everybody. So it was some kind of power, maritime power who came from the sea, maybe from the Mediterranean and invaded all these kingdoms and created complete chaos and havoc in the in all these kingdoms, in all these different cultures. That's number one. Number two, there was drought and possibly famine at this time. Climate change, climate change, like I said. Number three, there could have been earthquakes and things like that. And there the and scholars even said that there could have been pandemics like plague or something that devastated the region at this time and maybe earthquakes also because the region is kind of sometimes prone to earthquakes. We recently had earthquakes in Turkey which is kind of this region. Turkey is obviously ancient Greece. It is by the way. Yeah. So maybe tectonic tectonic activity you have volcanism in the region you know kira etc. Volcanic volcanic activity has happened in the past. So maybe it was a combination most likely of factors that created a perfect storm. We don't have one factor that we can think of that caused a collapse of all these different cultures. Any research that you study for example. Okay. Do you want a book recommendation? I could do that. Give me a second. Be right back. Okay, book recommendation. Let us do a book recommendation very quickly. Ah, okay. Here we are. So, book recommendation is this one. This is a book by Eric C. Klene 1177 BC, the year civilization collapsed. By the way, it did not collapse in India or China. But yeah, obviously it's a euroentric perspective. But if you want to understand what happened uh when it comes to um the so-called bronze age collapse uh this question here, then this is a good book, good reference book. It kind of goes into the details of you know essentially it it says there a perfect storm of calamities like I like I was saying. So yeah, so I'll not go and read the book right now. It's something I read a while ago. So it's a it's a combination of multiple factors. This the sea peoples. who came and ravaged all these all these cultures. Secondly, drought and famine and climate change. Thirdly, possibly earthquakes, fourth, possibly the disruption of trade routes between the between all these cultures because of the sea peoples um maybe plague and and pandemics. So all of this a perfect storm collapsed these cultures and maybe see imagine like this imagine this for example completely hypothetical thought experiment. I am not saying this should happen. Okay? In case someone wants to misport like that, there are lots of people who want to do that. This is a complete hypothetical fictitious thought experiment to contextualize what we're discussing here. Imagine something happens to the United States. H the most dominant country in the world and the the country whose technology everybody uses today. Imagine the US for some example becomes crippled. All their servers go crash. All these websites and platforms that use disappear and uh the security or whatever security architecture, military architecture they provide to the world disappears. Then the world will be thrown into chaos. There's going to be outbreaks of wars everywhere. I promise you that it's going to cause complete chaos. So maybe something similar happened in the eastern Mediterranean region. Maybe the dominant power collapsed and that caused a chain reaction. A domino effect everything collapsed. Maybe they were all interdependent for trade, for supplies, for food stuffs, for other things. And the collapse of one part of the chain collapsed everything else because of also we have in ongoing invasions by the sea peoples and also drought and famine, maybe earthquakes, maybe pandemic, maybe. So essentially it's most likely a perfect storm a combination of all these all these factors that came together and just destroyed all these civilizations in the region did not affect us by the way right we had the climate change factor in western northern western India people around this time abandoned these great cities these great metropolitan cities like Rakari Kalibangan so-called Mohinda so-cala and so on and other ones others also and moved to other parts of India and this whole region became desertified the tar region and so on. So you had climate change which was affecting India at the time but the other factors weren't affecting India. So it looks like it was a combination of factors that caused the so-called bronze age collapse. Next, Amisha says, "Why is the term colonialism often limited the European empires since the age of discoveries, so-called age of discoveries? Weren't ancient empires such as Rome, China, or Persia also colonialist?" Uh, the Persians were the colonizers. I'm not sure. I would not categorize the Persians, the the Aimeirate Empire as a colonial empire. They were certainly expansionists. They were a hegemonic empire but they did not engage in what we call colonialism and let me explain I'll come to what I mean by that. So I would not consider Persia to be a colonial empire. It was an imperial power. It was a hegemonic power but not a colonial power. China was it a colonial power? Not really. It is a colonial power today kind of. Today it's become a colonial power. It has settler colonized Tibet and Manuria and Shinjang and whatn not inner Mongolia as well. Never Chinese territories but it has settler colonized all the territories today. Like I keep saying the Chinese the hero worship the United States. They want to emulate the US in whatever the US does. So that's a different story. Now Rome was it a colonial empire? You could say it was. You could say it was. Yeah. So, so the question main question Amisha is asking is why is the term colonialism often limited to European empire since the in in the past 500 years. It's because they don't want to use the word occupation which is a nasty word. Do you ever see me use the word British colonialism the British colonization of India? Do I do do I use that? I use the term the British occupation of India because what they did was settler occup was occupation. It was not settler colonization. It was extractive colonization. It was the British occupation of India. The word occupation has brutal connotations. Which is why they don't want to use that word for what the Europeans did in the past 500 or so years. That's why you they use this nice term colonization. We made colonies. Indians also when they hear the word col colon colonial era they think of a nice peaceful era. They have no idea of the barbarity and the brutality that was perpetrated on India. So the reason this term is used is because they want to essentially whitewash the barbaric crimes the Europeans uh perpetrated on the occupied lands which is the whole of Africa which is India which is so much more. It's to whitewash the brutality. It's to whitewash the genocide. is to whitewash for example uh the ethnic cleansing for what like what happened in the Americas ethnic cleansing. Um so it's it's the objective of using colon the word colonialism is to whitewash the crimes of the Europeans to make it look sound nice and civilized. Colonialism is civilized. Occupation is brutal and barbaric. So we don't use the term occupation. Royal Okub says how do we classify an empire if it's Indian or not. Can distant Hindu kingdoms like the Mitani Empire be classified as Indian or Indianized? Well, it depends on what definition you use. Very simple. We had the British Empire, didn't we? We at at the peak of the occupation of India, you had about 20,000 British officials who were in India, you had about 800,000 British people which were the extended extended families of the occupiers. But the officials which is the uh colonial officials, occupation officials which is the soldiers and bureaucrats, British and and administrators. That's just 20,000. But yet India was part of the British Empire, wasn't it? Right? We were part of the British Empire at the time and so were Singapore and Malaysia and whatever else the British had occupied. So was Egypt. It was all part of the British Empire. So we were part of the British Empire. So from that perspective, the Mitani Empire was an Indian Empire. But there's something different here. There is there's a nuance that you have to think of. When the British occupied India, they were reporting to London, their viceroy or whatever it was, their governor general or whatever who was sitting in Delhi or wherever, he or he would report to the crown in London. They would take orders from the crown in London. He would serve the crown in in London. The Mitani Empire did not serve any headquarters in the subcontinent. They were completely independent. They possibly did not even have any connections anymore with the Indian subcontinent. So from that perspective, it's not Indian. Maybe it's Indianized, but maybe not maybe not Indian entirely. It's an Indianized kingdom with an Indo-arian or Arian or Indian Sanskrit speaking uh royalty and aristocracy. But the con people were the local huran speaking people. >> So the metanic kingdom depending on how you see it is either an Indian kingdom or an Indianized kingdom or maybe definitely Indianized for sure. Um yeah that's how you that's how you would classify it. Yajj Navalia says was the bifphasic sleep pattern wherein people slept early first sleep woke around midnight for a while and returned to sleep return to bed or second sleep prevalent in pre-industrial societies. How did this sleep pattern change with the dominance of artificial lighting in the modern era? So there used to be something called bifphasics sleep at least in Europe. It is recorded in Europe before the advent of artificial lighting in the industrial age. So people in Europe would go to sleep by sunset. By sunset you would have complete darkness everywhere. People could light fires or whatever but you did not have any street lights or any such thing. You had no light pollution in the sky. The sky was proper pitch black. You would see stars. The stars you would see them in great detail. If it was a moonlit night, yeah, you could see more, but overall you had proper darkness at light. So people typically in Europe would go to sleep by sunset. Let's say 7:00 p.m. Hypothetically, different parts of Europe, you have different different depending on the latitude, etc., but let's say they went to sleep by sunset. Then they would sleep for a few hours. Then they would wake up around midnight, around around 12:00 p.m. or so, roughly around that time. And then they would be awake for a while, maybe an hour or so, and they would do whatever whatever they did. I that's that's not important. So they would sleep until around 12. They would be awake for an hour or so and then they would go back to sleep again and they would wake up at sunrise and maybe that that period in between when where they were awake, maybe it was 1 hour, maybe it was like a couple of hours, maybe two, three hours, whatever it was. So you had two different distinct separate phases of sleep broken up by a period period of being awake in between. So it was a bifphasic sleep pattern that was prevalent in Europe before the industrial age. Maybe it was prevalent for thousands of years before the industrial age which in the industrial age brought with it street lights and all that. Initi initially you had u oil powered street lights then you had gas powered street lights eventually electricity powered street lights and artificial lighting in everyone's house. So eventually you know artificial lighting became the norm and because of that the bifphasic sleep pattern was combined or fused into a single sleep pattern a single 8 hour roughly uh period of sleep. So that is what the deal was in Europe. Now did other cultures or societies have bifphasic sleep patterns? The Chinese and the Indians also had bifphasic sleep patterns but different. The Chinese and Indians would sleep for a couple of hours in the afternoon. Okay. Take a nap. The Italians also have this practice. They call it the siesta. Siesta. Yes. Siesta. So in India and China also people typically especially when India was still civilized and not occupied with foreigners people would sleep for a couple of hours in the afternoon sleep it off and then so in India we did not have a bifphasic night sleep pattern they sleep by sunset and then sleep for four five hours and wake up for a couple of hours and sleep again no as far as we know that did not exist in India there's no record of that and not neither in China so the two big Asian civilizations we did not have this but the Europeans had it. Why is it so? I'm not sure why. Uh but yeah it end this this pattern this bifphasic sleep pattern ended with the advent of artificial lighting and with the advent of artificial lighting people started staying staying awake much later. So earlier if people would have slept by 700 p.m. with the art advent of artificial lighting you could stay awake all night if you wanted which is not advisable at all. So maybe people started sleeping late maybe by 9:10 p.m. or whatever and then they would wake up at dawn. So then this entire bifphasic sleep pattern disappeared. It was replaced by a single sleep phase and roughly 8 hours sleep phase. And today I suppose people don't sleep 8 hours anymore because people have blue light in front of their eyes all day all night. They're looking at this, looking at this and then that that affects the quality of sleep and then people sleep five what five six hours and people find it glorious that we sleep five six hours because you know I sleep less work more it's going to affect the quality of your life anyway so yeah that's the deal Nirvana Shanks says in dealing with the Turk invasions around 1000 AD could Indian rulers have remained defensive or would a more proactive offensive strategy have been better to eliminate the threat permanently. Okay, interesting question which brings in geographical uh aspects as well as political aspects of India and the region at the time. So first of all we have to remember around 1000 AD India was no longer uh politically unified under a single emperor. It was no longer a simple single empire as was the case during the Morian era or the Kusan era or the Gupta era or maybe even the Kota era right when you had one single massively powerful imperial power that uh that controlled a major portion of the subcontinent's territory and maybe beyond the subcontinent. Um around 1000 AD we did not have this. We had kingdoms. Kingdoms. So India was no longer united. India was broken up into kingdoms. Same people all related to each other. But we have different kingdoms and we have our own territory and we will jealously protect that and we'll fight each other and we will have this petty jealousies and rivalries. That was the deal around 1000 AD. So no kingdom was powerful enough at this time to even defeat its neighboring kingdoms in India and unify the whole subcontinent. Again, understand this first of all. So, you don't have any genuinely powerful kingdom. They're all kind of there's a balance of power so to say between these various kingdoms. So, they are always worried about the next king. He might come and take my territory, take bites out of my territory. So, they were always guarding their borders and that was the deal. So because of and and none of them were powerful enough to defeat everybody else. Now the Turks they come from the northwest the Kyber pass and the Turks they are this nomadic tribalistic society and they cover vast distances very rapidly and they are unified under the Goris and the Gnavis and whatn not. So that was a very different threat and it made sense. I mean you know sitting to sitting over here in front of the map in our air conditioned rooms in our armchairs it's very easy to imagine that why didn't any Indian king think about it like this that did we go and you know cut the head of the snake off go to the root the source of the problem and eradicate the problem. Why didn't they think about it? First of all, we do not have maps the way we do today. See, today we we we can do this. We can look what what on earth is that. Okay, let's do this. So, we can look here. Okay, so see we we let's say I am a king in in Rajasthan for example. And I have this issue that comes in all the time from you know northwest from from Gandhar. Where is Gore? Where is Gazny? Wherever it is. So these guys they come from there. So let me once and on and for all go all the way to Gore and Gazni and then wipe the ground clean with from the of these barbarians. Let me liberate Gandhar and then maybe I can even rule Gandhar. The problem is we have all these little kingdoms in the way and they will not allow any of the big kings any of the kings to come and cross their territory on their way to Gandhar. And if let's say I'm a king and I will leave my kingdom, take my army, take the permission of all the other kings and go all the way to Gandhar. In the meanwhile, will somebody else not take my kingdom? That was the problem. So theoretically they should have done it. Yes. Gone to the source of the problem, the root of the problem and and fixed it. But practically it was not possible at all. All right. The world is a complicated place. You know, cows aren't spherical. In physics, we say that cows are spherical. You know, we consider ideal conditions. But in the real world, there are all kinds of complications. Those complications prevent things from happening the way we would like them to happen. So, that was the issue sir. That was the issue. Amisha says, "What made Saddam Hussein think that he had any chance of winning against a giant coalition all by himself in the Gulf War?" Uh what makes us think that he actually thought this? How do we know Saddam Hussein thought that he could win this? Has he did he ever give any indication that he believed that he could win the war? Did he even want a war? He never wanted a war. See, Iraq was an American vasal. The Americans used Iraq to bleed Iran in the 1980s during the Iran Iraq war. So, Saddam Hussein was an American vasal. He was a he was an American asset. And then in 1990 or whatever, he goes and asks the Americans, you know, this this Kuwaitis, they are stealing my oil. We have oil wells. We have a border between Iraq and Kuwait. And the Kuwaitis are not drilling deep down straight down. They're dealing side drilling sideways and siphoning oil oil off from my territories from from oil wells in my in my territory and they have been doing this for a long time. I need to teach them a lesson. That's what Saddam Hussean told the Americans. So he said, "Hey Americans, you okay if I go and take Kuwait? You okay with that? Will you have an issue if I do that?" They said, "Go ahead. Go ahead, Saddam. Go ahead." So Saddam goes and invades Kuwait. And then the Americans say, "How how dare you." So the Americans threw Saddam Hussein under the bus. The Americans wanted direct control of Iraq's oil wealth. They they were tired of Saddam Hussein. He had no he no longer served any purpose for them apparently. So they gave him the green light to go and invade Kuwait. And the moment he did that they said you are a very naughty boy now we will invade you and they created this big coalition invasion force and they invaded Iraq in 20ou in 1991 and they must have killed I don't know how many millions of Iraqis but Saddam Hussein still remained in power until 2003 when some few more million Iraqis were killed and Saddam Hussein was the one to be captured and and executed. So Saddam Hussein did not ever have any intention of fighting a war against the whole world. He was an American wasal and he took permission from the Americans before invading Kuwait and the Americans trapped him. They put him in a corner and then they did what they did. That's what happened in the 1990s. 91 was the Gulf War, the first oil war so to say. Amisha once again difference between settlement and colonization. See let's say I start a space company which is way better than Elon Musk's SpaceX and I start launching 1,000 people per rocket launch into space. Now you can't simply launch people into space. You have to have some habitation, right? So I will first go to the moon and I'll create this apartment complexes on the moon. Okay, that's all hypothetical. I will create first apartment complexes on the moon. Let's say I can accommodate 100,000 people, one lakh. Then I'll start taking people from the earth and settling them there. That is called settlement. Then I will go to the to to Mars and eventually I will settle let's say 500,000 people there. That is called settlement. Now let's say I go to Pakistan, okay? And I take over the country and then I start exploiting the resources and taking stuff out of Pakistan. Oil there or whatever oil and gas they have, I'll take it out and bring it to India. Whatever rare earths they have, I'll mine them and bring it to India. uh whatever else they may have, I'll exploit all of that and bring all that all those resources to India and I I will have some people my my military and my officials who will administer Pakistan and keep the Pakistanis under my boot. This is called colonization. That's the difference between settlement and colonization. Settlement means you're settling in a place where nobody else exists. Colonization means you are subjugating the people who exist and exploiting them. That is the difference between settlement and colonization. Yajjnalika says, "Is it true that the Gupta Empire was larger in area than the present day Republic of India? If yes, one may get deceived if one just looks at the maps of both and compares the areas visually. I think the Gupta Empire at its peak at its peak was larger in land area uh than the present day Republic of India and we can let's let's see if it is actually true. What does Wikipedia our good friend have to say? Our super unreliable Wikipedia. What's it say this time? So let's just Google India. Okay, not cricket. I want to see the Wikipedia entry about India. Here we are. So let us see the Wikipedia entry for India. It must have some area somewhere. Land uh area land area 3287263,287,000 square kilmters 3287. Okay. Now let us look at Gupta Empire. Remember the thing in the number in mind 38 what is it once again let me see 328 3287 okay now Gupta Empire 3287 3287 let's remember what is the land area of the Gupta Empire 3287 was a thing Maharaj Dhi is fine do we have a land area somewhere 3287 land area 3500 which is bigger than 3287 so even Wikipedia agrees with what I just said that the Gupta Empire empire that period of our history we had a greater land area our the Gupta Empire covered a greater land area than the current day present day republic of Bhart okay indeed so even Wikipedia agrees with that Mr. Scared cat. Scaredy cat. Are you? Uh the question is what punishments were given for corruption, crime against women and abuse of power during India's great empire such as the Morian empire, the Chola, the Kushan, Ashoka's reign. Maybe we need those today to restore fairness and discipline in present day India. That's a topic I'm not going into. But let's discuss punishments. I'm not sure about the Kushan era because we don't have detailed records of uh legal procedures and and crime and punishment during the Kushan era. But we do have a fantastic resource from the Morian era, the Art Shastra. So the Art Shastra tells you in detail what kind of punishments were meed out for various crimes. And if you talk about the time of emperor Ashok Ashoka's reign, that's once again the Morian era, right? Ashoka was the most powerful emperor of the Morian um empire, Morian dynasty or Morian period of our history, which is about 2,300 years ago or so. So u if you read the ara shastra it tells you what punishments are are given for what crimes like 30 40 crimes are mentioned you know administrative petty corruption crimes and all that. Um so typically if if somebody an official was corrupt and he had embezzled some money he would have to pay a fine of 10 times that. Okay, the fine would be 10 time that and if it was a repeat repeat offender it would be end of story, goodbye, death penalty. Um, so and for bribery and other stuff there were heavy fines sometimes physical punishment means you know be you know beating with hitting with uh cane or whatever. Um crimes against women I think the punishments were harsher. I think during the war era it was death pen death death pen death death penalty uh for sexual assault I'm sure it was the death penalty I'm not sure for other things what it was um when it comes to abuse of power okay let's let's understand what is abuse of power if you are abusing power during the morian empire's era it means that you are a person in power who is abusing power now if you are a person in power. It means that you serve the Maharaja Dhiraj, the emperor of India and you are acting on his behalf, right? You are you hold power on behalf of the emperor. If you abuse that power, if you go against, if you fail to carry out the emperor's will and if you do something that the emperor has which goes against what the emperor has decreed, that's abuse of power, right? The emperor has said that you are an official in his in his court in his administration and you are supposed to carry out these duties and that is how you will use your power. If you abuse your power, it means you're going against the wishes and the will of the emperor. I promise you the punishment won't be very lenient for that. If you're lucky, you will escape with a gigantic fine and and physical punishment, corporal punishment. But typically if you abused power in the during the morian era, especially during the time of Shri Ashoke, I think it was the death penalty straight away. And maybe if the if if your crime was you know significantly u heenous then you would first be tortured before you were killed especially during the time of emperor Ashok because he was a pretty harsh emperor. He was fond of well he was well he was what he was right. So yeah, you did not want to do that. If you did did that, you would if you abused power and you were in a high position, it was a guaranteed death sentence. So that's how it was during the Chola era. How how were things? The Cholas used to have uh Dharma Sabhas and all that. And uh for domestic crimes and all the dharma sabhas would decide what would happen what punishment would be given. If you let's say you are a husband who beat your wife then there would be some kind of penalty that you would have to pay. Um if you did corruption or whatever you would have to give a hefty fine to the local temple or something. But if you abuse power once again which went against the emperor's wishes then I think the the punishment would be much more severe in that case. Um that's the Chola uh that's relevant to the Chola Empire obviously Kushan Empire I'm not sure but all these empires there would not be strong empires if if they did not have very strict adherance to the rule of law and very clear punishments. The punishments not necessarily need to be very harsh, but they have to be implemented uh in a way that is like guaranteed, you know, that if you break the law, you're going to guaranteed to be punished. And that's what we had. We had high standards back in the day. Uh I shall say no, nothing beyond that because I deal with history, geopolitics, and science and I don't deal with current politics. So, okay. Raptor Babu that's is quite a name Raptor Babu. Raptor Babu says is Europe even a continent in a geographical sense. Are the a idea of white European west artificially introduced? Because white people look light brown or or brown pink or red or not generally white. Why do they even we even call them white? When I saw your understanding America episode, it made me think that we they need these layers of identity unifying them all to stop wars amongst them while they try while they try to do the reverse and try to balconize India like places. What are my thoughts? Okay. Uh we will deal with the question of whether Europe is a continent in a geographical scale from a sense geog geographic sense. I mean if you're talking about geography, it's always that I'll go to the map. So let's take a look at the map. Do you what is a continent? See, Africa is a continent. It's clearly separate from all everything else. There is a little bit of connection here which has now been severed artificially through this west canal. And historically, Egypt was regarded as an Asian civilization by the way, but whatever. So, Africa is clearly a continent. Australia clearly a continent. Antarctica clearly a continent. U North and South America, you could say these are two separate continents. There's a very little small sliver of land which is the entire nation which comes in the way but fine okay two separate continents. Now when it comes to this land mass do you see something separate called Europe see India is a peninsula or a subcontinent clearly it it simply physically you can see that yeah and then you have uh this peninsula called Sakalin sorry this is this is Kamchatka that is obviously a peninsula um Spain is a peninsula Europe but Europe itself is a peninsula of Eurasia. So Europe is not a continent geographically speaking. It is a completely artificial idea. The Europeans have developed this sense in their mind that they are something special and and unique and uh different. And that's why Europe has to be considered a separate continent. It's not a separate continent. Europe is you could say a peninsula kind of of Eurasia. It's not a separate continent. I personally don't recognize it as a separate continent. Europe. It's a it's a political region so to say. Even then you even there you have East Europe, West Europe, right? And the Western European nations are the EU and NATO nations and the Eastern European nations are the nations that are more closely allied with Russia and so on. It's a political concept. The whole concept of Europe is a political concept. Uh so it's not really a continent. Okay. The Baron Zemo says, "If India had industrialized before Europe, how might global power dynamics have changed? Could India have avoided colonization? India was the world's first ever fully industrialized civilization. India was industrialized before Europe. When the Europeans came to India, India was fully industrialized. This is what the education system has done to our people. Our people imagine that India was some backwater before the Europeans came to India. The Europeans civilized India. The Europeans gave us industry. We had nothing. We were living in half naked in the trees. Apparently, that's what Indians imagine. That's what this godamned education system has done to Indians. The education system that the government doesn't want to change. They want to keep Indians mentally colonized. This is mental colonization. I don't blame the person who has asked this question. This person wants to learn. I'm glad people want to learn. I'm glad people have this curiosity. But see what people are made to believe. India was the world's first fully industrialized civilization. When was that? 5,000 years ago. 3000 BC. India was fully urbanized, fully industrialized. Do you know this? You will not know this because you will not be taught this. In 1500 AD, India was fully industrialized. We did not have electricity. We did not have computing. We didn't have cell phones. But we had the best technologies of the 1500s. And everybody was employed. There was no unemployment in India. And India's GDP was onethird of the entire world's GDP. At least one/ird. And none of this is taught to Indians which is why I I get all upset. So my dear friend, India was fully industrialized before Europe. We were fully industrialized when the Europeans were living in caves and eating raw meat and wearing skins, animal skins. Did it change power dynamics? No. India was fully civilized also. India was not merely fully civilized. India was fully industrialized and yet we were colonized by the Europeans. We were occupied and destroyed by the Europeans. So industrialization is not it is definitely a necessary condition for for avoiding colonization but it's not a sufficient condition for avoiding colonization and actually it's not even a necess necessary condition. Um yeah you need industrial warfare and all so industrialized warfare. So it's a necessary condition but not sufficient. What's sufficient? What what is sufficient to avoid cronization? You have to be you have to be able to think like barbarians and you have to be able to fight like them and fight worse than them and that is something we do not have and that's why they were able to colonize us. It begins with the Turks of course. So yeah that's a deal. Okay 2 hours done. Let's take a few questions from the live chat shall we? Yes we shall. Okay. So in case yes Shoub says we had a great ship building industry. Absolutely. We had a great ship building industry. We had the biggest ships in the world. I mean Vasco Dama when he crossed the Cape of Good Hope and he reached East Africa he thought that he had the world's biggest ships and he saw rand random Indian merchants with ships that were like four times bigger than his. So yeah. So it is not enough to be rich. You have to be powerful and you need to know how to fight and more. You have to be unified and so much more. So anyway, okay. Do we have questions in the live chat? I will take some take a few questions. Nah G says United. Absolutely. G United. Um okay. Mango whity says for someone who practically defined linguistics. Panini doesn't get nearly the recognition it deserves in India today. Very few people know him. Why do you think it is? Because of the education system. Maybe your textbook has one a couple of sentences about paneindi. Who's going to remember that? It's a very clever way of doing things. You know that way you can say that you know we have mentioned paneindi in our textbook. Yeah. You got a couple of sentences, maybe one sentence about him, that's it. But we mentioned him. So, how can you say that we we don't mention him? It's like, you know, there are these books that that talk about America's history, the history of the United States and they extol the virtues of Columbus and so on and then they there'll be one sentence somewhere which will say that you know the European occur colonization colonization of of the Americas it it led to the genocide of the native Americans. There'll be one word genocide and one sentence about that somewhere in a in a 2,000word textbook and they'll say no no no look there look on that page we have mentioned that they a genocide did happen. So we are not whitewashing history. It will be buried under some some you know massive verbiage. So yeah the problem is the education system. That's why Indians don't know about panini. Okay feel strong man says counter my point sir we are not doing any military. I'm not countering anyone's points. Uh Rabi says what's the role of s worker in the independence movement? I have not studied the the life history of Shri Sawar in any any great detail. Uh so I will not be able to speak about that. I am not an expert in the independence movement. I have not studied various great personalities like Mr. Sauurkar, Mr. Gandhi, Dr. Ambedkar and whoever else may exist, Shinu G. I know things in from a macros macroscopic perspective but I don't know the specific details. I don't know the the exact details of exactly how things went. So yeah, uh Pratana says, "I'm testing something." All right, sir. No issues. Harshai says, "Duh. Do films have a long-term impact on the human mind?" Like I watched yesterday, a movie I watched yesterday, K1 showed theme of oppressor and oppress those who had build temples bad. Of course, movies have a huge impact. when you are when you are young you love movies I love movies even today so movies so when you are young when you are 15 16 years old when you are 12 years old you are super impressionable and it's easier to impress someone through the audiovisisual medium than through books so movies can can burn images into your mind forever so movies have a huge impact are a great tool of propaganda And the most powerful tool the United States for example has geopolitically is Hollywood. It's so easy to to mislead people by making movies. And movies have been used to to portray Hinduism as evil. And that's why lots of people believe Hinduism is an evil religion. Your own people, our own people, Hindus themselves believe that our ancestors are very cruel, very cruel, very oppressive. Yeah. So movies are are a massive propaganda tool. Pan Shri Hasha says why is there no ruins of Indian king's palaces while Rome Egypt and others preserve their ancient monuments why couldn't India do that what happened to the shungas Gupta Moria etc rulers palaces well to a very large extent we did not have rulers who lived in massive palaces for example you see it's possible that that rulers from older eras their palaces could not have survived possibly because how long does a building survived thousand years 2,000 years we've had history goes going back many more thousand years before that we have cities great cities like Rakiari Birana Kalibangan Mohenjadaro Harapa and so on where you don't find palaces at all we still have the outlines of those cities and the buildings and all that we know that we had multi-story buildings there we have the public works the the drainage systems the canals the the the bathous and the assembly halls and whatnot there's simply no palace Does it mean that we did not have kings at the time or does it mean that kings lived like ordinary people? What does it mean? We're not quite sure. Most likely we had some kind of quasi democratic system during the that period of time. Uh the more era we had emperors. So obviously we so what was the deal? Did did the emperors did not have palaces? Maybe some emperors had palaces. Maybe Chad Gupta may have had a palace. Maybe Ashok would have had a palace. I suppose maybe the palace don't doesn't stand anymore. Um say it's 2 and a half thousand years roughly before today. It's very hard for any building to stand that long, right? Um what about the shungas? The shungas they would also have ruled out of partutrautra is in ruins today the old city and we haven't really bothered to excavate it. You don't even find any any colored pictures of partiputra today. The excavated parts of Patiputra it's completely neglected the Gupta era once again partiputra and then was it Matura wherever it was so once again our ASI has done nothing all they're doing is busy they're busy maintaining muggal monuments from the muggal kingdom uh yeah so it is so it is true that many Indian kings did not maintain palaces for example if you look at uh if you If you examine or consider something more recent like the Marata Empire, it was an empire. They had forts which are military fortifications. Forts typically on hills. They were called duras, right? Dura. But did the Marata emperors have palaces? No. You had some Rajput kings who had palaces that were built after the Vasalage period of the Rajputs. And you have these princely kingdoms which are all British vasals who had palaces. Sure. But the true sovereign kings and emperors of India it's hard to find their palaces if they if they had any. So it's it's a big question. Looks like many of the Indian kings and emperors did not really maintain massive palaces. Looks like that. Godliness says for you what is the history of science? How back in history will you date science and which scientific experiment or innovation will you select as being earliest in the recorded history? Um what's the history of science is the history of science is the history of scientific thought. It begins so where does science begin? Science begins in philosophy. What is philosophy? Philosophy is the systematic or systematic. It's it's how to how you configure your thoughts systematically. How you organize your thoughts systematically and and and you follow rules of thought. So philosophy is essentially the quest for uncovering the laws of the universe. So you're looking for patterns and regularities and you're following rules in your inquiry. You don't just randomly inquire things and you don't randomly believe something right and then that is extended into what becomes the laws of science and the scientific method. So for example in philosophy you have patterns and regularities that you are looking for but philosophy deals with objects and phenomena which may not be material objects and phenomena. Philosophy considers things such as the soul atma. The atma is not a physical object. Philosophy thinks considers things like morality and ethics. These are not physical phenomena or objects. So philosophy deals with abstract concepts which are non-physical. But if you remove the abstractness and the non-physicality from philosophy, it becomes science. So where does the history of science begin? It begins with the schools, the Indian philosophical schools of thought. For example, which was it? Vashik was it? I have done a whole five minute video on this. Uh it was Maharashi Kan who said that the entire nature is composed of atoms right Kana atoms. So that's the atomistic theory or or the first to say quantum theory kind of goes back god knows how many thousands of years. So I think it's it's I would say it's there that u the history of science begins. Uh it's it's when you disregard the the non-material aspects of philosophy and you focus purely on the material based on the scientific method. That's where science begins. U so yeah that that's that for me is where the history of science begins. And uh which experiment or innovation? I'm not sure about that. Which experiment are in? Okay, let me give you an example. Find me an older one. Okay, let me show you. Google. Okay. Bor zoom supernova. This is ancient rock art from from northern India from Kashmir which shows you a sky chart and there are two suns in the sky. And if you go back to the time the time period when this rock was this rock art was done you will you will see that there was a supernova a star that exploded exactly what this this mentions. So this is not some hunting scene. It is actually a sky chart with with constellations with Orion the hunter and so on and and it it records a supernova eruption that happened about 5 6,000 years ago. So maybe that's the first observ observational evidence of of with some kind of a scientific u background perhaps. Okay. Um let's take the next question couple more. My opinion on bridge was responsible for the no the person who was responsible for the decline of the USSR was Gorbachev. You could say that you know standards started declining during BRNV's time. The decline of the USSR, if you really want to give a date to it, it's the death of Stalin. Things start going downwards from that time onwards. It is what it is. I'm not a great fan of Stalin. He we you don't want a ruler like Stalin. You don't want one like him. But he's the guy who made the USSR what what it became a superpower. And the decline started with the death of Stalin. So you have Krishv and so on and so on. Eventually BRNAV so every new leader the the standards decline slightly and with Gorbachov just takes a nose dive and yeah uh I look like Brnav wearing sunglasses how dare you I don't look Russian okay so that's how I see it right Hitman 91 thank you very much thank you okay we're done with the super chats and vi says aren't we ourselves responsible for the current situation of bat when you were born what was India's GDP let's say let's assume you're 20 years old okay roughly so it would mean you were born in 2005 what was India's GDP in 2005 1 billion or sorry 1 trillion less are you responsible for the India's GDP rate I mean what India's GDP was when when you were born then today India's GDP is 4 something trillion are you responsible for the increase in India's GDP you see the common person is not responsible for for whatever condition or state the the country is in. It is the leadership and the administration which is entirely responsible for whatever shape the country is in good or bad. We imagine that we are responsible for everything. We are told that we are responsible for everything. No, that's not the case. That is not true at all. India standards have declined because of a thousand years of foreign occupation and because of the standards the Nuvian and subsequent regimes have had. It is not the fault of the people of India. My dear friends, please every morning wake up and tell yourself it's not our fault that India is in the shape that whatever plight it is in today. Okay. Okay. Okay, let's take maybe one one or two questions more and then we can be done. Um, okay, let's take this one by Naj Desai Muhammad Gaddafi. How was he providing his countrymen incredible free schemes by seemingly having no external debts? What was his economic structure and how did it make it work? I am not sure about that. I have not looked into the uh economy of Libya under Colonel Colon Colonel Mohammer Gaddafi. I have not looked into what I know is that there was no debt. What I know is that he gave a lot of these fantastic schemes to his people. Education was free apparently, especially for girls and so on. I'm not sure exactly how it was done. I've not studied that. But yeah, he did that. He was able to achieve that. He did so much good for his people. All he wanted was that people the West leaves him alone. Leave my country alone. That's it. Okay. Uh Charlie Kirk, I have no opinion about that. Then we're talking about history today. So we'll not discuss that. Vishpala says, "How did the evil practice of women covering their faces?" This is the this is the last question for today. How did this evil practice of women covering their faces entrenched become entrenched into Indian society? Uh even today I see newlywed women covering their faces. Uh this isn't the case with southern India. Well, there there are some clues in that, isn't isn't it? There are some clues when it comes to the fact that southern India doesn't have this issue. How is it? So see the truth is and lots of people get very upset when I point this out. Look at our temple carvings from which are older than 10,000 years which is temple carvings that were done before the foreign occupation of India. How are women depicted in in the temple carvings of India in the period before the foreign occupation before the Turk occupation of India? You will see women wearing less clothes and men also people wore the kind of clothes that were suitable or appropriate for the climate of India which is typically for much of India pretty warm climate. So it was common for people to wear pretty what you would call flimsy or sky skimpy clothes that's how India was north as well as south okay uh before the Turk occupation even in Gandhari you will see topless women's statues in Gandhara Gandhara is a place where it snows and yet people used to wear wear the the clothing so India was very much like that then what happens is we have the Turk invasions and occupation of India, they came with a very different culture, they would cover their women and any woman who was not fully covered was seen as a piece of flesh and which is why Indian women had to start go start hiding indoors and if they ever came out they had to cover themselves completely and that had to become a tradition just for the for the sake of survival. Our people had to make it. They had to transform this into a cultural tradition that in our our land women and girls they cover themselves completely. Why? Simply so that they could live with some honor. Otherwise they would be abused by the Turks. So that became a practice for a thousand years. Why is it not prevalent prevalent in the south? Because the south never came under Turk occupation. Most of it that's the deal. It is not our culture. I think we should do away with that today. Anyway, it's up to people to decide what they want to live, what kind of lifestyle to live, who am I to tell them. But this is the root cause. Even in Gandhari, you will see statues. I can show you today if you want. Uh what is it called? Hunza. Hundz. What is it? Hunza. Hunza. Uh Hunza Valley. uh Gandhara art Buddhist deatas. Let's see. Uh do we find something? Um okay. Buddhist start is generally Gotham Buddha, right? Uh female. You are seeing more of more in art. Okay. I'm I'm I'm not sure where I had seen this but you will find Gandhara art which will depict the female form also in a topless manner and there was nothing vulgar about it at all. Okay, we are talking about our ancestors here. So we're not talking any nonsense here. Anyway, that's the deal. So that is how things changed in this country. Okay. Right. Okay. Do we have any other Okay. So some of Ramshi Kalam has taken one more super chat. What is the question? Raja Graha was Morian Gupta capital the British distorted it to Patner. No that's completely not correct. Let me explain. Raja is today called Rajir and Patutra is now called Patna. I'm not sure who distorted Patutra into Patna. I'm not sure if the British did that. Maybe it is the people of Magad who did that. It's up to them, their choice. Who am I to say a thing? But I don't think the British changed partiputra to Patna. And Raj Gria became Raj Gir. Let me demonstrate it to you. Let's go to the map and search for Rajir. Rajir. Zoom in to Rajgeir. Ancient city in the blah blah blah. So if you Google Raj Gir it will tell you it was originally called Raj Gha. Let's go to Google. If you go to Raj Gir the old name was Raja Graha. All right sir Mr. Wamshi Khalim the point is that Raja Griha became Rajir and Patiputra became Pata. All right people let us end this live stream now. Thank you so much for all the questions. I really appreciate them. And uh one second. Okay, let's take one. This is this is not a historical question, sir. Come on. Let's let's do only history today. Okay, people. I'll I'll I'll look forward to seeing you tomorrow and uh tomorrow we're going to talk about geopolitics and it's going to be a super chat session. So, I look forward to seeing you there. Until then, take care. Thank you so much for all the questions. It's always fun taking your questions and I look forward to seeing you all tomorrow. Thank you. Take care. Keep learning. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. See you tomorrow. Bye-bye.