[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello. Good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the 262nd episode of the Ask Abaja show. I hope everybody is doing fantastic. Uh before we begin let us see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Vun Warrior, Daran Patil, Manisha Kardo, GK, Vinyas, Xenomorphosis, Hunter, Kenway, Shubhham S, Hitanu, Shri, Javahar, Lal, Nehu G, Nai, G, Duv, Durya, Niha Sharma, UCSS, Samati, Adwit, Mata, Dirj, Kamat, Jimmy, Chacha, Aijit, Chava. Well, what is that? Pratam Sharma freedom from outcome from Canada. Sam again uh nationalist mystic SK geopolitical dubet from Indor uh anonymous scientist whose questions I have answered it looks like Dr. Patnik, Games, Rich, Devil, Omar, ICMBBS, Rahul, Dun. Um, uh, who else do we have? We have plenty of people. Scanda, Janadan, Janard, Yashwan, Sudir, Shiva, Dan S, Rohitki, a Singh, Katalin, Yash, Ds, Aradhya, Sharma, Nanch, Harshett, Anul, Chaki, Rala, Ravi Kumar, Pratam Sharma, Sedhart, Adiga, Maklavin from Superbad I suppose, Briesh SK, Shashank Koshik, Polar Bear is here, Parto Shre A is there artistic self Rishikes Gupta and so many other people. I will not be able to greet you all individually but thank you so much for being on the live chat and let us get going with some questions. Shitra from Moscow Tares. Yes, it's good to see you sir. Okay, let's get get going with some questions. Uh ICMBB says what's your opinion on NZ's Uber Mench idea? I think it's an antithesis to Abrahamic moral values and much more aligned with Dharmic ideology. Well, I haven't read it in detail but the Uber uber mench idea is this the idea I believe what's the idea is it an emphasis antithesis to Abrahamic moral values and is it aligned to the dharmic ideology? I'll have to refresh my memory about Niche's Uber Bench idea. So, let's do a Google Let's do a very quick Google search. Okay. And then I'll that should be enough. Okay. Let's quickly uh Oberan obviously Superman but it's a philosophical ideal represent the person who has overcome traditional values and societal constraints to create their own meaning and values. It's not literal superhuman overcoming nealism, creating new values beyond good and evil etc. Not a fixed state, not a social class, etc. It's a philosophical ideal representing a people, a person who has overcome traditional values and so on and so forth. Okay, that's the uber. So, is this an anti antithesis to Abrahamic moral values? Um, what are Abrahamic moral values? Uh, Abrahamic moral values are that you confirm You don't ask questions. You don't think. You accept whatever is taught to you by by your elders and whatever is written in the book and you don't raise questions and so on. And the Ubench is kind of different from that, isn't it? It's about u a person who overcomes traditional values and societal constraints to create your own meaning and values. Well, that's totally iconoclastic. Clearly it's totally iconoclastic. It's definitely the way I see it an antithesis to Abrahamic uh values and norms. Is it aligned with dharmic the dharmic ideology? Well, in dharmic ideology you do question everything and you are completely free to to uh have your own values and and live life your own way as long as you don't harm anybody. So yeah, it is more aligned with Dharmic ideology as compared to the Abrahamic moral values and it is definitely you could say an antithesis to Abrahamic moral values. Yeah, it is. Omar says SM geopolitics and astrology experts predict India will take back P in one or two years but now as Trump is on Pakistan's side, will this be possible if we are at war again? Okay, look um I have not made any such prediction. Of course, I'm not an astrologer. I don't know anything about astrology. So, I will not comment about that. But I have not pred predicted I I could perhaps be seen as somebody who understands geopolitics. Perhaps perhaps little bit tora to so I have not made a prediction that India will take back P in one one or two years. Uh Trump is very much favoring Pakistan. You are absolutely correct in your observation. Trump is very much favoring Pakistan. Uh so will it be possible if we are at war again? Well first of all the question is will we be at war again? Uh we had a three-day war 3 and a half 4 day whatever 3-day war and it was paused because of external interference which is Trump's interference. Uh now Pakistan will regroup. It will uh possibly learn the lessons of the operation zindur and possibly bolster its defenses and other capabilities and so on uh and so on. So the question is will we be at war again soon? Well, it depends. It entirely depends on Pakistan and Pakistan's uh behavior. If Pakistan launches another terrorist attack on India, we we will be at war again and this time we may strike harder. So the question is really is Pakistan possibly going to launch another terror attack in the next one or two years? If it does, we will be at war. Then the question is if we are at war will we be able to take back P? I'm not sure about that. See the objective as of now is to significantly degrade Pakistan's military and terrorist capabilities. Right? The military and terrorist capabilities go hand in hand because they are the same entity. So if we can do that and of course the nuclear blackmail has been burst now. The nuclear weapons are American weapons and the Pakistanis won't be allowed to use them. I don't think they will and if they do it's the end of Pakistan. So I think that it's unlikely for us to take back P in one or two years. I don't know. I have no idea about astrology. So I'll not comment about that. But I have never said that it's likely that it'll happen in the next couple of years. It may definitely happen in the next 10 to 20 years maybe even 5 years but 2 years it's a I think it's a short time frame. The devil says what ideology did people follow in ancient India and also compare it with ideologies like communism etc. One more question I have about dating in ancient India. What's the question? Ideology. India has never been an ideological uh civilization. What did we follow in ancient India? We followed dharma. The various schools of thought of dharma. Dharma. Dharma right? Whether it is uh whether it is Charvak philosophy or Sananka philosophy or Bimmana philosophy or Vidanta philosophy or or Naya philosophy or whatever else or Jina philosophy or Bodha philosophy etc. These are all dharmic philosophies and these are all different schools of thought. Some are pretty different from each other. Some are pretty and there's still a lot of commonality. So that's what Indians followed in ancient India. We didn't have communism and whatever else. We had nothing no such thing. So these are not ideologies. These are philosophical schools of thought. Each philosophical school of thought had a set of tenants which essentially were models of the universe essentially. Right? What were the what was the universe like and what are the laws that governed the universe and that and that sort of thing. So that's what our ancestors followed. There was no ideology as such. Um yeah dating in ancient India I have no idea. We have lost our text so I have no idea. Dating games. Rich says, "Is it just too much information flow or is the world actually getting more unstable?" Uh, also do you say thanks to Chat GPD at the end of the conversation? Well, if you're having conversations with Chat GPD, maybe you should thank Chat GPD for taking the time to have a conversation with you. I I don't know. It depends on the nature of the conversation you're having with Chad GPT. I have seen u photos of people standing in subways with their phone and this chat GPD on there and they are talking to chat GPD like it's a girlfriend of theirs you know that sort of conversation. So it depends on what sort of conversations people have with chat GPD right I mean ch seems to be a pretty powerful tool but people are using it for all these silly purposes like creating memes. I mean it's fine to create memes and all but yeah most people will use technology for these little little things. Um now is it too much information flow? Is the world getting more unstable? Both both things are both of both of things are happening. There is more and more information out there in on the internet. No question about that. And most of it is now becoming noise. It's just noise and very little actual signal high value signal high quality signal. So there's a tremendous amount of information. And most of it is just generic noise. People just mumbling and blabbering. Um so there is that. But is the world also getting more unstable? It is getting more unstable geopolitically. So it's a combination of all these factors. My dear friend, Dr. Ritik Patna says 29 million subscribers. YouTuber said that J. Shankar is a failed diplomat. We have no allies. Not even even Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka support China. Can you give real clarity? I don't know who this okay whatever YouTuber is we have no allies that is correct of course we have no allies we don't have any formal alliance uh agreement with any nation we don't have something like what NATO has which is a formal uh agreement uh so we have no allies no official allies we we have partners we are multi-aligned we have lots of alignments with various nations in based on various uh shared interests but we have no allies Okay. Does Bhutan support China? I disagree. Bhutan doesn't support China. Does Sri Lanka support China? Not quite. During the Raja Paka era, Sri Lanka was under the Chinese uh sphere of influence. Today, it is more more aligned towards the US and to some extent India, not that much China. So, I would disagree with that. I disagree about Sri Lanka. I disagree about uh Bhutan. When it comes to Nepal, the politicians are all left aligned, which means that they many of the politicians are aligned with China. That's no question. There's no question about that. But culturally, Nepal is Indian. We are the same people as the Nepalese. They are the same as us culturally, genetically, etc. Uh, and there is a significant uh push, there's a significant desire one sees from time to time in the Nepalese population to see a restoration of the monarchy. If that happens, then Nepal will not be pro-china. But right now, Nepal is kind of pro-China. kind of to some extent right so I think that answers that so I've answered the question about the allies about Nepal about Bhutan about Sri Lanka is Jashanka a failed diplomat I mean why is he a failed diplomat what has he done to deserve the tag of being a failed diplomat I don't understand that he's a reasonably good pretty good diplomat uh he's taking care of our interests how has he failed I I fail to understand that so I don't care if this person has 29 million YouTube uh subscribers or whatever. Uh I I strongly disagree with that with that nonsensical uh claim whatever it whoever the person is. Okay. Rabi says top peerreed Indian geneticist Nariman. Are you talking about Vagish? You're talking about Vagish Nariman. One second. Is it Vagish? Vages. Ah you're talking about Vageshariman top peerreed Indian geneticist who works with the David Reich lab he has confirmed by confirmia confirmed that R1A is not Indian it's not native to India it came from Mars it came from Venus it came via immigration oldest R1A samples are this many years old found in Russia blah blah etc etc etc not India clearly clearly indicating external origin Oh my god, this is the end of the world for us. This is a work in progress. Okay, and he may be a top peer-reviewed guy, but okay, now he has his own lab apparently and so on. This is a work in progress. Look, please understand one thing, my friends. Let me explain this very clearly. This is obviously all related to the Arian invasion/migration/ourism/ picnic theory, right? The migration theory became a the invasion theory became a migration theory. Now it's going to be a tourism theory and eventually picnic theory. But understand this my friends this claim of this aran invasion migration whatever it's not going to be settled through genetics. Why do I say this? Please understand. Why do I make make this statement? It will not be settled through genetic data. Hm. Because the Arian invasion/migration theory has two two central claims. First claim is that Hinduism is foreign to India. Second claim Sanskrit is foreign to India. Now from your DNA can you can you determine what was the religion of the person and what was the the language of the person? You can't. So what's this pointless nonsense about R1A and genetics and all and the R1A question is still an open question. There is research happening in India. Okay, let the Indian research come out. There is research happening at the Birbalani lab with with a significant set of Indian samples. Let the research come out. We'll see about that. So first so first of all the genetic question is a totally separate question. But the real central claims of the RN and vision theory are the question about religion and language. Hinduism and SKR and they want to claim they're claiming that Hinduism and Sanskrit are foreign to India. These are the central claims. It has nothing to do with genetics. And let them prove this. Are they are any of them in a position to prove that Hinduism is foreign to India? It originated outside India and Sanskrit originated author of India. Let me let me I I will wait for that to be proven. It will never be proven. And that's that's the whole deal. Anonymous scientist says the UK Navy is a stealth lol F-35B fighter jester in India. What are my thoughts? I am beginning to think it's a it's a Trojan horse. I mean they said that the thing ran out of was running out of fuel. That's why it had to make an emergency landing in India. Fine. But why is it here for 5 days? Take it back. take your flying trash can back. Why haven't you taken it back this far? I am beginning to think it's think that it's a Trojan horse. It's it's a spying operation of some kind. I don't know. I don't know what the deal is. I have no idea why it's still there. If they are not willing to take it back, we should impound it. You know the Indian government and custo customs officials, they love to impound things. They put their stamp and their seal and all that. Take it, Leelo. Impound it. Uh Shivam says let's be honest India will never c catch up to China. Well then Shivam Bakshi please go to China. Why are you here? Why are you so pessimistic? I see lots of Indians like this. I don't understand why. Let's be honest. You be honest. It's it's for it's it's your perspective. It's your worldview that India will never catch up with China. I strongly disagree. I have the utmost utmost faith in the in Indian civilization you know most people are average right we know that right that's why the world a the word average exists most people are average another word for average is mediocre so the world is average the world is mediocre so the same applies to India but India has more exceptional people than anywhere else in the world the system is horrible no question about it but we going to prevail So I just don't agree with this defeatist mindset that you have sir that India will never catch up with China. Oh we are doomed. We will never be good etc. That's not for me. Please don't please don't it's that that mindset is not for this this channel. Please don't bring it here sir. Okay let's be positive. Let's be optimistic. What's the point of this? I don't get it. Anonymous scientists earth. Well thank you sir. Thank you very much. Very kind of you. Gapati says, "Hey Abijit, previously you mentioned there were only six sovereign states." Well, I used to say four. Now it's five, but you saying six. Somebody will now say seven. Seven colors of the rainbow. So, Iran wasn't in that list. Their actions don't seem subservient. It serves their national interest. Who is their master? I have historically said there are four sovereign states. Of late I have uh revised that estimation and now and and I now say there are five sovereign states. I have never said there are six but maybe you must have uh you must have heard something and okay so that's that's fine. So which are the which are the sovereign states? The US, Russia, China, India and Israel. So according to me there are five sovereign states not six. Okay. Now you are asking about Iran and it's a good question. Why do I say that Iran is not fully sovereign, right? Because they are critically dependent on two nations, Russia and China. Critically dependent. And if these nations essentially don't come and stand with Iran, then Iran could end up losing its independence. Forget about sovereignty. It's it'll end up losing its territorial integrity. uh and Iran is deeply dependent on on these two nations and you know it's cut off from the rest of the world because of American sanctions which has caused the situation and put Iran in a situation where it is without these donations it essentially can't survive without Russia and China. So it means that it's critically depend on them which means it is not fully sovereign right their actions look their actions they are obviously in defiance of the US because they have no other choice but without the support of Russia and China Iran is doomed please understand that um Adwat Ma is asking two questions how was Hitler's economy it was great Hitler actually transformed the German economy okay it's a very interesting chapter of history. He did transform the German economy. He brought Germany up from its knees. How was France after Napoleon? Not so good. Not so good. The Napoleonic wars kind of ruined France and it it caused a lot of changes across the world in Europe and also in South America and where not. You know, very interesting. So, lots of um lots of you know second order, third order effects and so on. Rahul, well, thank you so much sir. very kind of you. Um, Vic Post says, "Why are 90% English-speaking whites racist to Indians?" Well, I'm not sure everyone's racist. I'm not sure about the 90% figure, but you do have racism against Indians. Why is there racism against India? Because India is daring to rise again. You see, India is a nation of brown people who apparently are inferior to white people according to the white supremacist mindset. I'm not I'm sure not all whites think that way. Okay, there are nice people as well in the world. Please please understand there are many nice people in the world. There are many non-racist people in the world. But historically the west has been super racist and they have at some point in time in history they began to imagine that white skin makes them superior and we are a nation of brown people. Look at this brown skin. So some of them believe that you know the fact that they have white skin makes them superior and also we are a nation of brown people who were subjugated by the whites for two and a half centuries. We were completely destroyed. Our economy was devastated. Everything of value was sucked out of India. And look at us today. We are rising up on our feet again. We are the fourth largest economy. We have we have the tearity to have nuclear weapons. We have the temerity to not participate in American sanctions against Russia, another eastern nation. So we we we were supposed to be coolies but we are standing up and we are saying we are independent. How dare we? How dare we? So that's why there is this upsurge of racism against us. It's a good thing. It tells us if these if these racists are all upset. Once again, I'm saying not all white people are racist. Okay, there are many nice people as well. But if those racist white people are upset, we must be doing something good. So why are we upset about it? We should be celebrating. Yay. Yay. Yay. It's going well. We're doing really well. Amand Anandra himate says battle of Ajankur a 100 years war between France and UK. The battle of Ajankur was a supreme victory I think with battle of who was it Henry VII was it the English archers who were plucking the U the the English long bow made of U wood and they would pluck the U wood and unleash the arrows. When was the battle of Ajanur? I don't remember. Let let's let's quickly do a quick Google search. I think I'm still oldfashioned. I don't do chat GPT searches. I still do Google searches. Right. Okay. Battle of Ajaku. Yes. So, who were the 100 years was who were the belly belligerents? Henry V, not Henry VII. Oh, I see. So, they defeated the French. Now, as you can as you can see, you have English archers with the English long bow. There you have it, the long bow. So, yes, I do have I do remember some of this. Yes. Yes. And yeah, it was a significant victory by the English over the accursed French. Yes. They the two nations were were they they were enemies for a thousand years. They hated each other. The the French called the English leos beef and the English called the French the frogs. lifrogs. I I don't know why but whatever. Um yeah, so it was this period of a 100 years of of of hostility between the two nations indeed. Yes. And then that that hostility lasted a long long time and I don't think it's entirely gone away even now. Yeah. Okay. John says, "I'm 27 years old. I want to study BSc physics. Do you think it's too late? In India, normally taking a bachelor's this late is looked down upon." Well, it how do you care what people think? If you want to do it, you do it. As long as it's it provides some value to you and and and and you know enhances your life in some way. It's up to you. I mean there are people who do their PhD at 70 years of age because they wanted to have a PhD. I had this dream of having a PhD. So now that I'm 70, I'll do a PhD. There's no such thing as right or wrong. If it's something you want to do, then tell yourself that the world can go take a hike. I'll do what I like. I don't think it's too late. I don't think so. Okay. But as long as it it it's it's useful to you or it's something that you really want to do, it should not come in the way of your career or whatever. As long as it doesn't hurt you or harm you in some way, who the hell cares what the world thinks? Do what you like. Yeah. Go for it. All the best. Go for it. UC says, "What are some more delusions Indians believe in?" Oh, I had made a video. What about delusions? Didn't I delusions? What delusions do Indians believe in? I have to think about it because I think I listed all the major delusions off the top of my head over the video and yeah, Vishwaguru and superpower and all that stuff. What other delusions? Um, I I love to think about it. I I I if I tell you now, I think I'll repeat all the points that I I had raised the other day. But yeah maybe I can think about it properly and make a list written down list and maybe maybe then I can answer the question. So at this point in time yeah I don't know more delusions wish for sure superpower for sure uh India India system is the best come on are you kidding me India's education system is garbage and um I suppose there could be many more delusions. So yeah um Rohan says will will Armenia's defense supply halt if Iran fails? If if Iran falls if Iran falls, Armenia also falls. Yeah, if Iran falls, Armenia also falls. Turkey will go for the jugular. Turkey won't do it directly. They will have their minions araijan do it. So yeah, Armenia's future kind of depends on Israel on on on Iran not falling. And do you see Israel is supporting Azarbaijan against Armenia while India is supporting Armenia against Azarbaijan. Very strange uh uh situation. Zishan says, "If you consider yourself an Indian patriot, why speak English, the language of my of our colonizers, not only do you speak in English, but you can barely speak Hindi?" I know I should be ashamed of myself and I have said this multiple times that this is a strong indication of the fact that I'm mentally colonized. Right? One of the reasons I speak English is that I want the world to understand our perspective. That's one reason. The other reason is that I am not very good at Hindi. I I I I can speak Hindi but I'm not that fluent. the the words and concepts and and all of that doesn't come naturally to me because I've never studied Hindi properly because I spent a lot of my formative years outside of the country. Right? So I I suppose it may be possible to be an Indian patriot while being mentally colonized to a certain extent. But I will very much encourage everybody uh to prioritize your mother tongue and your national languages. And I think that Sanskrit should we should revert to Sanskrit and if we do then I promise you I will stop speaking English and I'll I'll go back to speaking Sanskrit only and I'll learn it properly. But the other reason is that I don't consider Hindi to be the national language. Hindi is not Hindi doesn't deserve the status of a civilizational language for India or even a national language. The only language that is worthy of being a national or civilizational language is Sanskrit. Not Hindi. I am not a fan of Hindi and another reason is that the Hindi I have learned is the Hindi you you essentially speak on the streets of Mumbai. So I'm not sure how civilized that Hindi is. Uh so multiple reasons and Hindi the other reason is that Hindi has so many foreign loan words. I don't want to end up speaking foreign loan loan words. So because of all these reasons I prefer to speak English. Yeah, I know these are not these are all excuses of course. So ideally I should be speaking Sanskrit but then if I do that nobody will understand me and so on. So because of all these reasons I speak English. But I take your point. I know you're not trying to be disrespectful. You're making a good point here. And I have said this I am I do suffer from mental colonization because of the way I grew up and I was raised. I was exposed to English. I wasn't exposed to other languages and I was exposed to other foreign languages beyond English and so on. Yeah. Spade says we are Rossia Sar. Well, we are Rossia Sar. Well, if you say so. I'm not sure what you're saying, but okay. Thank you. Vamshi Khalm says Bahalik. Kingdom of Bishma is separate from Gandhar. Well, Bahalik and Gandhar are essentially separate. Right. But if you look at if you look at Gandhar from the perspective of today's Afghanistan, then Bahalik comes within that. But historical Gandhar was not the entirety of today's Afghanistan. It had some of today's Kyber Pakuna. It had the Chitral region and so on and various parts of Afghanistan, but Bahalik was separate. So you make a good point. No question. But if you if you want to superimpose the word Gandhar on today's Afghanistan then bulk comes within that doesn't it? So yeah so yeah if you want to be very very super precise and right then what you are saying is indeed correct sir geopolitical dub sir thank you so much thank you so much uh feminist khan slayer sharin are documentaries good for world history overview well I'll tell you what documentaries are great you can learn a lot from a documentary a good documentary but not from a short documentary documentary. Let's say you want to understand the the Second World War, for example, and you will watch a 60-minute documentary to understand the Second World War. You won't get much knowledge or context or information from a 60inute documentary about the Second World War. But there are some documentary series that are like 20, 30, 40 episodes each 1 hour long. I I suppose there are. If you watch that, if you invest that much time in doing that, then you may actually learn a lot about world history without having to read about it. So it depends even documentaries you to watch them seriously and in a short documentary won't teach you much. Okay. Adi Jin says namaste first of all if Iran becomes a US vasal could this be part of a US India collusion? India take America takes Iran and India handles Pakistan. You think America will allow India to handle Pakistan, take over Pakistan? It will never happen. Never going to happen. Would be nice if it was the case. But it's not the case. So if you watch the Indian interest episode that I just did before this live stream, if you watch that, you will understand why it'll never happen. Trump himself is personally deeply invested in Pakistan. Why would he hand Pakistan over to India? Why would he have India handle Pakistan? He wants to personally handle Pakistan and exploit the resources, extract the resources, oil, gas, rare earths and also crypto and so on so forth. Why would he hand over Pakistan to India? Not going to happen. And Iran becoming a US itself is a is a terrible terrible thing to happen. So yeah. Uh strike says your views on Israel today genocidal or defendant? Look honestly it's somewhere in between. Of course, there's no question about the fact that it has suffered terrorist attacks. Tremendous terrific, horrible, inhuman terrorist attacks. No question about it. It's a nation that's surrounded essentially by enemies. Historically, it's been that way. I mean, if you see the 48 war, the 67 war and so on so forth. Yeah. It's been surrounded by enemies. And as as such, it's it's perhaps the Israeli psyche has developed a siege mentality. If you look at the Israeli population, it's not a nation of civilians. Honestly speaking, the moment you're 18, you have to undergo uh compulsory military training unless you have some some some issues. So most people undergo three years of military training. They all know how to handle weapons and grenades and whatnot. They all know how to fight. It's not a nation of civilians. So the whole nation because of the surroundings has has evolved in that manner. Right? And they suffered this terrible horrible attack from Gaza. the October 2023 terrorist attack when I don't know hundreds maybe thousands of Israelis were killed and then they launched this retaliation on the on Hamas in Gaza and the people of Gaza support Hamas so they well it is what it is so I'm not sure how many people have died in Gaza Gaza has been turned into I don't know rubble maybe 50,000 plus people have died in Gaza so some would say this is genocide others would say that this is retaliation from Israel and justifiable retaliation to look out for its national interest. So I would say look u this is not my fight. I completely support Israel's right to self-defense. Okay. Um so it's complicated. I would say it's definitely a defendant. But do does its defense uh what what it did in its defense does it constitute genocide? Um not sure. But if you're I think if you're defending yourself against um a bunch of people who are determined to end you, to destroy you, to eradicate you from the river to the sea, I don't think it's genocide. Yeah. So, and and Israel has done its best to give a two-state solution and all that, you know, it tried its best. So, overall, I would I I would I would see Israel as a defendant in this matter. Not in the Iran Israel thing, but in the Israel Palestinian Israel Gaza thing. Israel is a defendant. That's how I see it. Rahul says, "You look like Bumarinari." I I am not a Persian. I'm not Pi. Come on. How can you say that? I'm I'm I'm deeply upset. It It hurts my feelings. You calling me Persian? I'm not Persian. Okay. Anyway, uh no, seriously, what could be the what would be the probability estimate that if the US is drawn into Israel, Iran, China would use the distraction to take Taiwan? I think it is unlikely. Even if the US is drawn into the Israeli Iran conflict, the US has sufficient forces in the Indo-Pacific region in the in the South China Sea region to prevent China from taking Taiwan. Or if China does take Taiwan, it'll inherit nothing. It'll inherit ruins and ashes. So I think it's still too early for China to make a move on Taiwan. Even if the US is drawn into Israel Iran because Iran is an important asset for China. If Iran falls and China well China loses it's its it's one of its major sources of cheap energy and so on. So it doesn't make sense to for China to make a move on Taiwan at that point in time. So I think from the way I see it, others may see it differently. The way I see it, uh, if the US is drawn to the Iran Israel thing, China most likely will not use the distraction to take Taiwan. I I doubt it. Shivam Bakshi says, uh, my previous comment about China was not pessimistic. We were a great civilization. I agree. We were a great civilization. I agree with you. But practically, we need to completely change. I once again agree with you. In the current state, we promote mediocrity, not excellence, like China. Again, I agree with you. I agree with you in all these points. We were a great civilization. We no longer are. That's a hard fact of life. We have to accept. We need to change completely. We need to reform the system completely top to bottom. I agree with you. In the current state, we promote mediocrity. We seek out mediocrity and we promote it. And we seek out excellence and destroy it. I completely agree with you. So, there are these tremendous problems that we face. But I'm still optimistic. I I I don't know. It's just hardwired into me genetically. I I'm not capable of being pessimistic. Um so I agree with you and I and I take your points completely completely 100% correct. I agree with you. But I still think we'll beat them. Uh Nathan Jen, well thank you very much sir. Batman sir, thank you. Uh Vic post says uh my family tree has 160 names of uh generations starting from my grandfather in our village temple in Uttar Pradesh Ishtv. How many years of continuity would I have? How can I preserve its documentation? Well, that's fantastic. 160 the names of 160 generations. 160 generations of ancestors. Well, that's that's that's quite a lot, right? So uh the question you're asking is how many years of continuity do do you have first of all that's the first question. So we can calculate this in two different ways. The first calculation is that one generation is represents 20 years. Okay. So if one generation represents 20 years it means 10 generations is 200 years. Uh 10 generations is 200 years. So 16 generations uh sorry 10 generations is 200 years 100 generations is 2,000 years and 160 what's 160 32 3,200 years. Yeah. So if we calculate one generation as representing 20 years, you have 3,200 years of continuity. But if one generation is instead of 20, it's 25, then let's calculate, right? So if if one generation is 25 instead of 20, then 160 * 25 is 4,000 years. So you have between 3,200 to 4,000 years of continuity that you're aware of. And that's that's amazing. It's fantastic, right? That needs to be treasured and and preserved. So now the question is how can you preserve this documentation? Well, it must be written down somewhere. What you can do is take pictures and and upload to the cloud or wherever and maybe print it out and keep multiple copies. That's one way of preserving it documentation. Secondly, you make your relatives aware of it and you give give each of your relatives a copy. So that way at least some of the copies survive over the years that sort of thing. Um so yeah and yeah so that's that's one of the things you can do make multiple copies of the documentation digital copies physical copies Xerox copies printouts whatever and distribute among all your relatives and explain to them how how incredibly valuable this is between 3,200 to 4,000 years of history you have recorded. That's amazing. Awesome. Spade says if you take away US support, Israel won't survive. It will be hard to see Israel survive if the US support disappears. So yeah. Um I love India says today a big YouTuber German model tried to brainwash how India failed in geopolitics and Manm Singh and Obama had good relations and J Shankar and Modi destroyed our foreign relations completely. Somebody said that there's a YouTuber with 29 million followers. Now, someone is saying that a YouTuber is German model other the same person. When you put these two together, I seem to be getting a sense of who the person could be. And if that is the person I'm thinking about, then I'm not surprised at all. Then I'm not surprised at all. So, what can I say? People have agendas. People have agendas. People have masters that they have to serve. And that's why they do these things. You see when you have masters to serve political masters or who have or geopolitical masters then you will say these things. How have Jungar and Modi destroyed our foreign relations? You think Manuhan Singh was was a leader to look up to? You think Obama was a leader to look up to by the way and so on. So listen I have nothing to say about this. I I have no interest in commenting about such people people who make such claims is below my dignity I would say. Uh, Rahul says, Rahul Vijak says, "Big fan, regular watcher, please keep it keep it going." Well, thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Thank you so much for watching. Thank you and for your support. Uh, Dhiraj says, "I I sir, I love you." Well, thank you so much. I love you back. Thank you so much. Summer Tachara says, "Religion is is it still a factor between the West and the Middle East?" Religion has never been a factor. Religion has been a tool that the west has used to divide and conquer and and rule the Middle East. And when it comes to religion, look from from outside for us, Islam is just one religion, but from inside, Islam has so many different sects and schisms and whatnot. Um, and very different multiple flavors you could say of I don't know the right way to use to say it or whatever. So religion has been used to control the region but the real factor in the Middle East has historically been oil and fossil fuels not religion. Um Akil JK says did Shinszu AB support Christian missionaries? I am not aware of that. I'm not aware. Did he? Well, he was a he was one of the rare Japanese nationalists, a good man. And I did not see him as being pro-Christian the way I saw him, but I don't know. I'm not aware of it as as far as I know. VS says, "Did Nazi Germany have a military-industrial complex?" Um, what were the conglomerates or banks that were involved? They did have a military-industrial complex. I'm not sure about the banks. Maybe the Deutscha Bundes Bank if it still if it did exist at the time. I'm not sure about the conglomerates. But I can tell you what were the companies. There was Hankl. Uh Hankl it produced uh aircraft. There was there was fauulf there was Mercedes. Um and then there were various German uh state-owned agencies, the ones that developed cruise missiles and ballistic missiles, the first ever cruise missiles, the first ever ballistic missiles and so on. And uh Messith was one and so on. So yeah, they had a tremendous military-industrial complex, tremendous. They had some of the brightest minds that ever existed. They pioneered so many technologies. the jet engine, the cruise missile, the ballistic missile and so much more the Germans. So yeah, they were they were tremendous. You have to admire what they did. You don't have to admire their ideology and other stuff but the scientific excellence, the engineering excellence was was incredible and the Americans tapped into that and so did the Russians and that's how the American space program began. That's how the Russian space program began and the Chinese space program and everything else and the jet engine programs and so on. Samir Chawan says, "After interacting with the Chinese in Singapore, I feel Chinese culture is very closer to us." Well, I agree. I agree. The Chinese prayer practices, etc., they're proud of their culture. But if we call them Chinese, they hate it. Do you think think the same is the case with us outside of India. So, first of all, Chinese culture is very close to our culture. If you meet Chinese people, especially not younger people from recent generations, but slightly older people, they are very much like us. When you meet a Chinese person, you don't really feel a cultural difference or a cultural shock. When you meet a person from the west, from Western Europe, etc., from the US, they are culturally significantly different from Indians. If you're not used to it, you you will feel a cultural shock. But the moment you sit down with a Chinese person and talk, you will feel there's no cultural difference between us. The Chinese are very close to us culturally and that's why India and China should be friends but we are not. It's it's really sad. We are culturally very similar. We are overall philosophically mentally etc. Uh from the perspective of culture, tradition etc. We are very similar India and China practices. China has historically been for the past 2,000 years a polytheistic kind of culture and so on. And the Chinese are proud of the culture. But I'm not sure if we call them Chinese hated. I'm not sure why that is. Maybe in Singapore they don't want to be called Chinese. I don't know what it is. Um, is the same the case with us outside of India? I'm not sure Indians will hate it if you call them Indians outside of India. I'm not sure that's the case. Singapore may be a different case study, but overall I don't think Indians who who are second generation immigrants, third generation immigrants, I'm not sure if they hate it if they're called Indians. I'm I'm not I've not seen that personally. Uh, Takur says the oldest R1 skeleton PES 001 is from Russia. The top three oldest R1A remains are from Russia, Western Europe. Indian team confirms Rak Rakar's autosomal DNA had no R1A supporting mainstream. Are we concluding something? Sir, like I said, this is a work in progress. See in India h in Batw in India, we have a hot humid climate not considering northern India. So the region where you have the so-called indis valley culture harapan culture civilization that that period of forestry that is a pretty rainy place hot humid place right western India present day Gujarat Rajasthan Hana Punjab and and Cinda and so on all of those regions pretty heavy rainfall pretty warm climate human remains don't last in such climate so that's why you will never find an Indian skeleton of an Indian that is 12,000 50,000 years old they will all disintegrate in that time. So even if we have had R1A from 20,000 years ago, you won't find it because that that that will have disintegrated by now unless you go to places like like Ladak etc where you have found signs of human habitation going back 13 14,000 years but we haven't found skeletons from that place because obviously people would not want to live there. It's a very very harsh climate and so on. So I think it's too early to conclude anything. What we need to do in we need to have a 10,000 genome project in India. Take at least 10,000 samples of of present current current DNA from all across India from all population groups and do a deep study and from that we will find out where the origin of R1A was. How do we find out the origin of Aron Arwa if we don't have ancient samples? How do we determine where Arbanet originated from if we don't have ancient samples? How do we do that? Well, there are ways of doing it. It's a very clear rule in genetics. What's the rule? The place where you have the highest diversity within a haplo group is the most likely to be the origin of that haplo group. So, R1A is a cate. It's a haplo group, right? But it has many sub haplo groups. it has many uh daughter haplo groups R1 A1 A R1 A1 B R1 whatever etc so so forth right so it is very I mean I've heard from reliable sources because I know people I know some people India has the highest diversity within R1A compared to anywhere in the world but that needs to be published once it is published we can make it official so all of these stories are fine in and so on so forth. But the main question about the Arian invasion migration theory is not about genetics at all. Like I keep on saying it's not about genetics. The the the claim the central claims are that Hinduism is foreign to India and Sanskrit is foreign to India and they have no way of proving it. That's why they're going into the genetics route and other routes. But yeah, whatever. Um, Zishan says, "How can Indians even dream of becoming a superpower if they can't agree on what language to speak or what for what form of government they should have?" And I agree and that's why I keep on saying that India is nowhere going close to being a superpower. India is nowhere close to being a superpower. India is not even a proper regional power right now. Right? And you are absolutely right. We are too divided all of us. We are divided by a thousand factors. They are divided by linguistic factors, religious factors, regional factors, uh so-called cast factors and God knows what what other factors they find to to fight among each other and divide and divide further. That's what Indians do. We Indians excel at arguing with each other all day, all night. We're the most argumentative people in the world. We think our arguments will change the world and so on. We can't agree on anything. So what India needs to change is a superhuman leader. We've had superhuman leaders in the past, taller than anything we've experienced recently. Only a leader with tremendous fortitude can take the nation by the scruff of its neck, force it to unite, impose one thing on the nation which is beneficial for the nation and take it forward. And then India will not be a nation. It will be a civilization. A civil a civilizational proper civilizational entity. That's what needs to happen. The current shape and form of things is all about mediocrity. Have 50 different languages and fight about languages. In your curriculum, you have to learn three languages and the form of government is the worst possible form of form of government and so on so forth. So you are right Zishan. In the current shape and form, we cannot dream of becoming a superpower. We have all the potential but and the way things are right now we are not going to be a superpower but if things change somehow or the other we who knows what could happen. Um Salvatore is brother. Ah Damon Damon is here. Okay. So Damon says please suggest a toz World War II campaign best source. Uh World War II campaign. You you mean reading material or or or documentaries? I can't remember when I was a kid like like 7 8 years old 9 years old when I was abroad I grew up in Europe for a while I was fascinated with documentaries about the second world war black and white documentaries and all but I don't remember what those documentaries were called so I don't remember when it comes to books uh um Anthony Bivore I think is a good is a good source I yeah it's very hard for me to remember the names of books because I've read so And the war that ended peace is probably about sec the first world war. Anthony Bour wrote about the second world war possibly if I'm not sure. The guns of August is about the first world war. Uh so I'll tell you how to find the best sources. Go to your favorite online portal website where you can order books whether it's Amazon or Flipkart or whatever the hell else and search for Second World War. Search for books and find the books that have the highest ratings and more than 100 reviews at least 4.5 and then if it has at least 100 reviews and a 4.5 plus rating it's guaranteed to be a good a good book. So you can do that all right Damon Sai Kumar says how can we relate Iran Israel war to heartland theory. Okay map have we opened the map today? Well we shall see the map now. Heartland theory, rimland theory. So Mackander's theory of the world island says that the world has a rimland and a heartland. The heartland is the heartland of Eurasia which is China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Central Asia, all of that Ukraine. And the and the door to the heartland is in Ukraine for the west. Ukraine is the gateway to the heartland. And then there are the rimland nations like India and Iran and the Arab nations and all which according to Mckendra will remain in the periphery of the world. So if you want to control the world island, you have to control the heartland which is Russia and China in the central Asia. And to control the heartland, you need a gateway to the heartland which is either Ukraine or one of the rimland nations. So Iran could be a rimland nation that could be one of the gateways to the heartland. And and Ukraine is another one. So if the west wins Ukraine and Iran, then there you have it. They are they are on their way to to conquering the heartland and ruling the world forever. So that's how it relates to that's how Iran Israel war relates to the heartland theory. Sankit says Jenzi role in building our nation in the upcoming years. Look in a few years people like me will be will be gone and people like Jenzi will be in our place and so eventually you will have a Jenzi prime minister or or or or king of the country or queen of the country. Right? So eventually Gen Z is going to be in the driver's seat and when Gen Z is done the next one whatever it is what is it called beta whichever generation it is beta they'll be the next ones yeah everybody plays their role we are links in a chain the chain goes back thousands of years and we are a continuation of that okay okay I'm going to take another 10 15 minutes and then we'll be done okay the question is what what this video our history tells us that we A very technologically advanced brahastraman's nukes okay if you say so mentioned in our vas where did all the tech go without a single archaeological trace was it taken from us by a super race maybe we were so technologically advanced that we we realized how dangerous these frightening weapons are and then we said that you know during the kalyuga era nobody should have access to these weapons because otherwise they'll be used for very bad purposes and that's why our ancestors who are supremely super advanced. They used their advanced technology to eradicate all traces of this technology and they hid it away. It maybe it'll be revealed only when the cycle changes again and satyugu returns. I mean that's what I can say. I don't know possibly possibly right without evidence you can make such claims because we don't have any evidence. So maybe that's that's the case perhaps. Nikil Shivasav says is there a risk of India becoming a vasal of China? Uh the risk is very low. I I don't see India becoming a vasal of China. Uh how would that happen? That would happen only if there's only in in what are the scenarios in which this happens. One is China defeats India militarily which is highly unlikely. It would incur tremendous risks if it if it wants to have a prolonged military confrontation with India. So China if it is a sane nation will not fight any kind of military conflict with India because the risks are too high for both nations. Right? So that way it can't make India. Secondly the other way it could make India is if there's a government change or regime change in India and a pro-China kind of government comes to power. Well do you see that happening anytime soon? So I think overall if you look at these scenarios the risk of India becoming a vasal of China is is pretty low close to zero as of now as of now. Kapay developer thank you sir says why does glo why do global economic models rely on endless growth and expansion what a good question often with government aided rule bending by monopolies to quash competition. How did this happen and what's the way forward? That's a great question. the global economic model, the capitalist model. Now I am now criticizing capitalism. Please don't take it to mean that I am in love with communism. Communism is even worse. Okay, first of all, communism is far worse. Capitalism has its merits. But one of the things about capitalism is its endless quest for quarter upon quarter profits. an infinite cycle of quarter upon quarter profits on a finite planet. How do these profits happen? By plundering the earth for resources. At the end of the day, it's all that whether it's semiconductors, whether it's electronic vehicles, whether it is AI, which needs power, which mean which needs either fossil fuels or something else. At the end of the day, whatever we are doing to generate the profits, we are plundering the earth for resources. It's a finite planet, but we want infinite quarter upon quarter profits. We're going to end up destroying the planet. Endless growth. You can't have endless growth. You're going to end up eating the planet alive and then there will be nothing to do, right? It's it's a disaster. It's a disastrous model. It'll end up destroying the planet. And when the planet is done, we'll move on to the moon into Mars and destroy that too. It's it's not a good model, right? So how did this happen is the question. How did the world come up with this model? Well, it's an Abrahamic model. I think if you read some of the Abrahamic holy texts, they will say that the world is a resource for you humans to exploit, right? God gave you the land to exploit. God gave you fish to fish and fowl to eat. And I don't know something like that. I have not read. I actually read it once long time ago. I was once stuck in a hotel in a city in Europe when I was about 8 years old. I was stuck in a hotel. I was under instructions not to watch TV because TV is bad for children's brains. So I I was a reader. So I ended up reading a book in a hotel room. So that's the day I read the book of the Abrahamic people, one of the the western oriented book, right? I finished the book in one day. It was a pocket version. So I kind of read it when I was about 8 years old. I don't remember much. Anyhow, so according to the Abrahamic culture, the world is a resource for humans to enjoy. No, which humans? The humans who believe in the Abrahamic God, the chosen ones. So that gives rise to these models of endless growth and exploitation and plundering of the earth's resources on a finite planet. Big problem. Okay. Bageshwar Amy says, "In one episode, you said you could read the Persian script. How did you learn it? And you do you have any recent Persian ancestry in living memory? Uh I'm sure I must have said something to the effect but I did not say I could read the Persian script. I said I read I learned to read the Arabic script. Read and write the Arabic script. The question is how did I learn it? It was probably in the year 2001 or something probably in 2001. I was ill for a while and I was uh bedridden at home for a few days and I was really bored. So I had I had this big fat dictionary. It's called the American Heritage Dictionary. So I opened it and it had a section on alphabets and there was the section on the entire Arabic alphabet. I said okay let me try and trace that. Out of curiosity and boredom, I learned the Arabic alphabet in one in in one afternoon and then I started using it to write my name and all that. I could write it very crudely, but I could. And the Persian script, the today's Persian script is is is a is a derivative of the Arabic script. They have some words, some pronunciations in Persian that the Arabs don't have. For example, the the the pronunciation isn't there in Arabic, it's in Persian. So, they use the the triple dots for that and so on. And they have purr which the Arabs don't have right parsi instead of the Arab far and so on. So that's how I learned it. I anybody can learn it learn it in in a couple of hours if you if you have the inclination to do that. So that's how I learned the Arabic script which also is the basis for the Persian script today's Persian script. Uh do I have any recent Persian ancestry ancestry in living memory? Not that I know of. As far as I know the lineages that I am aware of that go back about 1500 1600 years I don't see any Persian ancestry in that but of course it's not one line of lineage that we have we have hundreds of lines of lineage so who knows so my ancestry is from western India Gujarat and Persia is essentially a neighboring state if you cross synind and Balojasthan you're in Persia Persia is neighbor is is kind of a neighboring neighboring region for us uh so it's possible there could have been interconnections genetic and other interconnections are possible who knows but not that I'm aware of Lok sir thank you so much thank you Ankita says how would you analyze the Iran Israel war in terms of their own national interest existential rights and sovereignty uh their national interests are very divergent Persia sees itself as an ancient civilization and today it's Iran not Persia and it's the Islamic Republic not the Persian uh civilization ational entity but Iran sees itself as as a continuation of an ancient imperial system which they were right uh and therefore they they have bigger ambitions they have lost territory just like we lost territory our people still yearn for the lost territories right at Akandarat well there used to be Akand Persia also they have also lost many territories and they would like to reunite that so they have these ambitions of of reviving the old empire to some extent and maybe expanding territory which frightens some other nations and Iran would love to have nuclear weapons and to be a great great country again. They used to be in the past they used to fight the Romans and the Greeks and everybody never fought us because we were their people but they fought everybody to to the west and today to the to the west we have Israel. So Israel is this new nation well new nation 1948 onwards and they have they have always been under siege they have siege mentality and they are the well the best friend of the US the unconditional ally of the US the US is their unconditional ally and very powerful they have nuclear weapons and they probably see themselves the Israelis as that they should be the dominant power in the region the regional hedgeim and Iran is a problem for them because Iran also has similar ambitions So that's why one of the two has to go apparently. So that's that's how it is. And both see each other as as an existential threat. Iran sees well the Iranian regime of the Ayatollah they they they see Israel as a neo- colonial project and an illegitimate nation and a nation that doesn't deserve to exist which obviously Israel doesn't ex agree with and they see that as as an existential threat for them and that's why the two nations are antagonists. Right? That's that's how it is. So that's their national interest. That's their that's their priorities. That is how they see uh you know their threat perception and so on so forth. That that that's how I would analyze it. Okay. A few more questions. John says, "How do we discover our own rare earths?" I think India has about 10 to 15 or 20% of the world's rare earth reserves known to exist. But so we know that it exists. Okay. But we haven't ever bothered to develop the mining and extraction process and and and purification process. The Chinese have done that. We have not done it. It will take us at least a decade to do that. So that's the thing. We have rare earths at least 10% if not if not more of the world's rare earths. That's a that's a sizable amount. That's definitely enough for our own requirements that we don't have to depend on anybody else. We may even end up being an exporter, but we are not doing a thing about it. Rishik says, "When is the next understanding America?" It's kind of delayed. I mean, there are two more episodes that have been recorded. They need some editing to be done and all that. And I need to find a slot in which to release them. So, coming up soon, reasonably soon. I know it's delayed and I apologize for that. It'll come soon. And I I appreciate you're asking this question. I'm glad that some people are interested in this. Yeah. Anish says, "Off topic, no one talks about the bad mess food in this country. Even top engineering colleges fail to provide decent meals to students. This could have something to do with corruption perhaps. I don't know. It's terrible. Um I also have been a student in a hostel long back. The food was well it was okay. It was edible usually to some extent. I I probably did not have that bad of a mess food. I know people who have had terrible mess food. So yeah, it's it's sad that it's the case. I mean you paying so much money to your to your engineering college, but they will provide you with the sort of slop which I don't understand why. Dhir Kamat says Chinese Indian rivalry engineered by the west. Not quite. Not quite. It started with the Chinese takeover of Tibet. That had nothing to do with the west. It had everything to do with us acting like a weak nation. Our leadership behaving like that. And obviously if you leave a power vacuum in a big region, somebody will fill fill it. Russian to fill it. So Mahatong took over Tibet and Mr. Neu pro supplied rice to his soldiers to do that and then after taking Tibet they took a chin that they are claiming Arunachas Pradesh and they are refusing to demarcate the border. This is entirely the doing of the Chinese Communist Party. It has nothing to do with the west. All right. Vidi has advice on dealing with parentification. Common problem. What is parentification? You mean becoming a new parent is it? Um, I'm not sure what parentification means. Dealing with parentification. Does it mean becoming a new parent or does it mean dealing with your parents? I'm I'm not quite sure. I'm sorry. Uh, Vina Jooshi says channel stuck at 950 shadowban. What's the plan? The plan you go on. Don't worry about what you can't control. Why worry about something that's beyond your control? Be happy. Live your life. do what you want to do and let it be. Dr. Patnak says Turkey supported Pakistan, not India. It's pure religion. Well, from Turkish perspective, they have their own agenda. They have their own perspective. They have their own religion and so on. Yeah. Yeah. So, a lot of it has to do with religion for sure. A lot of it. Okay. Sabir Chavan says, "Bookshelf tour also. Did you get a chance to explore?" Yeah. I haven't done that yet. Yeah. I haven't seen that yet. Does it help normal public or only for big companies? I'll have to see that. I still haven't done it. I apologize. I I said I would do it, but I still haven't found the time to do that. I'm sorry. Bookshelf tour. I think I have to do it on a live stream only because Yeah, maybe I should do a live stream of a bookshelf tour. Take the camera, take it, take it, and do a do a bookshelf tour. I to get it to focus properly. Maybe I should do a live stream or maybe I should put up photographs, pictures of the books or something. Okay. Uh Vamshi says, "Look for skeletons in Kashmir area to find oldest humans." Possibly. Kashmir is a cooler place compared to other parts of India. Kashmir is reasonably cool. It has snow also at times. So maybe you could find more ancient human remains there of our ancestors which would be interesting from a genetic and archaeological perspective. So yeah uh definitely so we we have some very interesting archaeological sites in Kashmir. Burom is an example. Uh there is also uh uh the discovery that happened a few years or decades ago of a sky chart in which there are two suns in the sky and it turns out to be the oldest ever depiction of a supernova. So yeah, there's a lot of interesting history in Kashmir and I'm sure if you look for it properly, you may find ancient human remains which would Yeah, which would throw a lot of new light on our deep history. Pravin Allure, thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Uh Ankita says, "Apologies for the spelling mistake. My keyboard is hyper sensitive today. Some issues with also." No, no issues at all and no issues. Why don't you apologize? It's all right. And thank you. Thank you so much. Uh, Rams says, "What's your thought on star missile DRDO?" I haven't heard of the star missile. What is a star missile? Let me look at it. I'm curious. What's a star missile DRDO? Let's see. Star missile DRDO. What is that? Star missile enters final testing stage in India's DRDO. Star missile to simulate supersonic threats across etc etc. DRDO continues advances star missile development. What is this stuff? uh bolstering supersonic. It's a target missile. It's a high speed target to trade air defense unit. Okay. Yeah. Good job. Good job. It's it's good progress. So it's so when you're training your air defense systems, you need targets, right? So you need target missiles. So it's a target missile for that. Good. I'm glad we have it. Supersonic target missile. Okay. Naman Singh says, "Follow up from yesterday's question of indigenous technology ecosystem. Do you think Indians and government are the main reasons why we haven't made it? They want to use foreign products not have guts like China, Russia. Um I don't think that's the reason. If you look at the government of India, well when it comes to the recent for example, here's the example operation Synindur, we use so much indigenous technology which turned out to be better than something you would actually import. We use a lot of our indigenous systems. Um so I think the government is is definitely the especially the current government the Modi government they want to prioritize indigenization of everything at bharat so that's not the case I think the government of India says that this stuff should be done by the private sector perhaps I don't know I'm I'm not sure quite why it's the case and when it comes to the people of India sure we the people of India do have this thing in their mind that foreign technology is better than Indian technology so that could be one of the reasons but I think one of the reasons is the private sector is is is risk averse and they don't want to reinvent the wheel. It's already there in the west. Why do we need to reinvent do it all over again? That sort of thing. So I think it will take some initiative from the government of India for this to happen perhaps. Yeah. Uh Joy Rebel Star says is Bitcoin really independent? Um I'm not sure 100% of whether it's really independent. I really haven't dipped into this technology. uh I don't have any Bitcoin investments or whatever. So I'm not sure what the deal is but there's always the question mark all these things I would say. So I'm not sure. I personally am not sure. Um says 25 years old doomed careers because of because of three years gap. What three years gap? You're 25 years old. Your career is already doomed. You're just starting off at the age of 25. You're starting off in life. Why is your career doomed? You have a three-ear gap in something. It's it doesn't mean your career is doomed. Don't see it that way. Maybe the threeear gap of whatever it is may think may make things difficult for you, but you don't give up your fight. People have surmounted much bigger problems. Don't think of it as as a doomed career. So without knowing what the gap is, I don't know really know what to say, but I would say be positive. Don't see it as a doomed career. fight. As long as you are alive, you're going to fight and you're going to strive to achieve whatever your dreams and aspirations are. All right, sir. All the best. Naman Singh says, "Even my new page which was growing at rocket speed was banned by Instagram. Same shadow ban on you. That's why dependency is not good on us apps. Dependency on other apps is never good. I'm not sure if there's a shadow ban on me, but whatever." Uh, but your new page was banned by Instagram. Well, that's terrible. Unfortunate, right? So when you have when you are dependent on foreign platforms you are at that mercy which is why it would be great if India develops its own platform. So I completely agree with you sir. Uh Vidi is now clarifying parents wants want kids to fulfill their dreams and roles. Look Vidi I'll tell you this we have to respect our parents. Our parents grow up in a different time and space essentially in a different era. Even 20 30 years makes a big difference and they will see the world in a certain way. Most people are not are unable to adapt their their their understanding of the world as the times change as the years pass. They most people are stuck in a different time zone in a different era and they look at the world from that perspective. It's not their fault, right? So if they want kids to do certain things, maybe it's because they love them or maybe it's because in some cases parents have some dreams of their own and they expect their kids to fulfill those dreams or something. Well, that's that's unfortunate. So my point is this. Look, you have to cherish and love and respect your parents. No question about it. No question about it. But don't be afraid to disappoint your parents if need be. Don't disrespect your parents. Do love your parents. Do cherish your parents. But al also remember you are not necessarily responsible for carrying out their orders for the rest of your life. Each human being was born to fulfill a certain purpose in life. You are not born with the objective of making somebody happy. You have to make yourself happy. Right? So you know if if your aspirations and objectives are different from those of your parents you have to tell them nicely respectfully and make them understand. If they don't understand well too bad right? But you have to follow your dreams your own dreams and aspirations. Otherwise what happens is that at a later stage in your life at some stage in your life your parents will no longer be with you but you will be stuck because of your decision to follow their whatever they wanted and then you will have this bitterness for the rest of your life you should not be should not be there so don't do something that is contrary to your interests and aspirations okay Takur says the R1A diversity you said is because of India's last Though Indians are nearly twice as many as European submission groups have. Okay, sir. All right. Okay. Yes, sir. You must be right. You must be right. Okay. I am not going to argue with you. Okay. So, with that, we are at the end of today's session. It's almost 1 hour 20 minutes and uh yeah, so I'm going to end it over here. Thank you so much everybody for all your questions. I hope that this provided some value to all of you. Right, you hopefully learn learned a few things and I will see you tomorrow in the big uh Ask a Bajit session, the the regular regularly scheduled weekend session which could be about 3 hours long. So I look forward to talking to you all tomorrow evening 8:00 p.m. Until then, as always, keep asking questions, keep learning, keep striving, keep raising your standards. Never settle for mediocrity. Always settle for excellence. Always strive for excellence. All right. Thank you so much. I'll see you tomorrow. Bye-bye.