[Music] Hey. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello everybody and welcome to the weekly geopolitics episode of the Ask Abija show. I hope everyone is doing great. We're going to take a lot of geopolitics questions today as many as possible. But before we start that, let us see who all is there on the live stream. Who all is present? I can see chat. DSP Vish Pala, Mystic SK, Ashtavakra, Adant Pi, Alvin Rodriguez, Animals for Laugh from Mumbai, Random Skull, Rakshit, Mishra, Rayan, Sedharta Singh, Aayush Singh, HB, Soldier Boy, Wayne, Bruce Wayne, ultimate power, freedom from outcome from Canada. Good morning sir. Um, satellite Abu Singh, Shiv Brody, Anerud, the knowledge priest from Kpur. Hello soldier boy. I am artistic. Vinit savant geopolitical way from Indoor. Ainina critical thinker. Basar Kayatwal from Moscow. Well good evening to you sir. Ultimate power critical thinker Shashank Koshik from Nida. Good to have you sir. Hyphen 2k Jashri Krishna. Vladimir Putin is also here with us. Beneath Prajakta Gurpad good evening. Aayush Singh 439 from Twitch. Good evening. Shuban Badwaj Shakar Roy Aush Singh Ara Prabhab Banerj Shaker Roy Deepika Suraj S NS Ara Praan once again Sujit Shanaga Binit Priyanka Jabalia Namaste Shaker Roy event countdown Sumuk bupal bupalam um Samak space Bhav Gowami Sumit Agaral from Rajasthan hello Shashank Koshit once again Napoleon Shing Singh Shikawat Jay Mahakal Critical Rayan Tanesh Pandi Ankita Bushan Tik G. Okay, whatever that is. Shashank Koshik Alob Dave Jaganat from Odisha. Uh Briesh Samyak space Ainta Anand Kumoas says Binit. All right. Ryan Surja Surjakhan from West Bengal. Good to have you regular viewer sir. Good to have you sir. Netzen uh Bandekar Bhoji, Nimish Gupta, Hunter Kenway, good evening Amish Amish, hello Animeish, hello Bandekar Bhoji once again. Light is here. Suas Chandra, Anime Rud, hello Latangi Suresh from Tiri Tamil Ladu, the birthplace of Zoho. Good to have you, sir. Good to have you. Uh Dilling Pigu says, "Zubinar." All right. Um Okay. So, all right. All right. Let's So, let's get let's get going with the questions. Okay, Rahul Lakman is here. Ratang Suresh is here. Aid Pandandy, Amber, Wamshi Kalen and everyone else. Ajinkulkarnney. Okay, so Anish is watching with your mom with with his mom. Well, namaste to mom and to you as well. So, let's take some questions. We already have a bunch of questions lined up. So, let's go. Rishi says, "Greetings from Moscow." Well, greetings to you, sir. How different would Russia and its geography have been today if Mr. Putin did not take charge? Well, the geography would have remained the same, but uh Russia may not have been a sovereign nation today possibly. See, uh before Mr. Putin, we had Mr. Yelson who was leading Russia and Mr. Yelson did his best to destroy Russia's economy and to a large extent Russia's peripheral sovereignty. For example, he was instrumental in Russia losing the first Chchin war and Cheschna became a de facto sovereign nation because of that. and he handed over the entire Russian industry to various uh oligarchs who then proceeded to destroy Russia's economy and industry industrial base. So Mr. Putin or Mr. Yelin presided over the further destruction of Russia's economy. Mr. Gorbachov started the process from 1985 onwards and all the way until 1991. Then Mr. Yelson comes to power and he proceeds to essentially parcel off the Russian economy piece by piece and give it to various private players and you had the the the introduction of American elements as well to Russia at this point in time and Russia's economy went into the gutter essentially during Mr. Yelson's time. So if Mr. Putin had not come to power and somebody else similar to Mr. would have come to power then Russia would not be a nation that would be well you know it would it would not be a very relevant nation today uh its geography possibly may may also have changed yeah maybe some regions would have broken off further by this time it's possible so one can only speculate about that but Mr. Putin arrested that that decline and he brought Russia back to the position of the second most powerful nation in the world which it is today. All right. Okay. Interesting question. Critical thinker says how important is geopolitics for scientists and engineers? Well, it doesn't have immediate importance for scientists and engineers unless you're working in an applied field. For example, if you are a missile developer, if you are u this is all engineering I'm talking about. If you are into developing missiles or developing hypersonic glide vehicles or jet engines so fighter fighter aircraft or or UCAVs or drones whatever in that case it's very re relevant because the geopolitical demands are going to determine uh what you're going to be working on essentially right so in that case it's very relevant even when it comes to for example if you are into AI or semiconductors or something geopolitics is going to drive the demand uh for whatever it is that you're So it's uh significantly important when it comes to more pure sciences. It's still important but it's not critically important. It's not something that will urgently um you know change what you're going to work on. Uh so that's how it is. The the the engineering field is going to be more uh affected by geopolitics. Rishi Jooshi says how did the French outsmart the Gha Raj if no other EU vasals could the deep state their status as quasi sovereign state at least were allowed to not become a complete vasal in terms of technology how did they do this well first of all the most important thing they did was that they developed their own independent nuclear deterrent completely independent of any other nation let's compare France with the UK okay so the UK as a nuclear deterrent on paper. They tested nuclear weapons in the 20th century with American help by the way. Okay, the Americans helped them in the process of developing nuclear weapons. So they they developed nuclear weapons but then they did not develop the means to deliver the packages wherever they would want to deliver them. They had a good space program, a rocket program, high quality rocket program. They had these uh hydrogen peroxide based rockets which would essentially give off steam and if you if you see the old videos of the uh British rockets you will see that they would rise up in the air there would be no visible exhaust nothing because of the hydrogen peroxide which was used as the uh as the fuel as one of the components of the fuel. It's a highly reactive thing you know that's a whole different thing. The British had this, they had a highquality rocket program. They completely shelved that, dismantled that and they said we will rely on the Americans for uh for missiles and and so on. So today the British don't have a missile program, rocket program, whatever. And their nuclear warheads are mated to American missiles. I think it's trident missiles, American Trident missiles. In the 20th century, it was American polarist missiles that were used uh for the British nuclear deterrent. So the British have nuclear submarines and in these submarines you have American trident missiles on which you have possibly if it's mated ready to go in that case you will have uh the British nuclear warheads. But if you're employing American missiles to deliver this, it's highly likely that the big red button will be sitting in Washington DC, not in London. So the British don't really have their own independent nuclear deterrent. They are an extension of the American nuclear deterrent. The French have an independent nuclear deterrent. They have their own nuclear submarines and their own missiles, ICBMs or whatever it is and their own nuclear warheads entirely independent of the US. No other NATO nation, no other US ally or vasal has these capabilities. They also have their own aircraft carrier and all that. They have their own jet engines which they manufacture themselves. They have their own fighter jets. They have everything of their own. They don't depend on the US or other nations that much or very very less on other nations for their national defense. So that gives them an advantage that no other US vasal has. But the French are still part of NATO which means that their military from time to time comes under the command of a foreign a non-French general right at least some part of the military from time to time will come under the command of someone who is not French. So that is a problem and they are also part of the EU which means they don't have territorial sovereignty, legis or legislative so sovereignty or economic sovereignty. That's why France has a quasi independent foreign policy far better than what you have in the UK or any other Brit any other NATO or EU nation. So that's what the French have done. So that's why I say that they have a quasi independent foreign policy. Rishi Jooshi says some say that current demo re-engineer demographic re-engineering of Europe elements like the painter seile etc movement are rising. Why did Germans think that they were wronged somehow and this uprising sort of led to World War II? Oh, that's a whole long story I can't answer in in like a few minutes here. See, it all goes back if you if you want me to compress the history. Uh in 1870 there was no such thing as Germany. Okay, remember that there was Prussia and there were other you know principalities and so on and then there was around this time a FrancoRussian war. It was Prussia against France. Prussia was Yeah. Well, okay, we'll not go into older history than that. But I I took this question related to this yesterday uh in yesterday's history session. So in 1871 the the Prussians prevailed over the French and this led to the creation of of a nation called Germany for the first time Deutschand. It was the brainchild of the the iron chancellor um Otoon Bismar. So from 1871 all the way to 1914 or whatever. Yeah, 14 there was a period of cold war in Europe and everyone was waiting for a chance to set things right. Everyone was waiting, everyone was developing their military capabilities. From 1871 all the way to 1914. In 1914, there was this perfect storm and this war breaks out and everyone thought in October 1914 that we will be home by Christmas. But it did did not work out that way and the war went on. The first world war, the first European tribal war went on until what? 1918, 1919, whichever year it was. Okay. And it ends with a humiliation of Germany. Horrific humiliation of Germany. And that led to the conditions that that caused the resumption of the conflict essentially, which they called World War II, which is phase two of the European tribal war. So that's how it happened because of Germany's humiliation because of the humiliation humiliating terms that were imposed upon Germany during the treaty of the uh which was where Germany surrendered right uh so that's the compressed history of what happened now the details you can write entire books I have books here big books multiple books so you know see if you are really interested read those books read books about the world about what caused the world wars So essentially you would remember that World War I and World War II are the are essentially the continuation of a single conflict. There was a pause in between between 1918 to 1937 383 39 around that time right and then it resumes. An says you are allegedly the best allegedly. Of course allegedly is very important sir. All right. All right. Thank you. uh godliness says war is necessary to protect territorial sovereignty but at the same time romanticism of war is dangerous. Can you give a comprehensive brief of how destructive a war can be for a country like India? A war can be super destructive for any country. Look at what happened to Japan. Two nuclear tests on the citizens of Japan. Hiroshima Nagasaki. Japan was was devastated. That's one example. What happened to Germany? Good God. What happened to Germany? By by the end of the second world war, Germany was flattened. Millions of Germans were dead. Millions of Germans were well in the aftermath of the second world war genocided. Okay, that that that story is not supposed to be told. Apparently they were genocided at the hands of whom? The allies and well apparently the Russians. The Russians had good cause to be very very upset with the the Germans. No question about it. Right. Uh but you know it and and what's the what's the long-term consequences of this for Germany and Japan? Germany is still under US occupation today. You may not realize it all of you. Okay. The US has a permanent military presence in Germany dating back to 1945. The German constitution was written with the help of with the help of the US. Let's say, okay, let's put it uh diplomatically. It was written with the with the with with the help of the US. When it comes to Japan, there is no help of the US. You can't be that diplomatic. The Japanese constitution was written by the Americans in 1945. Until today, not not a single word has been changed, right? Japan isn't sovereign. More than 130 permanent US military bases on Japanese soil. And Japan did take off economically as long as they were allowed to. And then their economy was devastated. Today, Japan has become a middle- inome nation. It was one of the highest income nations in the 1980s and 1990s. Today it's on the verge of becoming a middling nation. So the consequences are frightening but they sometimes take a long time to be seen. Sometimes they happen overnight. Look at Iraq. You had two oil wars. They called them Gulf Wars. 1991 and 2003. Iraq was flattened. Millions of people were killed in those air strikes and bombardments. Iraq doesn't exist as a sovereign nation today. It it is irrelevant today. It it had a high quality of life, high high quality of of administration and everything. Everything is gone. What what do the people of Iraq have to look forward to today? So war is devastating. Devastating. And if you look at other wars, for example, the settler colonization wars in the Americas in the 1500s, well, it caused the death of close to 100 million Native Americans and they've lost everything. They've lost their lands. They've lost their culture. They've lost everything. Everything they have which was theirs. Entire continents stolen from them. Um look at the consequences of war for India and so on. So yeah, you can go on for forever about this. Retwick says three three questions. Why is Kim Sunsung considered the eternal leader which is above the supreme leader of North Korea even if he died 30 years back. Second, can I India ally with North Korea to counter the US? Third, why did Kib Ilssung close off Korea from the rest of the world? Let's take question number two first. Can an elephant ally with an ant to take on a super dragon? Not a dragon. The Chinese are the dragons. Super eagle. So the elephant is this big, eagle is that big and ant is this big. What is the point of the elephant allying or the tiger let's say India is the tiger. If the tiger allies with the ant, how will it offset the might of the great eagle? How? Makes no sense whatsoever. Okay, makes no sense whatsoever. And secondly, North Korea will not align with India because it is a Chinese asset. Why is Kimsung considered the eternal leader? because that gives legitimacy to the rule of the current Mr. Kim, Kim Ilsung, Kim Jong-il, Kim Jong-un. Kim Jong-un, the current leader, is the third leader in the dynasty. The dynasty was founded by Kim Ilsung. So to legitimize your authority, it makes a lot of sense to to elevate the founder of the dynasty to godly to godly status. Read the Bhagastan inscription. You may not know what the Bhagastan inscription is because it is now called the Behon inscription. It was uh created by by the emperor of the Akminate dynasty Daravos also known as Darios. So he writes in in the inscription which was written about 2 and a half thousand years ago roughly. He writes about the fact that he is a king and he's a legitimate king because he has a whole lineage of kings above him who all were as his ancestors. It legitimizes his rule. And when Kurush the one of the Persian uh emperors of the same dynasty when Kurush defeated Nabuku Kudrachar Nabuk Nazar he created an inscription in which he said that you know me Kurush I am the son of kings who are sons of kings. I am a legitimate king and this Nabuku Kudrachar he was a nobody. He had no royal lineage. So all this matters. Your lineage matters. If you belong to an ancient lineage of kings, trust me, it matters. If you are in if you are in a position of power, okay? Because genetics matter. When people realize that implicitly or explicitly, people realize that if you come from a great lineage and you're in a position of power, it means that you have the genes, the the blood. It is in your blood that you that you know how to rule. You're fit to rule. So that's why it is important for Kim Jong-un to elevate his grandfather Kimmel Sun as the eternal leader that I simply am carrying his work forward. I am simply acting on behalf of my godly celestial deceased grandfather. I am simply his agent. Okay. I am doing the work but I he is doing the work through me. That's what you say. That gives you more authority, more legitimacy. This is a psychological thing and we in India don't have the system of dynasties and lineages that's why we don't realize it understand it anymore but it was also the case in India. So Ashok one of our great emperors well I'm sure he also extolled his grandfather Chandra Gupta Moria right he would have done that and uh and so on kaneska would have extolled his lineage which he does uh raatak inscription which is now in Afghanistan Gandhar but it was then part of bharat so kaneshka has an inscription in in in raatak it's a village in Afghanistan today in which he talks about It's similar to the Bhagastthana inscription in which he says that I am an I am I am a descendant of kings and my my lineage is this my father was this guy and my his father was this and his father was that. So it establishes his kingly lineage. It says that I am fit to rule because I come from a lineage of kings and so on. Why did Kim Ilsung close off Korea from the rest of the world? Because you have to understand the context of the time of the times. It was Kiml Sunsung became the leader in the aftermath of the Korean war and the Korean war never ended technically. So North Korea just south of North Korea you have US occupied territory and the war hasn't ended right and uh the whole of the might of the US and its allies is arrayed against you and on the side of North Korea you have China and the USSR. So it made sense for them to close everything off from the rest of the world and you know not allow any foreign influence in the country because that would lead to espionage and whatnot. And they were very paranoid about this maybe rightfully so. And and the communist system is always kind of a closed system. If you look at the Chinese how they you know conducted business until the late 1970s they were also closed off until Nixon and Kissinger hopped on hopped over to Beijing and then China slowly opened up slowly very gradually very very cautiously and the USSR never opened up. So the system the communist system was such that it was a closed system. So yeah made sense for them to do that. Okay. Vishal says what's the reason behind daily drone incursions in the EU? Well, maybe the drones are very fond of the EU. You know, EU is very pretty, very pretty nations and very interesting territory and terrain, very interesting military logistics and capabilities. So, the drones wish to just, you know, do some sightseeing. Maybe it's a message that the Russians are sending to the EU. I mean, recently some airports were were shut down because drones were flying over the airports, right? Uh, one of the Nordic countries, I don't remember which one. So you had that maybe these were Russian drones. Maybe these are NATO drones that are keeping an eye on things. We don't quite know. Uh so it's see look these are obviously not UFOs. These are not alien craft. It's military drones or surveillance drones of some kind. So it could either be NATO or Russian drones, one of the two. So if they're complaining that drones are in, you know, intruding into our territory, they're essentially implying that these are Russian drones that are u you know violating the the airspace of the EU nations. So if the Russians are behind this, maybe it's a message that's being sent to the EU and to NATO that you know we are capable of a lot more than what we are showing right now. Be careful and yeah it's a warning essentially possibly a threat possibly just a friendly message and maybe it also has the effect of you know the drones may be doing some espionage activities some reconnaissance activities data collection activities and so on. So that could be the reason reason behind this. Ruby says chances of UNFC seat for India and its geopolitical significance. Chances big fat zero. Okay. Geopolitic sign significance nothing. I request my dear Indians please stop hankering after these status symbols. These mean nothing. We will never get a UN general security council you know permanency. Never. As long as the US UN remains in the current shape and form, India will never get it. Stop begging for this thing. What India needs to do is India needs to become so powerful in its own right that the UN Security Council permanent membership becomes completely irrelevant. That's what India needs to do. The chances are a big fat zero. Please stop hankering after these status symbols. We need to stop hankering after status. We need to start going after actual hard power. Abhishek says please history super chat episode. I'm sure I can do that. The thing in history super chat I'll tell you what I don't know the history of the entire world. If you ask me the history of let's say Telangana I won't know a thing about it. Then if I if you ask me the history of Dr. Ambedkar for example I don't know a thing about that. If you ask me the history of I don't know somebody else there's a lot of history that I have not read and I can't answer that geopolitics I can answer essentially anything history there are some aspects of history that I am I'm really good at but some aspects of history that I've not looked into I' not not had the time to look into so if I do a super chat episode I'm going to get a lot of questions about stuff that I am not really an expert on and it would not be a good idea for me to try and answer that because that's wrong. Right? So that's essentially why I don't do these super chat episodes in history. I simply pick and choose questions that interest me and that's how I have gone about my business thus far but I will possibly look into this. All right. So thank you for the suggestion. Ashu tosh says implications of military buildup on circ. Let them do let them do. Okay. What is circreek? First of all let's see. Okay. Let's let's uh let's take a look at what is Sir Creek. It's in Kachra. We all know Katch the western most part of Gujarat, right? So here we have let's go let's zoom in right there. So this region here is the sir creek and the Pakistanis have always wanted to take bites out of you know Katch especially these little peninsula like fjord like places over here. They would like to take some bites out of it and apparently this is a disputed region for some for some reason. I'm not sure what the reason is. So it looks like I mean I'm sure if you look at the satellite images right now we will not get the latest images but apparently there is some kind of Pakistani military buildup over here. Let them do it. If they try anything funny they will they will pray they will pay a heavy price for it. So there are no implications. I'm least concerned about this so-called buildup of the Pakistani military in the circreek region. You want to try something funny? Try it. Please go ahead. You want to restart operation zindur? Let's go. Let's play game on sir. That's all. Okay. Napoleon Singh Shakawad says, "How would China be today if Chang Kaiishek would have won?" Well, that's a completely hypothetical question. I would I have it would possibly be very similar. Perhaps Chang Kaishek was a dictator. Yes. And he would have run China very similar to what Maadong did. Possibly he would have been friendlier with the west and less friendly with the Russians which could have caused possibly a China Russia war at some point in time. Maybe the Russians would have been more serious about nuking China or maybe not. We have no idea. A thousand things could have happened. Yeah. So, and they would have continued to claim Indian territory once again. So, yeah, it would not really have changed much of the India China equation. Godliness. Oh man, it's in Hindi. I'm going to have to read this. Trump. Trump tariff war tariff war. Oh well. Okay. So, so Trump is very friendly with the UK and he is investing he's he's treating the UK as a friend in the 12 permanuja sin and 12 nuclear power plants and 30 Arab what is 30 Arab means billion $30 billion worth of AI investment. So you see they will do the same with India also if we simp simply go down on our knees and beg beg all we have to do is become an American vasal allow American military presence on Indian territory give them some ports which their military can use allow a few military bases American military base in the Himalaya region etc open up the Indian economy completely to the US then the Americans will treat us even better the UK is an American vasal state their number one vasal state. So obviously with a vasal you have to be nice, you know, treat them treat them well. So there is no surprise in in this at all. Uh and the UK does want something or other from Trump. So they've gone out of of the of their way to make Trump feel like royalty. Uh the king of England, what's his name? Charles. He um hosted Trump for this magnificent apparently dinner. Trump and his and his you know the first lady Melania G and the king and queen of England were there uh King Charles and Queen Camila and a whole bunch of other global celebrities and so on were also there. So the the UK has gone out of their way to woo Trump and make him feel like royalty and you're like the most valued guest you're as as essentially the emperor of the US that sort of thing. So Trump is very happy with the UK UK and so on. Yeah. Prattana says Israeli strike on Katar fake or real? Absolutely real. Absolutely real. It was a real strike on Qatar. Um and then there was a deal between Shri Netanyahuji and a Shri Trump G. And the deal was that you know we will do this 22 20 point Hamas thing which is essentially an ultimatum to Hamas that do what we say otherwise you cease to exist in Gaza is flattened. So Hamas is now going ahead with you know the release of hostages and whatever else it is. So it's a win for Netanyahu when the deal is that in exchange for for this you make a phone call to the mayor of Qatar sir okay it was a mistake sorry won't happen again words words kind of humiliating to a certain extent but Nathaniel gets what he wants Gaza he gets Gaza and maybe there is a sweetener in the deal maybe next is Iran so so the strike was absolutely real no question about that okay um Sharma says I am right-wing arly right-wing as well. But why the blind support for is by fellow Indian right-wingers considering they target journalists aid aids people in Gaza? It's just because they're fighting Muslims, Israelites have no love for India. I don't know why Indians have a special love for Israel. I have no hatred for Israel whatsoever. U if the Israelis are targeting journalists or whatever in Gaza, it must be because those journalists and aid people are handin with Hamas. Anybody who is handin glove with terrorists is a fair target. Okay? I am completely with Israel on this. I'm completely with Israel on this. Israel has been the target of terrorist attacks, relentless terrorist attacks, horrific terrorist attacks from Hamas. And the people of Gaza, the people of Gaza are are are harboring Hamas. They have voted for Hamas. They've elected Hamas. And Hamas has this network of overground people that include journalists, which includes AIDS people, that includes doctors and whatnot. Under hospitals, you have Hamas shelters and all. So I don't blame Israel one bit for what they're doing. I have no issue with what Israel is doing there. I completely support Israel in this. The question is what are Israel's relations with Pakistan? What's Israel's potential role if any in Manipur and so on? That's my question. India and Israel are aligned like 90 95%. There's always going to be some issues here and there. My I have no issue with Indians supporting Israel. My only point is don't blindly support one nation. Understand everything and don't put another nation's flag on your on your on your profile. The only flag on your profile should be your profile and don't hero worship some other nation. The only nation that is worthy of worship is your own nation. That's my point. I have nothing against Israel whatsoever. Of course, there's a question of what's the deal with between Israel and Pakistan, for example. See, let me explain the rational. Let's look at this from a logical, coldly rational perspective, not an emotional perspective. Okay? The US is Israel's number one ally. They will always support Israel no matter what. Even when you have Barack Obama at the helm in the US, they will never still do anything to hurt Israel. Even though they Obama hated Netanyahu. So America, the US is Israel's number one ally. They will never do a thing that will hurt Israel. America's vasal is Pakistan. Okay. So then what's the relationship between Israel and Pakistan? Pakistan is also supporting the Trump deal in Hamas, the Hamas thing and all that. And apparently when this Munir fellow that Pakistani dictator when he was in Washington recently apparently when he when the Pakistani embassy hosted a dinner for him there wasn't some kind of Israeli presence in that dinner. So what's the deal between Israel and Pakistan? We know that Pakistan officially says that we hate Israel and we have no diplomatic relations with Israel but but there is some connection between Israel and Pakistan. which is obviously not good for India. Secondly, the Manipur story, the Manipur issue, Manipur is a disaster right now, right? The Man the Manipur issue is a disaster for India. It's a disaster for the native people, indigenous people of Manipur. Manipur is overrun by foreigners right now. Even I mean if they if you have a dark doesn't make you Indian. Okay? So these foreigners have some Israeli connections apparently because uh last year when some Indian influencers were brought to Israel on a tour of Israel, apparently some kooky rabbi was brought to meet them by the Israelis and to explain something about Manipur. Who the hell is this cookookie rabbi who is an Israeli citizen? Who the hell is he to talk about Manipur? So there is some some connection there. These are my issues. I completely support Israel on Gaza. I completely support Israel on the issue of terrorism and national security. I have questions about Pakistan and Manipur. That's it. Right. Okay. Tanahesh Pande says Tony Blair may lead Gaza's interim government under Trump's plan. Will this end the war or worsen it since Hamas won't accept foreign control? My thoughts. Hamas will accept everything now. And if they don't, Gaza will cease to exist. That is the deal. Hamas has no say anymore in what happens. Trump has essentially, please understand this, Trump has essentially given Hamas an ultimatum, the final ultimatum. These are the the points in my proposal, in my ultimatum. You do this, this, this, then this, this, this will happen and we will give you amnesty. If your fighters want to stay on in Gaza, they can stay on. We will not target them. If you want your guys to be moved to some other country, we will facilitate their transfer to some third country. But Hamas needs to give up all the hostages within a certain deadline, dead or alive. And then they need to facilitate, they need to step out of the way, put down their weapons, all of them, and hand over power to this interim government. And Hamas doesn't get to decide who is the interim government. Hamas is essentially being dismantled, demilitarized at least. And if Hamas delays their acceptance or if Hamas stands against this and tries to resist this, then Netanyahu gets a blanch. Go and do whatever you want. Finish it off. That's the deal. Who the hell is Hamas going to be not to accept this anymore? This is their last chance to stay alive. Okay, that's it. It's going to happen one way or the other. If they resist, Gaza will be flattened. Entirely flattened. That's the deal. It's a win for Netanyahu. IPK1s says Elon Musk recently compared Indian immigration in the UK to colonialism in India in a derogatory way. Why does he tweak his Twitter algorithm to hate Indians? Elon Musk is not a friend of India. Elon Musk is a white supremacist. Okay. And he believes that the white race is is the dominating should be the dominant race in the world. Elon Musk is very Gandhian in this aspect. He's very Gandhian. He echoes the words of Mr. Gandhi. Mr. Gandhi said this that I believe that the white race should be the predominant race in the British Empire and the Indians should be number two and the blacks should be in number three. That's what Mr. Gandhi wrote on the record in writing. You can feel free to look it up. I'm not going to produce the records over here because the book is somewhere there and I will have to dig up the thing. But that's what Mr. Gandhi said over a century ago. He didn't say it. He wrote it in South Africa. So Elon Musk believes this. Elon Musk believes that the white race is the predominant race and should should remain the predominant race. He believes the white race has done so much good for the world. Look, I have personally nothing with against the white race. I have a lot of people who I know among the white race. I have nothing I have nothing against any race whatsoever. My issue is with racial supremac supremacism. Any race, everybody is the same. We are all human beings. But if some people believe that because of the color of the skin or whatever, they're better than us or somebody else. Well, I have an issue with that. And there seem to be a lot of people who have this this this belief among the white race. I have an issue with that attitude and that belief not against any race. Please understand that. Okay? I have friends among the white race. So, so, so Elon Musk is one of these white supremacists and he has no uh love for India. Let's put it that way. So that explains things. That's why he amplifies this anti-Indian hate and he amplifies these false equivalences that uh if if some kind of false ridiculous false equivalence uh which I don't remember exactly what it was. I'm not going to go and dig up the tweets now. But yeah, maybe I should make a separate video on that. Just a comment on that perhaps. Yeah. So do remind me about that in the comments because I've got a thousand things in my head. Okay. Briesh says, "Should India take preemptive action against militants?" Terrorists? It's not militants, sir. It's not militants, it's terrorists. Should India take preemptive action against terrorists to prevent another Pakistan based attack? The situation is complicated. Uh if they give us a just cause for war, we should go to war and finish the matter entirely. U but it has to be a cause that the world will support. Otherwise they will accuse us of of starting a new war. So the situation is complicated. Ideally we should just go and do that. But the problem is that we have other nations who are way more powerful than us who support Pakistan and they are waiting for us to make a mistake. So we will unfortunately have to wait for the right time. If Pakistan gives us the opportunity which the world will support by what what kind of opportunity can Pakistan give us? The unfortunate thing is that it has to be another terrorist attack major terrorist attack. That is something we never want to happen right but considering the kind of neighbor we have it may happen unfortunately so if that's the sort of situation happens then that gives us the opportunity to take out Pakistan this time so yeah that's where we are critical says hypothetically if the US decides to withdraw from NATO tomorrow how will Europe security reconfigure itself or will a new idea like Russia take the place Europe will be lost without the US today let me explain Why? Let me explain why. Europe has no leadership. That's why. But you will say, "No, but they all have presidents and prime ministers and all that. How come Europe has no lead? What are you talking about? Are you crazy? As usual, you're delusional. Every nation has a prime minister or president. What do you mean by UK Europe has no leadership? These presidents and prime ministers, whoever they are, they are all puppet appointees of NATO, they're all puppet appointees. They don't really represent their people. They are implementing policies that are against their national interests. Give me, let me give you an example. Do you think any European nation wants this large scale immigration coming in from certain countries? Do they want these violent men on their streets who assault the women, local women and take over the streets and take over the whole place and become first class citizens and the natives become second class citizens? Does does any European citizen want this in any of the European nations? They don't want it. And yet somehow these people keep winning elections and keep implementing these policies. These people are not popular leaders. These are leaders who have been foisted upon these nations. The moment Hypothetically the US withdraws from NATO these nations will be rudderless. They will be saddled for a time with unpopular leaders and there are no grassroots leaders. They have ensured that no grassroots leaders emerge who are genuinely popular. So it's these are going to be nations without a proper leadership and without direction from Brussels, these leaders will not know what to do and there's going to be chaos in Europe if this happens. What security? Europe. Europe has no security architecture of its own. Poland has a decent military. Germany's military might is entirely dependent on the US. So is the UK's. France is one nation that may do well out of this. the others. Uh so if the US withdraws as the predominant power in Western Europe, you're going to be have a situation very soon in a few years similar to 1914 where all the old rivalries come out into the open. All the daggers are drawn and chaos. That's what will happen hypothetically. Pratar Dh says Tik Tok acquisition seems to be related to Israel. It looks like that. It looks like um this is something that benefits the US and Israel, Israel specifically, but it looks like that. I have not really looked into it, so can't really comment in detail, but looks like Mr. Netanyahu was very pleased about the Tik Tok deal. So, it looks like it's something that does benefit Israel. Sanatan Jigyasu says, "When the US sneezes, the world catches a cold. How does the US manipulate and supply dollar supply and interest rate to steal from the rest of the world? Okay, so see the US dollar is the global reserve currency. It's the currency that's accepted for most uh international trade and financial and monetary transactions, right? Um so who controls the the supply of the dollar? Obviously, it's the US, right? They're a Federal Reserve Bank. So uh they they determine how how much volume of US dollars is in circulation around the world and they can print US dollars out of thin air if they want which increases the increases the supply of the US dollar which devalues which brings the value down and that makes uh you know it it affects everything. Uh so that's how they can manipulate um the dollar supply um and uh interest rates and all that. So the how to how does it steal from the rest of the world? Okay, let's address that. So first of all, no country can print print the dollar. Only the US can. So they control that first of all. Understand that. Now secondly, let's say the US the US has the world's biggest debt burden, right? So let's say they owe let's say a trillion dollars of debt to for example let's say China hypothetically. So the Chinese say give us our money back. So what can the US do? They can simply print a trillion dollars either paper money or digital currency in the bank in your in your computers in the main frames or whatever and transfer that to China. So whenever the US has to but obviously they'll be have to be careful about this because if they print too much money then it'll you know cause chaos in the world in the in the global financial economic order but so they can still do that. So if they want to pay a trillion dollars of debt back to China they can simply print a trillion dollars and give it to China. There you go. There's your debt paper money. Here's a bunch of paper. But let's say let's say the the the let's say South Africa owes the US a trillion dollars hypothetically and the US says where's the money times up. So what South Africa has to do is that they have to sell actual resources or or product or something to other countries and earn a trillion dollars from them and then pay that to the US. You understand? So let's say you are a coffee exporting country and gold exporting country, gold producer. So you have to give up the gold that came out of your soil, a trillion dollars worth of gold to other countries and get paper money in exchange and then give that to the US. You can't print anything. The US can simply print off their debt. Other nations have to earn it by by giving up resources. So that's that's how the US can acquire all the resources resources actual resources of of the world by printing paper money. That's how they do it. So that's the advantage of having the having a currency which is the world's reserve currency. Um Arun Kumar says you said only selective Afghan refugees are accepted but thousands of in Delhi can easily be identified as non-Indians don't look like Indians. US HSCR have registered 15,000 Afghan refugees in India. I don't know when I have said this must be like 2 3 years ago. I don't know what the situation has been like in the past 2 3 years. If I said something 3 years ago, it doesn't mean it it still applies today. Please understand this that times change. Even something I said 6 months ago may not apply today because the situation may have changed. That's the that is what happens in geopolitics. Sir, please understand that something that was spoken even 3 months ago may no longer be applicable today. The world is changing. Do you understand that sir? Do you understand that things change? I have no idea what's happened in the past 2 3 years. Have we accepted more Afghan refugees? I don't know. So, please understand this. The world is changing. It's evolving every single day. Okay, next. Amald Desh Pande says in China, if if China, the US, Saudi Arabia and allies back Pakistan, how would war unfold? Which war in operation Synindur 2.0? Okay. Uh would India fight alone or get support from someone? Can you paint a picture of probabilities? India will fight alone. Let me already paint you this picture of probability. Nobody is going to come and stand with India. Not going to happen. India stands alone. India is alone. Understand that. You want to have someone backing you up. You have to give up your sovereignty and become someone's vasal. It is a privilege that you have to fight alone. If China has to go to war with the US, who's going to stand with them? Will Russia stand with them? It will cause a nuclear war. Russia will have to be very careful about this. If the US and Russia go to war, will China stand with them and once again with India if if uh India and Pakistan go to war and the Americans and Saudis and Chinese back Pakistan, do you think Russia will come and stand with us? It's not going to happen. This is something we have to understand right now itself. We may be on excellent terms with Russia, but Russia cannot afford to get dragged into a war like this. Russia will not be involved in this. Russia may sell us weapons and send us supplies or whatever if required. If required that they will do beyond that they will not send their troops to stand with us. Not going to happen. So let me say this very clearly right now itself in any future war with whoever it is India is going to be fighting alone but that's fine. That's how it is. Okay. Chatanya Pratush says PI Atlas splits public views. Comet alien craft project blue beam. How do powers exploit this for soft or hard power for India? Do we improve domain awareness or coalition science? Coalition science to control narrative your read comet anomaly. Okay, let's talk about three Atlas. Yesterday was this object's closest approach to Mars. Today is what? What's the date today? Okay, day before yesterday. Today is the 5th of October. The 3rd of October was this object's closest approach to Mars. M A R S Mars. This object is an interstellar visitor. It's not an object that is part of the solar system. It's come from outside. It's passing through the solar system and it's very strangely enough passing exactly along the plane of the solar system. The plane in which all all the planets rotate and revolve around the sun. Right? So there's a plane. The solar system is is a flat thing. Okay. All the planets revolve around the sun in a single plane. And this object is coming in the exactly the same plane which is very very interesting, very unusual, very unusual. Is that a coincidence? I mean, is that a coincidence? Maybe it's a coincidence. Now, the question is, is this um is this just a comment or is it something else? And why is it on an approach that kind of brings it brings it very close to Mars and then to Jupiter while going out? It's not coming close very close to Earth but it's approaching it it two days ago it approached Mars really close by and while going out it's going to do another flyby of Jupiter if if the path if the trajectory remains continues to be a natural trajectory and some people are saying that maybe it has some characteristics that are suspicious maybe it is outgassing in the wrong direction if it's a comet then it's coma its tail should point away from the sun because the coma of a comet is caused by radiation pressure of the solar wind which excites the molecules and in in in its u in the comet's composition and does and causes outgassing and the outging is directed away from the sun because because of the pressure from the solar wind and solar radiation. So a comet's tail is always pointed away from the sun. But apparently some people some scientists are saying that there was outgassing in the direction of the sun which looks like a breaking maneuver. For example, when you have a rocket booster that's landing, it's going to spew out its uh it it's uh exhaust towards the place where it where it's flowing. Right? So similarly maybe there is some outgassing maneuver the which may have caused the which may be it may its intention may be to slow the comet down or something but there's no evidence of that thus far. Hard evidence. Secondly the comet seems to have a green glow greenish glow and that could be because of the nickel plating that you have on spacecraft or something that sort of thing. And some images have come out in the past couple of days that seem to show that it has a cylindrical shape which is extraordinarily suspicious if it is cylindrical. But is it really cylindrical? I I don't believe it's cylindrical nonsense. Okay? Because if you if you take a long exposure of anything, let me show you what a long exposure looks like. Okay? Stars long exposure. It it gives all the stars an elongated shape. So look here. Look, stars long exposure. Let's go. See, this is what a long exposure looks like. The longer it is, the longer are the trails of the stars. Uh if it is a short exposure, what happens? Short exposure. Sher. So if you do a short exposure, all the stars the the trails look like kind of like cylinders, right? Cylinders over here on Earth because we the Earth is rotating around its axis. That's why the cylinders are kind of curved. But in space, if you take a long exposure, then the cylinder will be perfectly straight. Straight. So three I atlas. Three I at atlas. Um image. Okay. Three atlas. Let's see. So if you look at the see if you look at the latest images um one second images. So if you look at images of three Atlas, you will see that some of the latest images make it look like okay. So this is a good image in which the the the camera is focusing on the comet which makes everything else look like cylinders. So it's clearly something that looks like a comet and not something with long with with with a cylindrical shape even though the background stars look cylindrical. But if you don't focus on the common, you just take a long exposure, then then even the common will look like a cylinder. That's the point. So I don't believe that this cylindrical appearance is a real thing. It's just an artifact of how you take the photographs. Uh so my what's my view? I I think it's I I don't I have not seen enough evidence to to to completely prove that this is possibly not natural which means maybe it's an alien spacecraft. I have not seen enough evidence to prove that. I am not convinced that it is not an alien spacecraft. If it changes direction or something like that then it will be very suspicious and then I will have to uh revise my my assessment. Thus far I have not seen any such uh evidence. How do powers exploit this? No, nobody's exploiting this this for anything. This is nothing to do do with geopolitics. If it's an actual alien invasion, then everything changes. But there is no exploitation of this. How do we improve domain awareness of and so on. You need to have your own observatories and all that. You need to have your own space based satellites and and Hubble space telescope like observatories maybe JWST like observatories. You need to have all this infrastructure in place then you can improve your domain awareness. Ritik Tagi says been watching you since 2021. Thank you so much sir. Thank you. Uh your talks reignited my love for history. Outstanding sir. I'm glad to hear that. Reading the darkening age now. Um yeah Katherine Nixie. Yes I had recommended the book. What made Palmyra so key between Rome and Persia? Palra that yeah I'm not sure if it was really key. It was one of the Roman outposts in the region. It was in Syria if I am not mistaken. Let's Google it. Let's go to the map and and check it out. I think Palmira is in Syria. It's in the middle of some deserted area. Pretty barren territory. Let us see. It's it's a Yeah, pretty interesting ruin. Yeah. Palmira Syria. And zoom. There we have it. So, if we look at see it's, as you can see, it's pretty barren. And let's zoom out to confirm that it is indeed in Syria. It is indeed in Syria. The So yeah, this was a Roman uh outpost in the region. This this territory uh was under Roman control and to the east you had the Persian Empire and you had Roman Persian wars as well. Uh I'm not sure if Palmer was really a key outpost or whatever, but it certainly was. Um, it it certainly is a very highly sought-after tourist destination. So, where's the ruins? This is the modernday city. The thing is over here everything looks like ruins, right? Because the it's in the desert. So, where is the pave? Okay, let's see. Palm ruins. Okay, here we have it. So this is the place that is so famous and obviously this was an ancient Roman outpost know Roman settlement. Uh I don't know specifically if it was a really key settlement or not. I'm not sure how important it was in the grand context of things. Roman the Roman Empire did have a presence over here and uh that's what brought it into conflict with the Persian Empire. And you had a Roman emperor. Who was it? I forget his name. Who was actually captured by the Persians and humiliated and so on. Yeah. Okay. But um but this was a history question, right? I'm supposed to take geopolitics questions. I need to remind myself. Okay. So I'll only take geopolitics questions. I have to remind myself. People will do what they want. People. Okay. Anyway, Abida Singh says, "Russia, Ukraine war, Israel, Gaza war, India, Pakistan war, and their allies all are interwoven. Doesn't it kind of guarantee a full-fledged or nuclear war will never happen as everyone has something to gain with periodic skirmishes? Everybody has something to gain and everybody has something something to lose. The question is what's the cost benefit ratio of each of these things and who turn ends up on the losing side? Russia Ukraine war there's no nuclear dimension to this unless NATO gets involved and NATO will be very careful not to get involved directly Israel Gaza there's absolutely no nuclear dimension unless all the other neighboring countries get involved which they are very they are not going to do that India Pakistan sure there could be a nuclear dimension but then even now even in India Pakistan I doubt it unless the US authorizes the use of its nuclear weapons because most likely it's becoming increasingly clear now the Pakistanis whatever nuclear warheads they they have, they are probably American nuclear warheads. So if the Americans approve a Pakistani nuclear strike, well then a nuclear war can happen and even then it's not a global nuclear war. It's just India Pakistan and India gets damaged but Pakistan ceases to exist. So so everybody has something to gain. Everybody has something to lose. If India and Pakistan really go to a full-fledged war, Pakistan has everything to lose. we have some something to lose. It will significantly certainly damage damage India to some extent but Pakistan will completely cease to exist. Um so does it mean that um does it mean doesn't it kind of guarantee a full-fledged nuclear war will never happen? It guarantees nothing. One little miscalculation we can set off a global conflration of. So first of all let's understand what do we mean by a full-fledged nuclear war. India Pakistan having a full-fledged nuclear war will end in like 10 minutes with the damage on one side and complete destruction on another side and it's over. India China could be much worse. It'll significantly damage both countries. Um China Russia less likely to happen. India China also less likely to happen. Israel versus its neighbors Israel wins. The only nuclear war we need to the the entire world should be worried about is US versus Russia. That's what we need to worry about. Um that's what the whole world needs to worry about. And there is no guarantee it won't happen. Absolutely no guarantee. One miscalculation can set of a disaster. Tanmadesh Pand says there's a theory that India and China have an unspoken pact that in that China gets Taiwan, India gets P with no opposition on both sides any truth to this. Who has come up with this theory? Who? Who? How do we know there's this unspoken fact? How do we know? If there is, let's say hypothetically a pack like this, it is going to be top secret. If it does exist, how will this theory come out? Then these theories are are pedled by various influencers and so on. I I don't know who has Okay, first of all, let me say I've not heard of this. I personally have never said such a thing. And if somebody has come up with a theory and all that, well, good for them. I am not going to speculate. I have no information that there is such a such a pact, unspoken pact or whatever. I have no such information and I have no connections high up in in in in Delhi or Beijing by the way. Okay? So I I am not going to be the person who will know about such a thing if it does exist and I will refrain from speculating. These are these are wild speculations. Yeah. Does it make sense? Now that's a different story. Does it make sense for both the nations to have such a pack? How could China guarantee that India gets PK? Tell me how does China let me blow a gigantic hole in this theory. huge hole that the theory cannot recover from. If Pakistan is China's vasal and if China controls Pakistan, then China can guarantee that India gets P if India doesn't interfere in the Taiwan matter. Sure. But Pakistan is an American vasal. China has no control over Pakistan today. How can China guarantee that India gets P? This theory has no legs to stand on. Okay, so I have no idea who originated this theory. Which influencer or which YouTuber came up with this theory? This theory doesn't have legs to stand on. Okay. Project Smiling Buddha says, "I know it with high level of confidence that the West is working on denying 6G mobile technology to China and India and moving all the 6G development work to Romania and Portugal. Are we ready? What's my suggestion to the government? Develop our own 6G technology." That's my simple suggestion. I have no idea by the way. Okay. Maybe you you have some information. Okay. Um that's good. That's good in case you have the information. Um so let's say hypothetically if the west wants to deny 6G mobile technology to India and China and by by diverting to Romania, Portugal, whatever, what should India India should develop its own 6G technology? Did we buy 5G technology from somebody or did we develop it on our own? I'm pretty sure we developed it entirely ourselves, right? Or did we did we acquire 6G technology, buy it from somewhere? I'm not sure. I have not looked into it. But my suggestion would be very simple. Develop the 6G technology eventually 7G, 8G, 9G, 10G, 6G, whatever entirely on our own. We should not be dependent on other nations for technology. It is a critical Achilles heel if we are dependent on the other nations. it it means that we are technologically not sovereign if that is the case. So my suggestion is very simple. India should develop all this technology entirely on its own inhouse. That's all. Samura says I've been your listeners since 2020. Wow that's a long time. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Good to have you sir. Thank you. Uh listening to you has expanded my thinking and helped me see the world differently. Deep respect and gratitude for your work. Thank you so much. Thank you so much sir. uh truly a pleasure to have uh you know it's a privilege to to have viewers who've been watching me for such a long time hearing listening to me to listening to me for such a long time. It's a privilege. It's a privilege to have one person spend a little bit of time listening to you. It's a privilege very few people have unfortunately. So I am very grateful to you and everybody else who does take the time to listen to me. I'm very grateful to all of you. Thank you so much. Teentox Dharma says, "Do you not think that the US is the reason why there is no World War II? Because the US doesn't let anyone rise to its status? Is it better to live under a unipolar world? Is the U US a reason the reason why there's no World War II?" So, let's once again try and define what World War II looks like. What is the definition of a world war? Let's say the First World War. Was it really a world war? It was the European war which spilled out to Africa and Asia to some extent. India got involved because we we were a slave of the of the British. It was not really a world war. It was a foreign war for India that we were dragged into. The second world war was a continuation of this European tribal war. And once again we were dragged into it because we were a slave of the UK. And this time the war spread to other parts of the world including Asia because of the Japanese involvement and so on. So world war is a war in which everyone's involved. Most major nations in the world are involved. And the third world war will obviously use use 21st century technologies which is going to be devastating. Is the US the reason why this third world war doesn't happen? No. know if a third world war happens it will be because of the US actually. Uh so it's not like there's always a balance of power in the world and when you have more and more powerful weapons then then becomes more dangerous for a world war to happen or for the major powers to go to war. The US obviously will try its best not to allow anyone to rise to its status. But today you have nations that can well Russia hasn't risen to the the status of the US but Russia can completely finish the US and also get finished in in exchange. Uh so I I don't I would not agree that the US is the reason why there is no World War II. If a World War II happens, it will be because of the US. Is it better to live under a unipolar world? Absolutely not. It means you are living under slavery. But we had enough of this my dear friends. Okay. Hitman says, "Big fan of your work." Thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much. And thank you so much. Thank you so much for being a me member. I really appreciate that, sir. Thank you. Sam Aurora says, "Let's say you're the PM of the country. What might be currently stopping you from reforming our education system, which is the root cause of most our problem? Most most of our problem." See, this is not a geopolitical question. Let me take it briefly though because the education system does impact geopolitics. What's stopping me from reforming the education system? The fact that the prime minister is not powerful enough. The prime minister doesn't have the power to reform every educational board in the in the country. The prime minister doesn't have the power to tell x state or y state or zed state what kind of education system needs to be implemented there. India is this weak federal system and the center doesn't have sufficient power to do all this. and the and the the if you have a coalition government then you need the the the support of other parties and if they don't like what you're doing they will take they'll withdraw support and even if you have a full majority and you have MPs from different states and if some states don't like your educational reforms then those MPs may revolt or something and you may lose your majority there are all these issues in India the main problem is the system the kind of system that we have and I can distill that into one sentence the prime Prime Minister doesn't have sufficient power. That's the reason. Okay. Right. Hitman. Namaste. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much. Really appreciate that. Thank you, sir. Perseus says, "I am curious. Is the deep state strictly a US thing or does their power extend to the whole world more importantly to India and do they have or do they have their counterparts?" Okay. the deep state. So the deep state when we talk about the deep deep state we're talking about the US um what is this US deep state it is the extra democratic extra constitutional power center that seems to exist in exist in the US see technically on paper the US president is the most powerful uh person in the country who runs the country with the help of his cabinet right and all the other inst institutions and organs of the of the government are in support of this essentially right that's what it says on paper and the president represents the will of the people that sort of thing but actually there seems to be another power center somewhere that is more powerful than the president for example I can give you a very clear example the uh US federal reserve bank the president of the US doesn't control the federal reserve the federal reserve as a private bank. Imagine the RBI of India is a private bank. We don't know who really owns it. That would mean that that India is is privately owned. India's economy is privately owned. That's what that's what it would mean. So the American economy is privately owned by some people and we we are not told who they are. So clearly there is a deep state that itself is an indicator that there is something that doesn't that beyond what meets the eye and so on. So there seems to be a small number of people who are super powerful, way more powerful than the president of the US and the US president has to be very careful not to cross them. Um does their power extend to the whole world? Their power extends way beyond the US. Way beyond the US in various shapes and forms. Uh does it extend to India? They have resources in India. That's let's put it that way. They have resources in India. Assets. They have assets in India. Do they have counterparts? I don't know about counterparts. They have assets. They certainly have assets in India. That's as much as I can say. I I I will I will not venture to elaborate beyond that. Milan has no question but All right. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Or ma'am, don't know. Thank you. Dib Yayan says your thoughts on the recent PJK unrest. Okay. So recently there's been this new wave of unrest in Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir. So it it's clear that the people of Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistasan are not happy with the Pakistani occupation. They're not happy. Why are they unhappy? Because the government of Pakistan has done nothing for them. no progress, no development, no opportunities, no economic opportunities. Um, nothing. There's no hospitals, there's no schools, colleges, there's no infrastructure, there's poor electricity, no drinking water, um, oppression by the Pakistani army, all of that. And they can see across the line of control what the situation is. so much progress, so much development, so many more economic opportunities and so much more and they aspire to have the same level of development and progress and quality of life and all that. So that's why they are so unhappy and they are not represented in the Pakistani parliament as far as I know and they they are essentially under foreign occupation. So they are deeply upset about that and that's why they keep on protesting from time to time. Now let me explain something to you all to all of you. Are you under the impression that the people of Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir want to reintegrate with India? Are you under the impression somehow that they have some love for India? Do do you do you all really think so that they love India? They want to return to India. They want to be independent. They have no love for India. They don't want to reintegrate with India. They just want to be free from the Pakistani occupation. understand that very clearly. Okay, please let's not live in some in case some of you are living in some fantasy land or some fantasy world or La La Land, let me bring you back to the real world. The people of Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir have absolutely no love for India. Understand that. Milan says, "Can the global order survive for much longer with the current convergence of major p power rivalries, intensifying local conflicts and the advent of AI. World War II possibility the century the World War II possibility is always there. I hope it doesn't happen. Um there are there is understanding between various nations that have the capac capability to destroy the world. But uh one little miscalculation can set off a world war. Uh, can the global order survive much longer with the convergence of major power rivalries, intensifying local conflicts and the advent of AI? See, what's happening right now is a restructuring of the world order. It is not happening randomly. It is not happening spontaneously. It is being engineered. The global order is being re-engineered. the tariffs that Trump is imposing on various nations on an ad hoc basis on a bilateral basis it completely dismantles the the WTO structure that you had World Trade Organization the so-called rules-based world order everything is being dismantled by Trump they created that system and they are dismantling it now that's number one okay number two we have all these fault lines that have opened up Russia Ukraine Russia is eventually going to partition in Ukraine and take over Ukraine Whenever it happens, it'll happen. Russia is going to prevail in the Ukraine war. The Russia US rivalry is now out in the open. It's naked. NATO is a US proxy. It's a US puppet. So is the EU. And the Ukraine war is a proxy war between Russia and NATO. And NATO is a proxy of the US. So it's actually a Russia US war with a double proxy layer. So that rivalry is out in the open now. And the objective was to destroy Russia. Did not happen. It actually ended up strengthening Russia. But it's kind of isolated Russia to some extent. and Russia was prepared for that. Now there's other um intensifying local conflicts. The other one is Gaza. Gaza is a small thing. It's it's going to be resolved now. But Gaza, the resolution of the Gaza conflict and the dismantling of Hamas. It is going to possibly set the prelude for something to happen to Iran. Iran could be next. So let's say the Americans do a regime change in Iran and also do a regime change in Venezuela. Then the world becomes cleanly cut into two pl two two two groups. The US-led world order the US and its vasals which is the whole of Africa the whole of the Middle East Iran gone Venezuela going the whole of Latin America Central America and the Southeast Asia Japan South Korea all of that. That's on one one side and obviously EU and NATO. All of that is with the US. On the other hand, you have Pakistan and China and North Korea. What is left? India has left. Then they got they're going to come after India in some way or the other. That is what's happening. AI is obviously a big player in this. So that is the deal. I suspect I fear that Iran could be next in the crosshairs once the Gaza issue is resolved which will be resolved soon enough. Yeah. They will solve Iran and if if Israel and the US launch a war on Iran, do you think Russia and China will come and will be in a position to come and save Iran? I doubt it very much. So that is how the dominoes seem to be in the process of rolling possibly. Yeah. Let's see. Aravshaw says global hyperbolicity. Global hyperbolicity is assumed in in very quantum gravity theory. This makes sense for a well-defined initial value formalism that heavily relies on cosmic censorship. Could there be more work in relaxing assumptions? Okay sir, we are not discussing science today. Sir, we are discussing geopolitics. If I start taking questions from every field, then the people the viewers who have come for geopolitics, they will not be happy. Sir, let's take these questions about the time. Sir, please I'll only talk take geopolitics questions today. Nilles Patil says, "Was judgment of Indian judge in Tokyo trials incorrect? After all, Japanese did commit those crimes and tortures." I have not read the judgment. Um, what was the judgment and and and figure out what was said, I can't really answer the question. Maybe we can look it up. Okay, let's quickly try and summarize what the judgment was. Um, Judge Rada Binodal Tokyo trial trial judgement summary. Okay, let's see what does it say. dissenting judgment acquitted all Japanese defendants arguing that the charges of excessive war and crimes against humanity were based on expost factor principles and that the tribunal represented the victim's justice. He contended that no prior international law prohibited aggressive war and that insufficient evidence proved direct individual responsibility for atrocities. um past descent though a minority view became has become a significant critique of the post-war legal proceedings and was supported by Japan which honored him and so on. So the key arguments no prior law for aggressive war. Paul argued that crimes against peace and aggressive war were not established offenses under international law at the time Japan engaged in the conflict. So that's post X facto. Western nations had historically exercised this right without prohibition. Uh and therefore it was unjust to try only the powers for it. Lack of proof for individual responsibility. Evictus justice exp post postf factor application of no hello allow absolutely critique of yeah okay I completely agree with Shri Radha binod pal's judgment absolutely absolutely agree with him this is victor's justice this is expost facto justice come on I completely agree with him godliness uh sorry I had to ask my last question on UK US in Hindi as YouTube was not allowing it was was not allowing ing me to ask the same question in English. Wow. Really? Okay. So, it was maybe some words may have triggered its censorship algorithm or something. It happens. I'm I'm sorry. I can't control that. So, okay. I totally understand why you had to do that then in that case. Okay. Puroptam Pradans is off topic, but no, I'm not going to watch Kantara or whatever. I I have no interest in that. And I'm hearing that there are some possibly some missionary propaganda in that. Uh yeah. So I I haven't watched Canara one. I'm not watching Canara 2. Sorry. Sorry. Uh Dib Yan Dib Yayan says India's GDP growth is decent despite the global turbulence. How confident are you of Vixit Bharat if we continue having strong governance and reforms? I am super confident of a Vixit bat by 2047. If we have strong governance and if we have actual reforms. What do I mean by actual reforms? Please end the hypothetical alleged corruption in the country. Without that, nothing is going to change. Secondly, the reservations are going to destroy the country. We need a fully meritocratic system. Thirdly, the education system is critical. If you don't reform it, nothing's going to change. Indians will remain living in La La Land and remain crippled mentally. Without these three major changes, there is going to be no wix bat. Without these three major changes, one alleged corruption, two meritocracy and end of reservations. And third, the reforms of the education system. Without these three reforms, India is doomed to mediocrity. What vixit bar? No vikit bat. Nothing. SL says, okay, what is this? CN versus China versus Russia after US decline in future border clash ahead US decline. Are you assuming there's going to be US decline in the future? It's all empires decline but it could take 200 years. So yeah, see China and Russia are natural rivals. They're not natural they're not natural allies. They're natural adversaries. So if there's a US decline, China and Russia will once again resume their rivalry and adversarial relationship which could cause border clashes certainly. Anonymous scientist Bisar Mu Bisar, how powerful and influential is the pharma lobby in geopolitics? Well, that's quite a interesting question. The farmer lobby is the US farmer lobby. It's super influential in the US and the US is the most important player globally in geopolitics. So it is indeed super influential globally as well and it tried for example Fiser tried pushing its horrific vaccine worldwide. They wanted India to to approve the usage of the Fiser vaccine but we obviously refused without proper trials independent trials and they refused to have independent trials because they knew what will happen. Uh Shane War died. Yeah. Was he someone who would just die like that? I'm sure he took that vaccine. What a loss. Anyway, so farmer lobby is is pretty powerful, you know, internationally. It doesn't actually affect geopolitical outcomes, but it is a significant player globally because of the US dominance in the world. Nandanda Kizor says why the slave US is hostile to India but master Israel is not. So you are asking me to answer this question assuming that Israel is the master of the US. I am not going to assume that Israel is the master of the US. Maybe the US is the dominant power in the relationship. I am not clear about who is the dominant power in this relationship. So yeah. So yeah. So I can't answer the question assuming what you are asking me to assume I can't assume that Kumar Patel says does 25 cr Muslims include 10 crore illegal Bangladesh I have no idea I have no idea and this is not a geopolitical question sir this is an internal matter of India I don't comment about that obviously it's a problem the the 10 cr illegal Bangladeshes uh I'm not sure if that is included in the whatever demographic you are referring to sir Kunal Krish says do you think India like America is turning into a police state? No. No. Earlier we saw fewer cops in the roads than we do today. No. No. India is not turning into a police state. It's not. To know what a police state is like go to the US. Go to certain European countries. Then you will know what a police state looks like. India is nowhere close to being a police state. India is a very relaxed country. And you should be grateful that we are to some extent at least. I mean in the US the cops can shoot you for anything. They can exercise that that right to shoot you. No questions asked and even if they're wrong nothing happens. That is not really the case in India. We are far from being that. So no it's not the case. Diban says your forecast of UK and EU economies given their worsening situation. France, Germany, UK have high deficit. Will they see worsening standards of living? They will. Their economies are not doing great. I don't see the e economies reviving anytime soon. I don't see the economies booming, forget not booming, even doing okay. See, it's it's very simple. All human activity from the dawn of human history 400,000 years ago, all human activity depends on one thing and one thing only, energy. Access to energy. When our hunter gatherer ancestors from 300,000 years ago, when they went hunting, they had to spend energy, muscle, muscular energy. And if they did not hunt on time, they would die of starvation. Then once we started living in villages and groups and all that, we had to build huts or whatever, that needed the expenditure of mus muscle power. Then when you had two rival tribes fighting each other for territory, that involved the use of muscle power, which is energy. And then you had ranged weapons and all that, which was again the expenditure of energy. Then if you want to build walls and all, it needs energy. If you want to uh in the medieval era when you had warfare on horses once again it's energy in the force of form of horsepower then you had other forms of energy like rockets and guns and if you want to travel long distances you have to burn coal petrol whatever so every human activity depends on energy a major nation's economy it depends on the availability of energy and today the EU nations are are deliberately sabotaging their energy availability. They are switching to coal. They have shut down shut down their nuclear power plants. Germany did that. Um and and even if you do that, if you have access to cheap Russian gas, you're fine. But they've shut that down also. So when you don't have this reliable, you know, supply, plentiful supply of cheap energy, you're not going to do well. And so we have all these issues that you have in Europe. So I don't see those economies doing well anytime soon. I think the situation is going to worsen. The standards of living will decline. There's going to be more strife in society with the immigration, illegal immigration which is now legalized and whatnot and the demographic replacement that's happening in Europe. I think the way things are going, Europe is going downhill and I don't see a way out of it for Europe the way things are right now. So yeah, long-term I don't have a good good prognosis for the UK and for the EU and the UK is in the same boat as the EU. Even if they have done Brexit, it doesn't make any difference. The prognosis isn't good at all. Abishek says, uh, Indians think Obama is some great president, but could you please explain why Obama is the same as any other American president? My question is, what did Obama achieve? What did he achieve? What are his achievements? I mean, if you what did Ronald Reagan achieve? Well, you could say that he kind of presided over the over the weakening of the USSR, which eventually led to its decline. He was the last great president of the US who, you know, boosted the American economy in various ways. Uh then George Bush the senior, he did not do much obviously. Clinton, what did he achieve? Nothing much. Nothing really much. And what did Omama achieve? What did George W. Bush achieve? Well, he he won the second oil war, the second Gulf War. He had Saddam Hussein captured and executed. He oversaw the the occupation of Afghanistan. Then he launched this war of war on terror on the world and he destroyed Iraq. So great achievements. What did Obama do? Well, the one achievement is that he destroyed Libya. It's it's during his uh tenure that Libya was destroyed, wasn't it? Obama. Uh so I'm not sure what Obama achieved. What is his great achievement? I'm not sure. Nothing great. The American economy did not do really well at all. Obamacare was a flop. So overall, he did not achieve anything special, anything specific. The only distinction he has is that he is the first non-white full non-completely white American president. was only half half white, not completely white, right? 50% black, 50% white. That's the only distinction that he has. And he had a female secretary of state for a while. Hillary Rodm Clinton, that's about it. Okay. Anonymous scientist says, should India tweak its nuclear deterrence policy in the future and make it more barbaric like the US nuclear policy or is the current policy good? I don't know what the current policy is. Whatever the stated policy is, it doesn't matter. What the real policy is is what matters. And that's something you don't disclose to anyone. See, you're not obliged to spell out exactly what your nuclear policy is. Let's say you state that we have a no first use policy. It's a it's a statement you've made, but when let's say in the future you go to war, you may decide to change the policy on the spot. So these statements don't matter. Please understand this. The Chinese also have a no first use policy. But let's say they are in a tight corner someday. You think they will hesitate to from you know hesitate to use nuclear weapons first if needed if it isn't if it gives them an advantage. They will not. So all these policy statements and all you have to take them with table tablespoonfuls of salt. These these statements are just for public consumption. Okay. So I don't know what the current policy is. I'm sure it's good. That's what I can tell you. Wamshi Khaleim says, "How when slash how could the dollar lose its reserve currency status?" Ah, Vami Khim, when and how could the US dollar lose its reserve currency status? If a significant number of highly relevant nations decide to collectively start using a different currency or a different set of currencies then the US dollar becomes you know less viable. It it's it's on shaky ground. Now let's say the BRICS nations for example I don't know how many n which are the BRICS nations today we have way more than before right uh which are the BRICS nations bricks nations. So obviously we have the top five Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa. And now we have Egypt, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Well, UAE and Saudi Arabia are actually US allies. Indonesia also is. Egypt also is. So okay. Oh, what is this? End of the dollar. That's funny. Okay. So if you have these nations, forget about the other other ones. Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa. Even if India, Russia, China and Brazil alone decide to stop using the US dollar, that is a big setback to the US. Obviously, they will go to war. The US will go to war against us if we do that. But yeah, if something like that happens. So BRICS today accounts for for more of the world's GDP than the G7 nations. So if the BRICS nations actually decide to do this to stop using the US dollar and start using maybe the Russian ruble or the Chinese yuan or maybe the rubal yuan and rupee collectively then that could be a huge setback to the US but that's a very dangerous decision to take because the US will go to war against you. So it's not going to happen anytime soon. It will not happen suddenly. Maybe it will happen gradually if it does happen or maybe it won't happen at all for the next 50 years. Who knows? Can't say. Uh I think the probability is higher that this will happen gradually and maybe BRICS will take the lead but when I'm not sure. Animesh says happy. Well happy Dashara to you as well and to everybody else. Why does the US offer unconditional support to Israel? Is there an alleged is influential Israeli lobby and what makes it so powerful? Why isn't US support for Europe as strong? Well, there seems to be a powerful and influential Israel Israeli lobby. That's not alleged. it seems to exist. Um there is this book by John Mirshimer. Let me see John Mirshimer uh Israel lobby. Okay, there's this book. So this gentleman John Mir Shimemer is a very highly respected professor of political science at the University of Chicago and he has written this book the Israel lobby and US foreign policy. So there clearly is an Israel lobby in the US which seems to be pretty influential and powerful in the US political circles and maybe it is one of the reasons why the US offers this tremendous essentially unconditional support to Israel, right? Uh so yeah clearly there is an Israel lobby and uh if if such a if such a reputable and highly respected professor writes an entire book about this clearly it exists right so that possibly could explain why the US you know offers this unconditional support to Israel why isn't US support for Europe as strong well the US sees Europe as an asset to be used Europe essentially is under de facto US occupation. Uh many of the European many of the EU nations or many of the NATO nations are under US occupation which means that the US has troops on those nations territories and military bases on those nations territories in some of the nations like the Netherlands and and Turkey etc. the US has actually deployed nuclear weapons on these nations territory. So and and when it comes to the EU, not NATO but EU, then EU is run by Brussels. EU is is ruled by Brussels and Brussels is in the pocket of Washington DC. So the US sees Europe as an asset, not as an ally, but it sees Israel probably as an ally, not as an asset. So that's the difference. Satan Jigasu says, "What's the difference between third, fourth, fifth generation fighter planes? What specific trade-offs do they offer? Is newer generation always better in all situations? Educate me. Okay. Um, it's about significant technological leaps every time. So, f the first generation is the basic jet engine fighter plates. The second generation is your MIG 21s. Is Mig 21 second or third generation? It's all about technological leaps every time. So the fifth generation fighter planes are stealth fighter planes that can destroy targets at standoff ranges like 200 300 km ranges. So that depends on the kind of missiles they have and also stealth characteristics. Fourth generation fighter planes typically don't have stealth characteristics and they don't have the the capability to destroy targets at standoff ranges. So let's say you have a dog fight between two planes. If it's a third generation fighter planes, then they will have to come into close proximity to launch short range missiles at each other or cannons that sort of thing. Fourth generation fighter planes will be able to fight at longer ranges and eliminate targets from long longer ranges maybe 20 30 km. >> Fifth generation fighter planes can do that at like 300 km ranges and they will be stealthy. That's the kind of thing. So let's quickly take a look at examples of fighter plane generations. Examples of of uh fighter plane generations. Let's see. First, second, third, fourth, fifth. First generation me. Okay. Mig 15 was the first generation. Yes. Second, second generation is MIG 21. So we we were until recently using second generation fighter planes. Mig 21s. Third generation is F4 Phantom and F-16s. Fourth generation F-15s Euro Fighter Typhoon. Fifth generation is a F2 Raptor Raptor F-35 Sukcoy 57 and the Rafal is between the fourth and the fifth generation. So these are not hard and fast classifications obviously. Messarith ME262. So okay the first generation was a straightforward jet engine fighter planes. The second one was supersonic flight. Second generation, third generation is multi-roll capabilities, advanced electronics missiles. Fourth generation is high performance, maneuverable, four and a half generation, so forth, advanced avionics, limited stealth. Fifth generation is stealth, low observable technology and super cruise. And sixth generation is artificial intelligence, remote piloting and so on. Yeah, that's about it. Yeah. Yeah. Next. Utios says you said something about making a battle video on the battle of 10 kings in Yamna connection. Can we expect it or have you? I have not made it sir and this is not a history session. Let us not discuss history today sir. Please sir let me keep reminding everybody I beg you all don't ask me history questions in this live stream. We are discussing geopolitics today. Please I have not made the video and I don't have any plans of making it anytime soon right now at this point in time. Geopolitic lub is full support sir. Thank you very much sir. Thank you very much. Very much appreciated. Sar Utios is once again asking a question about can education system be a godge of measuring standards in a nation or country or even its destiny? What's the destin destiny of India if education system does not change? Well, I'll take this question even if it's not entirely about geopolitics because it's about about destinies of nations. The education system is indeed of the the most important goge of measuring the standards of a nation and it is something that is a good indicator reliable indicator of the long-term destiny of a nation. Yeah, it doesn't tell you everything about the destiny of a nation but it tells you about the standards the intellectual standards mental standards etc. of a nation. So what's the destiny of India if the education system does not change? mediocrity um no visual guruess no superguruess no superpower status ever mainly mediocrity and vasal state state stat status in the future d says how can India create its own narrative and grow also create its own narrative you know what's a narrative it's propaganda there are nations that are super powerful in propaganda like the US like China even Pakistan is good at propaganda how can India create it own propaganda by creating its own media outlets similar to the BBC, CNN and so on, right? Why don't we have it? The Chinese have multiple such media outlets in print in in audiovisisual medium and so on. We have nothing. We simply don't bother to have it. We have no ambition. Our government seems to lack the ambition to to put forward India's uh point of view with confidence. Our government is simply not invested in this. 11 years they they've been power. They've done nothing about this. Big fail. Big fail. Huge fail. So what India can do is create these media outlets similar to the BBC, similar to the to CNN, similar to Deutsche Wellness of France France 24, similar to what the CCT and the Chinese the have Shininoa and so on. We have done nothing of this. We simply don't care. That's one thing we can do. Secondly, take the social media battle and war seriously. If the Americans and Pakistanis and Chinese can have used millions of bots to push their propaganda, why can't India do it? Why are we not fighting this battle? It's like we simply don't care. So that's what India can do. But the government seems to have no ambition of doing that. Arismantic says, can we initiate an emergency and enforce critical reforms, restructure the bureaucracy and change the parameters of the constitution of India to suit India? Theoretically it's possible I suppose. I mean Mrs. Indra Gandhi did some of these changes when she implemented the emergency what 1975 or something. Um she did change the constitution. She did she did she restructure the bureaucracy? I'm not sure about that. She did implement significant changes limited changes but significant changes at the time. Uh I suppose it it could be possible. Yeah. To initiate an emergency and enforce critical reforms. Um theoretically it's possible. Will the reforms be long-lasting once the emergency ends or will there be chaos in the country? Can't really say about that. But if Mrs. Gandhi could do it, maybe some other leader could also possibly do it. Yeah. Uh Vinay Johi says, "How do you compare Middle Eastern spring with Indian spring?" There is no Indian spring. Are you talking about the weather? Are you talking about the geopolitical uh the regime change attempts the Arab spring right we we don't have any Indian spring there has been no such attempt to do a regime change in India at least thus far we may not be far from that maybe they will try something these these days they call it a genzi thing right these these days there are genzi revolutions happening in the world this is nothing but another color revolution thing they're just giving it a new terminology new name new coat of paint new mask There is no Indian spring thus far but it could happen. Vivik Singh says Israel Iran in Indo Park 2.0 seems imminent. How do you think China will play its cards here? They hate India but their main enemy is the US. The Chinese don't hate India. They simply see India as an inconvenience and they see India as a potential threat as a potential rival. They know that India is not a hgemonic nation that will come that will tomorrow morning try and make a move on Beijing. India is doesn't have any ambition of invading China and and taking territory. They know that. But as long as India exists as this big unified country, it's it's a rival to China in in a variety of ways and if India is broken up or whatever it suits China. Um so first understand the Chinese don't hate India. They don't respect India too much because India is a mediocre nation today. I think I don't think anyone can deny it. India is a nation of low standards today. A mediocre nation. The Chinese see India as a stoogge of the west which we are to a very large extent. A mentally colonized nation with no self-respect. All of this is what the Chinese say about India and they are mostly correct about in their assessment about India. Okay. Please let's let's be realistic. The Chinese are right. Now, Israel, Iran could happen soon, possibly. Uh, India Park 2.0 could happen soon, possibly. How do I think China will play its cards here? If Iran is on the verge of going down, what could China do? Nothing much actually. I mean, you had a first round of that recently. uh the Israelis they they took out some Iranian IRGC generals and the Americans bombarded various Iranian nuclear processing facilities and the Iranians they did launch some missile attacks on Tel Aviv and so on which did cause you know visible damage non-negligible damage for sure but can Iran stave off a full-fledged war, a full-fledged invasion of Iran. Not sure. See, when when this first round happened between Israel and Iran and Iran was getting kind of pounded, the Chinese stayed out of it. So did so did the Russians, right? So if there is a full-fledged war, an invasion of Iran, let's say, hypothetically, will China try and come to Iran's rescue? How can they do it? Even if they want to, can they do it? How can they do? They can't. Russia isn't far from Iran actually, just north of the Caspian Sea. So, Russia is more in a position to intervene if they think it's worthwhile. But even that's a question mark. So, I think China will mostly sit it out. Russia may possibly think of perhaps getting involved. They may consider the possibility, but China most likely will stay out of it. Yeah. Um Yeah. Utios says when asked about interference in US elections in a 2018 interview said that the US policy towards Russia will not change despite whoever becomes the US president. What's my opinion? Absolutely correct. Won't change. Why do I say this? It's because the US president doesn't decide what happens. Trump wanted friendship with Putin. What happened? The US president doesn't really decide what happens. It is the deeper powers in the US that decide what happens and that doesn't change. So Putin was essentially alluding to the primacy of the deep state in the US. He has spoken about it. Men in black suits and all that he speaks about, doesn't he? He was talking about the deep state. So he's absolutely right. I completely agree with him. Vijesh says if the leadership of India, Russia and China falls, the country will fall and become a US vasal. Similarly, the US must have vulnerabilities that could lead to the fall of its hijgemony if exploited. The US has a great strength. What's the strength? Their leadership is not visible. Those who really rule their nation and the empire, we don't know who they are. That is the great strength of the US. The president is just a puppet. The role of the president is to divert the world's attention from away from where the real power resides. That's the rule of the role of the US president. So if the leadership of the US falls, if hypothetically the US president something happens to him, the vice president will step in. If something happens to the vice president that the speaker of the house or whatever the hell it is that there's a change of chain of command, they'll step in. Eventually some librarian steps in. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter who's the president. The nation is taken care of by those who actually rule it. So the US Yeah. The vulnerabilities, we don't know what they are. That's the great strength of the US. The existence of the deep state. Prashant says, "How powerful is the ICC? Can they arrest world leaders?" The International Cricket Council. Z the international cricket council can't arrest world leaders the international criminal court nothing not not much you know whenever the ICC gives a judgment that suits the US the US can put it put its full force behind the ICC judgment but when the ICC says something that doesn't suit the US the US will oppose it the US so the ICC if it is doing something that suits US interests then the ICC can be reasonably powerful. So if they have put out an arrest warrant against some world leader and that world leader is overflying a country that supports the ICC that that country can send fighter planes to to to bring the plane down and they can arrest the world leader they can do that. So in that case the ICC has some power to some extent. Yeah. Vive Singh says if India is indeed able to explore our rare earth and crude oil successfully do you think the US's attitude will change towards us? Certainly. Yeah. Um if India rare earths Yeah. See for rare earths we depend on China. Uh and if we become completely self-sufficient in rare earths which we can be if we develop the mining u infrastructure and all that then it will make us less dependent on China. it won't really affect our relationship with the US. But yeah, the US will see that India has a stronger hand now for sure. But if we are able to ex you know make a major crude oil discovery that makes us entirely self-sufficient in crude oil that will be a great game changer for India. It'll make India genuine utarchy. Right? So it's very important that we now go full full force in ex exploring the various oil reserves that we probably have but we have never bothered to do that in the past. I I'm hearing some ministers who have been saying for the past few months that you know we are on the verge of a major oil discovery similar to whichever nation. Um so if that happens great but let it happen and if it happens the US's attitude will definitely change towards India for sure. Definitely. MK says is deep state a boon or a bail for the US and its people. It's both. It's both. It's both. Prashant says exhome minister said that the US asked India not to react after 2611. Okay. Who's the ex-home minister? Is it um who was the home minister then? Was it Mr. Chadamaran or was it Mr. Shivraj Chawhan? Not sure who I think both of these gentlemen were involved in the home ministry around that time. I think when 2611 happened I probably it was Mr. not Shivaj Johan sorry Shivaj Patil Shivaj Patil I apologize Shivaj Patil I think he was the role minister then eventually it was Mr. who who took it took over the position. I'm not exactly sure about the chronology and I'm not sure who's the homeist who said this but it is entirely possible and I would not be surprised at all if the US told India not to react and uh and India did not did not react initially Dr. Manm Singh had demanded that the head of the ISI should come to India and explain what happens and so on and the Pakistani prime minister of the time had actually agreed but after a few days they walked back and they said we are not sending any money and they started sending dosias and and stuff whatever and India did not take any action against Pakistan despite this clearly being a Pakistani terrorist attack on India one of the most heinous terrorist attacks against India and uh nothing nothing was done Dr. man did not even speak up for a few days. Uh yeah, so that's how it went. That's how India was back in the day. Sam Lovely says, "The future of H1B with $100,000 fee. Will the visa program stay? And what happens to existing H-1B visa holders in the US?" Um the visa program will most likely stay and now it's going to have this fee, right? So the existing H1B visa holders I don't think there's going to be any impact for them as until they have to renew the visa. I'm not sure how many years it it takes before you have to renew the visa whether it's 3 years or 5 years or whatever but eventually you have to renew it right. I suppose that that's when you have to pay that $100,000 fee if Yeah, probably. Is it a onetime thing? Is it a multiple time thing? every time you renew due to due to pay 100,000 that would make it super expensive. But I'm sure that if the talent is good enough then the US companies would be able to afford that $100,000 every once in 5 years. That should not be a lot for them. So I think it's going to come up when the visa renewal happens and in that case the company will be willing to renew only if the person is genuinely going to provide the kind of value which makes that $100,000 in dollar investment for 5 years a viable investment with a positive return on investment. So many of these H1Bs will most likely not be renewed. Only the top performers will be allowed to stay. Uh so that's what will most likely happen to existing H-1B visa holders in the US. They are safe as long as the visa is there. They will not be affected right now. But when the visa renewal happens at that time their their future will be decided by their companies. Uh the visa program will most likely stay. It will now become kind of an elite visa. Yeah. Only the top performers will be given H1B visas because the companies otherwise won't sponsor the visa. Right. That is what happens. Uh Dave says the new Japanese PM is a singer. Another Zelinski installed. It doesn't matter who's the Japanese PM. Japan is not a sovereign nation. It doesn't matter at all. The only prime minister who mattered after 1945 was Shinszu AB. It doesn't matter who's the prime minister. The Japanese prime ministership is a revolving door. Every few months, every couple of years, a new prime minister comes and goes. Comes and goes. It doesn't matter who it is, whether it's a singer or a horse rider or a gymnast or a professor or an economist or an athlete or an actor or whatever. It makes no difference whatsoever. The Japanese prime minister is not relevant unfortunately because Japan is sadly not a sovereign nation. It's a nation under permanent foreign military occupation. Akar says, "How long can the US and India sustain the Sarif war? The US can sustain it for the next 300 years. The US can do it. It means the two economies decoupled. That's it. It can go on forever if they want." God godliness says, "How do you see the future of the world by60? Do you see one power dominating all with AI and quantum computing? Do you see a multipolar world, one government system for all? Do you see the remains of third world war? Where will the world be in 20360? What sort of world will we have in60? I think probabilistically you will either have a one world order, one world government or a bipolar world most likely by 2016. I think the probability is highest for this sort of scenario. Probably not a uniolar world order, probably a bipolar world order by60. Who will those two polls be is the big question. Will it be the US? So most likely you will have US on one side. Who is going to be on the other side. Is it going to be China or is it going to be Russia or is it going to be India or is it going to be a coalition of these three countries? Because the only way you can have someone stand up to the US and balance the US out like the situation you had in the 20th century. The only way this happens is if either China or Russia become as powerful as the US or China, India, Russia collaborate. So most likely you will have some kind of bipolar world order. That's how I see it. One world government, one world government system for all. I think that is less likely and I hope there is no third world war because there will be nothing left after that. If if a third world war happens. Viraj Mahhara says trying to boy geopolitics from first principles but not getting an issue and no response for support. I will look into it sir. Thank you very much. Akar says if you if you already have nuclearpowered submarines then what stops us besides funds from making a nuclearpowered aircraft carrier. We don't need one that's what stops us. It's a gigantic investment. Why do we need an aircraft carrier? First of all, it's an obsolete platform from the 20th century. I don't care what so and so military expert is saying. I have no interest in someone's uh authority that I have been a military a naval officer for 70 years. That's why I am the right authority to speak about this. I don't I don't care. I look at things from a logical perspective. I have some understanding myself my on my own. My opinion is that the aircraft carrier is an obsolete weapons platform. It's an obsolete thing. The principal ship, the principal naval ship of the 21st century is the submarine. Nothing is more deadly than a submarine. An aircraft carrier is a status symbol. It's a visible thing. If you are a superpower with no challenge, nobody to challenge you, then an aircraft carrier is how you bully other nations. But an aircraft carrier cannot survive in a contestant contested environment during a time of war. It will be wiped out. It is a super enticing target. It is a mathematical probability. It is not a mathematical probability. It's a mathematical certainty that it it'll be destroyed with a sufficiently capable adversary in front of you. It's as simple as that. An aircraft carrier is a gigantic waste of money. And especially for India, we don't need an aircraft carrier. Why? We already have unsinkable aircraft carriers in the sea in in the in the Bay of Bengal, the Andaman Islands. Militarize those islands. Make proper air strips there. Put a couple of hundred fighter planes there. That's your aircraft carrier. That gives you gigantic sphere where you can project power in a massive manner. In the western Indian Ocean, the sea of Saashtra, why don't we reclaim some land in the Lakshodi islands and build a couple of unsinkable aircraft carriers there? It will cost probably less money than building these ships. So, we have at least one aircraft carrier. That's good. Retain it. I'm not saying we should scrap it. It's good that we have it. And it it gives our our sailors the expertise, you know, the knowhow of how to operate these ships. Good. But we we don't need more of these things. Tremendous. It's a tremendous cost. for the co for the price of one aircraft car let's say $5 billion you could make you could build 50 submarines that cost a hundred million each now some geniuses will say oh but no submarine costs $50 million $100 million submarines cost half a billion dollars Google the Gothand class submarine okay so yeah so what stops us common sense stop us stops us okay sir Ban Chakraarti says Can market economy make Russia global economic uh leader? Why did they miss the computer and silicon revolutions of the 1980s and 1990s? 1980s the Russian econ Russia was declining. Russia's standards had declined. Russia had Russia was already a decade behind the US. Even during the super supercomput era of the 1960s and 70s, Russia's decline started with the death of Stalin. Their standards started declining. Okay. they were more busy with their political intri intrigues and power struggles within Russia than in these matters. So they were already way behind the US by by 1980. So yeah, that's what happened. Um and they missed these revolutions like you say. Uh can a market economy make Russia a global economic leader? A market economy? Not necessarily. Is China a market economy? China is not really a market economy. It's a state managed state controlled economy with five-year planning and all that. Um it is a capitalistic system with complete full state control. It's not a market economy and still they are the second largest economy now. So I don't think a market economy is what Russia needs. Every nation is different. The something that works for one nation isn't necessarily going to work for a different nation. So I don't think Russia needs a market economy. Anoj art says sad to see the EU being Islamized cannot be re reversed. Not our problem, not our concern. And I'm neither sad nor happy. It's up to them. It's their their life, their countries, their problem. If it is a problem in their opinion, I don't care. Top Gun says if fiat money isn't backed by physical commodities, what gives its value? Is the dollar stronger because of it is enforced on other countries? What gives fiat money value is the ability of the issuer of the currency to enforce the currency and its stat status in the world. So let's say I I let's say I create a new country. Okay, hypothetical completely hypothetical thought experiment. Let's say I create a new country. I I I go and capture the moon and I you know start an economy on the moon and I start trading with earth with earth countries. So I've declared independence on moon. I the moon is a separate country and I am going to issue paper currency from the moon. It is backed up by nothing. But because I have the technology to conquer the moon, I can bully all the nations on the earth that I will conquer you all also unless you accept my paper currency because I have weapons that you cannot imagine, you can you can't dream of. And I have technology that that is beyond your wildest dreams. So do as I say or else. So then because I have this my my word is backed up with this bullying force with with with this with my ability to unleash mayhem and and apocalypse on the countries because I have the ability to do that. So all the countries will have to do what I say. So my fiat currency which is backed up by nothing suddenly becomes the only currency in the world and it act actually has value because it is backed up by my power. So fiat money doesn't necessarily have to be backed up by physical commodities. What gives it gives it value is the ability of the issuer to enforce it by force. That's what gives it value. Um and that's why the US dollar has value and it is the strongest and most important currency in the world. that that's the only reason why Kapay developer says do you think China was developed by the US in the 60s and 70s to counter Russia land and sea curture um China wasn't developed by the US but China developed itself in a certain way not in a very logical or or very capable way as long as Maoatung was in power but it it it came on the right track after the death of Maoatung and the advent of Ding Shaoping as the leader of China. Now uh so the the Chinese developed China but the Americans aided and abetted the rise of China after the they thought between the two countries which was uh midwifed by Kissinger and Nixon. So that's where China's fortunes start changing and China starts implementing the Singapore model in China in a very different way obviously because Singapore is this little thing and China is massive but they they take inspiration from from Singapore they sent they they send bureaucrats and whatnot to study the Singapore model. The Singaporeans are are are happy to teach the Chinese what they're doing to share uh their best practices and whatnot and the Chinese start implementing implementing that in China and that's where everything changes. And obviously in 1969 the Russians wanted to nuke China and the and the Americans came in the way and they prevented Russia from doing that. And that's that's uh something that gave the Chinese more confidence that the US you know can be utilized as something that uh helps us. Yeah. So that's how it happens. Okay. Okay. We have crossed 2 hours. So let's please take uh please stop taking super chats. I will end this soon but I will obviously finish the remaining super chats. SS Phoenix says Indians need to move away from just ro learning and obsession with institutions like the British hangover. The dream of India is of Indians becoming innovative by a competency and inspired like Einstein and Chandra Shikha. Indians need to move away from this but they can't because you have to spend 20 years stuck in an education system that is that is still in the in the 1800s mindset. The education system is still completely colonial and because every Indian Indian citizen every Indian kid has to pass through roughly two decades of this horrific education system their minds get destroyed. That's why Indians are the way they are. We need to move away from this. But the only solution is to reform the education system. Without this this reformation of the education system, nothing will change. We will keep on crying even 20 30 years down the line that Indian Indians need to move away from road learning and all that. But unless the government takes the steps and implements these reforms nothing will change and nothing is being done. So that's where we are right now. Pratam says reading about Shri Shri Pandit Nuji's miracles make made my blood evaporate. Okay. If those decisions were reversed, omitted, could be could we be a genuine superpower by the 70s, right? My heart clenches with angst. See, in 1947, India had the most developed infrastructure of all the Asian nations. India had a worldclass navy. India had a battle tested, warested armed force. India had the whatever the British left behind the the the infrastructure of occupation and extraction that we could have built upon to create a proper infrastructure that serves the nation. We were not in ruins like Japan. We were not smoldering in ashes like China. If we had implemented even a Russian style socialist economy, then by 1970 we would have been a superpower. Yeah. incredible opportunities lost those 20 30 years. India should have grown at 15% every year. The Indian economy. So yeah, what can I say? You're right. I agree with you. Akar says Russia offered to co-develop Sukoy 57 and India funded Russia's FGFA. However, Russia then refused to totite promising to do so. How can India now trust Russia to not do the same upfront to trust but verify? Verify then trust. If they are offering it, we need to see evidence of what they're offering, right? So, you don't transfer the full money. You you have to do it in a very step-by-step calibrated manner. You don't blindly trust anybody, even Russia, because we've had these experiences with Russia, right? We spent so much money on the on the FGFA fighter plane co-development and they they were creating problems. they were not um I'm sure some of the blame was India's also you know expecting too much from the aircraft but u they probably were not willing to share all the technology which is a big problem so if they are saying that they will co-develop the so no it's co not co-development it's already developed it's co-production India will set up a production line in India and all the technology will be fully transferred to India that's the promise so we will have to if we go ahead with this we will need proper asurances and the money needs should not be put forward until we can see clear evidence that the full technology is being transferred. So you can't blindly trust anybody, right? So it has to be negotiated properly in a stepby-step phase by phase manner in in such a way that this time we don't lose money unnecessarily without getting anything return. Uh and obviously now the times have changed in 2018 Russia was not in the kind under the kind of pressure it is today. Russia needs India as an ally today. And uh so yeah, we'll have to look into it from that perspective. SS Phoenix says Dutch and city of London elites are the ones controlling neoliberal and neocon polace in the west. Ukraine is to Russia what Israel is to Iran what Pakistan is to Barat. Indians need to stop falling for pro-Israel sigh ops. Okay. If you say so sir um once again I am not sure what the Israeli angle could possibly be in here. Obviously, Israel is the unconditional ally of the US. Um, Dutch and city of London elites are the ones controlling neoliberal and neocon policy in the west. Ukraine. Okay. See, like I've said, the US does have a deep state. No question about that. And the this deep state may not necessarily be limited to the geography of the US. Maybe it's something that spread beyond and maybe it controls way more than the US in which case you could have various elites who control whatever but I am not aware of that. I have not seen any evidence of that. If so the deep state doesn't leave behind a breadcrumb trail. So uh what you're saying is definitely possible but I can't endorse it because I don't have evidence of that. But I I hear you sir. That's what I can say. I hear you. Uh Dimnor Singh says why don't we have our own deep state or do we does India have an extra constitutional extra electoral center of power? Does the Indian prime minister represent merely a puppet or merely a figurehead who doesn't really have power? I think India doesn't have a deep state and maybe there is an attempt to create a deep state in India possibly by outside forces which will serve outside interests possibly. Um why don't we have a deep state of our own that serves our own interests because we aren't intelligent enough to do that. We don't play those games. We should see we we understand the concept of a deep state. What is the concept of a deep state in a political party? Kingmaker all Indian polit political official who understand the the concept of kingmaker that you have a person in a political party who actually calls the shots but that person doesn't come in the front they appoint someone to be the chief minister prime minister but they from behind the scenes control everything that's kind of a deep state situation isn't it why don't we have it well we have it in the at various petty low levels but at a national level we don't have it buai says in the Vic period everyone used to play pray to Lord Indra. We are talking about geopolitics sir we will discuss geopolitics why don't we pray to lord Indra anymore that's not a geopolitics question sir all right sir we are discussing only geopolitics today see the title of the live stream geopolitics super chat episode we will we will discuss geopolitics only today aar says Dr. Kota Har Narayan chief architect of the is against buying any foreign jets as it would deal decisive blow to India's AMCA. How do we then deal with gap of squad and strength? What should we do? I don't care what Dr. whoever says whatever Dr. Kota Harin Narayan the chief architect of the he doesn't get to decide India's defense policy right he is an engineer he should talk about engineering let the government of India decide what is best you know India's best interests I we we thank him for being the chief architect of the he deserves the fullest respect from the people of India for what he has But he is an engineer. I I don't think he's some kind of geopolitical expert, right? So I'm not sure if he should be talking about what we should buy, what we should not buy. They just needs to be improved. Right? The the variant that we have right now, it's the first generation variant. We need to come up with the mark 1 A, then mark 2 and so on, which would be further improvements. Like I've said so many times, aircraft engineering, aircraft design is it's all about iterative improvements. You first start produ producing a basic version which is not the best version but you start producing it and you start using it. Then you you implement improvements that is the second generation fighter plane. The same they just but they just mark 1a or whatever. Then then you do some more changes and make it even even better fighter plane that becomes the mark 2. Then eventually it becomes a world class thing at some point. Maybe it already is. I'm not saying it's not. But if we buy foreign jets right now, how does it deal a decisive blow to the AMCA? It gives the AMC a breathing time. It it takes the pressure away from the AMC AMCA program. The AMCA will not come into production until the 2030s. What do we do until then? So I don't agree at all if Dr. Kot Harinar has actually said this. I don't if he has said this I don't agree with it. We need numbers. We need some interim solution and for that we most likely should acquire 100 200 whatever number of some other type of fighter plane either the Rafal or the SOA 57 or maybe both as an interim stop gap measure. We need that urgently. Pratik says, Pratik Vora says, "You keep saying Indians have low standards. How do you see it going in the long run? Are the West's standards decreasing day by by the day already started with the education system?" Yeah. West the western western civilization is what what they like to call it. It is declining. You can see the decline very clearly. You can see the decline in so many different ways. In the 1990s, listen to the music music for example that came out from the west in the 1990s. Listen to the music that is is is in in vogue today. Mumble rap and god knows what other garbage and that is what they find aesthetically pleasing today. That the Gen Z and millennials and all that. That's the decline in quality and standards that you're seeing right there. If you look at the the living standards, the the way of life and all the and so much more everything all the standards are declining education system standards are declining especially in the US the standards have declined drastically education system wise in the US and I'm not sure about the other countries in the EU and so on. I think their standards may be slightly higher still but overall yeah they are making all kinds of compromises to accommodate all kinds of garbage. So overall it it's going down. Everything is going down. India, India also you could say it's kind of declining the standards. The more reservations you implement, the more the standards decline and the more you will have people wanting to leave the country. So overall here, see when I say Indians have low standards, I'm not blaming the people of India. The system is in is is is enforcing those these low standards, right? It's not the fault of the people of India that the nation suffers from from low standards. Indians are the victims of this system of low standards. This this imposition of low standards on them and they don't even realize that this is being done to them. That's the problem. Okay. Dnour Singh says is a swarnabumi hostile towards India today? No. By swarnabumi I assume you mean Thailand. Thailand is not hostile to India at all. Um, Thailand of course is you could say an ally of the US. So that is the case but it is not hostile towards India in any shape or form. Not at all. Not at all. Divor Singh says what's going on with the pope spreading communist propaganda and talking about climate change and saying illeg illegal immigration is fine. Well, I am not aware of what the pope has been saying but uh it's the first ever American pope, isn't he? So well if if he is saying such things well I would not be surprised too much right so he's spreading communist propaganda well that's interesting and talking about climate change well Americans do talk about climate change a lot it all started with Al Gore didn't it what was the thing an inconvenient truth or something the year 2000 or 2001 around that time quarter century ago Al Gore started it all and the pope is also saying that illegal immigration is fine Well, okay. I wasn't aware of I've not been kept keeping track of what the Pope is doing, but okay. Interesting. Interesting that he's saying that. Not surprising though, considering the fact that he's an American. Vamshi Khalim says, "The Indian air chief recently revealed that many Pakistani F-16s were shot. India is becoming openly confrontation with the US. Permanent change in India's vision and policy. India finally woken up." Um see if if the air chief is saying that uh a certain number of Pakistani F-16s were destroyed it's a confrontation with Pakistan not with the US. India is not being confrontational with the US. India is not that stupid. Um India is taking a hard line with Pakistan which we need to which is fine and I I seriously don't understand why are we revealing all this now. If we had shot down let's say seven F-16s or nine F-16s or whatever or destroyed half of them on the ground. Why didn't we reveal reveal that in the beginning itself? Why say say all this 7 months later? Oh not seven whatever whatever it happened in May now we are in October May to June July August September 5 months later why why do that I I don't get it. So anyway my point is that we are not being confront confrontational with the US. Uh we are taking a very hard line with Pakistan and that's going to be the new policy. That's going to be the policy going forward. We will take no more BS from Pakistan. That's the deal. Vive Singh says China is producing jets at rocket pace. Russia too despite in war is moving its defense industry at a rapid pace. Did we miss a chance by not spending on R&D? We have missed many of these chances. Um you know the Chinese have been producing warships like in India people produce samosas you know they're churning out warships like samosas and vodap house the Chinese and the same thing when it comes to their fighter planes and how many fighter planes are we producing per year like 12 16 what is it what's the number they're sleeping I just don't get what we are doing Yeah. And uh now we are we have kind of woken up about R&D. We have various private players who are working on the jet engine program and other things. But India is a very reactive very lethargic nation and uh it's it's very disappointing overall. Air semanticor says what about building gouache submarines? I am in favor of building the smallest submarines that's possible. by while maximizing lethality. Why build gigantic things? Submarines are supposed to be stealthy objects, stealthy assets. The larger a submarine is, the lower is its stealth and the more uh detectable it is. Ideally, we should miniaturaturize everything. Instead of building gigantic warships, destroyers, we should build missile boats with long legs. A missile boat. Don't invest more than 10 20 million on each. And each missile boat should carry about three brahos missiles. And we should have let's say a 100 of these these or even 300 of these. So if if one of these things costs $20 million and if you have 100 that's2 billion if you have 300 it's 6 billion for the price of one aircraft carrier you can have 300 missile boats with long legs which you can disperse all over the Indian Ocean region each with three Brahmos missiles. It is a frightening prospect for any enemy. frightening because if you have one big warship with 128 missiles, taking one warship out will disable those 128 missiles, neutralize them. But if you have a swarm of missile boats, tiny missile boats, imagine the nightmare for the enemy. Now transpose that to submarines. Instead of having this big golad submarine which costs you a billion dollars, have 10 small submarines in its place and disperse them all over the place. Each of them has a nuclear capability of whatever capability. Some are hunter killers, some are ballistic missile submarines. Imagine how much more difficult it becomes for the enemy. Think logically and rationally my dear Indian people. Size doesn't matter in everything. Okay. Sometimes the reverse is more dangerous. All right. It's it's all about distributed lethality. That is what makes you dangerous. Not concentrated lethality. Distributed lethality is what what is really what you want. DN Singh says what were the geopolitical implications of the removal of the gold standards and shift to fiat currency of the in the US? It was the essentially the imperial moment. allout imperial moment of the US. Until then, they were playing by the rules that they had imposed upon themselves that the US dollar we're going to play nice. We're going to actually have a proper value associated with with the US dollar. So, if I have this much currency in circulation, I'm going to have exactly that much gold in my vaults in Fort Knox and where whatever else place. Yeah. But after 1971 they they unlin the US dollar from the from the gold standard and the US became the the dollar became a fiat currency and for some time they they pegged it to the price of petroleum because they controlled Saudi Arabia and whatnot and Iran also at the time. Yeah. So that was the petroleer era. Then around 79 even that was jettisoned and it became completely you know completely totally fiat currency. It was you know it was enforced through the US military muscle. So the geopolitical implications of that is that it it made the US a more hegemonic more tyrannical power eventually. Yeah. So right now why does the US dollar still have the status of the US of the global reserve currency? It's it's imposed by force. If if the BIRS nations for example were to stop using the the US dollar, the US will actually go to war against BIRS nations, especially India and South Africa, the weaker ones. So that's the deal. It it it made it was this signal that the US is becoming more and more hegemonic and tyrannical. Dimn Singh says what happens when the Arctic snow melts and sees north of Russia and Canada open up there's going to be a whole new uh whole new contest over there whole new competition Arctic competition the Arctic uh the Arctic trade routes and and the thing is that you know that that region has a lot of oil and gas reserves which which until now have been kind of inaccessible or very hard to access because of the the thickness of the sheet ice that covered these regions. But now with the melting of the ice and all that, all of this is opening up and Russia is going to definitely exploit these oil and gas reserves there. Uh the Americans will also do that because Alaska is all the way up there and Canada also because Canada has a presence there. So Russia, the US, Canada is kind of a proxy of the US. So Russia and the US are going to be in competition uh for exploiting these res these resources. China is going to be involved because the Russians want China to be involved in there and possibly even India. So India, China, Russia and the US will be involved there. The Canadians and the Europeans also will be involved in some shape or form. So it's going to be a new uh region of contention and geopolitical competition. And obviously it's going to open up new trade routes also. So Russia will no longer have to uh you know it will give Russia more options for trading with various nations. So yeah it's competition is going to hot up heat up really significantly over here. Us says US fears India's rise and as Russia and China are declining demography. The US doesn't fear India's rise. The US wants to prevent India's rise. Right now there's nothing that the US fears about India. There is nothing about India that frightens the US today. India is kind of a joke to the US today. Okay, let's let's be very clear about this. The US does not fear India today. There is nothing in India that is fearsome today. India as a nation beset with mediocrity and low standards. And despite these mediocrity and low standards, India is still growing at 6.5 or whatever person per year because of the inherent potential of the people of India. Okay. And even if India keeps on growing at just 6% 6.5% per year for the next 20 years, 30 years, India will transform into a into eventually something that that scares the US. So in 20 30 years time, India could be the next China. With all the problems, all the faults, all the problems, India will still become the next China in 20 30 years. That's what the US wants to prevent. They don't fear India. In 2030 years, India could be fearsome. So they don't want a fearsome India in the future. That's why they they want to deal with India right now. And they have all the plans in place. And do we blame them for that? They are doing what any power would do, any great power, any superpower would do. Paris is manticores. Shouldn't we start using AI to focus on bio research, genetic enhancement, large batonical engineering, pre-space travels, adaptive enhancements, etc. to lay the foundation of for the next great game. You see, you should do that. But do we have any highquality research institutes in the country where you have researchers who actually are interested in doing research? Who are India's great researchers today? Tell me, name one person who is a great researcher in this country today. Name one scientist who who is globally internationally recognized because he has he or she has made some genuine contributions in their field. Name one person today. If we have nobody then where will this research happen? If we are producing no new talent or or the or if all the good talent we are producing wants to leave the country then where will we do all this research? And secondly, let's say we have highquality researchers. But do we have our own AI? We'll have to use foreign AI which will I promise you not give you the results you want. Do you understand the problems? Do you understand what India is lacking strategically? Do you understand what where we are failing? Why aren't we taking the steps and measures to rectify these issues? Why aren't we creating globally worldclass research institutes with high and retaining highquality talent? That's number one. Secondly, why aren't we developing our own indigenous worldclass AI? That's number two. What on earth is India doing? Do you understand the problems? Divor Singh says, "Will my pager or phone blast if I talk enough about Jewish bankers?" I I would say I would recommend don't try it. Don't try it. You never know, sir. You never know. You never know. Shubam Vare says, "How is Vav Shubam, I'm sorry, says, how is Russia still alive as a nation? I don't get it." Why don't you get it? It's because you have some presuppositions and assumptions about Russia. Maybe you have assume assumed that Russia is a weak precariously balanced little nation that has nothing in it. Right? The fact is that Russia is a very powerful nation. Russia is a nation that doesn't depend on anybody on any other nation for anything. It has everything it needs within its own territory. Whether it is oil, whether it's gas, whether it is metals, whether it is any kind of resources, whether it is rare earths, whether it is uranium, whether it is whatever, whether it it is you know the the the substances needed for chemicals and fertilizers. It has a high quality industrial base. It has world-class scientists, engineers, and it is top-ass leadership. And it has a very powerful military and it has the world's largest military, world's largest nuclear arsenal, arsenal and the means to deliver the nuclear weapons. It has it produces it own its own jet engines. It produces its own own fighter planes, tanks, everything, submarines. What does Russia lack? Why are you surprised? I'm surprised. I'm seriously surprised, sir. Please don't make assumptions. Study things properly. Research things properly. Okay. Next, Prrenav says Prrenav Sutbay says what are the hindrances that we are facing developing IMC and Chennai Vladivasto corridor. IMC India Middle East Europe corridor. Well, the Gulf the moment see the IMC corridor was announced in 2023 October or something in New Delhi right uh during the G20 summit in New Delhi when Mr. Biden was the president of the US and as soon as it was announced the Hamas launched this horrific terrorist attack on Israel and then the Gaza war started and that derailed the whole thing the IMAC the Saudis wanted the beginning of the implementation to start the the implementation to start within 45 days of the announcement right so the situation in the Gulf region is the hindrance and then you have the Iran Israel situation as Well, so if peace returns to the Middle East, maybe IMC could take off, but maybe not. Maybe the US doesn't want now today. That's also a possibility. Chennai was stock. How do you do that? You to go through Chabahar, right? Chennai to I suppose it it'll be okay. Chennai Vladi was the eastern uh sector. So Chennai through the straight of Malaka through the so-called South China Sea uh through the sea of Japan and into Vladivosto. Okay, that's that's how I'm not sure what is hindering that. I am not I've not really looked into it, but I think if you want to do it, we should go ahead and do that as soon as possible as soon as possible. They've not does change come from up to down or grassroots to up like the French Revolution. It works both ways. It depends on the nation. It depends on the dynamics in a nation. It depends on the kind of structure and setup you have in a nation and the kind of system that you have in a nation. So if you have let's say an authoritarian nation let's say China typically change comes top down the top decides what happens what's going to happen and then it's it's pushed downwards and it's implemented as per the wishes of the top that's what happens in China in North Korea the same thing in the US it's a little more complex it's still an authoritarian nation there's a lot of top down thing but there is bottom up also to some extent But the bottom is allowed to vent in various ways. But it's still more top down than bottom up in the US. Um in a country like India, it's it's uh there's very little top down. It's more bottom up in India. More bottom up. So it depends on the context. It depends on the nation, the culture, the system, the the the statics and dynamics and the political system and the societal circumstances and so much more. Yeah. Divor Singh says will getting powerful give Indians civic sense or will getting civic sense make Indians strong make India strong making see getting powerful will not necessarily give Indian civic sense civic sense and hard power there's no correlation why does India not have civic sense because of a lack of enforcement of the laws do we have laws or we've got plenty of laws why is there no civic sense did did Indians does not have civic sense 300 300 years ago. During the Moran era, do you think we did not have civic sense? I think I suspect that during the Moran era, anybody who littered or spat on the roads would have faced terrible punishments. So what brings civic sense? If punishment is guaranteed if you break the law, then civic sense automatically comes in. Indians who live abroad have the best civic sense in the world. Same Indians. So it's because of the system in India that we don't have civic sense. The moment Indian start the the government of India starts enforcing the laws and the rules civic sense will automatically appear magically otherwise no matter how strong India becomes India India will remain a whatever Trump says. Yeah. Nubam says will China annex Siberia or East Russia in the future? Well if Russia allows it to then it will happen. China would love to do that. Will Russia allow it? As long as Russia has strong leadership, it won't be allowed. So, it all depends on Russia, not on China. Divor Singh says, "I always defend Indians when I'm in the US in American right-wing circles. It's getting harder and harder. I am torn between defend defending Indian behavior and not being able to defend it. You don't need to defend the in indefensible. I'm not sure about what Indian behavior you're talking about. Are you talking about geopolitical behavior or are you talking about the lack of standards in India? I mean the lack of civic sense and the potholes on the roads and all that All that stuff is indefensible. You can't defend that. There's no point defending that. There there's nothing to defend in that. The lack of standards are are are a fact. You can't defend that. So you can only defend what is defensible. There are things where India is on the right side. India is right in certain things. For example, India versus Pakistan. I mean, India is is not the aggressor here. India is the victim. That's where you can defend India for sure. But when it comes to India's low standards and Indians doing whatever wherever in India, littering and garbage on the streets of whatever and potholes and whatever else, there is nothing to defend about that. You can't defend that. So, yeah. All right. Let's take one final question. Amisha says, "Thank you, sir, for the great session. Bless you. Thank you so much, ma'am. Thank you so much. I really appreciate uh your blessings. Thank you so much. Okay, I think that brings us to the end of this session. It's been 2 hours 41 minutes. How did the time fly? 2 hours 41 minutes. Sorry, 41 minutes. All right, people. Thank you so much for all your questions. It was always always fun taking all these questions in real time from people from various parts of the world. Always enjoy this. Thank you so much everybody. And I shall now end this live stream and I look forward to seeing you in next week's live streams. We're going to do this once a week the geopolitics session because there's always something new to discuss. So thank you everybody. Thank you very much once again. I really appreciate your participation, your your your support, your viewership and I will shall remind you again keep learning, keep raising keep asking questions and keep raising your standards and I will see you in the next one. Take care. Thank you.