Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Heat. Heat. >> [music] [music] >> Good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Today we are going to discuss history, Indian history and world history. I welcome you all back to the show. Uh let us see before we start who all is there on the live stream on the live chat. I can see real Vladimir Putin geopolitical dub from Indor Sumuk Bupalam Shya Rod Udb Sharma Victor Victor Nitro Adwit Ashwini good evening um Diva Di Viva okaydurya Swami is here Ritik Bardage Minwise Laksha Sharma online good to see you sir wise idiot [laughter] pri Rakshit Mishra Kunicha Sandy PM5HU Namaskar Victor Night Road once again Swami is here from Jaipur Lego online once again geopolitical once again Nirvana Shanks Kuricha Kuricha Mac 4 random skull is here from Karnavati nice to see you Balki today namaste Rajat Duhan Salpumra Ashish Chabra Raj Raja Akash Kumar good evening Nutan Roshan namast Kam you sir 01 Ram Ram Abhishek 107 Anish 1784 hello Sandy once again Vikash PJ Omnak Namaskar Pranka Javalia good evening ma'am um Vikash PJ once again rit 08 hello good to have you an ANI motion clips JO uh yos sir Mac4 Jagdish Mali hello uh Alishia Bahara hello Gajapati Dave Vikas PJ once again. Somi Game of Thrones Breaking Bad. I'm not sure what that is. Uh yeah, I know. I've seen some of that. Wise idiot once again watching live after a long time. Well, good to have you. Welcome back. Brave robot Gorov D. Uh Yoser is here from Kerala. Good to have you from Kerala. Hello to Kerala. Everybody there. Uh critical thinker 24. Is it Saturday? No, it's a Friday. I'm traveling on Sunday. That's why I'm doing it on Friday and Saturday this week. this weekend. Rishuk, Dashupta, Panduranga, Rola, Real Vanir, Putin, Prardana, Namaste, Super Rex, Trap Nation, Amish Mishra, hello. Um, Somi once again, Annie is here. Hello, Bala. Subramanyam, good evening. Hari Ban Banana Hegard is here from Danbad. Well, good to have you. Uh, Game of Thrones or Breaking Bad, which would I choose? Season 1 to four, Game of Thrones was outstanding. breaking but overall was outstanding. Both are equally good. That's what I would say. Okay. Uh Yosir Adatwini Ara 6258 Gan Madala Critical Thinking and everybody else. Okay, let's get going with some questions. Okay, I will take as many questions as possible today as always uh in the next couple of hours. Let's see how many I can take. We're going to discuss various aspects of history, Indian history, world history. And it is that time of the year when we should perhaps begin with this question. Ainta Anand says, "What were the reasons the why the Vatican ordered the burning of documents related to the Spanish Inquisitions in India? And what kind of atrocities did these individuals commit that these documents needed to be burned? First of all, there wasn't a Spanish Inquisition in India. There was an inquis inquisition that's called the Goa Inquisition. It was So, how did the Goa Inquisition begin? So the Portuguese were in the were at the time let's say in the 16th century in occupation of Goa. They had captured parts of Goa, western India, west coast of India and they were occupying Goa and they wanted to convert everybody to Christianity. They did not like India's indigenous culture and religions. So there was this fantastic gentleman whose name was Francis Xavier. You may have seen various schools in India named St. Xavier school, St. Xavier's College and so on. It's a very popular name in in India for schools and colleges. St. Xavier. So this individual Francis Xavier is who these St. Xavier schools and colleges are named after. Okay. So this person Francis Xavier was a missionary. He was a Jesuit missionary and he was in Goa in the 16th century. Okay. Um let's say middle of the 16th century 1500s 1550s 1560 around that time. Okay. And this guy maybe maybe 1540s. He died in 1550 something. Okay. Francis Xavier. So before that when he was in Goa he wrote to the king of Portugal asking for an inquisition in Goa because the people of Goa though some of them had been forcibly converted to Christianity they were secretly practicing Hinduism and they were secretly keeping idols evil idols of Indian deities in their houses and secretly praying to them that sort of thing. So something had to be done about these things. Something had to be done about these people, these evil Indians who would not convert properly to Christianity in Goa. So Francis Xavier wrote to the king of Portugal and he asked for a proper inquisition in India in Goa. So the Goa Inquisition begins somewhere around 1560. Okay. So the Goa Inquisition was this brutal oppression of the people of of of occupied Goa. Um anyone who was accused of being a heretic or being a cryptohindu or being disrespectful to Christianity etc. they would be they would be brought to the the court the the inquisition court tribunal and sometimes they would be in prison for years before they would actually the the hearing would happen and they would be tortured in the hearing. So first of all they would not be told who had accused them of whatever. Secondly uh they would be tortured in a variety of horrific ways. You know the Europeans the the the the Catholics came up with all kinds of most horrific torture methods. Uh I shall not go into the specifics and the details. You can look it up online. They had these instruments that would tear the breasts of women and they would u they would u they had something called strap. I'm just giving you two or three examples. Strap or something. They would hang a person uh you know from their wrists but behind the body and then they would drop the person repeatedly so that the shoulders would get dislocated and the person would be in agonizing pain forever essentially. Uh there was something called um what was it called? Yeah, there were I I forget the names. Okay, there are all kinds of horrific names of these various torture methods and instruments. Um there was the gat which was a method of execution. uh there was something called the oto dafay that was public burning of people alive some people would have had have their hands cut off there was this there is this famous uh pillar in Goa the hut katros tamb it's called I believe where I don't know how many thousands of people had their hands cut off so all kinds of horrific brutal um methods of torture and oppression and murder okay a murder sanctioned by the church uh the objective was to ensure that Hindus did not recon convert or did not practice Hinduism in in in private. The the the objective was to intimidate and brutalize the people so badly that they would become devout Christians. That sort of thing. Okay. And they held God knows how many trials of people and all all of that was recorded. All of this was recorded. Okay. So this begins in the mid6th century 1560 or something onwards and then after a century or two by the by the early 1800s after a century and a half of horrific oppression uh destruction of temples they they they re-engineered the Indian society you know historically societ villages would have their own village institutions like panchiads or whatever. So the Portuguese imposed new rules that you know uh no decision could be made unless unless uh all the Christians who had converted to Christianity in the village were present in the assembly or meeting or whatever and the head had to be Christian and all kinds of such rules were made such that people had no choice but to eventually get you know have to be forced to convert to Christianity. temples were destroyed. Um, Hindu priests were not allowed to officiate in weddings. Um, and and all kinds of atrocious rules and of course the torture and the executions of people burning people alive of that. So this went on for a century and a half roughly and all the trials all the proceedings were recorded in great detail by the Portuguese. Now on the in the early 1800s you have the rise of the Marata Empire. by the time it becomes the dominant force right the Marata Empire um in the well in the in the 18th century in the 1700s 1750s the Marata Empire reaches the peak of its power and eventually the Maratas go after you know that there is conflict between the Maratas and the Portuguese. So in the early 19th century the Portuguese viceroy in Goa he decided that the that the records the documents the archive of the inquisition all the proceedings all the all the people who were tortured all the people who were accused all the people who were executed in various forms various ways etc. this archive, this documentation was politically dangerous. That's what the Portuguese viceroy decided. So he ordered the destruction of the overwhelming majority of the uh records of the inquisition. So it was not ordered by the Vatican, it was ordered by the Portuguese viceroy in Goa. This happened in the early 19th century, okay? In the early 1800s. So, so what they did was they took some selected records a few I don't know what the quantity of the records was and those records the whatever that they felt were the most important or whatever was worth preserving they sent these records to the Portuguese court in Brazil in Rio de Janeiro. Okay. And these apparently are still there in the in the national library in Rio de Janeiro Brazil. uh and the rest of the documentation, the rest of the archives, the rest of the documents were all burned, destroyed. We have no idea how much documentation was burned uh from the documents that do exist. It looks like there were like some 15 to 20,000 trials were were performed based on whatever has survived and it says maybe 200 people were executed. That's what it says roughly. Okay. [laughter] But the overwhelming majority of the of the records were destroyed, burned. So that is what happened. It wasn't the Spanish Inquisition. It was the Goa Inquisition conducted by the Portuguese uh it wasn't the Vatican that ordered the burning burning or destruction of documents. It was the viceroy, the Portuguese viceroy of Goa in the early 19th century who decided this has to be done because it was too politically etc dangerous. It would show Portugal in a bad light. It would show Christianity in a bad light. All the nasty stuff, horrific atrocities they had done, all the records probably were meticulously listed and documented. All of it was destroyed. So these were human rights abuses. This was possibly genocide at a certain scale. Now we don't know, right? We can only rely on perhaps the oral records of of people who passed passed down passed down the stories. Most of them eventually became so fervently Catholic that they denied anything. I mean talking about the goans those who converted are they eventually became so fervently Catholic that they denied anything had had been done to their ancestors and so on. Over time this that's that gets into your blood I suppose. Uh so most of the evidence has been destroyed by the Portuguese by the by the by the church by the by the well the records were in the in the custody of the church people I suppose of the Portuguese. So they destroyed it all to hide what they had done to Indians. So that today if you try to look back upon the the the that part of the history we don't have any actual records of what the Portuguese did apart from the little bit that is in the national library in Rio de Janeiro Brazil. So they destroyed the evidence. It's like the Nazis destroying evidence of the Holocaust all the records of the Holocaust that that sort of thing the Portuguese did in India. So the atrocities they committed, we will never know. I suppose the the the scale of the brutality, the scale of the atrocities, we'll never know. Um so this was done to cover up their tracks. It was done to cover up their atrocities, their human rights abuses, their their genocide, their you know what they did. So it must have been horrific. It must have been so horrific that they decided it was it should not ever be made public and that's why they burned it all. All right. So that was the deal about the Goa Inquisition brought into India by Francis Xavier. This Jesuit missionary. Okay. Math and CL um yeah says what are the origins of the Bath party? The ba party in the Arab world. Two very consequential leaders Saddam Hussein and Hafis al-Haz Assad were ba'ists. Were they aligned in their goals and worldviews? The bath party. So what is the bath party? It is the party that Saddam Hussein belonged to. It is the party that Haf al-Assad belonged to and as a consequence Bashar al-Assad, his son also belonged well you could say to the Bath party. So, how come? So, first of all, we're talking about Iraq and Syria. Where is Iraq? Where is Syria? Let's find out. Let's uh let's go to the map and figure out the which part of the world are we talking about? We're talking about West Asia obviously. So, let's let's focus on that that part of the world. So, if you are in India, go westwards, cross the temporary nation, cross Gandhar, we have Persia, you cross Persia, go further west, we come to Iraq and Syria. So, we're talking about these two nations. The capital of Iraq is Baghdad and the capital of Syria is Damashk or Damascus. Okay, these two nations we're talking about. So there was this political party that encompassed both these nations actually. How did that happen? Right. And uh how did the leaders of two nations belong to the same political party? It's a very good question, isn't it? The Bath party. So what's the story? What's the history of the Bath party? The origins of the Bath party go back to the 1940s. We're talking about a time a time when the world was at war, the Second World War. Okay, the 1940s we're talking about. Um, and there were two Syrian intellectuals. One was a Christian. There are Christians apparently in Syria. So, one was a Christian and one was a Muslim. I you can look up their names. One was Michel something. The other was Saladin something Salah something. two intellectuals, one Muslim, one Christian. They founded something called the Arab Renaissance Movement in Syria in Damascus. And the objective, the goal was to promote Arab nationalism. But what kind of Arab nationalism? Secular Arab nationalism. Okay, it starts with secularism. And it's not surprising given the way it it eventually uh evolves because Saddam Hussein, Iraq was a secular nation by the way. It was not an Islamic nation officially. it was a secular nation. So the origins are in Damascus in the 1940s. Uh it is these two Syrian intellectuals who who who start this movement, the Arab Renaissance movement. The [snorts] objective is to promote secular Arab nationalism. Okay. And this movement was formally established in 1947. I think that's a date all Indians can remember. It was established as the resurrection party. Now how do you say resurrection in Arabic? You say bath. So it became the bath party or the resurre resurrection party and they adopted a constitution based on various pillars like unity and freedom and socialism. Okay, socialism. Uh so it was about um Arab nationalism. It was about unity, freedom, national socialism. It was about decolonizing the region because it was under you know it had been under European control for a very long time. Right? Uh so that's what happened and in the 1950s the bath party it merged with the Syrian Socialist Party and it was eventually renamed as the Arab Socialist Bath party. Okay, so that's in the 1950s but it's still just a movement. It's not in power. Now in 1963 in Syria uh military officers of the Syrian military of the Syrian army who were aligned with the Bath party who belonged to the Bath party they they conducted a coupa in Syria and they seized power in Syria. So the bath party in 1963 comes to power in Syria and it's in the 1960s that uh Hafas al-Assad becomes a prominent leader a prominent politician and uh Haf as al-Assad sometime in the 1960s he engineers a split of the party of the movement into two camps the Syrian camp and the Iraqi camp or the Syrian branch and the Iraqi branch and their ideologies and agendas start diverging in the 1960s. Then in 1968 the Iraqi branch of the Bath party it conducted a coup da in Iraq in Baghdad and they took control of the government in Baghdad and it was a person called al-Bakr who became the president of Iraq. He was the first baist president of Iraq. So eventually Hafes al-Assad becomes the most prominent guy in Syria to the east uh to the west of Iraq. Right? And uh in the 1970s he becomes uh the most powerful person in the bath party in Syria. He assumes total control and total power. Hafes al-Assad and the western historians will tell you that he established a security state a totalitarian security state and you know it was rooted in a cult of personality. It was rooted in personal loyalty to the man Hafes al-Assad and the core officers who were loyal to Hafes al-Assad were the Alawites the Alawi they belong to the minority Alawi uh sect of the Syrian population. Okay. So that's uh in the 1970s. Then there is transformation in Iraq as well. And in 1979, Saddam Hussein emerges and becomes the president of Iraq. He forces out this the person who had who had become the first president, Mr. Al-Bakr. He forces him out and he becomes the president of Iraq. And then in a very famous televised uh conference or something a meeting in a very large hall he publicly purged all his rivals in the bath party to completely and totally consolidated power within his person. So there there are there's a recording there are multiple recordings recordings of this available on YouTube. Okay. It's a black and white recording in which Saddam Hussein is sitting um on the stage and he has he's got these papers with him. He's smoking a cigar and he's reading out names one by one. He says that if I read your name out and there's a huge audience in front of him. He says that if I read your name out, stand up, recite the party slogan and and go outside of the of the hall where you will be taken care of, let's say. And uh that becomes I mean killing killing name after name comes up the person has to stand up some people protest they are escorted out they're pulled out and one can imagine what happened to those people whose names were spoken by Saddam Hussein you know called out by Saddam Hussein so Saddam Hussein becomes the all powerful leader of Iraq right u so that is what happened then in the 70s late '7s there Of course, there were some attempts to unify the Syrian and Iraqi states, you know, but uh you see, when you have two strong [snorts] leaders, there's going to be ego clashes. There's going to be rivalry. So, you have Saddam Hussein in Iraq, you have Hafes al-Assad in Syria, [snorts] they would not get along, right? Uh and then the two nations become rivals. They become rivals to such an extent that when there was the a war between Iraq and Iran which is from 1980 to 1988 the Iran Iraq war at that time Syria sided with Iran not with Iraq despite both parties being ruled by both nations being ruled by the bath party. Right? So Syria took the side of Iran when Iran was at war with Iraq despite Syria being ruled by the Bath party by the Syrian Baist party and Iraq being ruled by the Iraqi party bath party. So clearly the two nations were not aligned. The two leaders were not aligned. They were on opposite ends of the uh well they were essentially rivals and that caused rivalry between the two nations themselves. Um [clears throat] and that essentially is the story of the bath party and eventually now Hafes al-Assad gave you know he he once he passed away u the power was taken by his son you know the mantle or the beton or the crown let's say passed on to his son Bashar al-Assad who was ousted recently this year by by Alfar who is a former terrorist formerly wanted terrorist ISIS terrorists, that sort of thing. Yeah. So, regime change operation has happened successfully. And the Bath party is no longer in power in Syria. And when it comes to Iraq, it was uh the Bath party was ousted in what 2003 was it when the Americans invaded Iraq for the second time and obliterated the nation. So that was the story of the Bath party. Um the Bath party's origins are in Syria. A Muslim and a Christian came together to to start this movement that eventually became the Bath party. Two very consequential leaders Saddam Hussein and Hafes al-Assad were both bist baists but they were not aligned in any way in their goals and they were actually rivals and the Syrian bath party lasted longer than the Iraqi Bath party and both were ended by a foreign power the same foreign power the United States. That's the story of the Bath party. Amisha says, "How was the Kingdom of Spain able to colonize such vast swath of Central and South America without other nations competing?" Well, you see, in business, there is something called first mover's advantage. If you if you come up with a technology for the first time, if you're the first to come up with a technology, then you're going to have an advantage and you're going to move into the market first, right? And that's what happens. So Spain, what happens is let's look at the chronology in 1492. Christopher Columbus uh he is given this big charter or whatever you want to call it by the king and queen of Spain Isabella and Ferinand. They give him money, they give him ships, etc. And the objective is Christopher Columbus promises them, I'm going to go and discover India and I'm going to colonize India and I'm going to bring back all the wealth and make you super fabulously rich. there was the deal. So they give him what he wants and he goes and crosses the Atlantic. He goes westwards instead of going eastwards because if you go eastwards you have to cross the Turkish occupied territories and that was a problem. They could not do that. So so they knew how to reach India from the east. But that the route was cut off by the Ottoman Turks. So they had the Christopher Columbus at the time knew that the uh the earth is round. It's spherical. It was newly discovered by the Europeans at the time. a few thousand years too late but whatever. So Christopher Columbus goes westwards and he stumbles into the Caribbean region and he imagines that he has discovered India. So in in 1492 Christopher Columbus discovers let's say America. He very rapidly colonizes Hispanola, Cuba and the the surrounding region. Um then the Portuguese also are they are very capable. Okay they they at the time had a very capable navy etc. So they also said why should we get left out but then they had a good relationship or or a working relationship with the kingdom of Castillia which is Spain. So the Spanish and the and the Portuguese they decided to carve up the world divide the world among each other in such a way that they do not they would not have to compete and fight. That was the treaty of theas 1494. Yeah you can look it up. And they they divided the world along a north north south meridian that sort of thing. the the western part the western part of this would be taken over by the the the the Spanish and the eastern part would be taken over by the by the Portuguese. They would be free to colonize all non-Christian nations in the eastern half and the Spanish would be free to colonize all non-Christian nations or or or cultures in the uh western half. So it was all about colonization. It was all about occupation, plunder, slavery and and uh conversion to Christianity. Okay. So and at this time it's only Spain and Portugal that are the big guys. Okay. They had the techn technological knowhow the cap capabilities to do these things. They had the navy. They had the navies that could do this. They were their navies were better than any other European navies and they had the money that was coming in from the crowd. And that's how the Spaniards went ahead and colonized first u um the Aztec Triple Alliance and then the Inca Empire. Brutal brutal stuff as we know as we've discussed many times in the past. Um and the and the Portuguese went eastwards. They colonized various parts of Africa. They came to India. They tried doing their thing over here in India and they brutalized Goa and that sort of thing. Right? So so Spain had the first war advantage in Central and South America. Now by the 1550s other nations were like why should we get left behind? So the so the French start, you know, attempting to to put down a tow hold somewhere in the Americas and they they try and fail several times. Eventually they end up in no in the northern half of North America, the Quebec, Canada region, right? Um and that's a whole different story. That's much later. And the English also uh the English at the time did not have a powerful navy. Uh so they also were interested in the Americas. They also were interested in colonizing the whole world. Right? And at the in the 1500s these efforts of England were subsidized by the crown. Who was the crown? It was Elizabeth, Queen Elizabeth. So she what she did was she she financed various piracy operations. These pirates were called privateeers and they would engage in piracy in murder in slavery all financed by the British crown. But it's only in the six early 1600s that the British came up with a different way of doing things. the various British private citizens, wealthy private citizens, merchants, they formed joint stock companies and that was the means by which they finance the East India Company and so and various colonization efforts even in the Americas. Uh so that's how everything changes and we're talking about the 1600s here that's when we have uh Jamestown and all Plymouth and all that. So for a century or so the Spaniards and the Portuguese were able to divide the world into two halves and uh because of first war advantage they were able to do a lot and the Spaniards become very became very wealthy as a consequence because of the conquest of the Aztec triple alliance empire and the Inca Empire which were very populist very wealthy they were able to uh you know have as many slaves as they wanted. tremendous quantities of gold flowed into Spain which was able to finance further Spanish activities and and wars and military operations and whatnot. But eventually the British model proved to be superior. So that's why the Spaniards because of first mover advantage were able to colonize vast regions of Spain of Central and South America. Amisha says Britain, Spain, and Portugal had three of the biggest empires back in the day. However, why do Spain and Portugal have very little power or influence on the world stage today unlike Britain in present day politics? Well, even Britain has zero advantage today. Zero influence, zero power. But the continuation of the British Empire, which is the American Empire, is the all powerful entity in the world today. So, you could say that the British Empire still is the predominant hegemonic entity in the world in the shape and form of the American Empire. It has morphed into something different, but it's a continuation of the same entity. Okay. So yeah, you could say that the Anglo Empire continues and and still predominates. It is the hegemonic empire in the world today. But Spain and Portugal, well, they they don't matter anymore. They are completely marginalized. They they simply don't matter geopolitically today. Why is that so? Well, ask yourself this question. In the 18th century, the Marata Empire was all powerful in India in the Indian subcontinent. What happened to it? It doesn't even exist anymore. Similarly, the Spanish Empire doesn't exist anymore. The Portuguese empire doesn't ex exist anymore. They still the Spaniards still have their their royal family like the crown so on. It's just a nominal thing. It's a tradition that they are holding on to. In India, we have we have destroyed the those traditions of the royal families because the royal families were wiped out most of them. the real ones in 1857. So the Marata Empire was so powerful in the entire subcontinent. What happened to it? No power, no influence, no existence today. The Roman Empire was all powerful across the Mediterranean region, across Europe, across North Africa, even parts of West Asia. What happened to it? Gone. Right? Look at Italy today. What power, what influence does Italy have today? I'm not trying to make fun of the nation. I'm just giving you giving this example. Okay. The Vikings were super powerful in Western Europe. There was a Viking age roughly 200 years. What happened? Where's the Vikings today? Sweden, Denmark, Norway. What about these three nations? What power influence do they have? None. [clears throat] So the answer is that empires rise and fall. Empires rise, empires become powerful, then they decline and they fall. It's these are cyclical aspects of history. So the Spanish Empire, you know, the Spanish power came, grew and went. Their policies weren't great. They weren't able to eventually compete with the Anglo, with the English. The same can be said about Portugal and everybody else. So, so that's why today it's only the Anglo-Saxon Empire that has the hedgemony, you know, essentially global power projection capabilities because they got everything right. Their system of financing their operations and expeditions and their, you know, yeah, expeditions of plunder and conquest. They were financed properly. They were great at logistics. They were great at playing a gate of game of divide in rule, divide and rule, divide and conquer and then rule. They were great at securing uh trade routes. They were great at securing choke points, geographical choke points. The Spanish and the Portuguese weren't great at this. The Portuguese had this policy, you could say, of just holding on to two holes of land, footholds of foot to having to having small footholds of land, you know, on the margins of the trade routes and choke points like Mala, the the Portuguese at Mala, the Portuguese at Goa, they had Vasai in western India uh and so on. So they they did not ever expand inwards into the land into the territory of the of the subcontinent or other parts of the world. The British said, "We're going to create our own kingdoms. We're going to actually govern land." The Portuguese didn't want to govern anything. They just wanted to trade and plunder. So the Spanish obviously did what the British did, but they were not as efficient, efficacious, whatever, as the British. So that's why the British eventually prevailed and that's why Spain and Portugal are essentially well to be very realistic, non- entities geopolitically today. Amisha once again says why did the Portuguese colonies in South America evolve into a single country which is Brazil whereas the continent's Spanish colonies broke off into nearly a dozen nations. Interesting question. Let's take a look at the map and see the situation in South America for with our own eyes to confirm what Amisha is claiming. So here we have one gigantic nation, Portuguese speaking nation which is Brazil and then you have all these Spanish speaking nations like Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela and then you have we'll not talk about Guyana here. Uruguay, we forgot Uruguay, Parag Paraguay, Bolivia. So all these Spanish speaking nations and just one Portuguese speaking nation. What happened? How did this happen? Why did the Portuguese colonies evolve into a single nation, single modern day nation, Brazil? But the Portuguese colon uh the Spanish colonies all gave rise to multiple nations that actually weren't on very good terms with each other. How did that happen is the question. So I spoke about the treaty of toias 1494. The Spanish and the Portuguese divided the world into two halves. Okay. and uh and it was along a line see let's take a look at um let's Google this so that I can put this on the screen for easy comprehension tree of toa 1494 look at the images so if you see okay let's see this as you can see on the screen they divided the world into two halves and the line on the left as you can see It it kind of uh gives Portugal the the blue territory. It gives Portugal what is now Brazil less than what is Brazil today. But the Portuguese were given the right to uh occupy and colonize that part of the Americas. Okay? Because of the line that was drawn on the map. So the Brazilians go the Portuguese go ahead and create this colony. And what the Portuguese do is they create a single viceroy for the entire region. But what the Spanish did is that they created multiple territories that were self-governing. You had New Spain, you had uh whatever else the other other ones were called. You had the what was Peru and the Inca Inca Empire region and so on. So they they the Spanish created essentially autonomous quasi independent self-governing territories that would all report back to Spain but they would not but they were all autonomous in a way from each other. Okay. So that's how the Spanish organized uh the territories they had uh occupied in the Americas. The Portuguese put everything under one single viceroy. And for the Spanish there multiple viceroy and these these Spanish colonies became kind of competitive with each other also. So there was you know there was a safeguarding of territory and there was a bit of friction and hostility and that sort of thing between the different Spanish territories. Even though they were all Spanish territories they all reported back to the you know to the crown in Spain. But in in the case of Brazil it was not the case. It was everything was under a single viceroy. Then you have so we're talking about what the aftermath of 1494 1492 1494. We're talking about we're talking about the 1500s the 1600s and so on even the 1700s. So the situation evolves in this manner. Okay. Then what happens is in Europe something incredible happens. You have the rise of this one person called Napoleon Bonapart. Napoleon in 19 years he went to a no from being an absolutely obscure nobody to being the emperor of France and king of Italy in just 19 years. That's Napoleon. Incredible feat. And he he he would do over one weekend what most people would do in their lifetime. That sort of thing. reorganizing the entire uh governance system of let's say a country and writing a new constitution putting new laws new governance and that sort of thing u and Napoleon was very ambitious and there was this period of time which is called the Napoleonic wars in Europe and he con he invaded Spain as part of the Napoleonic wars we're talking about the early 1800s 1805 to 1815 or is it 1803 to 1815 let's let's quickly take a Nepo Leo Nick was when was this? 1803 to 1815. Okay, I was almost correct. Yeah, you don't have to memorize dates. You can look always look them up. So the Napoleonic Wars is when Napoleon tried to conquer the entire world starting with Europe and he invaded Spain. As a result of this, the Spanish colonies in the Americas were kind of cut a drift from the crown in Spain and they became kind of independent and that is the genesis of the independent nations all Spanish speaking nations in the Americas. So the governors would they they were no longer connected to Spain. Spain was in complete disarray. Napoleon was invading right and this completely changed the structure and governance and so on of Spain. So these colonies became essentially independent and they became nation states eventually on their own right and some of them went to war with each other that that happens that that is known to happen in the in in Latin America two nations may sometimes go to war over a football match even though they are both Spanish speaking that sort of thing but Brazil did not happen. So, uh, so Brazil becomes independent of Portugal. What? In the 1820s. When was it? Let's let's let's fact check. What was the actual year? Let's let's find out. Brazil independence year in. Okay, it's 1822. So, Brazil becomes indep Oh, I'm sorry. I did not put that on the screen. So Brazil becomes independent from Spain or from Portugal on the 7th of September 1822. Brazil becomes independent. And then in Brazil also it was not all smooth sailing. There were parts of Brazil especially northern or whatever that wanted to secede that wanted to be independent. And the Brazilian government had to use military force for a couple of decades to quell these rebellions and these quests for for independence. So it was not all smooth sailing but yeah Brazil eventually was able to prevail uh and that's how they were able to remain united as a single nation Brazil whereas the other continental uh Spanish colonies broke off into a bunch of other countries and the way the they they b broke off into various countries depends obviously on the geography of the continent. You have the Andes mountains which obviously separates Peru and and and and Chile from the rest from the from the eastern part of the continent and so on. Okay. Bill Bradley says what does Bill Bradley say? Chingis Khan the great Mongol conqueror ended enough lives to leave a mark in the carbon record. He was one of the most prolific takers of life ever seen. This is the worst academic channel on YouTube. Okay. So, u I have in the past said that Chingis wasn't that bad and so on. So, this gentleman Bill Bradley says that I am one of the worst academic channels on YouTube and Chingish Khan killed so many people that it left a mark in the carbon record. Let us find out whether I am completely wrong and I'm completely biased and this is the worst academic channel on YouTube. Let's find out. Let's let's fact check this. Okay. Um, okay. Genghis Khan carbon record global cooling. So it said that he he caused global cooling, right? So there is this website Mongab. Okay. What is this if science? Let's take a look at this. Okay. It says that Chinus Khan killed enough planet people to cool the planet. And this is by whoever uh gentleman called Benjamin Ta who holds a master's degree in anthropology from University College London and he has word worked in neuroscience and mental health. Okay. So this gentleman has a master's degree in anthropology from University College London. So he says he says that scientists have identified a certain decrease in atmospheric carbon of about three parts per million. three parts per million. Remember that between 1200 and 1470 CE which correlates with the Mongol invasion of Asia and so on. Um and uh this may account for changes in carbon dioxide levels and uh um allowed more trees to grow and act as carbon sinks and so on. Uh despite D um so okay so that's what he says. So he says that Chingghis Khan killed enough people to cool the planet. That is his claim. And he has said that they sequestered huge amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere possibly even cooling the planet. So that is what our friend uh what's his name Benjamin Taub says and uh there is this mongabe whatever that is which also makes the same claim and uh how chistan cooled the planet altered life sciences Mongol invasion altered carbon dioxide levels and so on. So this is a very commonly believed uh thing why Jungaskan was good for the for the planet that's what the guardian of the UK is saying and so on. Now let's take a look at some actual research papers. Yes. Um so so let's take a look at this one here. Okay. This is from this is from the astrophysical astrophysics data system. This is actually something that is more connected to well my field but it also has this paper about carbon emissions. So holosene carbon emissions is a result of anthropogen anthropogenic land cover change and the DOI is the last six numbers are 386 983 386983 386983 Now let me put the actual PDF on the screen. Okay, here let's open it. Let's let's fact check this properly. Okay. Once again it's the same D yeah DOI 386983 same paper. Yeah. So and then this is by Kaplan Crumbheart Ellis Rimman etc etc etc. These are the authors. Holosene carbon emissions as a result of anthropogenic land cover change. So here we have a graph a chart. Let's bigify it ambigen enlarge it. So on the [snorts] y-axis the vertical axis we have atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration and also human population in millions and on the horizontal axis we have years before present. So this ends at 1850. Okay it starts at 6,000 years before present. So if we look at the time period of 2,000 years before present that is you know when the ADBC shift happens and we're talking about 1200 to 1400 AD right so it's around this time period 1 to 750 and you can see that there is the the there are two graphs here two lines the top one is the human population and on the bottom the second lower one that is the carbon dioxide levels in parts per million atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration in parts per million. And as you can see between 1,00 before years before present and 750 years before present or even 500 years before present there is no major there's no major change in the atmospheric carbon levels whatever change happens it's just very minor very gradual right so chisan was born when 1170 or something and he died in 1227 so around that time what do you see and afterwards also the Mongol empire was a very big deal for the next century or so you see no such thing here. You don't see any major change in the uh you know atmospheric carbon dioxide uh concentration. So that kind of raises a question mark about what these people have been claiming. Now let's try take a look at a different research paper and it's verifying that we are human here. We are all humans. Yes, I would confirm that coupled climate carbon simulations indicate minor global effects of wars and epidemics on atmospheric carbon dioxide between so and so between 800 AD and 1850. So let us put the PDF of this research paper on the screen. It's by Julia Pongrats at Aal Julia Pongrats all same paper. Okay. Now let's take a look at what this paper claims. Let's embigen it. So it says okay only the Mongol invasion could have lowered global carbon dioxide but by an amount too small to be resolved by ice. So they're talking about the reduction of global carbon dioxide levels. They say that the Mongol invasion only could have lowered it but it would have been by an amount that is too small to be resolved by eye scores. Now let's let's go down and let's take a look at whatever the paper is all about. Let's let's take a look at some details. So it it's talking about global carbon dioxide decreases. This global decrease in carbon dioxide caused by the Mongol invasion is still smaller than 0.1 parts per million and therefore not detectable in eye score records with a typical measurement precision of one part per million. Okay. Now let's ask. So clearly the claims don't hold up. Now let's ask Google to fact check. Okay, please fact fact check. Genghis Khan in end did enough lives to uh leave leave a mark on the carbon record. Please fact check. What's it say? What does the Google AI say? It says nothing. So, as you can see, okay, how about I try a different version of Google. Let's try a different version of Google. Give me a second, please. Let's try a diff different version. One where I'm logged in. Now, let's say what happens now. I'm going to ask it to fact check. Okay, it's a once again not the Google AI isn't. Where is the AI? Okay, let's go. Let's go to AI mode. Please fact check this. What's the what does the Google AI say? This claim is based on 2011 study from Canada blah blah blah which key findings from the research include blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. Um, okay. Where does it come from? It's giving me social media stuff. Um, please please please find the link to the study. Okay, please come on, bro. Let's do it. Does it have a link? Julia Pong. Okay, we just opened that document, the the document, the study by Julia Pongrats. Aal, right? So according to that research paper one second let me just copy paste this okay uh the research paper says and I quote in quotes right is still smaller So does the claim that Genghis ended? So yeah. So does the claim still hold up? One second. What does this say? Right. Okay. So, so was was there was was there any measured? So, is there any evidence? Okay. Is there any actual [clears throat] uh empirical evidence of uh decrease in CO2 levels due to a due to the Mongol invasion? Mongol invasion. Please answer in one word. Let's see what's it says. Thinking no empirical evidence suggests a decrease in carbon dioxide levels due to Mongol invasion. I could go into this in great detail, but I think I just debunked this claim, this malicious claim that Shinkasan killed so many people that there were there was a global decrease in carbon dioxide levels and global cooling. I just debunked this right in front of you. This is how narratives are built. The research paper clearly says there is no no measurable decrease and whatever decrease we are imagining is is is inferred or imagined or whatever there is no hard evidence of any measurable decrease in global carbon dioxide to levels from that time period. I just debunked this live for you all. So this is how people create narratives. This is how the west creates narratives about the east. That is how they have managed to globally demonize Chingish Khan. Okay, I just debunked this live in front of you. You can please feel free to go deeper into this. You will find zero evidence, no evidence whatsoever, no hard scientific evidence whatsoever from ice scores or whatever other means you want to look into. There's no evidence whatsoever that there was any decrease in global carbon dioxide levels or or there was any global cooling whatsoever because of any Mongol invasion. There you have it. All right. Victor Knight says, "Was the Mongol Empire destructive or was it a cause or a catalyst of globalization?" Look, an empire that expands is going to cause destruction. I mean look at world history. You can't say that you can't expect one empire to somehow be non-destructive. The Mongol Empire, you know, it expanded for a variet variety of reasons. It starts with Chingghis Khan. It starts with the Sha of Horas and his treatment of Mongol diplomats and merchants. Horrible treatment. So that had to be dealt with. Before that it was all about China and China's brutal treatment of Mongolia for centuries. That's how the entire expansion started. Okay. So the Mongol Empire became a very large empire. It essentially you could say that Chinghan possessed possessed half of the world known world of its of of his time and after his death the Mongol empire expanded even further because of the conquests of his sons and grandsons and so on. His grandson Hullegu ended the golden age of Islam for example by by flattening Baghdad. So the Mongol Empire obviously it expanded through military conquest. It caused destruction. It may have caused the deaths of potentially millions of people. But if you calculate the number of deaths per square kilometer, I would say Timour will go higher, the Romans will go higher, Alexander will go higher, the British Empire will go higher in in the metric that I'm talking about which is number of deaths per square kilometer. Chinghan will be lower than them all. I I don't have the numbers right now. I could actually do this. I'll not do it live because it'll take half an hour at least to get the data and stuff. But I can guarantee that the number of lives how many lives are attributed to Ching Khan. Whatever the number is, it's going to be lower than Timur or the Turk invasions of India and so much more. So let's not discuss go into that. Now what about the Mongol Empire being a cause or a catalyst of globalization? So the Mongol Empire unified essentially half of Eurasia maybe yeah roughly half of Eurasia Eurasia which is parts of Europe and much of Asia excluding the Indian subcontinent. Uh Chunghistan decided he will not invade India because he had no reason to and I've gone into that in my first video in detail. So the Mongol Empire it created a unified Eurasian zone. Okay. Um and the Mongols were very much in favor of uh having trade across the entire Mongol Empire. So u they they established what they called caravan suravan sarise. They established relay stations. They gave diplomats and other people passports. They standardized weights and measures across their entire kingdom. and they ensure that there are relatively predictable taxes across the entire empire. So suddenly the entire empire this huge part of Eurasia becomes open. There are no more boundaries and borders and all. You could just go in any if you were a citizen of the Mongol Empire you could travel anywhere as long as you had a valid business. So it created a huge essentially free trade zone with very clear predict predictable rules and all the infrastructure you needed to travel and to do trade. And this had the effect of of of stimulating uh and catalyzing cross-cultural exchanges because you had so many because you this caused the the creation of this huge infrastructure, trade infrastructure caused the movement it it it facilitated it facilitated the movement of scholars, of craftsmen, of artisans, of religious figures of technicians of scientists, engineers, writers, poets, singer, whatever all kinds of people across Eurasia. So this catalyzed cross-cultural exchanges. So it created a huge free trade zone. It catalyzed cross-cultural exchanges across the entire empire and it linked the the economy of China with Central Asia with the Islamic world and with even parts of the Eurasian with the parts of the various European economies all because everything was protected by the Khan the great Khan. So clearly this is one of the first examples of globalization, proper globalization under a clear and predictable system of rules, a rules-based world order, wasn't it? So yeah, it was indeed a catalyst of globalization, right? Okay. Nirvana Shanks says, "How did Nirvana Shanks has asked a lot of questions, but you asked at the very end just a couple of hours before the live stream, so I was able to take only one, but maybe I'll take some of some more of your questions in the next uh episode." So the question here is this, how did Chancellor Bismar unify Germany and what were the major consequences for the European balance of power? Right, Germany. So Germany is well historically the past century or so it's been the engine that drives the European economy. It's the most historically we know it's been you could say the most powerful nation in Europe until 1945 you could say right but Germany as a nation it it was born in 1871 before that there was never something called Germany. The Romans spoke about various Germanic tribes, the Swaybe and the whatever the [clears throat] names of the tribes were. There was never a unified German nation. There were various Germanic speaking well, you know, states you could say, duchies and and so on, principalities and so on, but it was never one unified nation called Germany. So bismar so there was something called Prussia. Prussia was this major um major you could say German speaking principality in what is now Germany. So Bismaron Bismar was Prussian and he was appointed in the 1860s as the minister president of Prussia. Okay. If you want to see where is Prussia, what what used to be Prussia? Let's uh let's first take a look at that. What was Prussia? [clears throat] Prussia. So let's uh go to images and this was Prussia essentially. Okay, the the green part which is obviously kind of part of much of Germany today. That was Prussia. This the here's another example of Prussia. This is from 1867 to 1871 before the war. So we will talk about that now. So that was Prussia and Ottoan Bismar became the uh minister president of of Prussia in the 1860s and he said that we're going to unify the land through blood and iron through strategy strategy and real politic. So then he engineered three wars of unification. Okay. The first war was the Danish war. He went to war with he what what what what Bismar did is that he allied with Austria. He allied with Austria and fought Denmark and defeated Denmark and and they took the Danish then Danish territories of Schleswig and Holstein and that became part of you know their territory and then he went to war with Austria with whom he had allied against Denmark. So first in the 1860s there's a war with uh Denmark which which Prussia and Austria win. Then Prussia goes to war against Austria. Um he provoked some he he found some protects some excuse to go to war with Austria. He allied himself with Italy. He ensured that the French and the Russians remained neutral and then he went to war with Austria and defeated Austria. And then he marginalized Austria. He he essentially excluded Austria from German affairs altogether and uh the old confederation and old alliance was invalidated or or dissolved. So he defeats Austria and then there's the pivotal war 1870 1871 the FrancoRussian war. So now that Austria is dealt with [clears throat] right he now goes to war. He he goss France into declaring war against Prussia. And then he says that they are facing an existential threat. France is going to defeat us all. So he rallies all the other southern German principalities into an alliance with Prussia to uh defeat the French and they are able to defeat the French and there is a very harsh treaty that is imposed on the French and the French territory Al-Sas and Loren is taken into Germany is is annexed into Germany and by doing this he was able to consolidate and create a unified Germany by through these three wars first with Denmark then with Austria then with the And that's how he was able to you know create this common cause for all the German principalities that we have to we have to come together uni unified unify and unite otherwise we'll be taken apart and that's how he was able to create a unified Germany. So 1871 is the creation of the German empire. Prussia under bismar br b br b br b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b all southern principalities and states and duchies into a new federal structure which was dominated by Berlin. Okay. And then he pro then they proclaimed Wilhelm the first as the German empire in Vai in France. It was in 1871 and the entire thing was structured in such a way that Prussia was essentially in control of uh various aspects of administration and the major power in what was now Germany especially power over the army military policy foreign policy economic policy all of that. So the unification of Germany was a triumph of Bismar. It was a tri triumph of Prussian power and it was a triumph of German nationalism. So how did this what kind of consequences did this have on Europe is the question that Nirvana Shanks is asking? What were the consequences uh for Europe? So the see you suddenly have in 1871 the creation of a new German Empire, a new nation of Germany and a German empire. this new nation. It has a large population. It has advanced industry. It has a a tremendously excellent education system. It has this laser focus on on on on technology and science. I mean, quantum mechanics comes out of Germany, right? Doesn't it? And they had because of because they had an advanced industry, high quality industry. Because of that, they also had a first rate military. And Germany essentially almost overnight became the leading terrestrial or land power in Europe. And it became a major industrial economy and a major uh and and the leader in science and technology and engineering and and everything else in Germany. And because of this excellent education system, it eventually gave gave the world tremendously gifted physicists who changed the way we understand the world. Okay. And Austria was permanently excluded uh from from German politics. It was it was marginalized and it was relegated to a regional role within a dual monarchy which is AustriaHungary the Austrohungarian Empire right and it it weakened Austria significantly. Uh France almost lost also France was humiliated. it lost prestige and this obviously gave rise to this desire for revenge within the people of France and this became you could say a long-term persistent source of enmity with this new nation of Germany and the unification of this new nation Germany it forced various other powers like Russia and everybody else to look for look towards creating their own alliances uh because the rise of strong, confident, very powerful New Germany. It obviously led to the intensification of arms races and rivalries with uh with obviously France, with with Russia, with Italy and AustroHungary and so much more. So you had tension and eventually obviously Britain. Yeah, Britain also was as you know it was the British Raj the British Raj. of the creation of this new nation, it obviously would be seen as worrisome from England and all these factors, all these simmering rivalries and hostilities, they became the melting point, melting pot and the could say the key factors that eventually pushed Europe towards what would be called the first world war. So yeah, it it set in motion a series of events that gave rise to the first world war. So the period between 1871 and 1914 you could say was a period of cold war where everybody was looking for an advantage and everyone was looking for the day we could we can go back to war and settle old scores. So that was the deal. Chancellor of Bismar unifying Germany and eventually this eventually all culminated in the first world war which did not end end end satisfactoryily for Germany which gave rise to the second world war and the rest we understand says explain the origins of the Romans that built the Roman Empire were the European in the modern sense perfectly white skin I'm not sure if Europeans have perfectly white skin but some Europeans I suppose you could say are very white skin. Okay. So, what's the origins of the Roman people? Who founded the Roman Empire? First, first of all, let's look at the map to talk to to understand what part of the world are we talking about? The Roman Empire emerged from Italy. So, it's in the Mediterranean region, southern Europe. Italy is this place. And the region around the city of Rome is where you had this uh Latin speaking group of people um who became the founders, you could say, of Rome. And there are mythological factors in this and there's legends associated with this the legend of Reheis and Rmulus. Uh it is also said that Rome was founded by by Greeks who fled from the Trojan war and so on. U so north of the region of present day Rome you had another ethnic group that lived there. They were called the Atruscans. And in the south you had ethnic Greeks who lived in the southern parts of Italy. uh which was you could say you know greater Greece region kind of thing. So the the people who eventually beca who founded Rome as a republic they lived in the region around Rome and then they intermarried with the atruscans and with the with the with the ethnic Greeks who lived in southern Rome and it became kind of a mixed population. What was the ethnicity? It was a southern European ethnicity which means light brown skin not exactly white skin. Yeah. And eventually as we know Rome became an empire and they conquered the Celtic parts of Europe which is Gaul which is today's France and Switzerland. They conquered the the the Iberian part of of Europe which is present day Spain. The Spanish people also don't really have white skin. Uh they conquered North Africa uh where the people cannot really be called white people. They obviously aren't white. They aren't really black. They're kind of brown, light brown. Um they conquered eastern present day eastern Europe, Romania, Bulgaria, Thrace, Greece and so on. They conquered Anatolia which is present day mostly Turkey. They conquered West Asia also and Egypt also and Northern Africa, Libya and so on. And the people of this entire huge region most of them yeah they were then regarded as Roman citizens and they were free to move around the empire and then the people in people intermixed and inter intermingled. So you know so what did the Roman people look like? The core Roman people they would have had kind of light brown skin. They would not be white. They would have dark hair and dark eyes mostly. Eventually, if you look at Italy today, if you look at Italian people today, many of them have blonde hair and blue eyes. I mean, Madame Melon, Georgia Melon has blonde hair and blue eyes. So, her ancestry probably lies north of Italy. Yeah. Because Yeah. Because there was intermixing of populations. uh but the and you know what's interesting is is that the Romans had emperors who were of North African origin, Arabic origin, Syrian origin. [snorts] Septimus Severis was of Libyan or Punic origin. He can be called the first Roman emperor who was of African origin. There was another one called Mccrinus. Macrinus mccrinus whatever these are all in the Mrinus was from the 3rd century AD. Septimus Severis was from the second and third centuries AD. Then there was an emperor called Philip the Arab who was uh of Syrian descent. His family was from present day Syria. And then you also had an emperor called Elagavalus, probably the worst Roman emperor of all time who also was of Syrian origin. So eventually the Romans became a very cosmopolitan homogeneous kind of people population. But the original Romans were southern Europeans, which means that they would have light brown skin, dark hair, and and brown eyes mostly. Okay. Next question is by Amisha. Why did the Roman Empire persecute early Christians when they were mostly content, the Romans, they were mostly content to let the Jewish people practice their faith with relatively little interference? You were right. The Romans ruled over Judea, which is present day Israel. That Israel, greater Israel or whatever region, West Asia. Most people there practiced Judaism. And the Romans, they had no issue with Judaism. They did not interfere with the Jewish activities, religious activities. They only had an issue when the Jews revolted against Rome. And that's why as as a punitive measure, they destroyed the second temple, the Romans, right? And only one wall stands, which is now called the Whailing Wall. It's also one of the walls of the Al Aka Moscow complex. Long story, long story short. So the Romans were perfectly happy to allow the Jews to practice Judaism. They would they did not interfere in that. The Romans never interfere in Judaism. So then what was the deal with Christianity? You see, Judaism was an ancient religion. It predated Rome and the religion posed no threat to the Roman Empire. This was not a proletizing religion. The the Jews not did not seek to aggressively and actively convert people to Judaism. And the religion was not a political religion that that sought to, you know, seek out and acquire and consolidated power to do a regime change. That sort of thing wasn't there. Judaism was not that sort of religion. It was an old religion and the people practiced it and they they were not political in nature. The religion wasn't political in nature. So the Romans had no issue with Judaism. whatsoever. When it comes to Christianity, this was a new artificial religion. Okay? And this was a political religion. The Christians sought to convert others to Christianity. They sought to expand their numbers and they sought to grab power. This was a totally different beast, a completely new artificial cult that was expansionist. It did not simply seek to expand in terms of territory. It sought to expand its numbers by converting people. It sought to destroy the old religion, the Roman polytheistic religion. It portrayed the Roman polytheistic religion as evil, as satanic. The Christians were brutal towards polytheists. They were brutal towards polytheistic temples. They destroyed idols of Greek and Roman gods and goddesses. They desecrated temples. They they killed priests. They killed mathematicians, women mathematicians. The Christians sought to overthrow Rome. And then the Christians portrayed themselves as the victims, martyrs. So that's why the Roman Empire sought to put an end to this. But as we know, it didn't work out. And eventually the Roman emperor Constantine converted to converted to Christianity and made Christianity the official state religion because if you can't beat them, join them. That's what happened. Amisha says, "Why don't we know with certainty how the Egyptian pyramids were built? Was none of this information passed down from generation to generation?" So what are the pyramids we're talking about? Uh the pyramids of Egypt. Egypt. [snorts] Pyramids of Egypt. So these are world famous structures. I think everyone knows what the pyramids are. The pyramids are situated right outside of Cairo. Aluk Kaira. And you have uh three large pyramids of Giza and then you have multiple smaller pyramids. And as you can see, here is an image of a human person in in in comparison with the blocks that make up the pyramids. As you can see, the blocks are gigantic. This is clearly an averagesized human person here. [laughter] Okay. Um the pyramids are gigantic and these are some of the pyramids that we have. The pyramid of Kufu, the pyramid of Kafre, the manor pyramid, the red pyramid, etc., etc., etc. So, the pyramids are huge. You can't compare them with any existing structures, any existing buildings. Enormous, gigantic, ginormous, whatever word you want to call it. Uh what about the pyramid of man? Let's say the pyramid of men. So this pyramid as you can see has a gigantic gaping hole in it. And the son of Saladin Salahadin Aubi his son tried for one year to destroy the small pyramid. The pyramid of Manaw is a reasonably small pyramid as you can see. It's not huge. And the son of Saladin who was ruling at the time, he tried for one year to press his entire military might into destroying this pyramid. All he could do was create this one little gash in the pyramid. That's all. Took him one year. His his armed forces, his soldiers were hard at work for one year trying to destroy the pyramid. All they did was make that little incision in the pyramid. They were all all they were trying to do is take out the dislodge the blocks those those those uh cubicle blocks of stone and drop them from from the pyramid. That work took them one year to make that little incision in the pyramid. And then you have pyramids that are way bigger than the manower pyramid. And how were they constructed is the question. Now we kind of have possibly some understanding. It was not aliens. It was not UFOs. It was obviously done by human beings. Tens of thousands of slaves possibly worked on the pyramids. It would have taken possibly years or decades to build one pyramid. And they would have used ramps, clay ramps to to to transport each individual stone block up the pyramid in place into position. How did they do it so precisely? Nobody has an idea. So this is a these are works of monumental architecture bigger than anything anyone has done. It would have taken incredible amounts of human labor, incredible precision and decades of work to make one pyramid. And we if you were to make build a pyramid today using modern equipment, I'm not sure how it would be done. We don't have cranes that can lift blocks that blocks of store that large. We don't have the means of possibly we do how to align everything so precisely and it's kind of it it's kind of mindboggling. We probably don't have any company or any organization today that can if we you know if I give the money okay here's $25 billion go and make a pyramid in next 5 years. I don't think they can do it even in the next 20 years. That's so hard. Quarrying the stuff. How do you quarry the rock and and ensure each block of rock is exactly the right precise dimensions? You would need metal tools, probably copper tools that the copper came from where the copper came from. What metal did they use? So big open questions remain. And and in case some of the information was written down, it would have been written down on papiras. Papiras was the kind of parchment or whatever you want to call it. The the papyrus is a reed that grows on the along the banks of the of the Nile and that is purposed that is converted into a sort of paper that was used in ancient Egypt. Now papus is obviously fragile, delicate. It can't last centuries or thousands of years or millennia. That's why if records were kept they would have crumbled into dust by now. And eventually Egypt was Egypt had a downfall. It was first conquered by the Persians for a while then it was conquered by the Greeks. It was ruled by the Greeks and then it came under um under the rule of Islamic forces and it's the entire population was converted to Islam and today they don't even regard the pyramids as anything really important personally from their perspective. It's important only because it brings in tourist touristic revenue. So eventually I think uh the records were lost. people stopped carrying. People started seeing that seeing the pyramids as uh pre-Islamic pagan monuments that should be destroyed but could not be destroyed because they were too hard to destroy and the they was just tolerated until they became a source of touristic revenue and that's why we don't know for certainty with certainty how the pyramids were built. Okay, let's talk about England. Nirvana Shanks says another question. Were there conflicts [snorts] between the Angles and the Saxons after these ethnic groups settled in England or did these ethnic groups fully integrate into a single political entity? So, we're talking about England, the British Isles. The British Isles were under Roman occupation until roughly the 4th century AD. Eventually the western Roman Empire which was based out of which was ruled from Rome it eventually declined and the Romans eventually withdrew from England from the British islands because it was too far away and they could not they didn't have the money to administer it all. So they simply withdrew and once the Romans withdrew they withdrew sometime around the fourth or fifth century around the time the transition period between the two centuries around the time the Romans withdrew. Let's quickly Google this. When did the It was When did the When did the Romans uh withdraw from Yeah. from Britain? Which year was it? Okay. AD410, which is the beginning of the fifth century AD. And that created a power vacuum in what we now call Britain. Power vacuum. The imperial force is gone. The imperial power is gone. Rome is gone. This power vacuum. So something has to fill the power vacuum. It was the angles, the Saxons and the Judes, these Germanic tribes who filled the power vacuum. So the these the Saxons came from the region of Saxony in Germany. The Angles came from another part of Germany and the Jews also came were also a Germanic tribe. So the angles and the Saxons were the major population groups that invaded Britain and settled in Britain and the Judes also settled in the southern part of Britain. So if you look at the population of Britain at the time it was a mixed it was mainly a Celtic population. The original inhabitants of Britain around the time of the Roman occupation were Celtic peoples, pictish people, you know, various Celtic ethnic groups and tribes. Then the Angles and the Saxons and and the Judes come in and then they fight they they they defeat the Celtic peoples and they establish various kingdoms in uh Britain. What did these kingdoms look like? Let's let's uh let's take a look. Okay, let's take a look at a map of Britain in let's say 8th century. Map of Britain in let's say 9th century. What did Britain look like in the 9th century AD? So now if we look here um do we have something from Encyclopedia Britannica? Okay so we have various kingdoms. Okay as you can see on the map there is North Umbria in the north you have the you have Muria you have East Anglia Sex Wessex Sussex Kent then then you have Wales and Cumbria and so on. So the angles they set up the kingdom of East Anglia uh possibly Kent um that's the angles and the Saxons they set up North Umbrea Muriel Wessex Sussex etc. So the the westx is western saxons. SX is the eastern Saxons. Sex is the southern Saxons. Was North Umbria was it Saxon or was it was North Umbria? North Umbrea. Saxon or Angle. Yeah, there we go. It probably was not Anglo. Okay, fine. So the point I'm making is the angles and Saxons they settled down in different parts of Britain. The roots were all the way down south. Essex, Sussex, Wessex were Saxon. Probably North Umbrea etc. and and Muria etc were were settled by the angles. But the deal is that the Angles and the Saxons did not fight each other. When these separate kingdoms were set up, it did not matter anymore whether these were Saxon kingdoms or angle kingdoms. Even two angle kingdoms would have differences and they would fight each other each other at times. So it no longer mattered once they settled down and formed these kingdoms who was angle and who was Saxon. Each kingdom was a rival of the other and that was the deal. So there was no Angles versus Saxon kind of conflict or angles versus Saxons versus Judes kind of conflict. It did not matter at all once the kingdoms were set up and you had different kings who ruled these different kingdoms. The kings would look at each other king as a potential rival. Sometimes there were war, sometimes there were alliances as is always the case. Then you have the Viking age. So at the time Wales remained a separate entity more Celtic Welsh and the Scottish etc were a separate entity and so on. Then you have the Viking age. The Vikings start plundering, invading, raiding, plundering the east coast of the British islands of of Britain and because of that all these kingdoms have to unify, unite in in a sense and fight the Vikings. So that gave rise to an Anglo-Saxon identity which was separate from the Viking identity and eventually gave rise to an English identity as opposed to Viking identity or or Welsh or Scottish or Irish identity. So eventually the Angles, Saxons and Judes they they merged over time into a single Anglo-Saxon or English identity and ethnicity. And then you had the Norman invasion in the year 1066 AD. So it's it's been a long period of upheaval in England and eventually it all coaleses into one single uh ethnic ethnic identity. Swami says what caused the Norman invasion of England in 1066 AD? Did Harold Goodwinson Godwinson actually break his oath or is the biotapestry just Norman propaganda? First of all, what is the biotopestry? Bayou is a is a town in France. Okay, Bayou is a town in the western part, northwestern part of France. Normandy, if we open the map, okay, it won't show us too much detail. Maybe it will. Let's zoom out. So, here we have bio is on the west coast of France. Okay. And let us now do that. Yeah. So the bioapestry is this uh biotapestry. Now yeah very famous stunning 11th century embroidered light linen 70 m long that visually narrates the Norman conquest of England in 1066 AD ending with the battle of Hastings. And this is what it looks like. And is it propaganda? Well a lot of it is propaganda. Obviously it is the Norman version of events of what happened the entire story. So who was Harold Goodwinson? He was um he was the king of England in the year 1066 AD. Now what oath are we talking about and so on? That's a long story, right? So Harold Goodwinson's father. No, it was Edward the Confessor who was the king of England before Harold Goodwinson. And Edward the Confessor died without leaving a male hair. Edward the Confessor was the son of Ethl II. Ethl Red II was king of England until he was ousted by the Vikings. King Kenut of the was Viking. He invaded England, kicked out King Award II and ruled England for a you know ruled what is now Britain for a for for a few decades. And after Canututh was king, his sons were kings of various parts of England. One was uh Arthur Canut, the other was Harold Herafoot. Harold Airford or something. Yeah, probably Harold Heroot. So when Ethel Red was sent into exile, his son Edward the Confessor was also in in exile. And eventually once the once the Viking age you could say ended or once the Viking rule over England once uh once Kenut is dead and his sons are no longer in power either Haraka Canututh or or or Harold Herfoot that's when Edward the Confessor comes back to England and the nobility of England they elect him the king the nobility was of England who actually elected kings was called the whiten Whiten or whiten a gamut or something? Whiten gamut game. Yeah. Whitenagot. It was a supreme council in Anglo-Saxon England. Assembly of wise men, highranking nobles, church leaders who advise the kings of laws and blah blah blah blah blah. The third thing. So they elected Edward the Confessor as the king of England. So Edward the Confessor becomes a king and he Edward the Confessor was in exile while the while the Vikings were ruling England. Edward the Confessor's mother was Norman. And that's why Edward was in Normandy. Okay, in exile. And while Edward the Confessor was in Normandy in exile, he apparently allegedly made a promise to William of Normandy, William the Bastard as he was then known. So allegedly Edward made a promise to William, the Duke of Normandy, that he will give William the crown of England. And later Harold Goodwinson was also in exile in Normandy for a few years. And it is alleged that he also had made a promise on some holy sacred relics that he would make William the Duke of Normandy the next king of England. So Edward becomes king of England and William does nothing but Edward dies without a male hair. So the whitening gamut once again comes together and they appoint Harold Goodwinson as the king of England in the year 1066 AD. Now William of Normandy says that this is all wrong because Harold has promised me the crown of England. But the point is that Harold did not have the right or the authority to give the crown to somebody. He was elected the king by the whiten and as such he had to serve his his his kingdom. He did not have the authority to give the crown to somebody else but whatever. So so William of Normandy the Duke of Normandy he got the pretext for war and he also somehow secured the the support of the Vatican. So he then had assembled a big navy which could cross the English Channel and he crossed the English Channel in 1066 AD and then there's this war. Harold Goodwinson, my goodness, what a guy he was. So in the year 1066 AD, Harold Goodwinson is has just been appointed the king of England a while ago and he gets news that in the north part of England there's this huge Viking invasion force that has landed. And who is who who is leading the Vikings? It is King Harold Hardrada and Tostig Goodwinson, the brother of Harold Goodwinson, traitor. So Harold goes all the way north to fight Tostig, his brother Tostig and King Harold Hadra. He defeats them, kills them both. It is what it is. It's brutal battle. The battle of Stamford Bridge 1066 AD. The battle is just over. His army is beaten, bruised, but they're victorious. And he gets the news that William of Normandy has landed in South England around Hastings. So then he has to go all the way from the north of England, march his army all the way south, his beaten bruised army, and then they meet then his army meets William of Normandy in Hastings. And because of bad luck or whatever, V Harold is killed by an arrow to his eye and William becomes victorious and he goes from being called William the bastard to being called being called William the Conqueror. So that is the story of the Norman invasion of England in 1066 AD. Somi says, "Can you tell the story of Henry II? How did Henry's knights accidentally interpret his words and kill Thomas Beckett? Henry II interesting person. What was the the words? Will nobody rid me of this medalsome priest? That's what he had said. So who was Henry II? So like I said there was an invasion of England by the Normans by William of Normandy in the year 1066 AD. William the Conqueror. He had multiple sons. His last son, the youngest son, the eighth ling was Henry. Henry Bclair and he was known as Henry the first. He became the king of England after the death of William Rufus, his older brother who died in the New Forest. Hunting accident. Convenient. So Henry be Henry the first becomes the king of England. And he had a crown prince who died in the sinking of the white ship which was crossing the English Channel. Because of which his daughter Matilda became his hair and she became the empress of England. So Matilda's son was Henry II. Henry II was the grandson of Henry the great grandson of William the Conqueror. So Henry II was born in what is now France. Okay. His father was Joffrey of Onu and his mother was Empress Matilda, daughter of Henry I. So Henry II was the Duke of Normandy and he was a great conqueror. Okay. He married Eleanor of Akiten and he because of which Akiten was a part of France and Spain and so on and this and and he waged many wars and conquests and he expanded his kingdom in France. Then he became the king of England also because his grandfather was the king of England. And so he succeeded the current king of England as the king of England. And then he um fought multiple campaigns in uh in Scotland, in Ireland, also in France, in Wales also. And he expanded his kingdom significantly, his empire you could say. So he became a major major ruler in western Europe and he had I don't know how many children seven eight children multiple sons and all you know when you have this army of entitled children who are all descendants of William the conqueror and all sons of the king every they all want power and eventually there was a rebellion his sons rebelled one of his sons was who were his sons there was king John the younger John, there was Edward was it? There was Richard. Richard who eventually was known as Richard the Lionhe Heart and uh so on multiple sons. So there were two rebellions by his sons that he had to put down. Okay. Repeated quarrels with his sons especially Richard Richard the first Richard the Lionhe Heart and all that stuff. Right. He was even even eventually defeated by his son Richard and he that eventually led to the death of Henry II. But what about this person Thomas Beckett? So [snorts] Henry II was a friend of Thomas Beckett. Thomas Beckett was a churchman. He was a he was a priest. Okay. So Henry II appointed Thomas Beckett as his royal chancellor in the 12th century AD. And uh Beckett was a close friend, close companion of the king and he was very good at serving the interests, the royal interests of the king and because of that the king was very pleased with Thomas Beckett and then the king Henry II appointed Thomas Beckett the as the archbishop of Canterbury which is a very major uh church title in England. Okay. So Thomas Beckett was appointed by Henry as the Archbishop of Canterbury. But after this happened, Thomas Beckett became he kind of changed his tune and he started placing the interests of the church above the the the interests of the crown and that became a problem. He is now the Archbishop of Canterbury, the the most high ranking church official in England and he's going up against the king. He's putting the the interest of the church and the principles of the of the church above what the king wants. Um he wants to control the clergy. He want to he wants to control. So that makes him very powerful, right? And because of that Henry sent Thomas Beckett into exile out of the country and eventually there was some kind of reconciliation between Beckett and the king and he came back. But very quickly the disputes once again flared up between the two of them. Right? And because of this Henry II was super frustrated with Thomas Beckett. It is said that one day in his court he just said this aloud to nobody in particular. He said will nobody rid me of this medalsome priest? Will nobody rid me of this medalsome priest? So he did not say this to one person in specifically. He just said this aloud and four of his knights, they heard these angry words and they interpreted these angry words as a command to act and they went to the to Canterbury and they assassinated Thomas Beckett in the altar of the cathedral or whatever it is over there and that was the deal. That is how [laughter] the Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Beckett was assassinated by four knights of Henry II who interpreted Henry's words as the command to to assassinate Thomas Beckett. So those words are very famous today. Will no one rid me of this troublesome, meddlesome, turbulent priest? So by seeing these words to nobody in particular and by by framing what he said as a question, Henry II established plausible deniability for any guilt of any guilt because see his words led to the assassination of the Archbishop of Canterbury. But he can say that you know what I just asked a question. I did not issue an order to somebody. I did not say this to anybody in in particular. I just said this aloud out of frustration. Will nobody get rid me of this troublesome medalsome priest. Right? So that's the story of Henry II and uh and the assassination of Thomas Beckett. Swami says what was the Magna Carta? Why did the English crown accept such an arrangement? Was it just something that was for namesake or did the king really lose absolute power after the Magna Carta? What was the Magna Carta? So we spoke about Henry II, right? The great king of England, the great king. Yeah. Of of Normandy as also his son, his successor after Richard I was John. King John of England. Now Richard the first, Richard the Lion Hard was this very vigorous warrior king who was more interested in fighting than ruling. So he spent his whole life fighting and eventually he got killed out of sheer stupidity or carelessness. There's no need for him to get killed the way he got killed. But that's a different story. So Richard the Lionheart is dead and then John comes to power. His younger son of one of his his younger brother sorry one of his brothers John the son of Henry II. So John was a weak king and uh he issued this royal charter called the Magna Carta. Okay, this royal charter, the Magna Carta, it listed the king's powers and by listing the powers of the king, it limited the king's powers. And the Magna Carta also ensured enshrined affirmed certain customs, certain liberties, certain privileges of the church and also of the king's minions, the king's baronss. So it essentially was a written agreement between the king, between King John and his baronss who had rebelled against him. See, King John, the son of Henry II, Henry the was was great, was a great king. His son, King John was a weak king and he was not a good king. He wasn't a good administrator. I mean, you can be you can be a good administrator even if you're not a great conqueror, right? But he was not that. His rule was unpopular, widely unpopular. His taxation was heavy. The kind of justice that he imparted was very arbitrary. He was a military failure. He lost most of his father's French territories, French French lands. His finances were ruined. His prestige was down the drain essentially. So that is King John. And because he was a weak king, his his minions. See, every king has nobles and baronss and all who serve him who have their their own armies that are to be provided to the king on demand on on demand whenever required that sort of thing. That was the structure the feudal structure the the the structure of you know that part England and and Europe of the time. So a number a group of his baronss most powerful baronss they rebelled against him with the backing of the church. They organized a rebellion against King John. And in the year 1215 they captured and occupied London which obviously if you capture the the capital of England of Britain it gives you a tremendous amount of leverage. It gave them a very strong bargaining position. And once this happened, the capture and occupation of London, it essentially meant civil war. Civil [snorts] war became a real immediate threat, a real clear and present danger for King John. So the Archbishop of Canterbury, obviously Thomas Beckett is dead by now. So whoever was next or or whoever was the Archbishop of Canterbury at the time, he said, "I'll be a mediator." And what he did was he supported the baronss in what way? He took the baron's list of demands. Okay? And he converted that into a formal text, a formal charter text that could serve as a peace agreement, a peace settlement. And and this this is something that uh King John had to sign otherwise there would be civil war and he would be defeated. So this came to be known as the great charter or the Magna Carta in Latin. And this document essentially in this document the king of England promises all kinds of rights and privileges. The pro protection of church rights, various church rights, um protections from unlawful imprisonment to to his minions, to his baronss, technically his minions, right? Um he promises reasonably swift justice. Uh the charter limited various kinds of taxes. You know what is the maximum kind of tax the crown can can impose and it also limited the amount of payments that the baronss had to make to the crown to the to the king of England. So this listed down exactly what are the the powers that the king has and by doing that it curtailed his powers. Okay, it curtailed his powers and yeah, so this is where historians will tell you that this is where you have a properly codified the beginning of properly codified codified rule of law in England. But who benefited from this? Did the people of England benefit from this? They did not. Around this time, 90% 95% of the people were either peasants or slaves. It's only 5% which were the the king and his knights and baronss and and the military people and the church people. Everybody else was oppressed. All everybody was peasants or landless serfs or slaves. Did the 95% of the population did they benefit? Did they gain did they gain anything from the Magna Carta? Nothing whatsoever. So who gained who benefited from this? It was the baronss and the church that benefited. So the rule of law was for them. No arbitrary injustice and arbitrary justice and all that was for them not for the common people. They continued to be oppressed for the longest time. Now they are free I suppose. So that's the deal about the Magna Carta. Okay. John Goodman says you claimed that the white huns the hunas destroy the takashi taxila. What is taxila? What is a taxa? Are you talking about the takashila university? It is not taxa. It is takashila. I refuse to use the barbaric contraction taxula. It is takashila. So I claimed the white hones the shueta hunas destroyed the takshashila. But there is quite strong evidence to suggest that it was actually Alexander the third of Macedon who did so. What are your views on that? Okay, look, we don't have Indian records of the time of Alexander's invasion of the western fringes of India. We don't have any Indian records that survive from the time. But we do have Greek records of Alexander's alleged um you know invasion and rule or some parts of western India. So according to Greeks, Greek records, according to Greek historians, chronicles from from a couple of centuries after Alexander, uh there was a king who ruled in Takashila at the time. His name was King Ambi. The Greeks called him Taxile. Taxile. And he was apparently a rival of King Porus Purusam or whatever his name was. And the Greeks claim that the king of Praula, King Ambi, voluntarily surrendered to Alexander. He gave all his silver and his wealth and his territory to Alexander. Sir, you are so great. Please take it all. Alexander was very pleased with him. And he said, you keep their wealth. You keep your kingdom, but you serve me. So you are now my vasal. So that's what the Greek records say that the king of Pakashila, King Ambi or Taxile voluntarily surrendered to Alexander and Alexander allowed him to keep his wealth and his his territory. Let's see what Wikipedia has to say about this. King not Abi Ambi King Ambi. Uh you see Wikipedia calls him Taxileles. Taxileles or Taxilas was the Greek chronicler's name for the ruler who who reigned over the track between the Sundu and the Jillum rivers in the Punjab region at the time of Alexander's expedition. His name was Ambi. Um the Greeks appear to have called him taxes or whatever after the name of his capital city of Takshila near Atak Pakistan. So that's what it the thing claims and u uh so apparently Ambi sent an ambassador to Alexander with presence of lot of silver and oxen and sheep and he was on hostile terms with his neighbor Porus and uh yeah so he surrendered to Alexander. Alexander returned Ambi's title and all that and so on. So clearly according to the Greek records Ambi surrendered to Alexander and Alexander did not destroy Tuxila did not kill Ambi. He returned the kingdom to Ambi. He said you keep the kingdom keep your wealth you be my vasal and that's all I need from you. And the Greek records even claimed that Alexander went to the university and and interacted with gymnosophists or whatever that is which is obviously uh Indian intellectuals from the university and he was very impressed with them and so on. So according to Greek records Alexander does not do any damage to the university of Takshashila. Indian records are silent about Alexander completely completely silent about him and later the region comes under various you know various regimes. Sometimes the region was temporarily under Persian rule. Most of the time it was under Indian rule. Then for some time it came under Indo- Greek rule. Then it came under skitian rule. Then it came under Kushan rule. And eventually it was overrun by the hunas and they destroyed Takashila. One of their ignorant kings destroyed Takashila. Was it Mirul? Possibly Mihir. Possibly. Yeah. So that's that's what actually the records tell us, right? Rahul Dunak says, "When did the concept of high-rise buildings come to existence? high-rise buildings. So, tall buildings. One great example of really tall buildings from antiquity is the pyramids of Egypt. Very tall. Very tall. Very tall. But those aren't high-rise buildings. These are not buildings for human habitation. The pyramids there their purpose is still unknown what purpose they actually served. So, they were not buildings. They were monuments. Which is the oldest known recorded high-rise building? Possibly the Kaneshka Stupa. Let's let's Google that. How tall was that? So that's about from roughly 1900 years ago. It is now lost. The Pakistanis have destroyed it. Okay. So outskirts of Peshawar. What does the what does Wikipedia say about this? As always, Wikipedia is not a reliable source of information necessarily for Indian topics, but whatever. Let's just look at this. So, so this is this is what remained of the Kesha Tupa about a century and a half ago. Shajikadhera, outskirts of of Peshawar and now apparently there are slums on top of it. So, how tall was this uh structure was this building? Uh meters, let's see, meters or feet or whatever. Okay. Height was about 120 m to 170 m which is pretty big. So 400 ft to 560 ft. That is how tall the kaneshka was. It was built about roughly 18 or 1900 years before today. Huge building. Huge. Huge. the tallest building in the known world possibly at the time. That's one of the high-rise buildings from ancient times. But that once again was a temple or a stupa. It was a religious structure. It was not a building where people lived during the sarasati sindu phase of our history. We had multi-story buildings in the metropolitan areas like Kalibangan and Raki and Harpa and Mahindo and so on. We had multi-storied buildings but not high-rise buildings. So the kadeshupa was not a building that was intended for human habitation. It was never used for that. When did we first have hire? You had something called the Manhattan of the desert in Yemen, right? What was the Manhattan of the desert? The desert. Yemen. I forget the name of the Sheibbam. Sheam. Sheam in Yemen's Hadra region. Shibbam. So if you look at Shebam, so first of all, how old is it? It was founded in the 3rd century AD. And uh yeah, so if you look at this city, ancient city, you will see high kind of high-rise buildings, multi-story buildings like 7 8 stories high. And this was built several centuries ago. So, does it tell us how when these tall buildings were first constructed? [snorts] Um, not sure what it says. So, it's been in existence for about 1700 years. Shibbam. So, that's an example of uh high-rise buildings. So, multi-story buildings were in existence 5 6 thousand years ago in India. the Sarasati Sindu phase of our history. We had the Kaneshka stupa that was built about 18 or 1900 years ago which was a gigantic building. You had the Shibam Shibbam city of Shibbam in Yemen where you have possibly thousand-y old multi-story buildings reasonably high-rise buildings maybe 7 800 years old that sort of thing. So eventually this this happened obviously over time gradually and the proper first proper proper high-rise buildings or skyscrapers uh those were constructed in the United States in the in the 19th century. So you had Otus, the engineer who invented the elevator, which is also called a lift. And that made it possible for for humans to build really tall buildings and you could just go into the elevator and go to whichever floor you wanted. You didn't have to climb all the way up. And so that was a transformative invention, the elevator. And that's that opened up architecture to creating really tall structures, tall buildings. And that was the rise of there was the beginning of of the era of of of skyscrapers in North America. So that's where the proper skyscrapers really high-rise buildings come into existence. Uh but yeah, tall buildings have been around for for centuries, maybe even millennia, right? Um what next? What question do we have next? Amisha says the current theory is that the Indo-Uropean language was spread by a step nomad culture. Yeah, that's the Arian invasion, migration, tourism picnic model, isn't it? That's the current theory, the the the the mainstream theory. So apparently al as per this mainstream the the currently accepted mainstream consensus the Indo-Uropean language was spread by a step nomadic culture. How were there so many people living in the steps during the Neolithic period right? First of all what is the Neolithic period? The Neolithic period is this a new stone age roughly 10,000 years roughly 10,000 BC to about 2,000 BC roughly roughly okay you I'm sure other other people will will have different interpretations but you could say it's 10,000 BC to about 2,000 BC that is the Neolithic period the new stone age and it is said that this is the time where our ancestors shifted from being nomadic hunter gatherers to becoming agriculturalists. And because they became agriculturalists, they had to settle down. They had to start domesticating animals. They had to set up permanent settlements in villages and towns and cities eventually. And they developed new technologies like polished stone tools and pottery and weaving eventually metallergy. And this is the time when you have the dawn of civilization that is the Neolithic period. Okay. So the theory is that um the Indo-Uropean language was spread during this period by step nomads. So what is the step? We know what nomadic people are. People who move from one place to another and they never stay in one place for too long. But what is the step? The step is the Euro Eurasian step. this vast region from uh you could say the singing jang part of present day China it encompasses the entirety of central Asia Kyrgystan Tajakistan Kazakhstan mainly mainly Kazakhstan and it also includes Eastern Europe which is uh Ukraine southern Russia etc and it also includes part of part parts of Siberia and It also encompasses Mongolia actually. Okay. So that is the Eurasian step. Huge region uh 8 to 10,000 kilometers wide. That's the region we're talking about. Okay. So so that is the Eurasian step. Now what were the populations like in the known world outside of Africa? At the time no one knew about I mean no one from our perspective our ancestors perspective nobody knew about Australia or the Americas uh what was the what were the populations like in Eurasia at this time. So the total population of the world was maxim of of Eurasia during the Neolithic until about uh 2000 BC was about maximum 20 million. So the Indian subcontinent would you you may have had maybe 8 million people that lived in the Indian subcontinent. When it comes to China you might have had another 8 million people who lived in China. So that there you have 16 million right right away. Then west of the Indian subcontinent you have the Persian plateau region maybe half a million maybe 1 million people there. Then you have Anatolia. Okay maybe half a million people in Anatolia. If you take the whole of Europe maybe a couple of million people maximum 5 million okay the Eurasian step this gigantic vast region that we spoke about just now maybe half a million people maximum probably 200,000 people maybe 300,000 people so the Eurasian step had people but the population densities were incredibly low at the time and you put all of these population groups together India, China, Eurasia, Anatolia, Persia, um Europe, all of this together, you may have maximum 20 million people, possibly less than that. So the step region had a tremendously low population density and unlike India or China where you had settled populations and proper civilizations maybe 5,000 years ago unlike India and China or even Persia in the step region you had hunter gatherers you had nomads maybe early agriculturalists. So despite there being settled populations and and civilized populations in in India, in China, even Persia, Anatoli, etc. in the step regions, you still had nomadic hunter gatherers who lived there. So the populations weren't high. The population over the step wasn't high at all. Half a million maybe. Some people may say 1 million. But if you look at the actual area it encompasses, the population density density is still incredibly low. So that was the situation. And then how how how does a nomadic step culture give rise to a high civilization like India? Makes no sense. The culture of a of a of nomadic hunter gatherers. It gives gives rise to the high civilization of India. How does it make sense? It makes sense apparently to some people. Okay. Okay. We still have a lot of more questions I can take. But I'm out of time. We have crossed two hours. So maybe I will take some questions from the live chat. Okay, there are some super chats. Let me let me take those. Um, okay. What's the first of all, we have Divali who is a new member. Welcome to the membership. Thank you very much for becom becoming a member. I really appreciate that. Thank you. WBR says did the US really send send its aircraft carriers towards India in 1971 since there's no mention of it in western literature and media my recent my opinion recent statement about Russia by Russia ambassador to Bangladesh okay we'll not discuss geob I'll discuss history did the US really send aircraft carriers it sent one aircraft carrier strike group the US's enterprise there's no mention of it in literature in media Yeah. Really? How did you come to that conclusion? Uh, how did you come to that conclusion? Okay. 9 1971 USS Enterprise Bay of Bengal. There's no mention really. It's all over the place. It's all over the place. all over media. I'm sure there are books about this books. The fall of Dhaka, stories of great and glory, I don't know, books of wars without war by black man and Kaplan, the Indian end of the celelescope by Ji Ranandani, the throne and confrontation by Arl. So there's plenty of books, there's plenty of academic papers. The Americans sent an aircraft carrier strike group led by the USS Enterprise, an aircraft carrier which had a bunch of other destroyers around it and maybe submarines as well. The British also sent an aircraft carrier strike force strike group into the Bay of Bengal. So the there was one American strike group. There was a British strike group. There were two aircraft carrier strike forces, strike groups sent to intimidate India. It's a fact. Everyone knows it. So there you have it. Um, Brown Leprechaun says, "Could you please discuss the Muslim Brotherhood and its history?" Well, well, that's something I haven't really gone into in great depth. It did it emerge out of Egypt? It did entrench itself in Egypt. The Al Azar University kind of in in Cairo is kind of uh its ideological um home ground possibly. No, I'm not very clear about the exact history of the Muslim Brotherhood. I see I [laughter] it's not something I I've studied in in great detail. It's something it's definitely something interesting and maybe I should study this and and go into the bottom of this but I at this point in time I will not be able to give you a proper history of the of the Muslim Brotherhood. Sorry about that. I can't know everything. It's not possible for one person to know everything. So I have not really looked into into this into this specific matter. It's definitely an important aspect of history and the present day world also but yeah not right now. I can't. Sorry. Rush God is a new member. Thank you very much for becoming a member. Let us all welcome Rush God to the membership of the channel. Thank you very much indeed. MXG lol haha says breast ripper was used by Francis Xavier. These clamps were heated to rip the breast of Hindu women who refused to convert. Today these go these Hindus go to the saint to the same St. Francis Xavier church for sightseeing and prayers. It's because see it's true. It's true. Let let's let's Google this since you're mentioning it, right? A Goa Inquisition breast ripper. The breast ripper. This hideous instrument. I mean, imagine how evil the people are who used such instruments on on helpless people. Right. Breast ripper used by missionaries led by Francis Xavier and Goa. These iron clamps were heated to red hot temperatures and used to rip the breasts from Hindi Hindu women who opposed conversion. If the woman didn't die, she would be horribly disfigured. I mean that's the kind of barbarity we have endured or our ancestors and our people have endured. And today our people go to these churches for sightseeing and prayers. Look, I don't blame the people. We don't teach this history to our kids in school, in college, university. None of this is is taught. We are taught a whitewashed sanitized version of history in which the foreign oppressors are our saviors. That's the fault of the education system that the government refuses to reform. Maybe some small changes have happened recently but nothing significant, nothing major. So yes, you are absolutely entirely correct. This is just one example of the brutality of the barbarity that was unleashed on the people of India by these monsters. Yeah. [laughter] MXG Lha says, "I hoped you had a very merry Christmas and you prayed at the St. Francis Xavier Church. You see, this year I was so unfortunate that I I completely forgot there was this festival called Christmas and I completely forgot to pray at the phrase St. Francis uh Xavier Church, which I have never done before. Um maybe next year I may consider doing some some kind of excursion possibly." Yeah. So, [laughter] okay, got it. Thank you. Okay, that brings me to the end, I suppose, of today's live stream. All the super chats are done. And now we can discuss anything we want. Apparently, hair care routine. What's my [laughter] hair care routine? Okay, editor, please don't take any of these questions. These are not these [laughter] don't matter. [clears throat] What's my hair care? Just wash your hair. Yeah, every other day, maybe three times a week. That's enough. No other hairare routine. Um, [laughter] okay. Um, see what else do we have? Aino says, "Everyone intuitively knows Nazism is objectively evil. This intuition already assumes objective moral law. This is objective. But you are saying objective on subjective level." I'm not sure what you're saying, sir. I'm not sure what you're saying. You are too intelligent for me, sir. My brain can't wrap around itself, wrap itself around that. Um, okay. Anyway, so I think we can now uh can we take more questions maybe for some for some time perhaps? Aayush Singh says was nonviolence in India's freedom struggle a British encouraged diversion to prevent an Americanstyle armed revolution Mr. Gandhi and Mr. Neu became faces of those diversions. Question mark. Look who founded the the the political party that was um at the forefront of the nonviolent resistance who found the Indian National Congress. Yeah. Who founded? Who founded? Who founded the Indian National Congress? The Indian National Congress was founded by Alan Octavian Hume, a retired British British civil servant. He is referred to as the father of the Indian National Congress. Alan Octavian Hume, the great hedge of India. Have you thought, have you heard of the great hedge of India? Does it say anything about the hedge of India over here? uh the Indian inland customs line. This guy Alan Octavin Hume, he implemented this inland customs line that caused the deaths of millions. You can look into the details and he founded the Indian National Congress which was at the forefront of the nonviolent resistance against the British. Imagine if there was a political party that was all about violent resistance, armed resistance. It would have given rise to an American style armed revolution. So I think you can all come to your own conclusions based on that. Yes. Okay. Be care group R2 originate was it mainly why is it mainly found in India? I think R itself originates in India. Downstream of R you have R1 R2 then downstream of that you have R1 A R1 B R2 or whatever that sort of thing. So the parent hypo group is R and the parent hog group of R what is the parent hypo group of R eventually you will come to HLO group F which is upstream of R and F itself originates in India. So what does Wikipedia say about HLO group R2? Let's see. HLO group R2. Uh yeah, it's found in so-called South Asia. What does Wikipedia say about this place of origin? Obviously South Asia or Central Asia. And what is upstream of Yeah, upstream of R2 is R. What's the place of origin? North Asia really. It's the Indian subcontinent. An ancestor is P M something. Anc ancestor is P. Where is P once again? Indian subcontinent. What's its ancestor? K2B was it? Before that you have K2. Before that you have K. What is before K? I J K. Before I JK you have uh HI J K G HI J K and above that you have F. and F as you can see where it originates. So look eventually the truth will come out. The ancestry is in India right? Okay. Um so this is why I do I I prefer to take live stream questions from the super chat so that I don't have to think which one to pick. There are so many going on here. If I have super, I just pick the super without pick them all. That's it. Um um what do we have? Why no videos on the Bangladesh issue? Do I have to? Which Bangladesh issue? The Hindu Muslim thing that's going on. Look man, look people, I can't make videos about everything. I look into history, geopolitics, science. The Bangladesh issue is not a historical issue. It's not a scientific issue. In geopolitics, it is an issue. It's not a major issue. So, let the various popular YouTubers make those videos. I don't have to talk about everything. You ask me questions about this during a live stream. I will certainly take up the question. I'm not making a separate video about this. Okay. Okay. I suppose I can end the live stream now. See these questions I've answered so many times. So many times I've answered these questions. Of course I understand that many of you are new viewers. So I totally get it. So let me answer this answer this question. Why did we have to face millennia of humiliation? No, we did not face multiple millennia of humiliation. We faced one millennium of humiliation. The Chinese like to speak about their century of humiliation when they were oppressed by the west. We in India were oppressed by first the Turks and then by the Europeans total for a thousand years. So that's a millennium of humiliation. How did this happen? It happened because we eventually got conquered by foreigners, barbarians. How do you get conquered and why do you get conquered? You get conquered by foreigners if you are weak. When you have a region as large as a subcontinent, you need political unity and stability. If you have political unity and stability, nobody can conquer you. So we had periods of time when you had the Morian Empire, the Shunga Empire, the Kushan Empire, the Gupta Empire, the the Chola Empire, the Maratha Empire and so on. Periods of time when the whole subcontinent was essentially united under a single political center. During such periods of time, nobody can even think of invading and defeating you. But when you are fragmented, what happens is that you have multiple kingdoms who are all adversaries of each other. That's when foreigners can come and take advantage of that and conquer you. And that's what happened. So we were invaded by the Turks when we were in a period of fragmentation and that's why the situation went downhill from there onwards. That's the reason why we had to face a millennium of humiliation which is still not over. By the way, we are still colonized. So, okay. Uh, what else do we have? Okay, I'll I'll just take one more question. Um, Ankita Kachab, good to see you, ma'am. A question by Moonlight Sonata 123. thoughts on the US Manta project. What's a Manta project? I know about the Manhattan project. What is the Manta project? Let's Google it. I'm not sure. I unfortunately will not know about every project. What is the US Manta project? Uh US Manta Project? Manta Ray Project or Manta Project? Manta Ray. Manta ray project or is it a Manta project? The question is US Manta project. What is that? US Manta project is DARPA's Manta ray uncrrewed underwater vehicle. A large autonomous long duration submersible designed for deep sea missions capable of carrying payloads like mines and torpedoes or harvesting and harvesting energy from the ocean extra-large underwater uncrrewed underwater vehicle and so on. So this is the weaponization of robotics of of AI. Yeah, that's what it is. So this can do very nice things but it also can do military activities. So yeah that's what it is. We are now entering an era where we're going to see the synthesis of artificial intelligence with robotics and you're going to have autonomous vehicles that can operate independent of human control or with human control plus AI inputs hybrid form and they can auto potentially auto operate autonomously for days or weeks on end without the need for human intervention. And such vehicles if if deployed in swarms of thousands can give you essentially hedgeim money over the oceans. So yeah, interesting that this is happening and no surprise. So every nation that has an industrial base and reasonable on on amount of brains, they should invest in these technologies now otherwise you're going to be left behind. Okay. UMX says video on more myths Indian believe in when I'll see about that. Is it is it a pressing issue right now? I already have one video about the major myths that Indians believe in. Um I'll I'll see about that. I'll see the major myths that I think I've covered them. Right. We'll see. Maybe. Okay. So, that brings me to the end of today's live stream. Thank you very much everybody. Almost two and a half hours. Really appreciate the questions. Really enjoy the questions. Thank you so much everybody for asking questions and tomorrow we're going to have another live stream which is going to be an ask me anything any topic whatsoever based on the super chat that way I can just don't have to look for questions I can just pick all the questions that's it so I look forward to seeing you there tomorrow um I'll take as many questions as possible over the over maybe two three hours and please ask me whatever it is that you're interested in I look forward to that I look forward to seeing you there tomorrow until then take care keep learning Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. See you all tomorrow, 8:00 p.m. India time. Until then, take care. Bye-bye.