[music] Heat. [music] [music] Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Heat. Heat. Heat. [music] Heat. [music] >> [music] >> Hello and welcome to the Ask Bijit Show. This is a special episode. I hope you're all doing great. Let me see who all is there in the live stream with us in the live chat. I can see Animeish Somalia Paul who says why this episode? Well, why this episode? Why today today I think it's Wednesday is it? It's a Wednesday. I'm traveling this weekend. I will not be available to do a live stream this weekend and that's why I thought that I will do a special session just uh to offset my absence on for the over the weekend. I'm traveling to Jaipur for the Jaipur dialogues and if any of you are going to be in Jaipur I will be very very pleased to meet you there. Right. So that's the reason why I am u doing this special episode. So let's see who else who else we have. I have Somi Jane who is here from Japur good to see you. Pearl Gupta thank you very much. Nilles Shivastav Mr. Jam Mar Kane good to see you ma'am. Mar Kane Aman Patana from Melbourne Aush Singh Reanir Ratura Painter uh Suman Shaker Saringi Adimish Adi Aayou Ritik Sasmith Adi Aayou once again Stone Hush says yo yo yo Ritik imagine spacetime Mr. Jam I'm a painter. Happy birthday. Well, well, thank you so much. Thank you to everyone who has wished me a happy birthday. It's not yet a belated birthday. My h my birthday is uh it's a fourthcoming birthday. It will it's it's tomorrow. So anyway, thank you everyone. Uh who else do we have? Ashwani Swami Jane um Himmanu Rajpur Hit Querty Q123 Sush Atarvatakur Vortex Abhishek Shukla from Kpur Rahul Himani from Mumbai Sumanjarangi Mitun SP Namaste Makavin good to see you Ashwani versatile feel strong man hello Narada hello Rahul Das Aal Biju Narita Das good to see you good to see you as Himach abhijijit chav light well that's quite a name Gupta is from Jaipur all right good to see you sir stone sudhanchu sodager ram David kundu hello adwe hello uh Shivven singer um Sumit Agarwal my English accent is not typical for India well yeah I know that Manisha Kardoso uh thank you very much ma'am thank you uh Atarvatakur Alvin Rodriguez imagine Spacetime is an astrophysicist. Good to see you. Good to have an astrophysicist on board. Very good to see you. Imagine spacetime. Sai Nurup from Hyderabad. Good to see you as well. Namaste. Uh Capil Lad Himman Shu from Chennai. Namita Das. Ain uh Kai Artsy Weeb Juraj. Good morning. Well, good morning to you as well. Abida Singh Ayata. Uh Priyanka Javalia. Good evening ma'am. found me on the 17th of April 2021 through Reanir Alabadia. Well, it was a good day. [laughter] Thank you so much, ma'am. Good to have you. Canel dire. Hello, James. My good friend James is here. Always good to have you, James. I appreciate you, James. Uh, geopolitical dub, namaste, jam, hers, thank you very much. Anoj Basin, Prashant Panar, Atarvatakur, uh, Soldier Boy and everyone else. Okay, now Gez, what's up? Manua, hello. Bruce Wayne is also here. Trader insight, Adita. Okay, let's uh stop greeting everybody otherwise it'll go on all day. Darbam from Hyderabad, hello. Bhargavi, good, good evening and everyone else. Okay, so now let's take questions. I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments for a change. I usually do geopolitics live streams with super chats. Today I will do it from the questions you've asked in the comments. So what's the qu first question for today? I've selected 20 questions. Hopefully we can go through all of those and if there is still time I'll take some questions from the live chat as well. But let's begin with the questions I've I've selected from the comments. What's question one? Anonymous scientist says the India and the US have extended their 10-year defense agreement. Will the US force it to use it to force India to purchase F-35s which are trash? But they aren't exactly trash. They're superb aircraft but uh they're not that great either. Okay. So is this agreement a gimmick or does India actually get something beneficial from this agreement? So I have tried and attempted to locate the full text of the agreement but it's not available um in the public domain. So it's an agreement that the two nations have signed but they have not released the text. I mean the last time I tried to find it I was unable to find the text. uh but we know kind of what the press releases have been like and what has been uh communicated to the public. So this agreement was signed just a few days ago and um what is it all about? It's about so there's there some broad you know broad aspects that have been agreed upon and I'm sure there are details that you can drill down in. One is the two nations will continue their technological cooperation, their industrial cooperation and collaboration that will continue the two nations will continue to u do sharing you know engage in sharing of information and intelligence right so that will continue to whatever extent it was continuing I'm not sure if there's going to be enhancement of that but it's going to continue then there's going to be the continuation of military interoperability there's going to be the continuation of various kinds of joint exercises that happen a few times a year that will continue. Uh there's also reference to the Indo-Pacific that so the two nations have agreed that they are committed to their joint um you know to to maintaining uh open and free and rules-based Indo-Pacific region and rules-based world order which Donald Trump is actively appending but yeah sure okay right um and the yeah so that sort of thing you know free and open navigation of the Indo-acific region um we will oppose any coercive actions you know we will reinforce deterrence and we we we seek stability of the Indopacific that sort of you know verbage has been used and apparently there's a long-term road map for for collaboration and the two gentlemen who signed the agreement uh that is India's defense minister Mr. Rajnat Singh and the US Secretary for War Pete Hexath they have said that this agreement this this extension of the agreement it repres represents some kind of new era in the relationship between the two countries and it's um it's vital for ensuring regional stability and the rules based international order. So that's what I have gleaned from whatever I have seen. I'm sure there is more that I've missed but I don't have the text or or the summary or whatever in front of me. So that's essentially what it is. So now the question is is this just a gimmick? Okay. Will the US use this agreement to force India to purchase those F-35s that we don't don't want? Um does India actually get something beneficial from this agreement? I think this agreement this extension of the agreement it it sets a baseline in the relationship between the two nations. The relationship has been nosediving uh for the past several months. The US has imposed u extremely heavy you know sanctions tariffs on India 50% despite India purchasing less Russian oil than China significantly less Russian oil now than China but China gets a significant relaxation on of tariffs but India does not so that is that's one issue the other issue is that the US is adopting a maximalist approach when it comes to the trade negotiations for the whenever the trade deal happens which is not happening right now right there is And obviously the the biggest issue is that the Americans are openly taking the side of Pakistan you know blatantly and um all of that and they are going ahead with all kinds of investments in Pakistan and they are selling you know various missiles and whatn not to Pakistan the Saudi Pakistan deal all of that so India US relationships the relations are nosed so this agreement seems to be something that sets a baseline that we can maintain right I don't see India getting anything significantly beneficial from commit beyond whatever we already have the kind of relationship we already have. Um is it a gimmick? It's not a gimmick. It's like you know it's setting a bottom on the relationship. So it won't go be below this that sort of thing. And uh it will set some kind of framework by through which the two nations can can you know continue the relationship you know you have various domains in which you have relations with the nation. The defense domain, the economic domain, trade, finance, whatever else. So this is one aspect of that. Will the US uh use this deal to force India to purchase F-35s? They can't force us to do anything. The F-35s will come with all kinds of strings attached that I have gone into in great detail. And that will have the effect of undermining the sovereignty of any nation that purchases the F-35. And it's not even that great of an aircraft. Obviously, it's a fifth generation fighter plane. No question about it. It's superior to anything India currently has. But it's it's not a good deal for India. The US can't force India to purchase those F-35s. They can't. So I don't see that happening. I I think the day the Indian India purchases F-35s is the day we will officially have announced that we have given up our sovereignty. Essentially that's what it means. So I don't see that happening and I hope that I'm absolutely 100% correct on this matter about the F-35s. Okay, next question. Okay. Ass an anonymous scientist. Uh, how do you see Trump accusing Pakistan of secretly testing nuclear weapons? Is the US not happy with its vasal state Pakistan or is it just a public stunt? The US has accused North Korea, China, Russia also of doing the same thing. And Trump has justified his decision to restart nuclear tests by saying Pakistan, China etc. are doing it. So is Pakistan testing nukes, earthquakes in Pakistan after operation sindur. Where these nuclear tests? Okay. Okay. So the big question over here is Trump has gone ahead and said claimed disclosed essentially that Pakistan and China also apparently have been conducting uh super critical nuclear tests. So what is this criticality? What is subcritical? What's super critical? So see in nuclear weapons advanced designs you have chemical explosives that set off a series of u events inside the nuclear weapon that eventually culminates with the fish or fish and fusion reaction that gives off the output that the nuclear device gives you. Right? So the initial the trigger is a is an explosion through chemical explosives and then you need to have a certain geometry and all that through which the you know various uh subcritical masses nuclear masses they they come together and uh set off the fish reaction that may only be a fish reaction or may set off a secondary fusion reaction etc etc we'll not go into the engineering. So you can test nuclear weapons design by just igniting the chemical explosives and not having actual nuclear fuel in there. So that's a subcritical test. Essentially a super critical test is one in which the nuclear fuel ignites. You have a fishision or fusion or both kind of reaction. So the you know there's a global moratorium right now in place that no one's going to conduct nuclear tests and as part of this moratorium you are allowed to do subcritical text tests so Trump is saying that China and Pakistan Pakistan and China are doing supercritical tests nuclear tests which is actual nuclear explosions right and he says that you know they drill very deep underground so that you know just get some mild vibrations and so on that's what he has claiming that's what he has claimed that's what essentially he's disclosed the US president has disclosed see when the president of the United States says something you cannot take it lightly you have to take it very seriously so he has disclosed that Pakistan has been conducting nuclear tests and he's also said China is doing it maybe even Russia I'm not sure so then the question is what about those earthquakes that were detected in the around the time of operation zindu the three-day war uh May 719 around that 8 9 whichever the dates were and even after that event when the operation was paused there have been more um seismic events in Pakistan u a cluster of these uh happened in Balojasthan Pakistan occupan and a bunch of these happened in Pakistan occupied Punjab so what were these things so I went ahead I think once I did it live on this show and I I showed you that you know These some of these earthquakes uh their their origin is about 10 12 kilometers underground sometimes even 100 km underground. Now the deepest hole that any human you know any that human beings have have drilled it's in the vicinity of like 10 11 kilo kilometers deep. It's very difficult to drill holes that are that deep. So does Pakistan have the engineering capability to to drill 10 kilometer deep holes just for nuclear tests? I doubt it very much. Essentially they don't have it. Then what's the deal? The deal. But Trump is claiming they have been doing nuclear tests. What's [snorts] it mean? It could very well mean that this data that's available in the public domain, it's falsified data. Maybe the nuclear the test happened only 500 kilometers down maybe 1 kilometer down but it is being shown as something that's 10 12 15 whatever kilometers down you know these uh agencies or organizations that put out this data they can very well falsify it it's not the Indian government that's putting it out it's uh these this data essentially comes from western agencies and organizations so it's possible that they may be falsifying it and claiming it's 10 12 15 km down when it's actually just maybe maybe perhaps just half a kilometer down, maybe a kilometer down. That's possible. You can't trust all this information that's out there, all this data that's put out in the public domain. You can't trust it. You can't I'm not saying it's all f it's all false. But some of it can be selectively falsified. Understand that. I'm sure the government of India also has its seismic detectors and whatever else is required. And I'm sure they're aware of it. But they will not go ahead. The government of India will not go ahead and disclose this in public. Trump has done it. Very good. Fantastic. So it's possible that the Pakistanis were testing some nuclear devices. It's possible. Now the question is these nuclear devices who owns these has Pakistan actually developed nuclear weapons or are these nuclear weapons simply devices that have been given to them on loan by somebody? I doubt very much that the Pakistani nuclear scientists have the capability to develop a full-fledged nuclear weapons program. Maybe look, it's not that difficult actually. Okay. All you need is file material, uranium, a certain quantity of uranium and I think any half decent engineer can rig a device that will you know implode two subcritical masses of of uranium and make them super critical and you will have some kind of an explosion. So I'm sure the Pakistanis tested some nuclear devices in 1998 or whenever it was. But I expect I'm I'm pretty sure that the devices they have today are not theirs. Maybe maybe somebody else has given these devices on loan. Most likely the United States. So if the Pakistanis were testing weapons, did the Americans give them the the green light to do that? See first of all if these devices are American devices then I can assure you that just like the like the case with the UK the [clears throat] big red button does not sit in Rahul India or Islamabad it sits somewhere else. So if the tests happen maybe it's the Americans who have tested this. There's all kinds of options open. I doubt very much if Pakistan if it does have nuclear weapons it I doubt that they have sovereignty over those. most likely they are just placed in Pakistani territory for counterbalancing purposes visav India maybe even some other country. Uh so if Trump has made a disclosure that Pakistan has been testing nuclear weapons we have to take it very seriously. Trump has this uh this track record of saying all kinds of things some of which or many of which may not be entirely correct but in this case we have to take him very seriously. The government of India has to take him very very seriously. Um so so does it mean the Americans are unhappy with Pakistan their vasal state? Why have they accused Pakistan of doing this? And you will see that Pakistan has not responded at all to this claim by Trump to this disclosure by Trump. See if Trump had made a statement about India. India would have immediately gone ahead and made a public statement either confirming or denying what what Trump said. Pakistan hasn't done that. They have been quiet. What does it mean? Is the US unhappy with Pakistan? No. The US is very pleased with Pakistan. Pakistan is an obedient lap dog. Sometimes you beat up the lap dog and the lap dog still comes to you and does what you say. So it's just the US wants to restart nuclear weapons testing. So they want to take some names. See, China is the adversary. Russia is also a big adversary. But Pakistan is a loyal lap dog right now because you know it's under leash. It's leashed right now. So that's why they have also thrown Pakistan with you know this accusation of Pakistan then Pakistan will just take it Pakistan will not say a word against to against Trump. So that's the deal. Okay. Further about the nuclear uh deal Swami and Rushab Dare why is the US talking about testing nuclear weapons? What does the country gain by testing them repeatedly? Uh is it information? Is it checking that they are working just fine or something else? My thoughts on Trump's announcement to restart nuclear tests. Is it in response to the burst burthnic missile test by Russia, an escalation of war in Ukraine along with the continuous rise of China, or do they truly want to start a nuclear age like they did in the cold war by dropping nukes on Japan? Well, the dropping nukes on Japan happened before the cold war. And but anyway, so why is the US talking about testing nuclear weapons? has Trump announced that he's going to that the US is going to resume testing nuclear weapons. Why is that? Look, nuclear weapons have to be tested. Any weapons that you have have to be tested to validate the design to validate that it's working fine to find flaws and defects in in those weapons and then you rectify that and test again to see if the flaw is now been been fixed. Maybe you want a certain amount of yield in terms of kilot in terms of kilotons of TNT or megat tons of TNT but maybe it's not exactly the yield is not what you expect maybe it's too little maybe it's too too much so you want to fine-tune the weapon for these things you have to test it right so the last when did the last nuclear weapons test happen 1998 India after that North Korea has been testing nuclear weapons uh France tested sometime in the 1990s and the US tested some time ago the Russians Soviets Russians tested before that. So it's been like 30 or so years since the west has tested nuclear weapons and maybe they have come up with more advanced designs that they can that they can you know kind of do some modeling through supercomputers and whatnot but you actually at the end of the day you have to actually test it out. So maybe the US decid has decided that it's time to test out the new designs and test that the old ones are still working as we expect. Makes sense. Makes sense. But you can't just start testing just like that unilaterally. So you have you have to invent a just cause for whatever action you're going to take. If the action is very potentially destabilizing, you need to you know justify. So that's why they are blaming other countries. Maybe the maybe China, Russia, Pakistan are actually testing it. It's very possible if the US president says that we have to take it seriously. So what does the country gain by testing nuclear weapons? Not repeatedly. It's been 30 30 or so years. It's been a long gap. It makes sense to test them now. It's been too long since you tested. >> Whatever weapons you have, you have to keep them, keep on testing them periodically. India conducts missile tests periodically, doesn't it? Even the old missiles like the pursu missiles and the older missiles, we test them once or twice a year just to ensure you take a random missile out of the stockpile and you test it. So they you know that you know statistically everything is working fine. So the US obviously it makes sense for them to test nuclear weapons. It's been a long time since any any of these were tested. So it looks like Trump has decided that now is the time or maybe he has been given the advice that now is the time to resume nuclear testing. So it's not like they are trying to escalate something. Is it in response to the Burvetnik missile test? No, it's not that the Burvatnik is a missile. It's not a nuclear weapon. It is a missile that is nuclear capable. It can carry a nuclear warhead and it's a nuclearpropelled missile. Okay, it most likely has a nuclearpowered ramjet engine. So the propulsion itself is nuclear which gives it theoretically unlimited range. It can fly for months. It can even be recalled without actually hitting a target. That's the deal with the Burvatnik missile. So that obviously is something that the US currently doesn't have. They had something called Project Pluto or something in the 1960s, but they shelved it. Maybe it was seen as too provocative. Maybe it was seen as not necessary once the ballistic missiles of the US became sufficiently uh accurate. Um so the US isn't isn't trying to start a nuclear age. We are already in the nuclear age. So many nations like eight nine nations have nuclear weapons. So the US just wants to test maybe it's newer designs, maybe test the validity of the older designs and they are okay if other countries follow suit because if the US tests I assure you Russia will test, China also will most likely test and there's a moderate probability that India will also test. Makes sense for India to test. So that's the deal and I would say that if the US tests, India should also go ahead and test uh whatever needs to be tested because see we tested in 1998. I'm sure we have enhanced those designs. That's 27 years ago that we tested by those nuclear weapons that we tested at that time. I'm sure we have far more advanced nuclear weapons designs today, but those have not been tested. Right? So, if the US tests, it makes a lot of sense for us to validate our own nuclear weapons designs, the new ones. And how do you do that? You do it by testing those. Raj Akash Kumar says Trump said the US needs to test nuclear weapons as Pakistan and China and other countries are doing it. Okay. So that the reply to Russia for the nuclear fuel missile Burvetnik and will Russia and India start their nuclear tests. Currently India is conducting operation thrishul army navy air force are all doing practice operations in various parts of India several parts of India and yesterday ISRO launched a heavy communications satellite. What's cooking? First of all, the uh let's talk about ISRO, the ISRO angle. ISRO couple of days ago launched uh the heaviest communication satellite we've launched indigenously, right? Uh is it somehow related to all of this? I do not think so. See, when you launch a heavy communication satellite, that satellite has to be constructed. You cannot put it together in two days. Takes a few months to put it together. There are lots of different agencies involved in building communication satellite which essentially is a you could say a military satellite, naval satellite. Yeah. And uh so you need to do all of that. You need to integrate it with the with the fairing of the of the rocket. You have to do stress testing, vibration testing. And the rocket itself has to be put together. Is IS is not like SpaceX that we have 20 rockets just that just need to be assembled in two days and we're good to go. No, IRO I think it's building every rocket on demand. If you go to SpaceX headquarters, you will see like 50 rockets just lying around in in a properly designated area and those can be very rapidly put together and launched because they're launching like a rocket a week, right? And they have reusable rockets and whatnot. ISO is not like that. So this rocket launch, this satellite launch that must have been planned months in advance, right? So it's it's not in response to what's happening. First of all, we have to understand that. Now operation thrish is very interesting, right? that's going on and it's been announced very recently and army, navy, air force, everyone's involved in that. There are various note times that have been issued notice to airmen where you know we giving a warning that we are conducting live firing exercises and military exercises in in this area everyone civilian traffic commercial traffic stay out if something happens it's not our fault we are we are giving you a warning in advance that's a noam so multiple notams have been issued um so is operation thrishul in response to what's happening here you know the nuclear issue the Pakistan issue the fact that operation Synindhur is paused. It is not ended. It could resume. Operation Threshul is very interesting. Maybe it is a statement, maybe it is a statement not just to Pakistan. Pakistan doesn't matter. Maybe it's a statement to Pakistan's master or masters that you know what we are fully ready. Uh it's also possible that India may be preparing to if required conduct nuclear weapons tests. It's also possible. Look, I am not putting out any classified information in the public domain. This is just speculation. Okay? But it's also possible that if the US tests, we should be ready to test immediately before the US can say, you know what, nobody else test and you're not allowed to. If they test and we find out through our seismic detectors, then we should immediately test. So maybe that's also part of what's happening. Maybe operation threshold is part of the readiness for maybe a nuclear weapons test if required. We will not be able to test nuclear weapons without the US first testing them. If we go ahead and unilaterally test nuclear weapons, the Americans will impose sanctions on us. No question about it. The West collectively will impose various sanctions on us. But if the US tests first and then we go ahead and say that you know what if you're testing big big brother we could also test then it'll be you know it will make less sense for them to it will give them less justification to impose sanctions on us. So I would say that maybe we are getting ready for all kinds of things right now. There's the Pakistan issue angle. Uh operation zindur it's been several months now and the longer we wait the stronger Pakistan gets because it is going to get supplies arms ammunition weapons systems all of that from the west from Saudi Arabia is going to be able to reugment its defenses. So the longer we wait the less advantageous it is for us. So maybe something is brewing, maybe nothing is brewing. I have no idea. But yeah, it's interesting that this very large scale set of uh military exercises is is being conducted right now by by us by India. Okay, multiple questions about the Quad. Amisha says, uh sorry, Abhinav says if India is replaced by the Philippines in the Quad, will it be a significant victory for China? Amisha says, what are your predictions for for the Quad? Uh, will the Quad come back to relevance or is the Quad in coma now? Somi says, "How do you see India being dethroned by the Philippines in the Quad? What does the US gain from it? It is practically a coalition of the US and its vasals. Why form such a group that has no value? Has the US accepted that China is is a new hedgeim?" And geopolitical Dubai says, "Does the Quad hold no relevance anymore? How can the Philippines replace Barat in the region? Does the US no longer see bat as necessary to counter China? Okay. Quad. I'm sure you are all aware of something called SARKC, the so-called South Asian Association of for Regional Cooperation. When was the last time there was a SARKC summit? Roughly a decade ago, right? SARKC is defunct today. It still exists on paper, but it's no longer active. Why is it not active? because we killed it. If if a sark summit is organized and we don't turn up, SAC is finished, right? India is the major nation in SAK. >> The Pakistanis and the Bangladeshes can hold a you know so-called SAK summit, but if India is not present, it's over. So SARKC has been killed off by us. Similarly, the Quad still exists on paper, but uh it won't continue. It it it like like Amisha says, it's kind of going to be in coma just like SARKC is. So what has happened? Has India been replaced by the Philippines in the quad? Has India been dethroned by the Philippines? So first of all, the US hasn't said any no one has said that in the Quad we are removing India and we're putting Philippines there. No such statement has been made. Right? So now the US is creating a new kind of alignment. the US, Japan, the Philippines, maybe Australia is part of that and whoever else. So it's kind of like a substitution for India and the Quad and it's a new bunch of nations that comes up. Now understand, was India given a throne when we were in the quad? Was being in the quad something of great prestige and great value to us? Was it like wearing a crown? Was it like sitting in a throne? It wasn't. What was the why did the quad exist? The quad existed to uh counterbalance China's hegemonic imperialistic activities in the Indo-Pacific region, the South China Sea region and overall the Asia Asia Pacific region. Right? That's why the US two of its vasals Japan and Australia came together and we also got added to that because it made sense for us also to [snorts] be part of such a grouping so that we could you know so India's number one threat threat if you look at our threat perception our threat horizon the major challenge the major threat for India is China which is about three four times more powerful than India overall right and China has been a very hostile nation We know the history. I don't need to go back into into the history. I don't need to retell the history [clears throat] between India and China. And China has been the aggressor. India has never provoked China. And China still claims Indian territory. And China continues its u you know infrastructure building activities in Chinese occupied Tibet and whatnot. So India clearly faces a threat threat and if you have nations like the US, Australia, Japan that that you can team up with to counter the Chinese threat then it makes sense and that's why India was part of the quad after all the incidents that happened in the past decade in the 2010s the Doluti incident the um whatever else in incidents uh the the the Galwan incident which was very which was very bad and so on. So made sense for India to be part of that grouping. But now things have changed significantly. The US now is piling on the pressure on India. The relationship has no dived right. The US is taking the side of Pakistan. Pakistan no longer has China as big daddy. Pakistan has slipped out of China's graasp and and it's in the US lap now today. So things have changed not just for India for China also. And so now India and China seem seem to be having some kind of some kind of course we are not blindly trusting anything. We understand what China represents but we are taking it very cautiously and as such now that the US is treating India as an adversary now that the US seeks to contain India very openly and overtly and also China and also China that's why India China and Russia seem to be on the same boat now so it makes no sense for India to continue its squad activities right the quad is dead the Americans killed quad we didn't kill the quad and when we were in the quad it was not like we were sitting on a throne where the Americans simply saw one utility for India that was as a counterbalance to China and India was not enough to counterbalance China that's why they they enlisted Japan and Australia as well in the matter so so essentially the US regarded India even at that time as a pawn on the geopolitical chess board it was not a gesture of friendship it was a matter of convenience so we have not been rethrown by the Philippines. The Philippines cannot replace India but India is now an adversary for the US. That's how they see us. We don't see them as an adversary. We would like to continue the cooperation, the collaboration, the good relationship, the excellent relationship that we had and we would like to make it even better but they see it differently and it makes sense strategically from their perspective. So things have changed. Has the US accepted China as as a new hedgeim? They have kind of tacitly accepted that China is now the hgemon in the eastern hemisphere kind of they have done that right so the Philippines has not replaced Barat the equations have changed the quad is now on on ice it's on cold it's in cold storage and it most likely won't be revived for for the foreseeable future if ever so the US is now exploring a different set of uh geopolitical alignments and equations and that's where the Philippines comes in the US uh has essentially kind of you could say given up the eastern hemisphere to China right it would the US would still very much want India they would still like very much India to become its vasal but that's not showing any signs of happening unless there is some kind of a change in New Delhi which the US would like to engineer well that's a whole different story so that is the deal with the quad the quad still exists but it is on ice it is in cold storage it is in a kuma like Abisha says and This Philippines thing is a whole different entity. It's a different alignment, different grouping. Yashard Tiwari says, "The chaos that's happening around the world, is it a sign of world war going to happen in in in the near future?" McLeven says, "India has issued multiple NOTAMs from November all the way to January, conducting six major military exercises simultaneously. Pakistan has also issued a notam and Pakistan is allegedly receiving weapons deliveries from the United States. Yeah. Missiles and whatnot. AM, RAM and so on. Whatever. Bangladesh is receiving weapons and defense systems from Turkey. The US is also involved in Bangladesh as we know very well. Trump has ordered his uh he has ordered the resumption of nuclear testing in the US. Central banks across the world have started buying a lot of gold recently. Does all these factors indicate do all these factors indicate that we are preparing for a world war? We are preparing. We are going to This is most likely the indication that there's going to be a tremendous amount of global upheaval, turmoil and instability. We are seeing a situation in Sudan facing Africa being destabilized. We have Ukraine going on. There is the Hamas Gaza issue that is kind of simmering down now. And there are other issues. There's the India Pakistan thing that has flared up now, right? And so much more. So this is a sign that the world order is is changing very rapidly and um it does not necessarily indicate a world war that will come up very soon. The US and China none of the major nations wants a world war. That's okay. We're back. Brief glitch. So the point is nobody wants a world war. If there's a world war, it will ruin everyone including the US, including China, Russia, India, and everybody else. It will not just ruin everyone, it will destroy the world. No one wants that. What we're going to see is geoeconomic turmoil. We're going to see maybe multiple clashes at various flash points, you know, that that could erupt. That could happen. And when you have so much instability that you foresee on the horizon, especially geoeconomic uh instability, what do you do? You go for gold. Gold is the only uh store of value, economic value that is, you know, that is bankable essentially long term. Uh so when you foresee a recession, when you foresee geopolitical ge geoeconomic instability, when you foresee potentially chaos in the world, banks, major central banks will start buying up a lot of gold. Right? So we are seeing the decoupling essentially of the world order. We're going to we're seeing the the emergence of the new cold war. The battle lines of the cold war are being drawn. India is still you know the US still would like India to be on their side but maybe India will be drawn into our IC which will be a very strange and very new kind of grouping for us to be in. It will potentially quite uncomfortable and we'll have to see how how to navigate that. Um and so on. So the US is obviously encircling India. It is it seeks to contain India. Why? East Pakistan, West Pakistan, maybe project Kokan for Christ, maybe so much more. All of that is happening. This doesn't necessarily indicate a world war. It indicates a bifurcation of the world order. The US doesn't want a multipolar world order. Neither does China. So there's going to be instability as as the glo the world order bifurcates. And everyone's going to have to make a choice which side you're on. Are you on the western side or the eastern side? And if you're on whatever side you have to perhaps accept someone as your overlord, as your as your hegeimon, as your susarin, [clears throat] right? Maybe India may also be forced to make tough choices at some point in time. So that's a situation we are expecting instability, increased instability, maybe recession, maybe maybe multiple flash points, you know, breaking out into localized wars. Hopefully not more than that. Uh and that's why we are seeing all the major central banks buying up a lot of gold. So hopefully no world war. That's the last thing we want, but definitely instability. Ryik RPG says in Trump's post stating that the G2 will be convening shortly. Is he signaling a shift in how the United States views its relationship with China? potentially treating China more as an equal partner rather than a junior or rival partner and sh says is a bipolar world order inevitable with two poles US and China will India and Russia becomes of China given that the level of technological advancements China are doing uh which will make Chinese military extremely superior compared to India and Russia right so Trump said that G2 will be convening shortly the Chinese made no such statements but there's been this talk in the test since the early 2000s that the US and China need to you know since China is emerging as a major power. Um the US and China need to be the two poles in the emerging world order. China became very significant you could say 2008 2007 2008 onwards after the global financial crisis in which China did a lot to actually stabilize the US dollar for their own reasons obviously um and after 2012 once Mr. region being came to power the China you could see a very different China going forward and China obviously is a very major economy now the second largest economy and uh technologically very advanced or maybe in some areas potentially even a significant challenger rival maybe even more advanced than the US in some specific areas um so the G2 so the so the US wants a bipolar world order and China will also be very happy with a bipolar world order in which it it controls half of the world right Neither the US nor China wants a multipolar world order which is messy. They don't want a third pole of India, Russia and the global south or maybe four poles like Russia as a poll of its own with its own set of nations which cooperates with China as well as India and the global south. No one wants that sort of mess. So the US and China both seek a G2 situation, a cold war situation where the rivalry can be managed. See, in the in the 20th century, the US and the USSR were major adversaries with massive amounts of nuclear weapons pointed at each other, but they also cooperated in a variety of ways to manage the relationship and keep the tensions from spilling over beyond what anyone wanted. Right? So the so that's what the US and China wants. And now the US seems to have resigned itself to the fact that China is now well almost a peer equal to the US. China doesn't have any of the advantages in the power projection domain that the US has very similar to the situation of the USSR. Right? So China faces all those all those problems all those issues all those drawbacks. But China is is bound it's hamstrung by these issues by the chi by the by the island chains and so much more. But China has some advantages that the USSR did not have technological advancement and and uh a far better system of governance than the USSR. And so it's it's a different situation but a similar situation. So the US it seems to have now decided that it's going to withdraw into the western hemisphere and it's going to defend the western hemisphere from Chinese encroachments and it kind of is giving away the eastern hemisphere to some extent to China. It still wants to have as much you know that it's not giving up its power projection capabilities in the eastern hemisphere. It's not giving up its occupation of Japan or South Korea. It's not g giving up its u possession you could say of Australia of all the assets it has cultivated and and you know created in Southeast Asia. It is not giving up east or west Pakistan. It also seeks to expand its footprint through Bagram air base. It seeks that it seeks to pressurize and contain India. Maybe even turn India into so it's not giving up any of that. But it's it's the US is now clear that China is the dominant power in the eastern hemisphere despite all of this. So it's going to contain China. It's going to contain India. It's going to try and pressurize India into becoming a vasal. If India refuses, it will try and do a regime change in India. All of that is going on. And if India somehow refuses and succeeds in not becoming a vasal of the US, does it mean that India will have to become a Chinese vasal? That also well if Mr. Modi stays in power and if when whenever he steps down at whatever point in time maybe 5 10 years whatever it is and if there is continuity in the political and geopolitical policy of the U of India then India will find itself in a strange situation with China also China will want India to be a vasal and just like we are saying no to the US we'll say no to China also so we could face a lot of pressure from multiple fronts we could face instability we could wars, we could face proxy wars, resumption of proxy wars, east, west, whatever, all of that. So, like I said, we are entering a period of significant geopolitical instability. As the world order rearranges itself, there's going to be a lot of instability. It's like an earthquake happening. You know, global tectonic plates are changing and shifting and that causes earthquakes. It's like that. So India has the choice of either becoming a US vasal or going into RAIC as as a junior partner of China or staying completely sovereign which is the ideal situation but it is um a course of action that that will be difficult next 20 years will be difficult ideally that's what happens uh and and we then emerge as a major economy in 15 20 years and then it will be very hard for others to bully us but that's going to take a lot of fortitude and a lot of hard choices and lot of insignificant amounts of various kinds of pain. That's where we are. Rushab says, "Why is the US threatening Venezuela with an attack? Is it just because of Maduro or oil game through which the US wants more control over global energy or any other plans to dominate South America?" Mlevin says, "Vene Venezuela's President Maduro has asked Russia for urgent military support and there are reports of Russian arms appearing in Venezuela. This seems exactly like the Cuban missile crisis." Guess the history does repeat itself. Okay, so in the 20th century, we had a nation in the Western Hemisphere in the Caribbean region. There was Cuba that was aligned with the USSR. and Cuba. If you look at the map, we haven't opened the map today. Let's do that now. Where is map? We open map. Give me a second and we shall visit Cuba through the map. Okay. Where is map? We put on screen. Right here we are. So, if we look at Cuba, you will see it's right at, you know, in in the US's backyard, Gulf of Mexico, which is now the Gulf of America, that sort of thing, right? So, here is Cuba. this large island nation right in the US's backyard and it remained sovereign. it did not bend into the you know cave into the US and a whole truckload of sanctions were applied on Cuba and as a result Cuba its economy froze and it still you know if you visit Cuba it will feel like you've stepped into the 1950s >> that's how it feels but Cuba remained independent with the help of the USSR and it still has remained more or less sovereign nation even though now you know it's open to US tourists and whatnot so it's now a little different when it comes to Venezuela So what happened in the 1960s, the Cuban missile crisis, 1962 is that the USSR had placed ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads in Cuba. That was seen as the as a direct threat by the US and you know an immediate threat right in in their backyard. So uh when the US places nuclear weapons in various countries like for example Turkey and so on, they say that the Russians should not see it as a direct threat while they saw Russian missiles and warheads in Cuba as as you know an immediate threat that they that almost led to nuclear war. So that's the Cuban missile crisis issue. Now is Venezuela the situation right now similar to the Cuban missile crisis? It is not because there are no Russian ballistic missiles or nuclear warheads in Venezuela as of today as far as we know. Okay. So, first of all, we have to understand that it's not exactly the same thing. And Russia today is not as powerful as the USSR used to be comparatively to the US in the 1960s or in the 20th century during the cold war. So then the question is why is the US threatening Venezuela with attack and why is Venezuela urgently asking for urgent military support from Russia? What's the deal? See Venezuela Mr. Maduro he sees himself as a socialist. He sees himself uh as as someone who opposes US hedgemony. So the US historically for the longest time since the 19th century has had something called the Monroe Doctrine which is a term that's supposedly obsolete today but it's still very much enforced. The Monro Doctrine says that nobody will be allowed no nation apart from the US will be allowed to play any colonial games in the Americas whether it's North America, South America. Essentially it means that the US will be the overlord of all the nations in this region whether it's Canada whether it is Mexico whether it's the central a central American nations like Panama etc or the Latin American nations like Brazil Argentina Cuba Chile and so on Honduras Uruguay etc. But Venezuela is right there and Venezuela is not aligned with the US. Venezuela is aligned with the global south and with Russia and uh as such the US doesn't get to decide Venezuela's economic policy its foreign policy and so on. The way the US very strongly let's say influences the economic and foreign policies of the other nations in the region. It's not the case with Venezuela. So Venezuela is sovereign to a large extent from the US. Right. um not 100% sovereign but significantly more sovereign than the other nations in the region in Venezuela. Why is it important? Because it has these huge reserves of oil that makes it an extremely important nation. So the US would like to change the situation. They would like Venezuela to become just like any other South American nation or any nation in the Americas and be aligned completely with the US. And the US should decide or or or guide this nation about what kind of economic and foreign policy it should have essentially a vasal state. That's what they would like Venezuela to be. And since Venezuela has resisted this for such a long time, the Americans have imposed all kinds of sanctions on Venezuela which has really crippled the Venezuelan economy. And then you blame it on socialism that you are so poor and you have such terrible circumstances because of socialism when it when actually when in reality it's because of the sanctions. So now maybe the US wants to like like I said they have decided to play defense in the western hemisphere and they will kind of allow China to dominate to some extent the eastern hemisphere. So if the US wants to play defense in the western hemisphere they have to control the whole of the western hemisphere. They control all the western European nations. We understand that very well through NATO through the EU and so on. But they don't control Venezuela. And Brazil also is an issue but we'll not talk about Brazil right now. Brazil is an issue to some extent. So what do you do with Venezuela? You affect the regime change. You first give the Nobel Prize, peace prize to a lady who you have cultivated and who would you who you would like to be the next leader in Venezuela just like Muhammad Yinus, a former Nobel Prize winner is now the the face of the Bangladeshi military regime. Similarly, they would like this lady, I don't know remember her name, they would like her to be the face of a new puppet government in Venezuela. That is the situation, right? So, it looks like the US may potentially sometime soon perhaps invade Venezuela. Yeah, there are there is enhanced there is augmented US naval activity in the region. Maybe the US is preparing for an invasion of Venezuela. And Venezuela's terrain is is kind of challenging and all, but the US can, I'm sure, over time, deal with it, unless Venezuela is able to defend itself properly, for which it will need significant supplies of arms, ammunitions, you know, military systems and so on. And that's why the Venezuelan government, Mr. Madur's government have requested Russia for urgent military support. and maybe perhaps Russian arms are appearing in Venezuela. So it's not exactly like the Cuban missile crisis, but it's kind of similar to it in in in a in various ways. So why does the US want Venezuela? First of all, to align the whole of the Western hemisphere with the US and secondly obviously oil very important. If you take Venezuela, you get to control the way the oil is sold, to whom it's sold, to whom it's not sold, what price and so on. So that way you can control more of the global oil supply which is obviously very welcome if if you're the US. So that in a nutshell is what is happening. What will happen? Can't say. Hopefully, there is no warfare and and such because it'll be disastrous for an already uh devastated country, a country that's devastated by sanctions. But let's see. The US is fully capable of taking Venezuela over and uh affecting a regime change. That's that's fully the US is definitely capable of that. Very much so. Unless the Russians get involved and uh bolster the defensive capabilities of the nation in which case the US may perhaps reconsider if Russia is able to supply sufficient arms, ammunition and whatnot to Venezuela. That's where we are. Sur Sharma says finally we are making a civilian aircraft. There's a deal between H and a Rashin company. What are my views about this? Okay, we are talking about the Sukoy Super Jet 100. What does this aircraft look like? So, it's an aircraft that that that it's a reasonably smallish aircraft. It can accommodate about 100 105 passengers. It's a passenger jet. What does it look like? Let's quickly take a look at that. Let's go to our friend Google and Google the Sukoy Superjet 100. Sukoy Superjet 100. What's it look like? Um, so this is what it looks like. It's a narrowbody aircraft. Passengers about about a 100ish I would say. Um, and it is a twin jet aircraft. And that's the deal. So now now that we know what this aircraft looks like, what's this deal that we have between India and Russia, between H and this Russian company? I forget the name of the company. You can look it up. The deal is that India will manufacture between 75 to 100 of these aircraft in India. Now what kind of manufacturing is the question? What kind of manufacturing? Are we going to import kits and assemble those in India with screwdrivers? Not quite. We're going to actually manufacture the aircraft in India. We're going to manu various Yeah. So various components and and parts of the aircraft like the like the like the body of the aircraft, various uh systems of the aircraft, all of these will be locally manufactured in India. So we essentially manufacturing the majority of the aircraft in India itself. We'll procure the raw materials and create and manufacturing everything inhouse with a license from Russia. So licensed production but the jet engines won't be manufactured in India. Those will come from Russia and these are Russian. It's it's an advanced version of the previous jet engine they were using. So what this will do is that it will give us an aircraft that has nothing that's manufactured in the west or coming from the west. >> So in the in the case of the west in the future you know imposing restrictions, sanctions whatever on India we're going to be able to have these aircraft that are non-western. So for example if you are using boeings or airbuses or whatever if the US decides they can stop supplying spare parts for [clears throat] servicing and whatn not to India in that case we have to ground our fleets right see Airbus is a French company but the US can arm twist the French we know that very well even though France is the only nation in the EU and and NATO that is way more sovereign than the others a quasa independent foreign policy and whatnot but still so if we manufacture this entirely nonwestern passenger aircraft in India. It's great for us, right? So, it will be what what is the range that it has? It's it's a range of about 3 3 to 4,000 maybe 4,500 kilometers, right? So, that's that's good enough for India domestic uh air air traffic, right? Uh various uh second tier, third tier airports that we wish to connect through the udan scheme, etc. we'll be able to to cover these with these Sukoy super jads. So it's so so it's fantastic. It's I think the first time we will be manufacturing an an aircraft entirely almost entirely in India after many decades. So overall it's fantastic and uh that will give us a lot of technological knowhow and maybe in the future we can modify augment the aircraft maybe with Russian permission license whatever and produce a new family of aircraft based on this one maybe more maybe larger aircraft with with higher capacity whatever so I would say it is uh it's fantastic I'm glad to see that this is happening finally right uh it's a very positive development for us it's great for India Russia relations. It's great for India's atmandera campaign. It's great for Indian manufacturing. It's great for India's commercial uh air sector and so much more. Overall, it's a fantastic deal. And the great thing is that we're not we're not assembling kits in India. We're going to be manufacturing the aircraft almost entirely in India. Apart from the engines and about the engines, maybe we can see about that also. What to do? Maybe we can eventually even manufacture the engines in India, which is not part of the current deal. But you know, even that could happen in the future. the the the doors are of the doors of possibility are always open. So I see this as a fantastic uh development overall. Okay, we have to discuss this don't we? Real painter says will mamani kiss the ring. Real painter again says zoramqami mandani has won the New York City mayoral elections by okay 50% preference vote. Okay, I've not seen the the margin of victory but he has won. Okay, good. And he has also quoted the magnificent Shir Shri Mr. Nehuji in his winning speech and Hindutwa Rises says is Zaharan Mani becoming mayor going to affect India US relations or will Zuran be subordinate to Trump? I don't think Trump is a big fan of socialism and doesn't want it to exist in the US. What is the deal? So, Zoran Mandani has won the New York City mayoral elections and the Indian media is right now going gaga. Indian origin Zoran Mandani has won. Haha, great, wonderful, fantastic. So, in what way is Indian origin? His his mother is Miranayar. She is a Punjabi. She's a very famous world famous uh filmmaker, film director, right? Miranar and his father is also Indian origin. He's an Indian origin Muslim. I think Gujarati speaking Muslim who was born in Mumbai but he was in Uganda or something and he moved to the US in probably in the 1970s or something like that. So both his parents are of Indian origin and that obviously makes Zhan Mandani an Indian origin American. Now he has won the New York mayoral elections. He is a far-left c far-left guy. His ideology is is leftist ideology and uh when he in his victory speech he apparently quoted the great magnificent Sri Javahar Lan Neuji and that has pleased a lot of Indians right um right so the question is first question is will Mamani kiss the ring what do we mean by kiss the ring so kiss the ring is this analogy I had used sometime last here late last year during the US presidential campaign in which I had said that if Trump wins the presidency of the US then it will mean that he has kissed the ring of the deep state. Kissing the ring means expressing or promising your allegiance to someone to someone powerful and dangerous. It comes from the movie The Godfather. If you watch that you will see this scene of the Godfather extending his ring out there. Here you go. And the supplicant has to go down on his knees and kiss the ring. Which means that I am your man now. I'm yours. I'm yours to command. So that's what we mean by kissing the ring. Now whose ring? Essentially it means the deep state's ring. So the question is will Mamani kiss the ring? Mamani doesn't have to kiss the ring. He has already kissed the ring. Mamani is a candidate that's aligned with the objectives and agendas of the of whoever runs the west. the west overall. >> Okay. So, let's first discuss this. What is the deal? How come this guy has won? A guy with no prior experience in in administering a city or or a village or anything. A guy with no experience, no governance experience of any kind, but he has won. How did he win? Are the people of New York really convinced that he this guy with no experience is going to do a great great job in running New York City? what's happening and why is it that we are seeing this this rise of various uh Indian origin Muslim candidates v you know mayors for example you we have the mayor of London Sadi Khan who's also of Indian origin okay some people will say he's of Pakistani origin but before 1947 there was no Pakistan right so he's obviously of Indian origin um what is happening what's going on there is this rise of various Muslim people who take who are either becoming prime ministers or or they are becoming mayors in various parts of the UK also in the US. So see the US the US conservatives have this huge problem with Hindus but they are okay with and and they will oppose any any Hindu person tooth and nail like Vive Ramaswami is being opposed like Usha Vance is being uh dragged through the coals for for remaining Hindu and not converting to Christianity. You will have all of that but you will never see this happening to Indian Muslims. Why is that? So there seems to be look my views about this are still evolving but there seems to be see whoever is running the west whoever is actually running and ruling the west they seem to have decided that we're going to introduce Islam in a big way in the western world because Christianity is now a dying religion in the west at least in India etc it's being introduced on an indust real scale through conversion activities and what not right but in the western world Christianity is dying in Europe people are leaving Christianity Christianity in droves when the pope comes to some country no one even turns up to see him Christianity is is is losing it its foothold in the west and the US also lots of people have moved away from Christianity so the west seems to have decided that you know if we don't have the sort of religion that can control the people like Christianity used to do. We have to introduce something else that will do the same thing. Historically, Christianity was a religion of of strict control. You know, if you went against the tenants of Christianity, you would be burned at the at the stake. You would be declared a heretic and all kinds of things nasty things would happen to you to you and your family. So, people were rigidly controlled through Christianity even after the the the rise of protest protestantism and and whatnot. But now, it's not the case. You can leave Christianity and nothing happens to you. There's no consequences. But not the case with Islam. So the Abrahamic religions are are are political religions. It's one of the great strengths of Islam that it's a political religion. It's not a criticism. It's a strength. Okay? And and Islam can be used to replace Christianity to to control the people. So that's why you are seeing that Islam is being introduced in a big way in the west. there is this uh engineered immigration of people from certain parts of the world in a big way in various western countries and u we are seeing this happening and maybe they want Islam to become an integral part of the west so that they can keep controlling the people through this religion because Christianity is no longer that useful or viable anymore and so we also have the other religion which is which used to be called wokeism or whatever But that's also kind of a religion, you know, with its own uh ideology and whatnot. So, this is a long-term game. It's not something that they want to use to control their flock for the next 5, 10 years. It's about how to control the world for the next 100, 200 years. That's the game. And that's why people like Zoharam Mandani emerge from nowhere and succeed in becoming, you know, in in in winning things like the New York election, mayoral election. We have Sadi Khan winning mayor mayorship of mayorhood whatever you call it of of London repeatedly and so on. So uh Zoran Mandani is already in line with the agenda. He doesn't have to kiss any ring. He's already kissed the ring the essentially the the day a long time ago. So is Zoran Mandani becoming mayor going to affect India's US relations? Will he be subordinate to Trump? He is not going to be subordinate subordinate to Trump. He's going to be in opposition to Trump. But understand this opposition is all stage managed. The US has what the the left and the right. The rep the Democrats are the left, Republicans on the right. So Zan is left. I'm not sure if he's a Democrat or not, but he's left. So he's on that on that side. But whether you are a Democrat or a Republican, whether you are left or right, if you come to power in the US, you serve the same agenda. You have the same foreign policy, same military policy, same all of that. So at the end of the day, both left and right serve the overall agenda of whoever is ruling the west. You can call it the deep state or whatever. So domestically in the US, Zoharan, Mahani and Trump will be polls apart. They will oppose each other. Trump will criticize Mamani. Mamani will criticize Trump. They will mock and tone each other. That's fine. But that's that's how it is. So So Zoran becoming mayor, will it affect India US relations? Not to a very large extent. Um but he is an anti-India person by the way. He will speak Hindi very well because it's not his mother tongue. His mother tongue is tongue is Punjabi. If you speak Punjabi, you will obviously speak Hindi. He also speaks Arabic. I suppose he may speak his father's language also. Whatever. He seems to be very Indian and all, but overall he's anti-India. You may not believe that perhaps some of you at this point in time, but he is going to be very anti-India. So it's it may not have any effect on the India US relations because he's not the president. He's just the mayor of a city but the world's greatest city like many people consider New York to be. So it's not a small position even if he's just just a mayor. He's the mayor of the US's financial capital and the world's financial capital. So that is definitely a very powerful very important position. So he will not have a good impact or effect on India's US relations. At best he will have no effect. But most likely he will have some kind of deledious effect on India US relations and in what way it remains to be seen. But I don't expect uh his effect to be to be positive when it comes to the India US relationship. At best it will be neutral or most more likely it will be in some way negative. Very early days he won today. Let's wait and watch but that's how I expect things to unfold. Right. Next question. Nikita Vashish says, "The US has more satellites than Russia, India, China combined. What leverage does it give the US? Does the US have too many of these satellites? What's the use of all these satellites? Also do a space special someday." Okay. Rahul Gun says, "Does the recent 5-tonon satellite launched by ISRO's LVM 3 M5 rocket does it represent a significant step forward for India or is it still not such a big deal according to me? Because I've been a long-term proponent of ISRO not punching high enough." Okay, let us uh address these multiple questions. First of all, does the US have too many such lines? The US has as of now more than 10,000 active satellites. More than 10,000 active satellites. Can you believe that number? Can you imagine how many satellites are out there? Right? More than 10,000 active satellites. So what does the US do with the satellites? They have too many of these. Are the are these pointless? These are not pointless. These are very useful, very important, right? And see the space sector is the next step in in exploration. And I have said this for years. I have said this since 2021 that the two or three nations that will lead the world in the space race in the 21st century are the two or three nations that will decide the future of humanity and the two or the nation that will rule the world. So your position in the space race is an indicator of how much of whether you rule the world or not eventually in the 21st century. So these 10,000 plus satellites. What does the US do with these? See, first of all, many of these satellites are communications satellites, global communications, local communications. They provide various services, internet services, voice services, data services. We need that. Yeah, satellites provide those. So you have communication satellites, you have navigation and timing satellites, the GPS constellation, the the American GPS, it it globally is the backbone. It's the foundation for navigation. Whether it is civilian navigation, whether it is commercial navigation, whether it's military navigation also GPS is the foundation of this. So you have a constellation of GPS satellites. Then you have intelligence satellites, national security applications of satellites, spy satellites, you know, surveillance operations, reconnaissance activities, encrypted secure communications, um then missile warning systems. Then you have battle space coordination, battlefield coord coordination, um integration of various assets, military assets together so that they all see the same view of the battle space which is provided by all the different assets piece by piece. But the satellite puts it all together with the help of computers and then it gives every asset a full view of the battle space, a full integrated picture. That's very important. Satellites do that. Then you you have activities like earth observation that can be regular earth observation or very specific earth observation which is spying activity you know high resolution images in real time of what's happening on the planet very important but you also have things like weather monitoring you know scientific things like uh scientific activities like monitoring of of climate change over time uh monitoring natural disasters if they happen monitoring agricultural developments and soil soil quality and and whatnot right there is that then um you have obviously a very large number of Starlink satellites that is global highspeed internet those satellites may be dual purpose satellites they may also have other purposes that are being served there right so you have all these all these benefits of having satellites and and and every satellite is different. A single satellite will not give you all these benefits, right? Every satellite will have a certain function. So or a specific set of of of functions that is assigned to it. Now if you have all these satellites 10,000 of of these satellites which do different things, what benefit does it give you? Right? So one thing if you have this gigantic number of satellites and this tremendous diversity of satellites they all do so many different things. This helps the United States maintain its technological leadership in the world. It ensures that there is continuous development continuous innovation in the US. They want better and better satellites. Right? There is development in the space launching technologies reusable rockets. Say if you have so many satellites and you need to keep on replenishing those, you need lots and lots of launches, space launches. So that has given rise to the reusable rocket technology that that space X has developed. This for that you also need to you know better miniaturaturize satellites. So that also is a technological advancement. Um so all of this ensures the technological superiority of the US. Then you have global influence. the US um you know the US is able to because of the gigantic number of satellites it's able to control these this uh infrastructure because it owns it and this gives the US the power to influence uh whatever happens in the world. It it can influence uh the standards for space technology. It it gives the US military leverage. It gives the US leverage in diplomacy, global diplomacy. It makes the US the primary uh provider of of security. It it gives the US uh hedgemony and and primacy in all its security alliances because all the other partners will depend on US military and other technology communications technology. It also gives US primacy in economic relationships and partnerships with with with everybody. It positions the US as the dominant partner in very asymmetric relationships. Military uh you know the US military is very deeply integrated with all these space-based assets. Uh it gets real time data, gets realtime intelligence. The satellites allow the US military to to control and command assets all across the world. The US has more than 700 extr territorial military bases with the US military uh assets deployed all across the globe. How do you command how do you control all of that cohesively? Right? So these satellites they give the US the ability for this uh to to command and control all these assets cohesively. um the US is able to do precision targeting of when whenever there's a military operation if you need precision targeting the satellites give it the ability to do do that. So all of this gives the US tremendous asymmetrical advantages of over anybody or any adversary. Um now the US is the leading commercial um launcher of satellites and it also has the largest number of commercial satellites that have been deployed and these serve so many markets globally right so the US it's able to capture all this economic value from the space economy and this is projected to be worth trillions of dollars in this century um and and so much more. So all of these these satellites this this this massive fleet of satellites, it gives the US a tremendous advantage in all these different sectors, communication, navigation, military, defense, um economic and commercial activities, diplomacy, science, whatnot. Right? So this strengthens the US national security. It strengthens, it augments the American economic power and it enables the US to set global norms, global rules in the space sector and it obviously enables the US to maintain its superiority in the global emerging geopolitical competition for space. The rush for the moon, everyone's rushing back to the moon. Eventually, it's going to be Mars. There's going to be space tourism. There's going to be militarization of space. There's going to be eventually asteroid mining and so much more. So all of this for all of this you need to have a massive satellite fleet, a massive space industry. So all of this it it is central to America's global leadership uh not just in the past century but in this coming century in the 21st century. So space is going to increasingly be central to geopolitical power and not it's not just nations but corporations within nations that are going to play a pivotal role in all of this in in securing access to space securing perhaps territory outside of earth maybe on the moon maybe in Mars uh in in shaping the rules and the norms of how to behave in space what you can do what is allowed what is not allowed right? They get to decide. We don't get to decide. And all of this will protect us um interests beyond our planet. Right? So, so hopefully this explains why the US has invested so much in the space sector. The US invests in the future. They don't react. They set the scene. They set they they formulate the rules. They set the rules. and everybody else marches to that beat and they abide by the rules. So if you want to be a leading power in the world, you have to be re not reactive, you have to be proactive. And the only nation beyond the US that is being proactive is currently China. Even Russia is is tagging along with China. So that's the deal. So considering what I have just explained 10,000 plus satellites and all everything that these satellites achieve for the US and all the advantages these satellites give to the US do you think one five ton satellite launch is going to put India in any kind of advantageous position is it that great I'm not saying it's bad thing it is not a bad thing I'm happy that ISRO has used its most powerful rocket which is a medium lift vehicle to uh put this 5-tonon satellite into orbit. Good. It's good to see a launch by ISRO after a certain period of time. The US launches weekly. The Chinese launch so many times a year. I don't know how many times ISRO launches per year, five, six times. I'm not sure. I may be wrong. Maybe 15 times, maybe three times. I'm not sure. But it's nothing comparable to to what the US is doing. And our heaviest and most powerful rocket is a medium lift rocket. Okay, please be cognizant of this fact. I'm not sure when we're going to develop reusable rocket technology. Probably by the 2030s when it's already old technology because SpaceX developed the technology like 15 years ago. So I do not see India being currently even a player in the space race and I don't blame ISRO for this. ISRO is fantastic. ISRO with these tiny limited budgets achieves so much right engineers are brilliant. ISRO's ISRO is a fantastic organization. It's one of the one of the organizations that shows India what we are capable of. But it needs the budget. It needs the the the projects, right? It needs the right kind of leadership, the right kind of ambition that has to come from outside of ISRO because ISRO does what it's told right by the government of India. So that's the problem. I don't see India I it's not about ISRO not punching high enough. It's about India not having the ambition of being a leading space power. We just okay we are there in space. We have ISRO. We can launch satellites. We don't depend on others to launch satellites except very large ones in which case we will either go to France or to SpaceX but otherwise we can launch satellites and maybe in 5 10 years we will have a rocket that is twice as powerful as the one we have and maybe in 10 15 years we'll have perhaps reusable rockets. So we are this this is the standard Indian way of doing things develop technologies that others have developed 20 30 years ago now that's what we keep doing and that is what obviously frustrates me because we are capable of so much more. We're capable of leading the world in space but whoever is in charge maybe doesn't see sufficient value right now in us doing that. See, see the Chinese the Chinese always plan ahead. The Chinese see themselves as a superpower even though they currently are not. And even 20 years ago, they were seeing themselves as a superpower. And they were putting the the the the pieces in place that would ensure that when China becomes maybe three times more powerful, it will have all the capabilities already in place. Not that once we reach a 20 trillion dollar economy, then we will start developing X kind of rocket or Y kind of rocket. No, they started doing that when they were a $3 trillion economy. So China always seeks to punch way ahead of its of its weight and India waits until it reaches a certain weight category to start behaving like that that weight category. That's the difference between India and China and that is obviously going to be a source of frustration for people who understand what's happening and what we are capable of. All right next says why does India only have nine military satellites? The US has 250 plus. China and Russia have 150 plus. The US has about 250ish military satellites. Russia has about 100 110 or so. China has more than 150 150 160 something like that. India well we don't exactly know how many of India's satellites that we have launched are military satellites but most likely maybe 15 20 are either military satellites or dual use satellites that can be used for civilian as well as military purposes. Why is that the case? Why does India have so few military satellites? Right? Because India focuses on the subcontinent and slightly beyond the subcontinent. India doesn't seek to know everything that's happening across the world. India is only focused on its local region. We are not an ambitious country. And you know the Chinese, they have a global GPS- like constellation. They started putting it up like 15 20 years ago when Okay, let's Google this. Let's let's try and fact check this uh Chinese GPS uh name. What is it called? BU BU GPS BU BDS. Okay, BU BDS. Uh what is it? What? Okay, it has been fully operational since 2020. And uh when did they start developing this? When did China start developing China start developing what's it say in 1994 three-stage process first phase providing services within China second stage Asia Pacific by 2012 third stage global services by 2020 now what is the Indian GPS like Indian GPS uh Navik Navic is an indigenous thing it extends 1500 km beyond its border ers and I'm not sure what future plans we have. So as you can see our ambitions are very modest. We seek to be 1500 km beyond our borders and beyond that we have no idea for that we will develop will depend on other countries. Uh so that's the deal. So why does India? So my point is we are talking about Navik, we're talking about BU but it it shows you the extent of a nation's ambition. So when we talk about something like BU or Navik or even GPS that's dual use technology that has civilian applications it also has very military specific applications and our military area of influence or or area of interest rather is the subcontinent and 1500 km beyond India's borders nothing more so our ambition at best right now based on these actions not on words see forget the words. Forget the words. Forget about what so and so leader has said in words. Look at the actions. Our actions are very modest. So why? Because our ambitions are limited. That's why. So Ari says you have been vocal that Indian Navy should focus on submarines not on aircraft carriers. Why? Why Abijit do you keep on saying this? Why do you keep saying Abijit that India should focus on submarines not on aircraft carriers? Why is it so? Aircraft carriers are very difficult to sink. It's very difficult to sink the carrier as the mechanical structure is such and it is guarded by a carrier group unlike submarines. Why? It's a good question. It's it's an excellent question and maybe I should explain in detail. Right. So what's the deal with aircraft carriers? Are they obsolete or are they still relevant? They are not entirely obsolete but the use the the use cases for aircraft carriers are shrinking and the threats are increasing. Some nations can afford to put a big ring around their aircraft carrier. A proper aircraft carrier strike group with like 20 destroyers and other assets that create concentric defensive rings around aircraft carriers. Imagine how expensive that is. Now, why do I said there is increasing set of there's an increasing set of threats for aircraft carriers which is printing the use cases. Why is that so? So, let's first examine the threats that we have. There are now extremely advanced anti-hship missiles. Secondly, there are hypersonic weapons, very dangerous hypersonic weapons. There are now more and more sophisticated submarines and then we have the advent of unmanned systems of various kinds. These things have fundamentally altered what you call the risk calculus that aircraft carriers face. Okay. So let's go into detail. I spoke about anti-hship missiles, advanced anti-hship missiles. One is the anti-ship ballistic missiles. So, China is has been developing for quite some time these so-called carrier killer missiles. Okay, there is DF21D and there is the DF26B. These are two carrier killer missiles. One has a shorter range 1500 or so km. the the other one 26B has a range in probably probably in excess of 4,000 kilometers. So these carrier killer missiles, they're are ballistic missiles and they can hone in on on a carrier based on data that comes from satellites like we discussed and they can obliterate an aircraft carrier. They can carry conventional warheads or even the naughty ones, nuclear warheads. And it's very difficult to to to uh defend a carrier against that sort of ballistic missile threat right and because of this even look you may be able to take down perhaps one two of these but what if someone launches a barrage like 10 of these at you it's almost impossible to defend the aircraft carrier strike group against that. So because of this aircraft carriers then have to operate thousands of kilometers offshore away from contested regions to remain beyond the range of such missiles. And this significantly reduces the combat reg combat radius of not just the aircraft carrier not just the aircraft aircraft carrier strike group but also the aircraft that the aircraft carrier carries. And that's the whole purpose of an aircraft carrier to take aircraft far beyond the shores of the host country. Right? So that is those carrier killer missiles. Then you have hypersonic missiles. There are that are what is the definition of hypersonic? A missile that that travels faster than mark 5 faster than five times the speed of sound is a hypersonic missile. You have the Russian Circon missile which is faster which which flies faster than Mark 8. Imagine that. Then the Russians have something called the Avanguard hypersonic glide vehicle. Mach 27. How on earth do you defend yourself against the MAC 27 weapon? 27 times the speed of sound. Even if you know how to defend, do you understand how much it compresses your decision-m timeline from the time you detect something to what decision you should take until and how much time you have before it impacts you? It really compresses that. So the faster a missile is, the less lesser time you have to make decisions and defend yourself and perhaps save the aircraft carrier. Then you have submarine threats. We did not discuss that. Submarine threats. Now here's an interesting event that happened 20 years ago, 2005. The Swedish have this submarine which is called the Gautland class submarine. It is a very cheap and small submarine. It costs about $100 million which is super cheap for submarines. In 2005 there were these exercises off the coast of California. Okay, Pacific coast of the US. And in these exercises a Swedish Gautland class submarine repeatedly sank the USS Ronald Reagan, a massive super carrier of the US aircraft carrier. So this one submarine the the Gautland class submarine it was up against an entire aircraft carrier strike group. It had destroyers, it had helicopters, it had anti-ubmarine aircraft, right? And this submarine it had air independent propulsion and it is it operates extremely silently and it was able to penetrate the aircraft carrier strike groups defenses multi-layered defenses and it was able to score multiple stimulated torpedo hits on the aircraft carrier. Right now imagine if you the torpedo could be of various kinds. The Russians have these super cavitating uh supersonic torpedoes. A torpedo can carry regular warheads. It can also carry the nasty ones, nuclear ones. Right? If you're able to penetrate this the defenses and you launch a torpedo, you can blow the the aircraft carrier out of the water. So this submarine, it costs $100 million. The super carrier costs between 6 to 10, maybe 12 billion. Add to that the cost of the strike group, the protective cocoon, that's tens of billions of dollars. So do you see uh the cost benefit disparity over here, right? Then you have things like drone swarms, aerial UAVs that you can you can use to swarm the the aircraft carrier. You can even use underwater vehicles. So this is of emerging threat, asymmetric threat. And through this, you don't want to destroy the aircraft car, you want to disable it. You want to first of all overwhelm the carrier defenses through saturation attacks. Just numbers, sheer numbers. It's it's just a mathematical thing. If you have sufficient numbers, you will overwhelm the defenses of the strike group. And then you will you don't have to sink the carrier. You have to damage it. You have to damage the flight deck deck. For example, during operation Synindor, we cratered the the the runways of Pakistani air bases. If you if you put gaping holes in the runways, the Pakistani fighter planes can't take off or land. Similarly, if you damage the flight deck of an aircraft carrier, it is disabled. You can't either take off or land from it. So, it becomes completely ineffective. Combat ineffective. Right? So, so now you hopefully understand the kind of threats that aircraft carriers face that they did not face 30 years ago in 1990. Things have changed significantly 35 years ago. Okay. And these threats are even more pronounced in geographically constrained waters. Choke points. We have discussed choke points, haven't we? The Mala straight, the straight of Hormuz, the Red Sea, the Taiwan straight. These are geographically constrained waters, which means choke points over there. This threat is particularly pronounced. And aircraft carriers are essentially sitting ducks, especially against saturation attacks. They will not survive that. So aircraft carriers will now have to stay away from these things. But understand that the operational context matters. So where do aircraft carriers still remain effective? What are the use cases we can think of? Huh? First of all, aircraft carriers are effective um when they are carrying out an operation of power projection against what we call non-per adversaries. So non-tier adversaries means nations that are not comparable in power or capabilities to the to the to the host nation. So if I am the US and I have the super advanced powerful aircraft carrier and I am going out there to bully let's say let's say Somalia, Somalia is not a peer adversary. So over there it's effective. Somalia doesn't pose a threat to the US or let's say they want to bully North Korea. Well, North Korea they have to be careful because North Korea has certain weapons they don't they don't want to face. So once again even versus North Korea the US will have to keep the aircraft carrier away from it reasonably at a reasonable distance from the North Korean uh assets. You see so aircraft carriers are effective in uncontested or lightly contested environments where you where they where they up against nonper adversaries. Okay. So they are effective for power projection and bullying against non-per adversaries. They are aircraft carriers are good for deterrence and diplomatic signaling. Aircraft career is one lakh tons of naval diplomacy gunboat diplomacy just to show off your strength and might and all that. Um they have the symbolic pre symbolic u value you know um they are symbols of national resolve national prestige national capability and uh they they're symbolic assets in that in that sense and they are good for patrolling uh you know trade routes sea lanes of communication um they're good for you know doing patrolling jobs and sea sea control and all of that and They are good for bluewater operations, open water operations in environments that are far away from your adversary adversary and your adversaries the range of their missiles and from their shores. So that is what aircraft carriers are good for. If they enter a contested environment, no matter how many defenses you have, if the opponent is capable, they will wipe your aircraft carrier out of existence. Now when it comes to India, what do we seek to do? Who are our major adversaries? What are our major threats? One is East Pakistan, one is West Pakistan. Do we need an aircraft carrier for that? We don't. Another one is China. Do we want to send an aircraft carrier into waters near China and bully China? We don't seek to bully anybody. We may face perhaps in the future a Chinese aircraft carrier uh group coming into the Bay of Bengal or something. So what do you do? You do you face off with that with an aircraft carrier? No, you create A2A bubbles, anti-access area denial bubbles through missiles and other frightening things. You don't need an aircraft carrier to counter an aircraft carrier strike group. You counter it asymmetrically. But I'm not saying that we should wind up our aircraft career program. It's a hard one hardearned set of capabilities and skills. So we should continue the aircraft carriers that we already have. But right now at this point in time until we become a 20 trillion economy, we should not invest in more of these. That's my point. We should invest in submarines. Submarines are stealthy, invisible. They can go into your contested spaces. They can go into your choke points. they can go into your constrained geop geographical environments and and wreak mayhem there. That's why submarines are more valuable in today's environment and technological set of circumstances than the aircraft carrier. I hope I have given a reasonably detailed explanation of why I insist that India should invest in submarines, various kinds of very dangerous, deadly capable submarines rather than more aircraft carriers. Keep the aircraft carriers that we have. Keep operating those but don't invest in more. invest, use that money to build more submarines, better submarines, various kinds of submarines, diesel, electric submarines, air independent propulsion submarines, nuclear submarines, ballistic missile submarines, hunter killer submarines, all of that. Okay. Anonymous scientist says, "What will happen to the global order if the US achieves ASI?" What is ASI? Archaeological Survey of India. Oh, it means artificial super intelligence. What do we mean by artificial super intelligence? We hear the term AGI and ASI thrown around all the time. What is AGI? AGI is artificial general intelligence and ASI is artificial super intelligence. What's the difference? AGI is an artificially intelligent system that is capable of doing essentially whatever human beings do. It it essentially means that you have a machine with an IQ of about 140 to 160, a pretty intelligent human being who can do everything a human being can do. All the reasoning, all the thinking, all the creativity, uh all the problem solving, everything. So an AGI system is that with an IQ of 140 to 160, ideally 150, 160, a very intelligent person. That's what an AGI system is. Okay. What's an ASI system? Well, think of it this way. An artificially super intelligent system will have all the capabilities of AGI, but it's going to have an IQ of maybe 300, maybe 400, maybe 500. That's beyond human capabilities. That if you achieve, it will start giving you results that are essentially science fiction results, right? It may well if you if you want to look at non scary stuff it may be able to give us a theory of quantum gravity it may be able to reconcile general relativity and quantum mechanics quantum field theory that's what it may be able to definitely do if it is an IQ of 300 or 500 it may be able to perhaps even invent time travel travel technologies maybe tell us how to create wormholes traversible wormholes and whatnot that sort of thing as that sort of things. So the a nation so that is just the scientific thing that I'm talking about. It will it will have all these military and defense and intelligence and other applications. And that means that the nation that has invented ASI and controls ASI it it possesses enormous immense amounts of strategic advantages, economic advantages, military advantages, technological advantages. This will usher in immediately a new era in geopolitics where the balance is balance in power is essentially radically changed. So let's say the US like anonymous scientist says let's say the US achieves ASI what will happen the US once it achieves ASI it will enjoy a decisive military edge over everybody a massive military edge over everyone else. a massive intelligence edge over everyone else. ASI will ensure that that all the traditional forms of warfare and defense become obsolete. The US will be able to automate everything. It will be able to automize automate all its military offense and defense capabilities. Right? It will able to it will be able to optimize everything and it will be able to outthink all of its adversaries in real time right now as we speak. And this will neutralize the deterrence value of of military equipment. It will neutralize the deterrence value of nuclear arsenals. Uh the US will be able to disrupt all the infrastructure of its adversaries through cybernetic cyber means. it will be able to control all the narratives via information warfare, information dominance. U the US it already dictates terms to the rest of the world to a large extent. It will be able to completely effectively dictate terms to everybody including China, Russia, everyone else. This will completely reshape the the the nature of the alliances and then the US will be able to either coers other nations into becoming its basiles. It will offer partnership which is vasal to everybody else or it will ensure that any nation's resistance becomes completely futile, completely impractical and completely useless. Right? And in a very short amount of time you will have a tremendous inequality growing inequality in technological capability in influence in power in wealth and because of this resource competition will become obsolete and there's going to be a tremendous brain drain everybody will seek to go to the US and in case this ASI system probably a military military ASI in case This ASI is it's something that self-improves obviously an ASI will be a self-improving system right so in case it is a self-improving system and it is strongly controlled hopefully by the US uh then this gap in capabilities etc will become un insurmountable maybe for decades maybe for centuries especially if the US guards the technology aggressively and undermines every other nation's efforts to develop similar technology. So if the US alone develops ASI, it's game over for everybody else. If the US and another nation, maybe China develop ASI together, it will trigger a shocking arms race and that could lead to results we can't imagine, we can't foresee, right? So both will try to undermine each other and it will they will try to align other nations with them and you're going to have a cold war perhaps on steroids and uh then both nations may invest in sabotage, espionage, god knows what else to restrain each other or to outdo each other. Um and obviously there there's always the threat that this ASI if it is you know it will obviously be super intelligent like a human with 300 IQ 500 IQ but if it becomes somehow autonomous if it is self-aware which ASI systems most likely will be and if it somehow manages to become autonomous because it is it's a self-improving system then it will immediately guaranteed it will transcend the national interest of the host nation which created it and it will seek broader control a broader scope of control of the world and then we cannot predict predict anything that happens next maybe we are in the terminator scenario then right so these are the various things that could happen so ASI will be a pivotal moment in human history it will take humanity in a direction where we have never gone before and the consequences perhaps we can't even imagine what those could be but anyhow if we if we assume that that the US it's able to first develop ASI before anybody else and it's able to properly control it and ensure it doesn't run out of control then it's going to be unchallengeable right it's going to be unchallengeable it will ensure that nobody else is able to develop this technology and it's going to be perhaps you know able to rule for at least a century or two. So it's unlike anything that's ever happened before and maybe it could happen soon maybe 5 10 years. Who knows what kind of systems are being developed in private in secret behind closed doors like I've said so many times. So AI is is is a gamecher and we are familiar with AI. We have all these chat GPD like systems out there which already are like kind of magical. That's like talking to a human being. But imagine what is being developed behind closed doors and the military applications of that. So okay Aush Singh says do you don't you think China was the biggest winner of this entire Russia Ukraine thing? The entire attention of the west went towards Russia and Russia to an extent became dependent on China for supply chains is it gave China a leverage over Russia. Please share your inputs. Okay. Russia um the Russia Ukan war. Most likely China has been the biggest winner of this. See now the US considers China to be one of the G2, right? The US now has officially stated that its doctrine is going to be that of defending the western hemisphere hemispheric defense like it says. So you the US seems to have now officially conceded that China is like a peer competitor a G2 which means that they are kind of implicitly saying that China is kind of like them a superpower. I don't quite agree because of the power projection disparities but yes so China has benefited a lot. Russia whether you like it or not has kind of become to some extent a junior partner of China. Russia depends on China for so many things. If China stops purchasing Russian oil and and other things then Russia will be in deep trouble right. Uh so China has been who are the other winners? So India it's it's become more relevant geopolitically ever since the uh Ukraine conflict started. Um the US expected that they would destroy Russia through sanctions and whatnot and that has not happened. Russia has actually become stronger economically and militarily as well and Russia doesn't isn't affected by sanctions because it's an otarchy. So the US so the US game plan hasn't worked. So that has kind of to some extent slightly diminished the US's standing and prestige. Europe has has has been a big uh it's been a big series of setbacks for Europe ever since this conflict began because US because the the Europeans no longer are able to purchase this this you know they no longer have access to this uh inexhaustible supply of cheap energy that was flowing in from Russia through Russian gas Nordstream and all that. So Europe is de-industrializing. Germany and other nations are are going backwards economically. Bad days for Europe. India, it's exposed India to all kinds of problems. But India's relevance has grown. No question. But overall, I would say China has been the biggest U beneficiary of this. It's now a G2 nation. In 2022, China was not regarded as a G2 nation. Now the US president himself has said that China is a G2 nation. So yeah, China has risen in stature, in relevance and uh not sure about power but in terms of its sphere of influence and control it's risen. So I would agree that China has been the biggest winner of whatever has happened in the Ukraine war thus far overall macroscopic perspective. Aayush says don't you don't you think that Taiwan invasion by China is far from reality? They know that they will be immediately sanctioned and the US might come to Taiwan's aid. What will they achieve? A burnt and destroyed island. Look, honestly speaking, China doesn't have to invade Taiwan. If they can keep their ego aside, they don't have to invade Taiwan. they all they have to do is to continue controlling the the airspace and naval space around Taiwan and uh make further inroads into Taiwan economically. Excuse me. Taiwan is already to a significant extent economically integrated with China. A lot of Taiwanese people work in China. A lot of Chinese people were working in Taiwan. I'm not sure what the situation right now is uh but it's been that case, right? A lot of the Taiwanese economy is integrated with the Chinese economy. Taiwan benefits from its economic um ties with China. So all you have to do is to make Taiwan completely integrated with your economy and make Taiwan dependent on you economically. You don't have to set a foot in Taiwan. You don't have to. The question is will that be acceptable to the people of China who regard Taiwan as a renegade province and do they insist that we have to retake proper full control of Taiwan with boots on the ground. Will Xinping be able to get away with not taking Taiwan militarily and just continuing what is continuing ideally see ideally it makes no sense to invade Taiwan. Let the situation continue for the next 20 30 years. Taiwan will become more and more integrated with China and then that's it. What else do you want? Right? You you make it a Chinese appendage. So um and what happens if China tries to invade Taiwan? There's going to be war. The US will come to Taiwan's aid in some way or the other. Um in case Taiw in case the Chinese military is very superior and it's able to take Taiwan, it will take it will be able to take it island that's already been destroyed. It won't take Taiwan intact. everything that Taiwan has of value will be destroyed by the time the Chinese take it. That is a guarantee. So what's the point? So I agree that that an invasion of Taiwan doesn't really make sense from a practical perspective. But from a national pride and prestige perspective, maybe it is important that Xinping eventually takes it. Yeah. So there are these national pride considerations that change the equations. Otherwise, it doesn't really make a lot of sense to um you know invade Taiwan militarily. Aayush Singh says every n every major nation except the US and Russia are engaged in border conflicts except Russia Ukraine thing but the US is alone the dominant player in both the American continent. How did the US manage to do this except for a few nations? All are under under US vasal. Doesn't this give the US a huge leverage over any other major global power or any other major power in the globe? How did they achieve this level of domination of dominance? They achieved it step by step incrementally over centuries. Even before the US became a nation, the process was already in place. It was already in motion. So, we know it all starts with Columbus discovering uh the the Caribbean region, imagining that he's in India, right? It all begins with that. the Spaniards make the first moves. Eventually by the 1600s the the English start start entering the the frey and between the 1600s early 1600s all the way to the late 19th century there are these endless American Indian wars the European occupiers trying to wipe out the natives right there is this king Phillips war late 17th century second half of the 17th century in which there is there is major warfare then in what 1775 5 to the 8 1780s there's the American War of Independence in which America becomes independent of England but it still is a small geographical areas if you want to see the map of the US. Okay, let's see map of the US in 1783. USA map 1783. Let's take a look at what the US looked like in 1783. You see this green portion? Uh that's all it was. That's all it was. So if you are a nation that occupies the green portion that you see there, you are not a major power. You are nowhere close to being a major power. So what does the US do? Right? So 1783 they win the war of independence. They become so they become independent of the of the UK. In 1803 the Americans purchased Louisiana. the Louisiana purchase from uh Napole from um the French first republic. What was it? Yeah. Uh from Napoleon and then we have the situation where they control a much larger territory Louisiana purchase. Let's see. So this is the Louisiana purchase the area in green massive territory that they purchase and they more than double in size and then they go further west further west killing more Indians genociding and displacing more Indians I mean the native Americans who who they called Indians at the time. So the Indian removal it it really took took took off in the in the second quarter of the 19th century between in 1830 to 1850. Around that time there was ethnic cleansing. There was genocide. The Indians were the native Americans were forced to go on these extremely long marches, death marches. The objective is not to go from place point A to point B. The objective was to kill off the population in in such a by making them walk such large distances. that that's what it was. So there was the Indian removal, you had the Trail of Tears 1832, 1850 thereabouts. Yeah. Uh ethnic cleansing, genocide, mass murder. That's that's what what it was. Um then there is the Alaska purchase in the second half of the 19th century. Um the president was Andrew Johnson and the secretary of state was William Seard and the purchase of Alaska from Russia was considered to be crazy. It was called Seward's folly, but it made a lot of sense. If you look at things today, Alaska is so rich in resources and it's such a vast territory for the US to own. So they keep keep on expanding. They eventually they take control of the entire coast to coast area that the present day United States states has. They go to war with Mexico and they take over California and Colorado and so much more. Right? Half of Mexico essentially or roughly almost the takeover. They keep expanding the territory and by by the by around 1900 they have this gigantic territory that's continent sized and it's an otarchy. All the resources you can imagine that could you could wish to have you have it. Then second world war it the US participates 1944 you have the Breton woods uh situation where the US dollar is made the global dominant currency the reserve currency in the world and then the rest of the history you know. So that's how the US did it from the 1600s all the way to till today. And now they will expand into space. That's how you do it. You need to have huge ambition. You need to have a huge appetite for risk. And that's how you become a superpower. Not through action, not through not through slogans, through massive action and by taking massive risks and by having the the the ability to stomach big losses. Right? That's what you need. That's how the US has become what it has become. Okay. Uh Amisha Mishra says, "Why is Trump's evangel why does Trump's evangelical base want him to send troops to Nigeria?" Rush says, "Your views on Trump wanting Nigeria to warning Nigeria about the persecution of Christians by extremists. What is really the game and why is the US getting involved in Nigeria?" See um Trump's base the MAGA base is many of them are evangelicals you know conservatives and Christians and all that and Christianity is kind of a declining religion in the west it's it's you know going out of vogue in Europe definitely even in the US a significant amount of the population no longer believes in Christianity so the evangelical base wants to maintain its foothold wherever they have it and about slightly less than half of Nigeria is Christian and obviously you have the situation in Nigeria where the government isn't able to control much of the territory in the north and you have Boo Haram that is this terrorist organization that kills Christians Christians um they've been doing it for a long time and that's why [clears throat] uh that's why Trump uh has warned Nigeria about to do something otherwise he will uh intervene. So look, foreign policy is an outgrowth of your domestic policy and you have to appease your voters and that's why you have to ensure that they they are happy and that's why Trump has issued issued this warning to Nigeria. Nigeria is not going against US wishes. Nigeria is not doing anything that will offend the US. Nigeria's economic policy, foreign policy, etc. is is all in line with the United States wishes just like every other nation essentially in Africa. But the Nigerian government is not able to control Boohh Haram. So maybe the US may get involved just to pleate the conservative voter base of the Republican party and the the MAGA people. Right. Sunmoon08 says, "Do you think viral AI videos about Indian lack of civic sense are coming from the CCP? I don't see them bashing Pakistanis or Bangladeshes for these. Totally weird. It's definitely artificially engineered. All these viral AI videos about yeah Indians doing whatever. Yeah, very some people find it very offensive and they obviously are intended to offend right so these are most of these videos are are AI generated videos. The question is where does it come from? Look does Pakistan have the AI capability to do this? They don't. The Chinese do of course today the if you're Pakistani you can you can take a subscription to an AI system maybe what is it? Chat GPT. Chat GPT. Does it make videos? I'm not sure. I'm sure there are other other AI tools that allow you to generate videos. I'm sure many of these AI tools don't allow you to generate offensive videos, but I'm sure that there are some that do. So, maybe it's coming mainly from the CCP, maybe from China mostly, maybe also from Pakistan. So, you can create these bot farms. You know, you see this bookshelf behind me. This one, you can have bookshelves. You can have shells full of racks of mobile phones, a,000 2,000 of these in one one rack. And each of these mobile phones will have one account, a bot account, and you can create mayhem through that. You can push all kinds of propaganda narratives using VPNs, using whatever. And you can create a certain image of a nation, a certain narrative of a nation. If you push out hundreds of such videos every day, thousands of such videos every day, then eventually people start believing that India is a very backward, very dirty, etc. nation. And to some extent these problems do exist in India but not to the extent that those AI generated videos are are portraying right so I can't say for sure where this is coming from but definitely China and Pakistan are the two major suspects in this more China than Pakistan and this has had the effect of creating successfully creating a narrative about India. It has succeeded right today. You see a tremendous amount of hatred towards Indians on social media coming from the west. But the the sparks were lit from outside the west, most likely China and possibly even Pakistan. Okay, last question for today from the comments. Real painter says, "What's the geopolitical significance of the Bagram air base?" Okay, let's take a look at Bagram. Let's go to the map and let's go to Bagram. Let's uh change the orientation of the map. We come to the subcontinent. We go north of Kabul. So let's go into the satellite imagery and just north of Kabul, a few 30, 40, 50 km away, you have Bram. And you can see the air base from space. There we have it. This is Bagram. It's massive. It's a massive air base as you can see. And you can see it's not just the the two runways that you see, but it's like an entire city that's built around these runways. It's like a fully equipped, fully functional, self-controlled, self-contained military city. The US when they operated Bagram Air Base, they were able to station about 30,000 troops here. So you can imagine how massive it is. And uh if you look at the length of the runways, okay, let's let's quickly take a rough look at the length of the runway, it's about 3 km, 3 km, the large runway, and there's a smaller one that is about 2.9 or whatever kilometers. Let's see. Let's measure that quickly. What is it? 2.9 something km. So, two massive runways that can accommodate any kind of aircraft, no matter how large, how heavy it is. Two runways. And then we have this entire massive military complex all around it. Uh they have hospitals, they have trauma centers, they have intelligence gathering u you know facilities, there are barracks, there are hardened shelters for various kinds of aircraft. So much more everything you can want in an air base. You have in Bram. It was built by the Soviets but it was used by the Americans. And right now it is obviously a sovereign Afghan territory and it is under the control of the Afghan government, the Taliban government. And the US wants this air base now. They want it back even though it's not there. So why is it important? What's the strategic significance? So zoom out. Let's go to the to the map itself. Zoom out and you will see that this lies in a very interesting neighborhood. If you are in Bram and if you have all those surveillance capabilities, then you can keep an eye on Pakistan, you can keep an eye on Northern India, you can keep an eye on uh the the western part of Chinese occupied territory, you can keep an eye on Central Asia, you can obviously keep an eye on what's happening in Iran, you can project power in a massive way across all these countries. And you can even keep an eye on Russia to some extent and and and territories that Russia considers to be part of its exclusive sphere of influence. Um and Bagram has historically been considered to be the air base of empires. First the Soviet empire and now later the US empire and when the US withdrew from Bram it was kind of you know the US lost some prestige by giving up this massive air base. There is no comparable air base in the entire region. So that's the geopolitical significance of Bagram. You can keep an eye on China. You can if you control Bram, you can control the whole of Afghanistan. You can uh see Afghanistan is very important. Why is it important? Because it's it's at the crossroads between east and west. It's at the it's the northernmost part of the Indian subcontinent. Um it's the it's the gateway to Central Asia. If you are in the subcontinent, it's also between China and and West Asia, between uh the subcontinent and central Asia and it obviously is in Afghanistan which itself is strategically important because of the incredible wealth of resources you know mineral and other resources that Afghanistan has. So overall if you look at all this Bram becomes tremendously important from a strategic and geopolitical geostrategic perspective. That's the significance of the Bagram Air Base and that brings me to the end of the questions I have selected for today. Now let's take a look at what questions we have in the live chat. I can see some people have taken super chats. Well, okay, let me deal with those super chats. Let me answer those and that then we will end this live stream. Susan Batwaj says, "There we have it." Well, there we have it, sir. Thank you so much. [laughter] Thank you so much, sir. There we indeed have it. Appreciate it, sir. Appreciate it very much. James, my dear friend James says, "Look at the status of Himalayan towns, ugly and bad. Look at our alpine towns glowing and shining. Indians are not grand at winter sports as well." Well, actually, James, if you look at Himalayan towns, they are not that ugly. If you go to the Himalayan parts of India, at least there you have a sparer population density, lower population density and the towns are in a better shape compared to the metropolitan parts of India. and and some parts in the some some parts of the Indian Himalayas are really picturesque, really pretty. So obviously you can't compare Indian Himalayan towns with let's say Aenzel or the Valet region of Switzerland or the Alpine parts of Europe definitely because those are first world countries and we still are quite aren't that right but things are improving um and there's tremendous natural beauty in the Indian Himalayas. The Indian Himalayas are are very different from the Alps in Europe. The Alps, if you visit, the mountains look tame. The mountains look tame. You come to the Himalayas, the mountains look wild, untamed, rugged. Nothing tame about the Himalayas, right? Very different character. But I I know what you mean. We're not talking about the natural beauty here. We're talking about the situation, the way the towns, cities, etc. are maintained. And obviously, there's a disparity between India and Europe, India and the West. And that is something we Indians have to acknowledge. But I I think I'm pretty sure things are improving. If you go to for example Ladak, if you go to Lei and then now you have a new airport coming up in Lelay, I hope it would have become operational or would be on the verge of becoming operational and you can see progress. You can see development all of that happening in India. So it's not like we are just sitting where we are. We are making progress and eventually next 20 years things will be very different. So I appreciate you James for pointing out these uh these uh situations. And yeah, I appreciate you sir. 6P70 Delta says, "Have you read the news of RAF getting Indian instructors?" Royal Air Force from white man's burden to brown man's burden or James would not be happy. I feel well I have not seen this news but let's quickly check it out. RAF getting Indian instructors. Well, well, well. What what is the world coming to RAF Indian instructors? Really? Um in reversal of colonial times IF instructors to train UK's RAF to hawk qualified flying instructors from India will be based on angle aid for up to three years part of a new defense cooperation agreement between the UK and India. First time since World War II that IF pilots will train RAF pilots. Well well very interesting. Good to see that. White man's burden to bronze man brown man's burden. Well times change. See we have to remember historically for the most of history for the longest part of history India has been the world's dominant economy and the world's dominant technological power the oldest civilization and the first civilization to become fully maritime fully industrialized fully urbanized. So we are slowly working towards reattaining our natural position in the world and these whatever we see here that's signs and symptoms of that happening and that's why there is push back against that and that's natural and we have to strive harder. 6P70 Delta says many so-called experts say now say that Ukraine has shown that Russian weapons are trash. If that's the case then why are NATO increasing their defense spending significantly? Um what's my opinion on one rupee $1 equal to three rupees by 2030 prediction? Okay, first of all uh yeah it's it's kind of reasonable it's kind of laughable that uh when people say that you know you can show that Russian weapons are trash. If Russian weapons are were trash then Russia would have lost the war. If Russian weapons would crash then then the US would not force the NATO nations to increase their their defense expenditure by by 100% right by 2030 to double their their budgetary allocation to defense by 2030 and so much more it would not be the case. Russian weapons are battle tested they are robust and they are getting the job done for Russia. So first of all there's that. What's my opinion on dollar one one becoming rupees 3 by 2030 prediction? I am not aware of this prediction and uh yeah I'm not aware of it. I've not studied it so I can't really say. I think it is a very very steep target but I will be happy if that happens but I am I have not studied this so I can't say. Taran Taran is a new member. Well thank you very much Taran and let us all welcome Taran to membership. I really appreciate it Tan really appreciate that. Hershel Singla says Palestinian foreign minister Varsen says India potential bridge builder for peace in Gaza. Also we saw how Trump deals with Putin. Many think India can play a role there also. Are these too far-fetched? Well, from the the way I see it, Palestine is not our problem. Gaza is not our problem. But if we can use our good offices in bringing about a peaceful resolution to whatever is happening there, which is obviously very nasty and terrible from a humanitarian perspective, then obviously we'll be happy to oblige. If the Palestinians are are supportive or or or if they are desirous of India let's say playing a role in u in building in bringing about peace in Gaza and if the Israelis also are in agreement then I'm perfectly in favor of India doing that. So India certainly can potentially play a role. We are on good terms with very good terms with Israel, no question. And we also have good good relations with the with the Palestinians, right? We have always supported the Palestinian cause uh for for a Palestinian nation. That's how our position has been historically. So as such, we are uniquely positioned to play a constructive role. Uh it certainly can happen if both sides so desire with the blessings of the bigger brother, the United States. Basar Kayatwal says, "Happy birthday in advance. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. All the love and support in the world for you. Grateful you are spending these hours before birthday with us. See you soon in Jaipur. Hope you and your family are doing amazing. Sunrocket. Thank you so much. So thank you so much. I'm doing great and thank you so much for the wishes and uh yep I'll be there in Jaipur and I look forward to seeing you Basar and everybody else whoever comes there. I'll be very pleased to meet you all and maybe have some interesting interactions. I look forward to it. Thank you. Sunil Bunel says China built build built a thorium reactor. What about India? Well, until a few years ago, India was supposed to have the world's most advanced podium research program. We have this uh three-stage nuclear program. We are at the end of the first stage and we we are potentially stepping into the second stage. I've spoken about this in detail in the past. Um what about India? Like like I said with space we have the capabilities, we have the engineers, we have the knowhow, we have the scientists but do we have the ambition? Does the government have the ambition? I know that we are building more nuclear reactors and all but thorium. So we have to get through the second stage to reach the thorium stage. The thorium stage is essentially the third third stage. We need more drive. We need a surge. what we can do over the next 10 years why don't we do it in the next one year or three years for that we need drive we need ambition we need that thing right we don't seem to have it what can I say what can I say we have the world's largest thorium reserves 25 to 30% of the entire world's thorium reserves are in India and they're just sitting there what can I say no Sony thank you very much sir no question but yeah thank you very I really appreciate your contribution to the channel. Thank you. No. Karthik says, "Grochipedia gives unbiased factual answers on Ram Mander God riots and so on. Have I tried? I have not tried it but I've seen some screenshots here and there on on on X on Twitter. It's clear that Gipedia is far better than Wikipedia. But is it really unbiased? I will have to look see about. I am very skeptical that it's going to be completely unbiased. It's going to have some subtle biases for sure baked into it. But it is no question about it. It's far better than Wikipedia. Wikipedia is just slanted open overt blatant slant against India. No question. I I always keep saying right whenever I open up a Wikipedia page for for the sake of uh quickness I always say that statutory warning Wikipedia is not necessarily a good source of information reliable source of information especially when it comes to India and Indian history probably is better but it will still have some subtle inbuilt biases I guarantee that but I'll have to see it for for for myself and maybe I'll take some screenshots and show you once that happens when once I'm able to do Amisha says, "Happy birthday, sir. God bless you." Thank you so much, ma'am. Thank you so much. God bless you, too. I really appreciate the wishes and and your viewership and everything else. Thank you so much. Satellite says, "How much GPUs, how many GPUs does it take to run one AI AI? [laughter] There's no GPUs inside of me." Um, yeah. Anyway, [laughter] nice funny question. I appreciate that. I appreciate. Thank you very much. Dave says, "Starlink is signing deals with our states now to provide satellite based internet. What are my views? Why is the government of India allowing it?" Happy birthday, sir in advance. Thank you very much. Why is the government of India allowing it? I do not know why India the government of India is allowing this. In my opinion, we should not allow this. I can't speak on behalf of the government of India as to why this is being allowed. But um I am of the firm opinion that they should not be allowed. That's all I can say. I can't answer your question because I'm not in the government of India and I'm not privy to the thinking that goes on behind the scenes that gives rise to these decisions. All right. 6p70 delta says this prediction of dollar 1 equal to rupees 3 was made by Dr. Ankit. Okay. Noted but I am not aware of it. So I I can't really uh comment about it because I've not studied it. I've not uh seen this. Anyway, thank you for the information. Satellite says happy birthday sir. Thank you so much satellite. Thank you so much everybody else. This brings me to the end of this live stream. Thank you very much. Um may be bless me. [laughter] Okay. All right. So thank you so much. This brings me to to the end of this live stream and this weekend I want to be doing live streams because I will be in Jaipur but regular programming resumes next week onwards and I shall put out some clips in the intervening period. Thank you so much everybody and I look forward to seeing you in the next one. Keep learning, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards. See you in the next one. Thank you very much. Take care. Those of you who are coming to Jaipur, I'll see you there. Everybody else, see you soon. Bye-bye.