[music] Hey, are you [music] >> [music] >> Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Hello everybody. Good day, good evening to everyone and welcome back to the Ask Abij show. I hope you are all doing great. It's been a while. Um I was uh not here for a while. Last weekend I wasn't there but we're back. We're back and it's so good to be among you all. So uh I'm going to take questions about history today. I'm going to take questions that you have asked in the comments. I'll take as many of these as possible. Before I do that, let me see who all is there on the live chat and greet some of you. I can see Nagendra Adiga Aush Singh Shub Nationalist Ankita Stone Chat DSP Manhattan Vikash PJ Super Rex Vidi Manar Hello Random Skull Hello Arhan Sutaria hello Vikash PJ Namaste Mr. 88ers good evening Adi Tidi Anand Bharadwaj Sumit Agarwal Ain Ashwani Sagar Gare Namaskaram ultimate power sh nationalist Mr. 88s geopolitical dubet good to see you sir. Caitanya Manuja Aush Singh Romesh Murugaya Geopolitical Dubet is here from from Indor uh painter good to see you super hello stone Somi Jane is also here from Jaipur. Super Rex Baskar Kayatwal Stone Ashwani okay we are repeating a few names here. Let's get on to some new ones. Uh, Suresh, Sadwani, DJ, Divine Joy, Parto Sharma, Parth, Event Countdown, Duv Yadav, Shanks, Sorav, Narayan, Unknown, Roads Talks, Subit Agarwal, Chundra, Shaker, Anoju, Art, Dianu Singh, The Seeker, Hensy, Penguin. Emergency episode soon. We'll see about that if there's an emergency. Swapnil saxa Nikkesh Dahal Santo Shana May Heoo okay Vikash Savv Narayan Priyanka Javalia hello freedom from outcome is here from Canada good morning to you uh Duvyadav Jagdish Mali hello Ojasitkumar long time no see well we are back we're back feminist hello Niranjan silent viewer silent viewer hello Bushan namaskar s Sharma DJ divine joy skr Nikita Mashish The seeker, Sumit Agarwal, this uh Avin Raalo Shva Kandangal just some Nut Arhan Sutara. Um who else? God was alive. Well, God was alive. Good good to see that. Mir Kulkarnney, Matt Reddi, Mlevvin, hello DJ Divine Joy once again. 142 Yadesh Putdar Himmanu Rajpurit Sharat Bandekar Bhoji Akash Jayant Jayant Nahul Sharma uh Mihir Kulkarnney Mr. Sakenna Aush Yadav Pamel Nandi good to see you sir. Uh and everyone else escala Jami part Jesh Mali Sharat Adil Bance. All right. Uh let me stop greeting you all otherwise it will go on forever. Let's take some questions. Uh Nikita says what about a space special? Would you like me to do a space special one of these days? An episode only devoted to space. the mysteries of space, the mysteries of the universe. Maybe we'll talk about aliens. Would you like that? Let me know in the comments. Let me know in the live. I won't be able to say the live chat right now, but let me know in the comments if it's something you want. I will be very happy to do that. It's one of my possibly my most favoriteest of topics. I'll be happy to do it. Okay, so let's get going with the questions. What questions have I selected? I've selected a bunch of questions. The the thing is you all have asked such incredibly fantastic wonderful questions that one episode is not enough to to field them all to handle them all. So maybe I'm I'm really tempted to do additional history specials to uh you know handle all the questions. Okay, let's get going with the questions. This is not quite a history question but let's begin with this one. Uh maybe it will help others also you know understand what I am about, what this channel is about. So, this is by Alex Martinez who says that I am a conservative Portlander from from Portland, Oregon, and I've been a subscriber to your channel for a few years now. I'm just curious about what political views you share. Are you also conservative? Are you a socialist? Just want to clarify where you stand. Sometimes it gets confusing to depict. Yeah. Well, oh, first of all, thank you for being here. Thank you for for subscribing from Portland. Good to have you. And it's a great question. I'm not sure I've ever discussed this. Where do I fit in? So, first of all, I don't really fit US party labels. I don't map neatly into American labels like conservative or socialist or right or left. I don't really fit into these things. Uh some people would say that I am a I'm an Indian nationalist. I I I I've seen people, you know, on Reddit or whatever talking about that that I'm an Indian nationalist. Some people depict me as a Hindu nationalist. What exactly am I? I would say I am an Indian civilizationalist. I'm a civilizational realist. I believe in realism. You have to be realistic about the world. So I am a civilizational realist. I am not partisan. I don't necessarily support a specific party, a specific uh person. I support India. I support Indian civilization. Uh so and uh how do I judge ideas? How do I judge ideas? Essentially, I judge them based on whether they strengthen or harm India's sovereignty, India's competence, India's long-term prosperity, India's prospects for self-determination long-term, India's long-term national interest, India's long-term cultural and civilizational interest. I I judge ideas whether based on whether they whether they strengthen or harm India's cultural resilience cultural continuity civilizational continuity civilizational resilience essentially I am biased towards India see a lot of people will say that they are neutral I give you a neutral perspective I will not say that each one of us has some inherent biases within ourselves and I am aware of that the fact that I also am biased I am biased towards India, India the civilization state. That's what I'm biased towards. So I that that's how I that's how I uh you know evaluate ideas. I that's how I judge ideas. How do I judge or evaluate evaluate policy? It's a simple test, you know. Does a policy increase India's power, India's resilience, India's freedom of action, India's civilizational and cultural interests and continuity over decades? Not the next three weeks, next three months, right? That sort of thing. And what do I value? Is it not necessarily political values, but what do I value overall? I value free inquiry. Yes, I I am aware that a free speech and free inquiry should be there. And I'm aware that they have limitations in an in a real world. That's called being realistic. But I do value free inquiry. I uh I am all about evidence first, labels second, right? Um and if uh evidence changes then if the data changes then my perspective also changes. I'm open to changing my perspective based on new data, new evidence. I value I value merit which means that I'm I'm opposed to neverending affirmative action. I'm opposed to never- ending reservations in India. I I value strong defense for India. I value resilience, resilient supply chains. I value India's growth. I value technological leadership and of course I value India's culture and civilization and I am very skeptical of imported ideologies and that sort of thing right so so based on all of this there is some overlap between where I stand and where American conservatives will stand. Yeah. on national strength, on deterrence, on on maybe cultural continuity, cultural values or whatever that is, right? So there'll be some overlap there, but there's going to be overlap with others also uh you know based on maybe you know industrial policy, technology etc. So uh that's kind of where I where I stand. I am an Indian civilizationalist. I I am a civilizational realist and I am not necessarily partisan. I don't necessarily support one person, one party, whatever. I support India and which India, not the nation state, the civilization state of which the nation state is a subset. So of course I support India, the nation in the shape and form that it does exist today. But broader in a from a broader perspective, I I support India's civilization. So that's kind of where I stand. Maybe to some extent I'm conservative but to some extent I you could say that I'm very progressive. I'm very liberal. I used to consider myself to be a liberal until I until I discovered what liberal means in the real world. Right? I'm not that liberal. I do value you know different ideas, different viewpoints, do different perspectives. I do do value plurality but not the kind of plurality which says that you need to import all you know people from all cultures, races whatever in and put them in one place in one city or in one country. Not that sort of thing. I value the the beauty and diversity of the world, the plurality of the world and each culture has its own place in the world. You don't have to mix them all together. That's how I see it. So maybe from that perspective I may be a little bit liberal but overall that's where I stand. I am firmly with India with Indian civilization and the Indian national interest. So it doesn't fit neatly into left or right in the US or conservative versus uh socialist. I definitely am not socialist. I abhore socialism. Some ideas within socialism may make a little bit of sense in some contexts but overall socialism is bad. It's ruinous as India knows very well. So yeah, that's kind of where I stand. I hope that clarifies things maybe to maybe to a certain extent at least. Anyway, thank you Alex. Good to have you and thank you so much for being a subscriber for several years. I really appreciate that. Right, next question. Nirvana Shanks says, "How reliable are historical narratives of conquest and empire given that most surviving records are produced by the victors? Can we ever reconstruct a truly objective past? You know, it's it's difficult to construct an to even construct a truly objective present because even in the context of the present moment right now, this very second, there's like 50 different narratives trying to influence the way you see the world. So each person's worldview even today about the way the world is today is going to be shaped by different narratives, competing narratives. So it's different. It's it's difficult to to even to construct a truly objective present. First of all, let's understand that because of the power power of narratives and propaganda and when it and you know you know the great man Mr. Trump has uh you know introduced this very famous uh uh you know phrase or or or term which is called what what fake news right fake news now if the news is fake imagine what history is like today's news is fake we know that a lot of it is is fake a lot of it is is spun around a lot of it is narratives a lot of it is is propaganda so if the news is fake imagine how history is going to be like. So there's no question about the fact that historical narratives of conquest, empire, just history overall are unreliable. It's Napoleon I believe who said that history is a set of lies agreed upon. Isn't it? So historical narratives whether they are of conquest, whether they of empire, whether they are of various nations, civilizations, cultures, whatever these are inherently shaped by [snorts] the perspectives and intentions of those who recorded them. Okay? And typically those who recorded history and those records if they have survived, these typically are the records created by victors. the ones who those who won uh you know conquest, empire, whatever, right? The the so these are so these historical narratives what we call history these are shaped by the perspectives and intentions of those who won by the of the victors and therefore they're going to present they're going to it's it's a guarantee that they will present a skewed or selective version of events of what really happened of how the world was during that particular period of time. whichever whichever period of time we're looking at. So these historical narratives are are influenced by cultural biases for example, political agendas, power dynamics and so much more of the victors of the dominant groups. So let's say you have a conquered territory. Let's talk about for example present day Turkey, right? So who won that? The Turks who were central Asian invaders. They conquered this land from the Greeks. What we call Turkey today was historically Greek in the Armenian territory. It was it was the Armenians and more than the Armenians, the Greeks who lived in Anatolia and they coexisted reasonably peacefully. And then you have these invaders who come in and take over the place. And I'll not go into the history but they you know in in their version of history is going to be very different than the version of history that the Greeks will put forth or the Armenians will put forth. I mean the Turks said that the Armenian genocide never happened. There was no such thing right and the Greek genocide obviously that also never happened. Before the Armenian genocide there were multiple waves of Greek genocide which u I'm not sure you will find any of that in in world history textbooks. Greek genocide. What about India? What about India? What what happened in the past 1,000 years, right? It's very controversial and nobody dares to speak the truth. Multiple waves of genocide of Indians. First by the Turks, then by the Europeans. The British engineered hundreds of artificial famines in India. We don't talk about that as a genocide. We say it was the colonial period. It was a period of foreign occupation, British occupation, brutal, barbaric British occupation of India. Can you see the conflicting narratives here? What I am saying is that it is not colonization. Colon, it is not a colonial period. It's a period of brutal, barbaric, genocidal foreign occupation. But your history textbooks won't say that. Your teachers won't say that. Your professors won't say that. They'll wax nostalgic about the British Raj, about British colonialism, how the British gave us railways. They gave us the English language. They gave us tea and they gave us uh justice, the judiciary because we were so backward and barbaric that we were living in trees, right? In caves apparently. So you see surviving. So the British what they did is that they wrote the history of India and that's what's taught and in in today's schools and colleges and and and universities or various versions of what the British uh wrote about India right what I mean today you'll have Indian writers who write about that but they base all of that on the British writings about India they have to put references in their texts the references are all going to you know point back to to what the British wrote for example, Sati all these narratives, right? All these narratives and when Indian writers write about this to to to you know to debunk the atrocity literature then they are tagged they they they are labeled as this or that Indian nationalists or Hindu were re revisionists or whatever. Right? So what the British wrote about India, what the Turks say about Turkey, what the Americans [snorts] write about their conquest of the Americas, what the Spanish write about their conquest of the Americas, what the British write about their conquest of Australia and so much more. What the Arabs write about whatever they did and so on. All of this is what we can consider to be surviving records of history. And these surviving records they always reflect the ideology and justifications of the victors. They will glorify the achievements of the victors. They will legitimize they will seek to legitimize the rule of the victors and they will vilify the conquered peoples, the defeated peoples and they will downplay all their achievements if any. Right? and the the the nations or cultures that have been subjugated, conquered, those accounts, you will find that they are lost. In the case of India, our written records of history are lost. They were burned by the Turks a thousand years ago and whatever survived, much of it was destroyed by the by the British, right? So or suppressed by the British. So see today's India, we imagine it's a free postindependence India, right? We imagine that. There is this great scholar called Dr. Bilal who passed away sadly recently at the age of I don't know nearly 100 hopefully 100 so he is probably the world's greatest archaeologist okay and he was the head of the ASI and he he wrote more than 50 books articles whatn not about the history of India that he uncovered during his archaeological career more than 50 books and so many papers and whatnot how many of these books are part of your college [clears throat] or university curriculum today. None of those. How many of Dr. Minaki Jane's books are part of your uh college or university curriculum? None of them. Right? So you see all of this is suppressed. These these uh um you know this we are the subjugated we we when it comes to the Turic and British European perspectives, we are the defeated people, right? We were defeated by them and we were our land was occupied by them. So we are the subjugated group and our accounts will be suppressed. Either they will be destroyed, they will be lost deliberately or they will be suppressed and that's how history is the narrative of history is controlled right it is sanitized and because of this you'll have massive gaps and asymmetries in the evidence uh in the historical record right so the official narratives the what we have in our I mean if we are genuinely independent and so on why do we have The official narratives that are so anti-India, why do they frequently, not frequently, why do they almost universally omit the genocide, the atrocities, the resistance that we put forth? Why do they omit all of that almost universally? Right? So clearly historical narratives are extremely skewed, extremely biased. So how do we mitigate this bias? Right. So what we can do is we have to compare records from multiple sources. Don't just look at what the British wrote. We have records written by Indians also that that are you know languishing in in various uh temple repositories that are languishing in in uh personal family collections. Maybe some universities have them but they are gathering dust. Right? So you have to compare records from multiple perspectives. you to examine different viewpoints, not just the viewpoint of the of the oppressor, right? Uh you have to uh take into account archaeological evidence because archaeological evidence is hard evidence, right? And you also have to take into account oral traditions. You can't simply disregard or oral traditions. Why should we disregard them? If if a single person says that this is my oral tradition, you may be skeptical. But if if you have an oral tradition that that comes forth from a wide area let's say an entire state like Rajasthan or or or let's say Hana or whatever it's not just one person but everyone all the old fox folks uh from in this region they remember these accounts passed on by their ancestors well then that's an oral tradition and you can't disregard that you have to put it in the correct context right so that's called an interdisciplinary approach you have to combine historical uh data uh uh literary data, archaeological data, data from, you know, oral traditions. And by doing that, it's like putting together a jigsaw puzzle. And that helps you reconstruct aspects of the past that have been overwritten, that have been uh, you know, deleted, omitted, whatever, or distorted or ignored. That's how we do it. So, um, that's the deal. It it is a guarantee that each historian is going to have some biases. Some of them will know that I have this bias and they will inform the reader that okay I've written this but here are my biases. I am so and so I'm Indian. I am this is my religion. I'm Hindu or I'm Jane or whatever and maybe you should be aware of this so that this because because my background may un knowingly or unknowingly introduce some biases in what I've written. So it's called fair disclosure. Right? that sort of thing. Uh so all historians operate within they bring their own judgments, their own perspectives into their work. They operate within the current contemporary cultural framework. Right? And all of this it inevitably is going to color to some extent their interpretation of history. So historians should transparently acknowledge these limitations, these, you know, potential uncertainties in in what they what they've written and potential and and definitely the known uncertainties in the available evidence and that's how you do a fair job, a decent and honorable job as a historian. But then you ask yourself, are India's historians doing this? an honorable fair job of writing history. Some are but the majority of the so-called Dhbari historians they have been essentially playing the role of Gangadins brown coolies. Someone once accused me of being racist because I used the term brown koolie. Hey, have you seen the color of my skin? Can you be racist towards yourself towards your own people? Whatever. That's a different story. we will not go there. So that is the deal. Historical narratives are extremely unreliable and they usually reflect the biases and perspectives of the victors. And here's another perspective. Okay, before I end this answer, see the Vikings, they won a lot of the time. There was an entire Viking age, right? in which they, you know, repeatedly raided England, eventually conquered England and ruled England. And they were pretty devastating. They were not big fans of the Christian faith. Okay? And uh they plundered uh Christian um religious uh structies or whatever, right? They plundered those. They killed the monks and they they did such terrible stuff over there, right? So how come history is not written from the Viking perspective? Good question perhaps. If they won, why did why is history not written from their perspective? Because afterwards they lost and they themselves had to convert to Christianity. So at the end of the day there was a Viking age 200 plus years in which they were they were supremely uh you know supremely successful but eventually they lost and they themselves had to convert to Christianity and then it is the Christians who proceeded to write the history of the Viking age that's how things go okay Rohan Bidi says a couple of episodes ago you elaborated on the details of the Ashwab obey the yagna current I'm currently reading the Mahabharat Sanskrit Hindi edition by Gita press considered to be the most authentic version of the epic and I can confirm everything you said about the yagna in particular the animal sacrifice that was spot on more than 300 animals were killed were sacrificed in Udishir's ashwagna including the horse that ran across kingdoms its body is cut into pieces and its fat is boiled in the ritual for those who are interested further details can be found in chapters 88 and 89 of the Anugita Parva volume 6. I'm glad to have found a channel which tells it like it is. No sugar coating, no BS. Been following you since your first book recommendations video when you had short hair. Ron Bei, thank you so much for being uh one of the earliest viewers of this channel and for sticking with the channel with me. I really really appreciate that. I'm very grateful to you and others like you. I'm very grateful to all the viewers of this channel for all your support for your viewership. Uh and when it comes to what you're saying about the Ashwamed Yagna, more than 300 animals were killed. Well, a this will make a lot of today's Indians super uncomfortable. Many of my viewers right now are perhaps feeling very upset about this, maybe feeling angry about this. Maybe some of them are wondering whether the translation is correct or whether somebody has distorted the translation. Right? The past was a long time ago. We are talking about some an event that happened several thousand years ago. If you read the riga, does it say that you should be vegetarian? Does it extol the virtues of vegetarianism? Um, it does not. FYI. Okay. And if you look at the Indian epics, the great our great epics, the Ramayan and the Mahabharat, you will have references to animal sacrifices, to animals being consumed, etc. So, your ancestors had a different lifestyle from yours. The core values of our culture and civilization haven't changed, but some things have changed. And I suppose in that episode I I explained how this transition happened from India being a primarily meat eating society several thousand years ago to transitioning towards being a predominantly vegetarian society about 2 and a half thousand years ago because of the sudden and um inorganic upsurge or or rise in Buddhism in India. spread the sudden spread of Buddhism in India. It did not spread naturally or organically. It spread artificially. Buddhism was was essentially, you know, thrust onto the masses artificially. By whom? By the great man himself, Emperor Ashoke, not Akbar, Ashoke. He did that. Buddhism was an obscure uh branch of the Dharmic umbrella of the Dharmic tree. And Ashok for political reasons decided to promote Buddhism to the high heavens. And uh that's how Buddhism became a big deal. And then the Buddhists started accusing you know non Buddhists of being uh animal killers especially Brahmin priests etc of being animal killers. You guys sacrifice animals in your jagnas you are monsters. Because of that for tactical reasons brahinss decided that we will become completely vegetarian. The Buddhists were still meat eaters to some extent. They did not do yagnas but they were meat eaters. The Brahman said we will do do better than you. We will become completely vegetarian. And that's how Hindus become started becoming vegetarian. Eventually Hindu Hinduism made a comeback. The main Hindu dharma. But there was a period of several centuries when both the dharma was the majority was practiced by the majority of Indians. I'm sure we all have ancestors about 2,000 plus years ago who practiced Buddhism both the dharma but we reverted eventually to the the broader aspects of uh what we now call Hindu dharma but that came with the baggage of vegetarianism and that's how we became like all ainsa ainsa all vegetarianism and so on and maybe it wasn't the best thing to happen to us perhaps I'm sure a lot of you will disagree uh and And that's fine. That's fine. Please feel free to disagree. We can have different perspectives but still be on the same boat and still go in the same direction. We should be comfortable with disagreeing with each other on these smaller matters. All right. Next question. Shou says um Shub says how did South Korea become a vasal of the United States and both the Dharma or Buddhism so-called Buddhism. How was it wiped out from South Korea? Didn't the South Koreans resist this uh the wiping out of the indigenous culture and religion Buddhism? So this all goes back to the Korean War. Now let's discuss the Korean War and we will then discuss what happened to Korea as in the aftermath of the Korean War. So the Korean war it uh so in 1945 let's start there in 1945 the the second world war ends let's take a look at the map of the Korean peninsula and we shall uh base our discussion on on that first let's orient ourselves so let us uh go eastwards from India and there over here we have the Korean peninsula we have which is now divided into North Korea and South Korea the 38th parallel. If you put a marker here, it's going to say 38 point something, right? That's 38th parallel latitude. And that's the the de facto border between North and South Korea. So, what happened is that in 1945, the Second World War ended with the two nuclear tests on the people of Japan by the United States. Germany had been defeated a few months before. So, the Second World War, Second World War ends at this time. Who's the ruler of the USSR? It is Joseph Stalin. And at this time, what's the situation in China in 1945? Civil war between the communists and the Kintang. The communists are led by Maatong and the Kintan is led by Chunkaek. Okay, that's deal. So when the second world war ended, the Korean peninsula was divided into two halves. North Korea which was interested to the USSR and South Korea which was let's say let's say interested maybe not the right term but you get the point which was interested South Korea to the United States okay and at this point in time in 1945 the two nations the US and USSR are allies so no so North Korea is in the hands of USSR South Korea is in the hands of the US and they said that okay and and they divided this along the 38th parallel roughly or maybe that happened Here we can look into the exact chronology and the peninsula would it was decided it would be uh reunited after discussions but then the cold war starts and the US and the USSR become adversaries very rapidly. By roughly 1950 the USSR becomes a nuclear power, nuclear weapons power. So it kind of establishes some kind of uh uh some kind of equality to some extent with the United States and the USSR is a Eurasian uh empire essentially. The US is a different kind of empire. So then North and South Korea they become in they are in the hands of of rivals of enemies essentially and by 1949 what happens the communists win in China in Maong [clears throat] is is victorious and they establish you know the rep whatever it's called China war now at this time North Korea was ruled by Kim Ilsung and South Korea had some puppet ruler of the US. These are both puppets. Kiml Sunsung is the puppet of the USSR and whoever was ruling South Korea was a puppet of the US. Now Kim Sunung he is emboldened by the communist victory in China. North of China you have the USSR which is also communist. So Kimlong says that let us make the whole of Korea communist and let's attack South Korea. So the USSR says okay. Stalin says okay do it but take Mao's permission if he's okay with the plan I will give you the green light green flag yeah so Kimlong speaks to Mao and Mao says okay go ahead let's make whole of the whole of South Korea communist and Kimlong invades South Korea the USSR gives North Korea Mig 15 fighter planes and arms ammunition but does not send soldiers Stalin Stalin refused to send soldiers but gave all of these supplies you know military supplies powerful military weapons to North Korea and the Chinese they sent soldiers disguised as you know not official Chinese soldiers but in some other some other guys and you have in 1950 the war breaks out North Korea invades the south and then in 1950 and 1951 these two years there's this seessaw battle across the Korean peninsula there is a point of time When the South Koreans are almost wiped out, then the Americans come into the picture, they send large amounts of troops. Eventually, the Americans send about 300,000 troops, American American soldiers to the into the Korean War and the Americans come into the picture. Then the South Koreans start advancing and North Korea is almost wiped out when then they research again with the help of the Chinese. the Chinese soldiers come into the picture and there's this this seesaw battle seesaw battle happens in 1950 1951 [clears throat] by 1952 or something like that what happens is that you know the war becomes a slow war long war campaign a slow war long war scenario like what you have in Ukraine right now so in after 1951 you have the two uh North and South Korea they're fighting each other like they used to fight in the first world war, trench warfare, massive charges, tremendous casualties, that sort of thing and it becomes kind of a frozen conflict. Then around 1953 Stalin dies and then Nikkita Kush says that we need to extricate ourselves from this imbugo and then you have you know negotiations happen and eventually a cease not a cease yeah ceasefire is agreed upon armistice of some kind and the the line is drawn at the 38th parallel roughly and it became the ceasefire line there was this no man's land kind of thing constructed which is 3 4 kilometers wide and the so-called demilitarized zone between North and South Korea. Okay. Now and and so that's how the war ended without ending because there was no official end to the war. It is still the two nations are still in a state of war but it's a ceasefire kind of situation since the what 1953 approximately. So that's what happened in the Korean war and that's how North as well as South Korea were devastated devastated um approximately 10 to 15% of the population of the peninsula Korean peninsula died which is disastrous disastrous for any nation right um so at the end so when the Korean war begins okay um South Korea probably had a population of about 20 million. I'm not sure about the North Korean population. So the Korean War began in 1950. At that time, South Korea had a population of approximately 20 million and 10 to 15% of that those people died, which is about 2 to 3 million. Let's say 3 million South Koreans died. That is devastating. Okay. Now, when the war ended, the Americans established a large number of military bases. They had already established during the course of the war a large number of military bases in South Korea and those remained. So today you have more than 80 you could say active or permanent American military bases in South Korea. Um and the largest American military base outside of the US is Camp Afrey's which uh which has about I don't know it can hold about 30,000 troops or something right. So that's it's it's not far from from soul in South Korea. So South Korea was devastated. It was ruined. It was in a state of famine, abject poverty. And then South Korea also becomes a dictatorship and within a few decades they set up this big industrial base with the help of the United States. The US did all it could to build up South Korea. Um and uh South Korea at that time its GDP would have been less than 50 million. 50 million not billion okay 50 million it GDP would have been less than 50 million when this when the Korean war ended and today it's in excess of 1.5 trillion. So it's made a huge huge huge leap forward. Now what about the end of Buddhism? So if you so in 1950 what was the percentage of Christians in South Korea? You may have maybe one and a half million Christians out of the population of 20 million in 1950. Um that's not a small number actually but that 1.5 million in 1950 Christians it it became about 6 million by 1970. Okay 6 million by 1970. And today it is about 15 million um or maybe more. So from 1950 to 1970 the population of Christians tripled. From 1970 to 2000 the population of Christians tripled once again. And today uh Christians are more than 30% of the South Korean population officially and Buddhists are about 17% or so. How did this happen is the question. You see at the end of the Korean war 1953, South Korea is devastated. Is it is ruined. It's an abject poverty. So the Christian missionary organizations come into South Korea and they start giving aid to people. They give people rice. They give people shelter. They help people send their kids to Christian schools and so on. But obviously there's a trade-off. Rice isn't free. Yeah, it'll be free, but you have to sell your soul for that. So, you have to convert to Christianity. It's the same old story that the Chinese wrote about in the 1850s. China was ruined during those horrible horrible times in China, the Dungan revolt uh and so on. And the evangelists would come into China and offer rice in in in in exchange for conversion. And the Chinese wrote about this and they called those converts rice Christians. Well, the same strategy was used in Korea as well by the Americans. Right? So that is how South Korea not only became a vasal of the US, it also you know it's its indigenous religion was also wiped out. Now you may say that that Buddhism has come from India. It's not indigenous to South Korea or or Korea overall. It's been in Korea for the best part of 2,000 years. that makes it indigenous. If it's been in your country for 20 years, it's foreign. If it's been in your country for let's say even a thousand years, if it is being imposed on your country by force, it's foreign. It's invasive. But if the people have willingly adopted it and and you know made it their way of life, willingly without any coercion, without any force, then it's your cure. So South Korea's, you know, native culture the past roughly 2,000 years has been Buddhism and that that is now being wiped out. So today, Christianity is the majority religion. The rest are apparently atheists. And today you will see South Korean tourists coming into the Indian subcontinent and trying on tourist visas and trying to convert Indians uh to Christianity. Nepalese also that's what you see happening. So that is the deal. That is how all of this happened. So the US has more than um 80 essentially permanent military bases in South Korea. South Korea is under US occupation since 1953 maybe before that. And um that's how South Korea became an American basal and that's how Christianity essentially is in the process of wiping out South Korea's indigenous religion which is Buddhism. All right. Amisha says, "What's the reason for Bactria and Margana as a classification? What's unique about this culture?" See, Bactria, Marg Marana, these are not cultures. These are geographical regions. So, let us go to the map and let's figure out what's going on. Okay. Um, here's the map and let us move back to the subcontinent. We talking about the extended neighborhood of the of of our subcontinent. So what is Bactrea first of all? So before we discuss Bactria, let us discuss Gandhar to orient ourselves. What is Gandhar or what was Gandhar historically? Gandhar historically was Afghanistan. What we call today Afghanistan and also the northern northwestern part of of Pakistan. All of this huge large region was called Gandhar historically by us including the ancestors of the Afghans. They were also us. Okay. So that is historically Gandhar and it was a major center of Indian culture, Vic culture and later Buddhist culture and uh at various points in time Gandhar was part of the Persian Empire, the Akamanish Empire. It was also obviously part of Indian civilization. It was also part of the Morian Empire. It was part of the Indo- Greek kingdoms. It was part of the great Kushan Empire. Later it became part of the Casanian kingdoms and so on. Right? So that is Gandhar. Eventually it came to be known as Sarasthan which became Horasan and then eventually Afghanistan. So that is Gandhar. Now that we understand what Gandhara is, let us discuss Bactria and Marjana. So Bactria is the region the Greeks gave this name if I'm not mistaken and that is the northern half essentially of Afghanistan which which also includes Usbakistan and Tajakistan. So Tajakistan is a small country just northwest of India and you also have uh Usbakistan which is west of Tajakistan. So it in so bacteria included northern Afghanistan. It also included Tajakistan and parts of Usbakistan and probably some parts of Turk Menistan also. So that is Bactrea and this was also part of the Indo- Greek kingdoms. Okay. Alexander kind of was in the region briefly. Um and after the fall of the Seucid Empire, you had these this whole bunch of Indo- Greek kingdoms that that popped up in the region. So those were Greeks who had assimilated into Indian society and uh so so Bactria was the home of multiple Indo- Greek kingdoms. It was also very much part of the great Kushan Empire and it gave us the great uh you know the Gandhara school of art the Hellenistic u you know depictions of Indian culture and it was a great center of knowledge and learning and also a great crossroads of trade between India and the west and also to some extent China. So that is bactria. Now what is margana? So there is something called the Morgab River Oasis. Let's look for that. Morgab River Oasis. Let's look for that. It is in Turk Menistan. Now let's zoom out. Let's zoom out. Let's zoom out. Let's zoom out. Right. So it is in present day Turk Menistan. And this place Morgab was the epicenter or or essentially the roughly the center of this place this territory that was called Margana. Okay, it is not a very large territory and it was called Margana. So it kind of overlaps to some extent with northern Bactria. It was part of the Akameid or Empire of Persia. Um and u so that that essentially is is marginana. It is kind of a subset of bacteria but it kind of includes regions that are north of bactrea. Then you also have names such as aracosia. What is aracosia? So Aosia is essentially southern Afghanistan. Where is kandahar? Let's let's find kandahar. You see kandahar. So this region called Arakosia was kind of centered around Kandahar. Okay. And it also encompassed various parts of Pakistan as well. So that was Araosia and it was essentially named after the river Saraspati. If you distort the name of Saraspati, it somehow transforms into Araosia. And uh you also had Korasan which is you know Afghanistan later became known as Swarathan. which included present day Afghanistan also northeastern Iran as you see as you see over here u Turkmanistan the southern part of Turkmanistan and uh much of Afghanistan so that was Sarasan which later became Horasan um and that also was part of the various Persian kingdoms like the Cassenian kingdoms so that essentially it's it's pretty confusing I stand but these are the various names that have been given to our extended neighborhood including territories that were once part of Indian civilization. So that is Bactria Majana and there you have this BMAC Bactria Majana archaeological complex which uh is this set of ancient ruins that you find there and you have supposedly [laughter] a culture which was separate from ours over there and that has some connotations and you know some alleged implications for the Arian invasion or migration myth. So anyway that that's about Bactrea and Margia. Now Amisha also asks what happened to the Greeks of Bactrea and when did the last Helens or Greeks die out. So we discussed Bactrea which is northern Afghanistan, Turkmanistan and Tajakistan also. So and that's where you had the Indo Greek kingdoms which also encompassed you know northwest India, Pakistan etc. So what happened to these Greeks? Where did they go? When did the last Greeks die out? Because today if you look at northern India, Western India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, you don't see any Greek people there. You see some people who have blonde hair and blue eyes. And are they Greeks? I mean, go to Greece. How many blonde and blue-eyed Greeks do you see in Greece? Most Greeks have dark hair and brown eyes. Hm. So if you find some people small tiny populations here and there in Swat in Chetal um in some parts of Afghanistan who have blonde hair and blue eyes. It is not a connection to Greece. Okay. First of all that so those are not the descendants of the Indo- Greeks. The question is what happened to the Indo Greeks? When did they die out? Because we don't find any of them in northern India. I mean let's call it northern India. What happened to them? So remember the Indo Greeks are called the Indo- Greeks. They were not Greeks. They were Indo- Greeks. What does Indogreek mean? It means that they had assimilated into Indian society, culture and civilization. They had become culturally Indian. And more than that, they would have married among the locals. For example, we have the great king Milinda Minander who was a great scholar of the Vedas who later allegedly converted to both the dharma, Buddhism. His capital was Shakala present day. Seial Kot. Where is Seial Kot? Let us find Seial Kot. Let's uh go to the map once again. Where is Seial Kot? Where is Seial Kot? It's somewhere in here we have it. It's not far from Jammu. So he had a big kingdom. He eventually made a march on Patliputra you know uh Milinda Milandander and eventually it is said that he allegedly converted to Buddhism but he was I mean if you think I'm making it up let's let's go to let's see let's see I don't know what Wikipedia says about him. Let us see what Wikipedia says about him. Okay. Minander Minander the first. Okay. great king um patron of Greek or Buddhism blah blah blah uh etc king of bactrea rai river helman province all that yeah can his coins milindapana theak question so the milindabana is this apocryphal Buddhist text I'm not even sure if we can trust that text because if you see his coinage you don't see much Buddhism on on in his coinage it is said that the Kushans were Buddhists right before I go into this it is alleged that the Kushans our great emperors were Buddhists. It is said that Kaneshka was a Buddhist right. There is a tremendous quantity of Kushan coinage that has been discovered gold coinage, bronze coinage etc coinage. And on Kushan coins you typically have on one side of the coin you have an image of the king doing something great. On the other side of the coin, you have a god, a deity. And there's a tremendous quantity of Koshan coinage that has that exists in various museums and private collections and smuggler smuggled collections and whatnot. If you do a statistical analysis of the Kushan coinage, less than 1% of Kushan coins have the Buddha or Buddhist imagery. So how can you allege or claim that the Kushans were Buddhists? Similarly, there's a big question about Manandra as well, but that's a different different story. So Minander uh Buddhist construction milind the panha Buddhism etc. Men under the just does it say here that he was a Vic scholar ve four Vedas. There you have it. So there you go. So the great man he he knew uh the sananka yoga naya vesic system of philosophy arithmetic music medicine. He was a learned person. Magic spells apparently uh the Vedas, the piranhas, the iHihas, astronomy, ma magic, the art of war, poetry and so much more. So Minander, my point is not about the conversion, alleged conversion to Buddhism or not. My point is Minander was Indian. He may have had Greek ancestry. Maybe he was full-blood Greek himself, but he was Indian culturally and civilizationally. And these Greeks, these Indo Greeks, they married among Indians. So Greek ladies would have married Indian men and Greek men would have married married Indian ladies. So what happens then? Eventually they assimilate into the local population eventually after like five 10 generations. You can you can't tell anymore whether they have Greek ancestry or not. They did not die out. They simply faded into the population. They assimilated into the population. They intermarried into the population. And after multiple generations, no one could tell who was of Greek origin, who was not. That is what happened. They did not die out or they and they did not go back to Greece after the the kingdoms are gone. No, they just be stayed there. So if you do a sampling perhaps genetic sampling of people in northern and western India including um Gandhar and Pakistan, you may discover fractional Greek ancestry, one person, two person Greek ancestry among various people. But you will not be able to tell by looking at them. Right? You won't. That's what happened to the Greeks of Bactria. Right? Rahul Dunke says, "Who was morally correct in the Trojan war? Was Hector more moral than Achilles?" Achilles as Hector was defending his city and the Greek Achilles was invading it. Very interesting question. First of all, let's go to the map. Did this Trojan war actually happen or is it a myth? Will it actually happen? It happened around the 12th or 13th century BC. Where did it happen? I could tell you where it happened because the city, the site of Troy has been discovered. It is currently in Turkey in western Turkey, not far from Smyrna. I refuse to call Ismir Ismir. I call it Smyrna. So, where is Hisarlic? His Turkey. Turkey. I Turkey. There we go. And zoom [clears throat] in. So, let's zoom out first and let's see where it is. His all right. It's here. Okay. It's not very close to Ismir, but apparently this is where Hisarik is. And if you look at the So, Hisarlic is the actual uh archaeological site of Troy. And uh this is I'm sure there's that's the archeological site somewhere here. Um it's all in Turkish so I can't really make out what it says. Elementary school um his Troy Troy. Let's see. Troy will this Okay, it's somewhere here. Okay. So, you have an archaeological site that has been discovered which apparently which which definitely has been identified as the site of Troy. I'm very skeptical. It'll be like hundreds of kilometers in land. As far as I know, it's somewhere here in this region. Let's see if we just look for Troy. pro archaeological site. Okay. I I think for some reason it won't show us what we're looking for. That's okay. The point is Troy has been discovered. The archaeological site of Troy has been discovered. It is in western Turkey. Okay. and the the Trojan war based on archaeological evidence of of battles and you know burnt out structures and so on. It most likely happened in the somewhere around the 12th or 13th century BC in the Bronze Age. Now what caused the Trojan War? Let's let's discuss that. What caused the Trojan War? So there's a mythological element to it and maybe there's a different element to it as well. The mythological element says that there were three Greek goddesses who were unable to agree who was the fairest of them all. Who was the most beautiful among these among the three of them? It was Hira, Athena and Aphroditi. These three goddesses they had this disagreement. Each said, I am the prettiest. I am the most beautiful. So they decided that they will appoint an impartial adjudicator. And that was Paris, the prince of Troy. So there was this golden apple that they gave him. It's called the apple of discord. And uh so Paris, who was the prince of Troy, was chosen to decide to judge who was the most beautiful of these three goddesses. And he decided he said that Aphroditi is the fairest and most beautiful of these three goddesses. So Aphrodite obviously was very pleased with him. And she promised him that he would gain the love of the world's most beautiful woman who was Helen. Helen of Troy. Okay. Helen of Yeah. Helen eventually came to be known as Helen of Troy, but she was the queen of Sparta. She was married to King Menelaus of Sparta. So Paris, he either abducts Helen or maybe he elopes with Helen. So we're not quite sure whether Helen went with Paris willingly or unwillingly. If she went unwillingly then she was abducted. If she went willingly then she was the eloped essentially. So he let's say elopes elopes with Helen who was married to the king of Sparta King Menelaus and he takes her to Troy. So Menelos obviously is this is a great insult to him isn't it? Right. Great insult. I mean his reputation is ruined. His reputation is on on the line. So he then calls upon his brother Akamenon and he calls upon other Greek leaders. He says that we have to recover Helen from across the sea from Troy. This is a great insult to us the Greeks. Okay. So they agree. His brother agrees and the other Greek leaders they agree. So they assemble a great Greek expedition force, hundreds of ships potentially, and they launch this expedition to conquer Troy. [snorts] And then there is a great siege of Troy. Troy was on the seashore. Right now it's a few kilometers indoors because, you know, coastlines change. This happened almost 3,200 years ago. So they led this Greek expedition. They besieged the city of Troy. There were battles that happened outside the the walls of Troy. And eventually we know after 10 after a decade or so after 10 years of the siege they eventually succeeded with the help of the Trojan horse. Right? So that is why the battle this war happened according to mythological accounts because of the three goddesses and so on. But there could have been geopolitical motives. Maybe Troy was very wealthy. Maybe the Greeks wanted the wealth. Maybe they wanted to control the trade routes that Troy could control from its geographical position. So maybe there is that. But we are given a mythological account because it's very ancient history. Right? So Hector is this great defender of the city of Troy, wasn't he? And he is portrayed as this great morally upright man because why? Because he defends his city. He defends his people. He also defends his family. You know, historians and writers, they admire his sense of duty, his sense of self-sacrifice. He's defending Troy for his loved ones, for his people despite knowing that he faces overwhelming odds and he is eventually slain by Achilles. So, so Hector, he embodies great virtues, loyalty, bravery, uh self-sacrifice, etc. And Achilles, the Greek, he why why is he fighting? He hasn't come to fight for his family, right? He's fighting for personal glory. is fighting for expansion for for Greek expansionism for Greek conquest, right? Um he he's a very proud man. He has this this this you could say sin from an Abrahamic perspective, Christian perspective. The pride of sin, the sin of the sin of pride. He's also short-tempered, hot-headed. He has rage. He has pride and uh he seeks personal glory more than Greek glory. He seeks personal glory. Sometimes he is unfair. Sometimes he's cool, right? He's egoistic. So, so Achilles is all about individual greatness, personal glory. He's he has excessive pride. He is very short-tempered. So, obviously if you compare Hector and and and Achilles, you would say that Hector is more morally correct or a pride. But here's the problem in in in viewing for anal here's the problem in analyzing historical events through the lens of morality. It you cannot bring morality and emotions into analyzing what happened and why it happened and who is right or who is wrong. See like I say when I discuss geopolitics there is no right or wrong in geopolitics. There are winners and losers. Okay. And the world of geopolitics is amoral. There is no place for morality in geopolitics. And what is history? What are historical events? They are yesterday's geopolitics. Right? So when we study history we we have to understand motivations. We have to understand causality. We have to understand actions and consequences that is causality, cause and effect and we have to understand the context of the actions that that that were taken. We can obviously look at morality as well but that's not the correct uh lens the the ideal lens through which you study history. Uh you don't you should not judge historical figures based on morality because what is morality? It is today's ethical standards. But this war happened 3,200 years ago roughly. It's pretty certain that the ethical standards would have been kind of different at the time. We discussed our history. The ashwame yagna. Yudish did the ashamed yagna. The horse was cut into pieces eventually and more than 300 animals were sacrificed. You may find it horrifying but our ancestors did that. So you see today's eth ethical standards where Indians prioritize a hinsa and vegetarianism they are different from the ethical standards of our ancestors. Right? So it is not the it's not a good practice to to analyze historical events and and and to judge people through the lens of morality. You know it it can offer some interesting insights from today's perspective but it may distort the realities of that era. It may distort the realities of that society. That society may would definitely have had different a different set of moral you know different set of morals and ethics. It will oversimplify things if we apply morality. So when we study history, we look at facts, we look at actions, we look at consequences, we look at cause and effect, we try and understand uh the context in which the actions happened. And we stay away from moralizing and judging people. And that's that's how we should study history. But obviously it's that's not the way it's always done. And when when we when it comes to our itas, the Ramayan and the Mabar, there's a lot of morality because these are, you know, these these great epics they kind of teach us how we should live life right they teach us what is right what is wrong so that's in the Indian context but it may not apply in the Greek context or some other context so that's why context is important so anyhow I would say that on on you know if you add up the merits and demerits of the actions of the two people that you're talking about hect and Achilles overall. Probably Hector was a better person. Maybe more moral from today's perspective. But hey, there was a different world. Maybe Achilles was the guy and he he got the glory. He got the victory. At the end of the day, that's what matters in geopolitics and in history because it shapes the the outcome of history, the outcomes of history, and it shapes the future. Right. Next question. Amisha says, "Why didn't ancient Egyptian wall paintings depict ancient Egyptians wearing winter clothing? Although modern day Egypt can get pretty cold in the winters?" That's a good question. See, if you watch, if you take a snapshot from the past 300 and three Ask Kabijit episodes, you will see me wearing a variety of different kinds of clothes. Sometimes I'm wearing something really warm, right? Sometimes I'm wearing a t-shirt, sometimes I'm wearing something else. So, you will see me wearing all kinds of things. But when it comes to Egyptian wall paintings, Egyptian wall carvings, you will you will see Egyptians wearing pretty skimpy clothing, right? A clothing that obviously is clearly is suited to what? To to a summer kind of climate. Why is that so? Because you're right, Egypt can get pretty cold in the winters. No question about that. So why is it so? That's a great question. Yep. This is how we should try to understand history, analyze history. So we have to understand this temple art in Egypt. You know this wall paintings, wall carvings, etc. Even the sculptures, these are typically especially the paintings and carvings. These are in Egyptian temples and great Egyptian monuments dedicated to royalty. Right? So these so so this is ancient Egyptian art that has survived. So this art was idealized art. Its objective the objective of this art was to show the status of the people who are depicted in the art. It was it its objective was to show the values and religious context, religious concepts of of Egyptian society. That's the that was the purpose of this art to show the status of the people who are depicted and to showcase the values and religious concepts of Egyptian society. The high values and high religious concepts of Egyptian society. The objective of this art was not to show daily realities. It was not to show seasonal changes. Okay. So that's why you will find this idealized depiction of people. Um so people individuals with usually kings, queens, etc. Pharaohs who are depicted in this art and typically also servants in attendance and warriors etc. You will find them generally wearing simple attire, attire that's elegant but simple. Uh you will see that the people who are depicted are generally young people. So the art emphasizes youth vitality. It emphasizes royal status or or whatever status the people have. Right? Uh so that was the purpose of the art. It would not depict seasonal dress. It would not show any it did not have practical purpose. It is it has this idealistic purpose and this art it was designed it was meant to be timeless. It was meant to be eternal. It was meant to be ideal. Okay. Especially in in tombs where royalty and other people were buried. Um so in if you see the art that is on the walls of tombs inside tombs you will see that the it will generally so show the the deceased people the dead people enjoying a pleasant afterlife. So in that you will show them young and and vital and vigorous and happy and wearing nice simple elegant clothing right they will not be shown to be enduring the discomforts of cold winters with with heavy clothing. That's the deal. But but there is a caveat. Okay, let's go to our friend Google and let us Google fume mummy art. Check this out. So let's see this fume mummy portraits. So the so the uh Egyptian wall paintings etc we're talking about are the wall paintings that are from before the Greek and Roman periods in Egypt. Now let's talk about the fume mummy portraits. So this is from about 100 BC to about 300 AD. And over here you will find these are also Egyptian people but from the Roman and Greek period, Greek and Roman period. And you will find that these people are are depicted wearing a variety of different kinds of dresses. Typically helenic or Roman style dresses. And some of them have pretty heavy clothing. Definitely very different from what you will find in the pre uh Greek period in uh Egypt. So if you see the five mummies, very interesting portraits, very realistic, lifelike portraits, and these people are depicted wearing different kinds of dresses, including potentially clothing you would wear in winter, right? And uh reconstruction. Let's see. Reconstruction. So you can see what these people look like because the originals are pretty lifelike, right? Um, as you can see, I mean, this lady could still be walking around the streets of Egypt on this person, too. Uh, so that's the deal. So, the five mummy portraits are very different, and they do depict potentially some Egyptian people in potentially winter clothing. All right? Because the context was different. Shub 1405 says compare pre-Christian Europe with Christian Europe in terms of women's equality, presence of social hierarchal system. Okay, pre-Christian Europe and Christian Europe. So historically Europe was polytheistic. The people of Europe all across Europe and all across Eurasia, India westwards practiced different manifestations of the same culture. the ancient Indo-Uropean culture which all came from one place whichever that place is that's the RN invasion myth right u and of all the different manifestations of Indo-European culture the oldest that we know of is the Vic culture and it's obviously a polytheistic culture and all these different European you know parts of Europe whether it's the Celtic regions the plutonic regions uh the Slavic regions the Nordic regions whatever they all worshiped gods that essentially had onetoone correspondences with the old Vic gods. So it was polytheism and what kind of society did you have in Europe at this time and what was the what was this the the role and status of women in in pre-Christian Europe before Christianity was imposed on Europe in terms of women's equality and so on. So first of all when we talk about equality let's understand that equality is a modern thing before I say anything let me just make it very clear I am in favor of equality of genders okay everybody should have the same rules and laws that apply to them irrespective of what gender they are there are two genders is that controversial should not be there are two genders male and female and rules, laws, whatever should be gender agnostic. That's what I believe in. Everybody should should should have the same rules and laws applying to them irrespective of the gender. I hope I make myself clear. I am in favor of that. Now understand this. Historically, you did not have equality of genders. You had gender roles. males would perform a set of roles in society and females would perform a different set of roles in society. That's how it was across the world including in Europe. So what what kind of roles did women play in pre-Christian Europe? It it depends on the place. So for example in Celtic societies for example what is now called the UK before the Romans invaded um this place was entirely Celtic. Celtic peoples in even if you look at Spain or Western France you had Celtic people there even Switzerland right all Celtic peoples and cultures. So in Celtic culture there was the practice of matrioity. When a man married a woman he would move from his birthplace or wherever he lived to where the woman's household was. So what does that indicate? It indicates that women controlled property and that's the kind of role they played. So women had property, they had property rights, they controlled property. And men were supposed to move to the woman's house, not the other way around. But these were not matriarchal societies. You had met locality but not matriarchy. These were still patriarchal societies. Yeah, that's how it was. Um generally women um they had significant legal rights. They had the right to their dowy. So you had the practice of dowry. When a girl got married, her family would give. So even when you where you did not have matri localality where the girl would go to the husband's household uh her parents would give her some gifts, right? That was called the dowy to start off the new life. And even after marriage, the woman had rights to her dowy. So it was still her property, not the husband's property. And she also did not become the husband's property. women um they held a high position in society as teachers, as healers, right? That was common ac across various pre-Christian European societies. Um yeah, so that's the kind of status women had in pre-Christian society. It was a pretty uh you know pretty high status that women had. Um then you had the introduction of Christianity into Europe. starts with emperor Constantine of Byzantium and he has the council of Nika in present day roughly Turkey and they amend the the the the text of Christianity to some extent and Constantine makes Christianity the official religion state religion of the of the Roman Empire and eventually Christianity overruns Europe over the next 6 700 years and it is imposed on the people of Europe generally by force through pretty brutal force right and then you have the dark ages in Europe the medieval era, the dark ages era of Europe. Uh so the position of women and status of women in society changes drastically once Christianity is imposed. What happens? So the church it portrayed women as spiritually weak. It portrayed women as intellectually inferior to men. It portrayed women as the root cause of sin and it portrayed women as being prone to sin, more prone to sin than men because of this concept called original sin. Right? So women were were were portrayed as temptresses, dangerous temptresses who required who needed male control. Okay? And this was done to justify the subordination, the legal subordination and subjugation of women. It was used to justify the exclusion of women from positions of authority. Okay. In in the past, women could have very high positions in society before Christianity was imposed. But once Christianity was imposed, women became secondass citizens in society. There was this legal principle that said that husband and wife are the same person and that person is the husband. Okay? [laughter] And then you had the witch hunts. So see Christianity was all all about control. We'll discuss the witch hunts. So what was the uh structure of society during the Christian age in Europe? It was a rigid society. It was a hierarchal pyramidical society. religiously sanctioned hierarchal pyramid. At the very top was a very small percentage of the population. The clergy, okay, those who pray. Even in the clergy, you had a pyramidal structure, a military top- down command and control structure. At the top, we had the pope, then you had bishops, then you had priests, then you had monks, and you had nuns. And all these people even though they they they had different levels of status and power they were the most powerful uh you know tip of the pyramid of society. Um the church owned huge amounts of land. It collected 10% tax from society. It's called the tithe and it it exercised enormous political influence. So that is the tip of the iceberg. Okay. The the clergy. Below the clergy in European society, you had the nobility, the the ones who ought. Okay, it was kings and then you had the lords and baronss and dukes and knights. These people they controlled the land that the church did not control and they also collected taxes and they did military service and they fought wars and they they exercised the judicial authority. They decided laws that that were different from church laws, you know, secular laws or whatever you want to call that, right? So below the clergy, you have the nobility, including the king and everybody else. Then you have the peasants. So the peasants are about 90% of the population. And among the peasants, you have essentially slaves who are called the surfs or the villains who were bound to the land. They were part of the land. They could not leave the land. and they were required to work on the fields of their lord. They were forbidden from leaving without the lord's permission which would never be given. So they were essentially owned by the land owner, the serfs. They were essentially slaves. And you had a small number of people called the free peasants who had a little more rights and liberties but uh they also could not uh survive without giving service to various lords. So this is all the structure of the society and you can see there's no women included in this right all the people with any kind of power are men. Um and that's how it was. So this feudal this is called the feudal system and it it created this web of obligations in society based on who owns how much land and who is part of which part of the pyramid and each person owed allegiance to those above them in the pyramid. a rigidly hierarchal cast system. What did the church teach? It taught you if you were European that your social position was decided at birth. It is the God it is the Christian God who decided your position in life in society. Your position in society was divinely ordained. Social mobility was impossible. Don't even dream of it. If you dream of social mobility, you're questioning the will of the go of God, not the gods. You're questioning the will of God. Right? So this is very different from pre-Christian societies in which you had a lot of social mobility and women were respected members of society. Right? So that's how it was. Your your birth determined your station. Uh social mobility was impossible. It was it was essentially heresy to even think of social mobility. So the church had this enormous control and power over the entire population of Europe. Okay? Uh it was the biggest land owner in Europe. I'll tell you what in 21st century India the largest non-government land owner in India is the church. I kid you not. Right. So that's how it was. That is the difference between pre-Christian Europe and post-Christian and Christian Europe. In Christian Europe, women were secondass citizens. They they essentially had no rights. They had no rights. And how did I mean have things changed? Yeah, obviously things have changed today. Today Europe is the the defender I mean the west is the defender of human rights and freedoms and equality and all that. But let me tell you a small little tidbit of information. There is a nation called Switzerland. Beautiful nation, fantastic nation. Okay. So in India we have states in the US we have states right? Utah, Wisconsin, Oregon and so on. In India we have states like Gujarat um Maharashtra Assam Telangana um Hana and so on. In Switzerland you don't have states you have cantons. Those are the divisions stateike divisions within Switzerland. Switzerland itself is pretty small. So the last Swiss canton to grant women the right to vote was Appenzel inter in inner ruden appelen inner ruden. It gave women the right to vote in 1990. Until 1990 in the Swiss canton of Aenzel inner ruden women did not have the right to vote. And the first time women actually participated in elections by voting was in 1991. Is this good? Is this bad? It's none of my business. It's an internal matter of Switzerland. They have the right to live whichever way they want. Others should stay out of it. Similarly, others should stay out of India as well. But that doesn't happen, doesn't it? Anyhow, that's the deal. So that's the difference between the rights of women and the status of women in society. Before Christianity was imposed upon Europe and after Christianity was imposed upon Europe, it was disastrous for for women. And u because women had such high positions and and rules in society like healers and teachers that's why it was very important to to destroy that that right in those rights and that status of women for the church to exercise complete control over society and they did this by publishing a book called the Malus Malfearum which was the which was a bestseller in Europe for centuries and what does malus maleficarum mean? It means the hammer of the witches. It was a manual on how to identify women who are witches, what tests to perform upon them to prove that they are witches, and uh how to punish them for being witches. So, one of the ways to test whether a woman was a witch was to tie heavy rocks to her to her feet or legs and put her in deep water. So if she floats despite all of that then she's a witch because it's magic. That's how you identify a witch. And if she drowns then she was not a witch. How nice. Heads I win tells you tells you you lose. And then if you identify a woman as a witch then you have to obviously burn her alive after doing a tremendous amount of brutal torture and stuff. Uh so mostly women will be burned. I think millions of women were burned alive. But today, um, academics will tell you only 20, 30,000 were burned alive. In the 1980s, until the 1980s, 1990s, everyone knew that millions of women were burned alive as witches. But today, there's been academic revisionism. And now it's only maybe 10, 20,000. That's what they say today. That's how you revise history, don't you? Uh, so women used to be burnt alive, millions of them as witches. And if you did not burn her alive, there were other ways of killing them. There was something called pressing to death. So you would place a woman on on on a hard surface like rock and you would place heavy rocks on her chest and other parts of the body and you will break the arms and legs first and then the rib cage and eventually she will suffocate to death pressing to death. Yeah. They had many nice charming ways of of of punishing evil women who were consorts of Satan or whatever. Yeah. So that's what happened post Christianity, post the the the imposition of Christianity on the people of Europe. Right. Okay. Next question. Amisha says, "How were Jews treated during the American Civil War? Was anti-semitism ever an issue throughout the conflict?" Well, let's discuss the position of Jews in the United States overall. So there was this um there was this guy who was born in Boston, Massachusetts in the 17th century 1600 something. Okay. He was born in Boston. His name was Eliu Elhu Yale. Elihu Yale. He was Jewish. He was born in Boston, but he lived in in the US, present day US only as a child. He spent the rest of his life in England and in India. He became an official, a high-ranking official of the East India Company and as such he plundered a tremendous amount of wealth out of our our land, our people, out of India. And in 1718, he donated some money and some other stuff to someone who wanted to start a school or college in the United States. And because Ilhu Yale was so generous in his donation, the person who founded that college, they named it Yale College. Today it is called Yale University. One of the most highly sought after IV league universities in the US. It was built from a seed funding of money plundered from India. That is Eluiel who was Jewish. I am just stating facts here. It has nothing to do with his religion by the way. I'm just saying that Jews had a high position in American society right in the 17th and 18th centuries. Uh but anti-semitism was definitely present in the US in different forms, shapes and forms. Um it it it had various ways of expressing itself. It had different in intensities depending on the place and the time. The civil war era was is a very small era. Let's discuss a slightly broader era from the 1700s all the way to second world war around that that period that gives us enough space to to discuss this in some length. So so Jews especially those who were wealthy had had high level of acceptance in American society. there was a synagogue that that operated in Charleston in the 19th century and u that that was allowed and nobody had an issue with that. So if you were Jewish and you were wealthy and you assimilated more or less then there was no issue for you in in some parts or maybe many parts of the US um in the south see when we talk about the civil war in the US we're talking about north versus south the north eventually won north is Abraham Lincoln and south is the ones who attempted to secede and partition the country so the south was in favor of of of slavery the north wanted to end slavery because of different economic models For the south it made sense to continue slavery because it economically was it made sense for them. So in the south you had Jews who adopted who had assimilated into the local society. They adopted local customs and they held prominent positions right. Some of them were plantation owners. Some of them were slave owners. Uh Judah P. Benjamin in Louisiana who was a highranking official in the confederate government. He was a plantation owner slave owner. he was Jewish. So you can see that Jews had prominent positions in the south as well as the north. Uh during the civil war you had Jews fighting on both sides and generally there was not much anti-semitism during the civil war. Um there was this general right Ulysus Srant who issued an order during the civil war um expelling all the all Jews from his military district. um it is in what Tennessee, Mississippi, Kentucky, that area. And he claimed that Jews were responsible for illegal trading of whatever that sort of thing. But um so Ulysus Srant issued this order expelling Jews, but Abraham Lincoln reversed that. So there was some anti-semitism, but Abraham Lincoln was not anti-semitic. You see? Um and then after the civil war you you you had Jews who would occasionally be excluded from various social clubs and resorts, sometimes even from universities and they could potentially at times depending on the time and place [clears throat] encounter discrimination u in in in housing for example maybe professional discrimination. Um sometimes Jews were excluded from some um hotels, from some clubs, from some residential uh developments, you know, that sort of thing would happen sometimes. Um and in the leadup to sec to the second world war, anti-semitic attitudes became more pronounced for a while in the United States. Henry Ford was kind of an anti-semite. Okay. Um, and you had this organization called the Klux Clan. Klux Clan in the US, which was primarily a racist organization. They had this great hate for African-Americans. Uh, they also targeted Catholics, but they also occasionally targeted Jews as well. Uh, so that was there. So, in the run-up to the Second World War, you had more anti-semitism. And then I suppose later it it became less pronounced. So that's that's been a feature of western society. Anti-semitism. Uh Jews have been persecuted for 2,000 plus years in Europe. They have faced all kinds of discrimination. They have faced massacres. They've faced all kinds of allegations of so-called what? Blood liel or whatever. They've been accused of poisoning wells and all kinds of conspiracies been spread against them. uh there have been massacres of Jews in in in England, in other parts of Europe and so on. So the Jews they they it's not something new for them this sort of uh treatment and they've also faced some of that in the United States probably less than what they faced in Europe. So overall that's how Jews were treated in the United States not during the civil war but from the 1700s all the way to the second world war period. And uh yeah today Jews obviously have a better position much better position in society and Israel is is kind of a favored nation of the US today. So things have changed. Napoleon Singh Shikhawat says what was the objective of Nazi Germany during the North African campaign and did win Romel really want to assassinate the painter Adolf Hitler? Let us go to the map. Nazi Germany the the North Africa campaign right okay let us go to the map and let us discuss the North Africa campaign in brief right so we are discussing North Africa how does it all start it starts around 1940 roughly roughly give or take a few months or years okay you you can check up the exact dates so it starts with the Italians u invading Libya and they wanted to go further east and capture Egypt and potentially even go all the way to Ethiopia because the Italians in have an old history in Ethiopia going back to the first world war. So the Italians they land in Tripoli and then they make a move on Egypt and then they are beaten back very badly. It was a disaster for Italy. But then the Germans they decide to to move in and support the Italians. Now before we discuss the North African campaign, why did Germany get involved in this? Why they they were fighting the Europeans, right? They were fighting England. Why did they have to make a move on North Africa? Well, there are good reasons for that. See, North if you control if Italy is your ally and you control France and Greece and then you also control let's say North Africa, then you control the entire Mediterranean region. And if you can make a move on Egypt and control the Suez Canal, that is disaster for England, for the UK, right? And if you can take over, let's say, the West Asia region, then that cuts off what what the UK needs the most, which is energy, oil. So that makes sense. It it makes a lot of sense for Germany to if possible take over North Africa, take over West Asia, take over the Suez Canal, control the Mediterranean and deny the UK the oil that it so desperately needs. So that was the objective of Nazi Germany. So Roel makes a move in support of of the Italians. He also lands in the Tripoli region and for a while he has great success and uh he he makes a move into Egypt and he fights a few battles and he wins those battles and uh his campaign is going great but then the British under what was his name was it Montgomery with somebody else so they then start a counterattack and it's sometime in 1942 or 43 or wherever it was that eventually uh the North African campaign was of Nazi Germany was derailed and defeated. So that is in very brief what I'm telling you but obviously it took several years for this whole thing to to happen. Um and Romel was a brilliant general. He was called the desert fox if I'm not mistaken. And he is considered to have been a great very ethical fighter. He was not known for cruelty or you know he was known as an ethical person. He fought war. He he did fight a war but he fought it along apparently ethical grounds. Now um in 1944 there was this uh plot to assassinate Adul Khla and some of the people involved in the plot were kind of associated in the past with Irwin Romel that's why the finger of suspicion and potentially blame fell on Irwin Romel so he was uh by the time he was back in Germany and he was then given a choice commit suicide head. If you do that, then your family will not be touched and you will you will be given an honorable funeral and all that. Nobody will be told that you you were allegedly part of a plot. If you don't do that, then not only will you be executed, but your family will will suffer consequences. So, Urvin Romel decided to do it himself. And that was the end of Romel. Did he really want to assassinate Adolf Hitler? He probably did not want to do that. He may have wanted to remove Hitler from power but not assassinate him. So even that is a matter of conjecture whether he wanted to remove Hitler from power but he was definitely not part of the assass assassination plot. But when an assassination plot happens paranoia rises and if you're Hitler you want to take out anybody who could potentially have even a small chance of being associated with the plot. That's why Irwin Raml well he met his um unfortunate fate right Amisha says why is D-Day remembered as being such a pivotal moment within the second world war what does the D in DDay stand for what does the D stand for it's as far as I know it only stands for day so there is something called H hour which is the hour at which a military operation will start in that H al also means hour So [clears throat] D-Day meant as far as I know D meant day. I don't think it meant decision day or any any such thing. I it just meant day. Now why is it remembered as being such a pivotal moment uh within the second world war? because it is it it it's where the west which is um the UK as well as the US they made a landing in Normandy in western France the coasts on the beaches of Normandy they were able to establish a tow hold in Normandy and then they were able to step by step liberate France and and and make a move on Germany itself so at This time Germany had bit off more than it could chew. It was fighting the USSR. It was fighting the UK. It had Yeah. It it had it was occupied on so many different fronts. North Africa also, right? And the USSR was putting up a huge amount of resistance. It was slowly clawing back the territory the Germans had taken. It was beating Germany back. And then the Germany have to divert resources to fight off the Americans and and the British who have landed in Normandy are taking back France. So Germany was forced to divide its its forces and it this eventually led to the defeat of Nazi Germany. So that's why the tide turns when the Americans and the British launched this invasion of Normandy. That's where the tide turned and much most of the fighting and winning was done by the Soviets. But in popular depictions, it is the Americans who win the day. So that's why D-Day is such a pivotal moment because that is where the tide of the war actually turned. [clears throat] Nirvana Shank says, "Why did the Western Roman Empire fall in the fifth century CE AD despite maintaining advanced technology, infrastructure, and a large military for centuries? Whereas the Eastern Roman or Byzantine Empire survived for nearly a millennium under similar pressures, right? Well, there are several reasons. You may have the best military. You may have uh tremendous amount of of land. You may have tremendous wealth. But if your leadership is weak, none of that matters. leadership makes as well as breaks empires. Over time, the Western Roman Empire, which was based out of Rome, its leadership became increasingly indulgent in in luxury. It became increasingly corrupt. It became in increasingly inefficient. There were internal power struggles. There was corruption. There was politics. there was there was degeneracy let's say right and when it comes to the Byzantine Empire they had less of that they also had geographical advantages that the western Roman Empire did not have so the western Roman Empire it had no natural defenses it had the Ry river it had the Danube river if you cross that you could come and invade Rome [clears throat] the Roman Empire and you had they had multiple waves of invasions by the by the visigoths, by the vandals, uh the Huns, Atilad Hun and so much more happened. Wave after wave of invasion at times even Rome fell to these invasions. Um so they did not have great natural defenses and uh and a lot of the population was concentrated in cities with because that's where the wealth was and there was a tremendous amount of inequality in society. uh the wealthy people they would bring in slaves to work on the farms and uh because of that the wealth was concentrated it's in in the hand in the hands of some people a small number of people there was a lot of poverty as well but overall the empire was very very rich very wealthy and then you had emperors like Ilabaloo what did I just say let me show you let's go to Googlealoo Let's let's Google this guy. There we have it. Let us see what Wikipedia has to say about this fantastic person. So he ruled he lived between 204 and 222 AD. So he died around the age of 18. But he was a Roman emperor. Okay. Um his short reign was notorious for religious controversy and alleged sexual debauchery. Um let's see what what do we what can we find about this gentleman. So he was assassinated at the age of 18. Okay. And he was replaced by his cousin. Um he had this reputation for extreme eccentricity, decad decadence, zelry and sexual promiscuity. One of the worst reputations among Roman emperors. He abandoned himself to the grossest pleasures with ungoverned fury. Um, Elagabalos had nothing at all to make up for his vices which are of such a kind that it is too disgusting to even allude to them. [laughter] He was not a tyrant. He was incompetent. Probably the least able emperor Rome has ever had. Um, and modern historians, some of them will describe him as a tragic enigma lost behind centuries of prejudice. [snorts] Uh, let's see. >> [laughter] >> what what we can see about this this fine gentleman. Um he married a vestal virgin who was not supposed to marry, right? A flagrant breach of Roman law and tradition which held that any vestal virgin found to have engaged in sexual intercourse was to be buried alive. Uh that sort of thing. Okay, nice. What else? Um six horse chariot and so on. Uh he had how many wives? First wife was Julia Cornelia Pa. Then he had the vested virgin Julia Aquilia Sea as a second wife. He divorced her then took a third wife was Ana Aurelia Fina. Um then he divorced Ana Fina and remarried Aquilinia Sea. Then this emperor Elagabalos was the had a husband who was Hierocles an exslave and chariot driver and he also married a man called Zoticus who was an athlete and this emperor he prostituted himself in taverns and brothel. He may have identified as female. He may have been transgender. He may have sought sex reassignment surgery. um he wore makeup and wigs. He preferred to be called a lady and not a lord and so much more. Okay, so that's the kind of people who were ruling Rome. He was the worst. He was the worst. And eventually he was assassinated by his own guards uh to no one's great surprise, I suppose. Yeah. And then you had other emperors who were you know not that out of the way but uh who were pretty incompetent and and eventually you know the western Roman Empire just fell by the fifth century uh AD. Uh when it comes to the Byzantine Empire, the Eastern Roman Empire, their emperors were more competent. U they had more professional standing armies. Uh they were able to fight off their adversaries much better. They were better organized, better administered. They did not have all the weirdness that that western Rome had. And you know, so because of these factors, the Byzantine Empire was able to survive until what 14 which when you know the 15th century when the Turks took over. Rahul Dunak says in spite of forming 25 million years ago, why hasn't the lake Bal turned salty? Why does it remain a freshwater lake? Great question. Let us go to the maps and we shall discover what is the deal with this lake. Lake Bal. Where is this lake? It's in Rasha is Rasha. Yes. So where is this lake? It's the It's a huge lake. It's north of Mongolia. This is Lake Bal. It holds about 20% of the surface fresh water of our planet. Huge lake. If you just roughly measure the distance from tip to tip, it's about six it's over 600 kilometers, right? It's a it's a massive lake about 20% of the surface fresh water of the planet and and it's its greatest depth is more than one and a half kilometers. So it's pretty deep. So this lake it formed about 20 30 35 million years before today. How did this lake form? It formed because of tectonic events because of the formation of a rift valley in this region where you have two tectonic plates moving apart. So a valley forms a rift valley and over millions of years it filled up with water which is supplied to it by hundreds of rivers maybe not hundreds of rivers maybe dozens of rivers. It's got all these little rivers that bring in this fresh water and it has I think only one river the angora river or angara river which carries water out. So there is no sea near this river and uh there is no connection between this river and any ocean which is salt water and all the water that comes into the river is is produced by melting snows and ice glacial melt water mostly which is why it remains fresh water there's no salt amazing beautiful so that's the reason why this lake has not turned salty that's why it remains a freshwater lake What about a different lake? If you go to northern India, if you go to Ladak, we have this lake over here. It's called Pangong, Lake Pangong. And if you go to this lake and you taste the water, it is salty water. So why is the Pangong lake a saltwater lake even though it's high in the Himalayas and even though Lake Bal is a freshwater lake? Why is Pangong a saltwater lake? This one here, it's a beautiful location by the way, Lake Pangong in Ladak. So the deal is this. Let's zoom out. So the Indian subcontinent was once attached to Africa. It was once attached to Africa and Madagascar and because of tectonic activity, the Indian subcontinent launched was launched by tectonic forces across the Indian Ocean. It was somewhere overong about 66 million years ago when you had the deck and traps traps volcanism in India and about 30 40 50 million years before today the subcontinent slammed into Eurasia and it is still slamming into urasia and this collision happened with such incredible force that it threw up these gigantic mountains called the Himalayas which are still rising. So just before the Indian subcontinent slams into Eurasia, there was an ocean between India and Eurasia which was called the Tethus ocean. And when the Indian subcontinent slammed into Eurasia, some of that water remained trapped between the subcontinent and Eurasia and that formed all these Himalayan lakes and that's why Pangong Lake is still salty because it still retains the salt of that ancient ocean and it has no rivers that take the water out and it has no rivers that bring fresh water in. Right? That's why it remains salty. Whatever water comes into the Pangong lake comes as a as a consequence of precipitation either rain or snow and whatever water goes out goes out because of evaporation. There's no other means of the water going out. That's why Pangong Lake is salty. What about these two lakes here? Right, we have Manserov and Rakasal. One second. Is is this the location? It's obviously no somewhere else. Let me see. Manover Monser over Lake. Okay, where is it? It's over here. Okay, so today if you look at the map it will say some weird Chinese names which is because we have allowed China to to capture and occupy Tibet. So when it comes to the lake manserver which is the large lake on the right of the screen that is a freshwater lake but right next to it we have Rakastal which is a salty lake right so it's a big conundrum as to how this has happened because see manser over it it has some some little rivlets that come into it and give it fresh water and somehow it has been able able to you know get rid of its of its salt content but Rajasthal has not been able to do that. So it's it's one of the great mysteries. How come one lake is fresh water, the other one is brackish or saline? And I'm sure there's a good geological explanation for that, but I am not sure what it is. I've not looked into it. So anyhow, that's that's a bit about the geological history of the of the planet. Right. Next question. Napoleon Singh Shikawad says, "I watched a video of yours in which you were talking about Yamna people being from the Indian subcontinent, but as I looked into it more into it, the internet showed me only three Yamna men being brown skinned, the rest of them had white skin with blonde hair and blue eyes." Why is that? Please enlighten. So, let's let's uh go and replicate the experiment that Napoleon Shing Shikhawat has done. Okay, let's see. Google. Oh, here we have it. Yum. Yeah. People, let's see what these people look like. Let's see images of these people. Um, so if you look here, you will see this Yamna gentleman looks brown skinned, dark hair, dark eyes, looks like an Indian. This gentleman looks once again like an Indian. And this gentleman looks very very Indian. Standard brown skin, brown eyes, dark hair, right? But then you will see you will see this this person is depicted as a European you know light colored hair blondish hair. Then you will see this gentleman and you will see other depictions of Yamna people who are depicted as kind of European. Let's see what other depictions we have. So these are all artistic reconstructions based on the skulls. Okay. So you can depict them whichever way you want. If you are an artist, you can depict them as a European person. You can depict them with whatever skin color, hair color, and eye color you want. So, here is one example of a red-haired Yamna with white skin and blue eyes. It's an artistic representation. This gentleman has blue eyes and blonde hair and beard. So, the artist decides how to represent the person, right? I mean you could take me and you could do an artistic representation of me with blue eyes and blonde hair and white skin in that case I would look kind of European I suppose right so that's what's been done here now let's go to okay let's check Wikipedia what it has to say okay and why did I say that see I do not say that yamnas were from Indian subcontinent I said that yamnas may have been from the subcontinent maybe and they definitely were not white people is what I said so why did I say that Let's see what Wikipedia has to say about their skin color. Okay, skin. So based on genetic analysis. Okay, first of all, Wikipedia is not necessarily a reliable source of information, but let's for the sake of time see what Wikipedia has to say. So there are some genetic studies that are referenced over here. People of the Yamna culture are believed to have had mostly brown eye color, light to intermediate skin, and brown hair color with some variation. Okay, let's see some more. A 2022 study by Lazaridis Aal found that the typical phenotype among the Yamna population was brown eyes, brown hair in intermediate skin color. None of their Yamna s samples were predicted to have either blue eyes or blonde hair in contrast with later step groups which are not Yamna in in Russia and Central Asia. Right? So the Yamna people were a single genetically coherent group and who were responsible for spreading Indo-Uropean languages. That is complete conjecture. You can't prove or disprove that. That's nonsense. That's what David Reich says. I I mean that is pure conjecture. But the point is none of them had blue eyes or blonde hair. They had intermediate skin color. What do we mean by intermediate skin color? white black intermediate it's somewhere between white and black that is intermediate okay let's say we have no black people in Eurasia so then it means that it's intermediate between white and brown it means light brown that is what the skin color of the yamna people was light brown not dark brown not white light brown okay and they had brown eyes and dark hair brown or black hair maybe brown hair you'll see plenty of such people in northern and western India maybe even southern India you'll find people like that many so that's the whole point okay an artist can make any kind of depiction of a person based on their skull structure but that's an artist's decision if an artist has a certain bias he he prefers you know the European origin theory of the of the arian race so-called then he will paint the amna white with blue eyes and blonde hair but what Does the genetic evidence tell us they had light brown they they had light brown skin, brown eyes and dark colored hair. That is the deal. That's what we know. All right. Okay. Right. Next question. Shub says what are the origins of Rajputs and how did they adopt Chhatria Dharma? And Ellesian says are Jadav Rajputs in Maharashtra and Jadon Yal of the same. Same with Chawans and Chavan, Chri and Chowri, Raur and Rord, Shindar Rajput and Cindia, Panoar, Pawar and Maharashtra. Please answer. I am Jadav Rajput. My ancestors came to Maharashtra 400 years ago from Matura Rowi Bayana. Okay. What is the origin? What are the origins of the so-called Rajputs? First of all, we have discussed this in the past, but this term Rajput did not emerge until the middle until the last 5 600 years. That's when the term Rajput appears in historioggraphy in written history and this term comes from the it means Rajautra the son of sons of kings which means people who had royal ancestry right but in 1000 AD nobody called themselves Rajputs in 1200 AD most likely no one called themselves Rajuts even though they are now called Rajputs the Chawans or whoever else right whoever else there are so many of these These are not so many a number of Rajput clans lineages. So what's the origin of Rajput? So if you if you read what the British and Europeans wrote about Rajputs, they will say that the Rajputs were of foreign origin. They were either descendants of skitians, Indoskit, but the skitians themselves were of Indian ancestry by the way. Anyhow, either descendants of schizians or descendants of Huns who knows, [clears throat] right? White Aunwah maybe that maybe something else. So maybe foreign origin. But what does our own history say? These kingdoms which are now called Rajput kingdoms they emerged in the aftermath of the breakup and disintegration and decline and disintegration of the Gupta Empire. So after the Guta Empire which encompass the whole of the subcontinent essentially it declines and and breaks up then you have these independent kingdoms that pop up and they eventually eventually come to be known as the Rajapur. But what were their origins? So the origins it is said it is said that there were 36 royal clans in India royal royal lineages in India that come back that date all the way to the Mahajanapadas but that is the late Vic times. And those become the eventual uh Rajputic lineages, Rajput lineages. So you have different ancestors, right? Surya, the solar dynasty and their descendants, various Rajput lineages, Chundraanch, Chundraanchi dynasties, the dynasty, the lunar dynasty and their descendant lineages which are different. And then there is Agnikul which have come from the fire from fire that sort of thing. So there are supposed to to be 36 royal lineages in India. Let's see. And the English historian James Todd wrote about this. Let's let's go to Google and find out what did James Todd write about this. So James Todd 36 royal races of India right what's it say? Royal races. James Todd was this writer. Um let's see what this has to say. I'm sure it will have some kind of um list that James Todd gave and James Todd himself did not you know create the list he simply copied it from from older uh records. So if we look at this you are asking about the Jadav Rajputs right? So this is a catalog of the 36 royal races of India which most likely originate in the late Vic time period. And you you have something called Yadu over here. As you can see there is this one one lineage is called Yadu which could be the originators of the Jadav Rajputs of Maharash Maharashtra. Does it have any other Yadu Jadav thing over here? Joa and Jet Jetwa Jala that's fine. Uh Jit and okay so it looks like there's only one Yadu Yadu apparently. So it looks like the Yadu Rajuts are could be related to the Jadav Rajputs in Maharashtra. I'm not sure about Yadav and Jadon and all that. I am not sure about that. Can't say for sure. And see when you say chawans and chavan chri with a u and chi with a w that's just English spellings that those English spellings can differ that doesn't matter. Ratur and rahor d it's the same thing it's different ways of writing the same thing. Uh shindai and cindia the British called them cindias they were actually shindi I'm not sure if they were rajuts if they were part of the 36 lineages but they were marata warriors right that sort of thing. So I'm not sure about the Jadav. There is a Yadu uh lineage that was listed in James Todd's list. Is that related to the Jadavs of Maharashtra? I am not sure about that. Possibly it could be maybe it may not be. I'm not sure. I am not an expert in this matter. I only know about a few of these lineages not all of them. But that's about the origins of the Rajput. How did they adopt Chhatria Dharma? They were chhatrias, right? They were warriors from the from the very beginning. They did not decide one day that okay now from today we will adopt Dharma. Not like that. It was their way of life. They were warriors. That was their rule in society. Okay. Um we have so many other questions but we have crossed ours. Let's take one more question from the comments and I'll take take some from the live chat. So colorful mix says would you like to tell me about Indian classical music? Classical music was not just entertainment for culture like India and China. I'd like to know about the science and philosophy surrounding our classical music. How it came to be and its role in healing and meditation. Indian classical music Indian classical Indian music overall it's the oldest musical tradition in the world that we know of. It dates back thousands of years and it is based on something called the ragas. And you know what is a raga? Well, I don't have my guitar with me otherwise I would have demonstrated that. I've done that in the past. But a raa is see in western in western music you have scales. Scales is is a set of notes cdc. These are the seven notes of the standard scale of the pentatonic scale. uh the the major notes right um so the western system it comes from India because the system of raas with those seven notes it predates Europe by thousands of years it predates Greece by thousands of years so we have scales in western music it could be heptatonic scales seven notes it could be hexatonic scales with six notes it could be pentatonic scales with five notes that sort of thing in Indian music we also have scales but we more than scales we have raas what is a raa we have you know there are I don't know hundreds of raas you could create and there's a ragas are classified into something called thoughts and this classification was done roughly 100 plus years ago by by a gentleman called bakande so we have ragas classified as morning ragas evening ragas night ragas afternoon ragas we have something called raga bilaval which is a thought it's a classification of ragas. Bilawal it's a it's an Indian name not a Pakistani name it's a morning raa then we have raa kalyan which is an evening raga we have raa kamage which is a night raa we have raa marva which is a thought which is a dusk raga very very yeah different kind of so each raa it evokes a mood an emotion and based on the emotion you classify it as and and and the rasa of the raa which the emotion it it it evokes. You can classify a raga as a morning raga or evening raga, night raga, afternoon raga or a seasonal raga like malahar which is monsoon and uh you have ragavasant which is springtime that sort of thing right. So uh that is what ragas are like and uh I suppose this form of music this this classification of music emerged in the well [clears throat] at the very beginning of Indian civilization over time it evolved over time over centuries or thousands of years that's why it is so complex and it's the greatest system of music that you have anywhere on the planet but it's dying a slow death in India because everyone's enamored with Bollywood music and western music today but the Latest system of music is Indian Indian classical music. So Raa I'll tell you what Raa is. I told you it it it has a time morning, night, evening, afternoon whatever it could have a season based on the emotions it evokes. A raa its structure its note structure it has an ascending scale and a descending scale. So a set of notes when you are going from lower frequencies to higher frequencies and a set of notes which when you're descending from lower higher frequencies to lower frequencies and the ascending and descending scale can potentially be different from each other which is totally different from any concept in western music. Then each raa has a sonent note and a consonant note. Asant note is the note that you emphasize the most out of all the other notes. And the consonant note is the second most emphasized note. Then you have drone notes. So when you are playing raar, you also have a vina that's accompanying you in the background. And the vina it'll be tuned to three notes and those are the drone notes and that goes on in the background. Ding ding ding. You keep plucking that. And by playing this kind of music it it will create create an atmosphere, a mood, a set of emotions. Each raa has a personality of its own. And each raa is typically associated with each of the major ragas is typically associated with some with with a particular specific deity. For example, rahav which is a dawn raa which you play in the early morning when the sun is rising. that [clears throat] is generally associated with Lord Shiva right and other raas are associated with other gods and there is and yeah each ra also has a pucker which is a which is a distinctive melodic phrase associated with the raa so raas I mean it's the most incredible system of music and you can play raas on modern instruments you can play the play raas on piano on electric instruments you can play ragas on guitar. I've done that. I would love to reconnect with my musical roots. So, and it obviously some ragas have, you know, hypnotic, it can put you in a hypnotic translike state. Some of them can be good for meditating. Some of them are said to be good for healing and so on. So, it's it's a very deep and profound subject. I can't explain in 5 minutes. Maybe I should have a musician come and talk to me about this, you know, have a conversation. Maybe I should revive the podcast just for that. Let's see. We'll see about that. Okay, that's the last question from the comments. Let's see some questions from the live chat if we have any. Okay, I see that we have three super chats. Let me deal with those first of all. UMX says that is it true that anyone west of Persia was called Mletcha in ancient India and it meant that there were foreigners and who were considered outside the realms of Vic Dharma, a word similar to Kafir? No. What did Mletcher mean in the Indian civilizational concept? The Mletcher word the word Mletcher was the opposite of the word Arya. In our context, the Indian civilizational concept. The word Arya meant noble, civilized and Gletcher meant univilized. So it essentially meant whoever was no longer following the Vic lifestyle, the precepts of the Vedas, that person was called called a Mletcha. Irrespective of race, skin color, eye color, hair color, it had nothing to do with your race or ethnicity. If you had blonde hair and blue eyes, but you practiced the Vic lifestyle, then you were an Arya, not a bleacher. So those who had moved away from the precepts of the Vedas, they were called lechas including our own people who had migrated to central Asia and wherever else. So that could potentially include Persians when they moved away from the Vic lifestyle, right? Yeah. And Yavana, what does the word Yavana mean? It means Ionian. There's something called the Ionian Sea. Let me show you what is the Ionian Sea. Okay, let's go here to the map. Where is the Ionian Sea? Okay, let's find the Ionian Sea, shall we? So, here we have the Ionian Sea between Greece and Italy. So, the people who lived in this region were called were called the Ionians and we called them the Yavanas. All right. So yavana means Greek essentially. It has nothing to do with this term cafe or whatever the hell that is. Nothing to do with that. Right. Next question. Sumid says please write elillutive book on Indian history timeline. I'll put that on my to-do list. Maybe it is already there on my to-do list. Well thank you for the suggestion sir. ICMBBS says are ex US colonies fairing better than French ones? Well, the UK colonies, who did the UK colonize? India, Australia, uh, etc. Just these two also West Asia, you know, Middle East, Egypt, and so on. But let's talk about India, Australia. So, overall, if you look at these countries, they're doing better than the countries the French colonized, which are the countries in the Sahil region, Africa, and so on. Those were devastated. So, I'm not sure it's it's because the the British were better than the French. I'm not sure about that. It's because we were more resilient than the poor African people who were devastated by the other Europeans, the French. That's what it means. So, please don't mistake it to to mean that the the British were better than the French. No, they had the same objectives. They had the same method essentially. They employed the same methodologies for for for occupy occupying and plundering. But the effect was different. We were more resilient. That's why we used to we rebounded and we are in the process of maybe rising again as as a great power. Africa totally devastated because they perhaps were less resilient. I'm not sure. Right. So that's the deal. Okay, let's take perhaps some questions. Okay, I will not please stop taking super chats. This is not a super chat live stream but I'll take the super chats which are already there. Um Akshit Raj says I a new subscriber. Well, thank you so much Akshit. Welcome and I'm glad to have you as a subscriber, sir. I wanted to know about my about your views on David Reich's AMT. You can call it whatever you want. Arian invasion theory, which is AIT or if that doesn't work, invasion doesn't work, well, let's call it a migration migration theory. If migration doesn't work, we'll call it tourism theory. If tourism doesn't work, we we will call it picnic theory. This is a bunch of nonsense. Okay. And I have entire Ask Kabijit live streams dedicated to this RN invasion nonsense. Okay. And I don't say it's nonsense because I am emotional about this and I hate this. I before 2016 I used to believe that there was an RN invasion of India. I used to believe it. But then one day I said let me look into it. Let me look into not what people are saying, not what historians are writing, but let me look at the actual evidence, the hard evidence, archaeological evidence, literary evidence, genetic evidence. And when I spent a few months looking into it in great detail, I discovered there is no evidence whatsoever that supports an invasion or migration or tourism or picnic of India by some some white-kinned Arians. Nothing. And I have entire episodes dedicated to the Arian invasion myth. Um what is the episode number? I can look into that. Maybe I can um if you want know to know my views in detail, we can look into that. So let me see. Uh let's let's look at my channel and uh let's see where is this episode. Which episode is that? Let us see. Live stream. Live stream. Live stream. Live stream. uh this one 43 arian invasion migration tourism picnic that's the one so check out that that episode in which you will find exactly what my views are about this matter and now I have more live super chats people are taking please please let let us end this live stream soon okay let's see says one last question the westerners and Americans really believe that they are the modern-day descendants of the Roman Empire and civilization we can see that in their symbolism is any truth to that? Any truth to that? The Romans, their descendants are the Italians. No one else. The Romans did occupy much of Europe and even North Africa and they may have left behind a little bit of their genetic material there. May happens that way. Everyone is related to the Romans, right? If you look at northern and western India, you will have lots of people who will have maybe 1% Greek ancestry, maybe 3% scheian ancestry, maybe 2% Kushan ancestry. That way, everyone's related to each other. Genetically, everybody is related to each other and every, you know, most people in Europe will have some little bit little amount of potential Roman ancestry. But are they civilizationally carrying the legacy of the Roman Empire? Well, then you would ask yourself, was Rome a civilization or an empire? It was an empire. It was not a civilization. Okay, Greece was a civilization that the Romans conquered. And Greece lost its sovereignty 2,150 years ago. It has never regained it. Um, so the Americans are not modern-day descendants of the Roman Empire, which was not a civilization. They are the descendants of the Anglo, not the Anglo-Saxons, the the the English, who are a combination of three races. The people of the UK, let's say the English, they are a combination of three races. One, the Kelts, the Celtic people. Second, the Anglo-Saxons who invaded and conquered the island uh in the middle of the first millennium AD. And thirdly, the Normans who were originally of of Nordic origin. These three races mixed and gave rise to the modernday people of the UK, mainly the English. The Americans are are descendants of those people. Of course they have absorbed other it is now. But which civilization is the west a descendant of? None. None. The west is an empire. If you want to call it a cohesive entity, it's an empire because Christianity was not a civilization. It itself was an imperial system. And the west was not in any way a continuation of ancient Greece. They destroyed everything that Greece stood for and imposed Christianity on top of that. So they can't claim descent from Greece. The Romans can legitimately claim connection to Greece because they absorbed Greek culture and made their own. The Romans did. But the Romans were polytheists and Christianity is a reputation of everything polytheistic. So how can you then claim that you are a continuation of Rome when you hate polytheism? Right? So they see it's it's all about acquiring some of the prestige without without acquiring the polytheistic and idolatory practices of of of the Romans and Greeks. So we want the prestige associated with Rome, but we don't want the evil polytheism. We don't want the evil idol worship. That's the deal about the West and the United States. UX says, "Aren't non-Muslims of any race called Kafir?" Well, the non the Muslims will call non-Muslims kafir. What does it have to do with us? What's the argument here sir? The mchea thing that that that is nothing to do with any kafir nonsense thing. Okay, that that's a totally different thing. The mch like I explained mchletcha means nonaria. Arya means noble and civilized. Lecha means someone who has moved away from the Vic way of life. It has nothing to do with the Islamic concept of kafir or whatever. You may see some parallels in that. I do not. Okay. Okay. Um I can now say that there's a thousands of questions that people have here. Let's take maybe a couple of this. Nirj says our textbooks say that we had pre-classified occupation based on cast but Peshwa Bajira was a warrior despite being a Brahman. Please do not believe anything your history textbooks tell you. They are lying. They distorting our history. We had various kings who were proud to be of sudra origin. Sudra did not mean something bad. And you had social mobility in India. Like you have pointed out here, Bishwa Baji was a Brahman but he decided to become a warrior. Life decided that he has to become a warrior. So he became a warrior and through his deeds as a warrior he became a chhatria. That was the deal in India in our civilization. We had social mobility. We do not have that rigid horrific cast system that I that I discussed earlier that the Europeans had that was based your station in in society and life is divinely ordained by the God by the one Christian God and if you question that if you try to be socially mobile you are committing a sin against God and you must be burned alive. We did not have any of that. Right? So if your textbooks are telling you that we had some that sort of thing your textbooks are lying to you. Everything that is today considered to be self-evident truth is based on collodial atrocity literature to make you hate your own ancestors and to be ashamed of your own culture. That is the objective. Okay. Amisha says Patnak says Chanaki is an imaginary person in his recent article. Uh well that's his opinion and I do not take Mr. Patnak seriously and neither should anybody else. That gentleman has a very very clear agenda. He is a disciple of Wendy Doniger who wrote that horrific book about the Hindus. So that explains what kind of gentleman Shri Patnak G is. So I do not take him seriously at all and uh yeah that's all I can say about Mr. Patnak and his opinions. Right. Okay. Geopoliticis control s control I shall control. Yes. Thank you sir. Uh Chatanya says eyewitnesses claim that 2611 shooters were white or foreign looking. Even JK that said there were more than terrorist 10 terrorists. What are my thoughts? I I I have not looked into this. I have not looked into this. So I cannot say say anything about this. Can't say. Uh Pax Shield says who are the most diabolical in history? French, Spanish, English, Turkish invaders, Khalifs. I would say the most diabolical in history were the English and the Turk invaders. Okay. Um okay, let's take this one last question for today. Peline lover says, "Hixos people who invaded Egypt actually the Skyians. Are the Hixos actually the Skyians? And could Hixos be a corruption of Skitians becoming s becoming a lot of Hixos names do sound more Indo-aranian than Sematic? I'm not sure about the Skithian angle. The Skithians were obviously Indo Indo Iranian people. Their names were very much you know in sync with Indian and Persian names. Um a bunch of names they had the skitians parata was one of their kings. It sounds very Sanskrit doesn't it? Um could the hixos be skitian s becoming h. Well the term skitian is is a term in the English language. The true term is shaka. That's what we called them. That's what the Persians called them. The Persians called them shaker. Not skitans. The Indians us we call them shaker. Not in not Skiians. It's an English word. The Egyptians, if they had known the Skithians, they would have either have called them the Shakas or some Egyptian word. They would have not not invented an Egyp an English word and use that. Right? English the English language that is spoken today did not even exist two and a what when was that? Three and a half thousand years ago. Right? So it's it's not possible. Now um so who the the Hixos names many of them do sound more Indo-arian than somiting no question about it their way of life their way of warfare all of that looks very indo indooran the the kind of boughs they used the kind of weapons they used the the the bronze ax the pu the chariots they used they had one sari and one Maharati the jav I mean the god they worshiped a god of thunder and rain everything sounds very Indo-arian but the consensus among scholars is that they were smiting people so what can I say there was okay we have one more super chat which I shall take and this is going to be the last question of the day even if there are more super chats I won't be able to take them today so this is the last question of today devil x says do you think our textbooks will change showing the true history after India becomes a major 10 to15 trillion dollar economy. I have no idea. It depends on the leadership not on the economy. The leadership must have political will to change the nonsense that is being you know imparted in the name of education. That has to happen. But maybe leadership if if you become a 10 15 trillion dollar economy maybe the leadership will also be different perhaps. So it will depend on the leadership not on the economy but economy leadership are also interconnected. So I'm hopeful this will happen. But why hasn't it already happened in the past 10 years? What has prevented this government from doing it? I don't understand. I'm sure they have bigger things to worry about. I'm sure no question about that. But this is also important. It is poisoning the hearts and minds of our own people of our own youngsters. Our our youngsters are not evil people but they are they are being brainwashed into hating their own culture their own civilization their own ancestors right it needs to change but there isn't any political will today hopefully hopefully I'm hopeful I'm an ever optimistic person so hopefully when we are a 10 to 15 trillion dollar economy things will change I hope so I hope so let us all hope and pray to the great gods including Shri Indra for that. All right people, thank you so much for this live stream for all the questions and uh there were so many great questions that you all asked in the comments. I think I'll have to do more extra additional live streams about about history to cover all of those but I'm going to end this here. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. It is great to be back on the Ask a Bajget show after a break of a few days. And tomorrow we're going to have a live stream about geopolitics. It's going to be a super chat live stream. I look forward to seeing you all there tomorrow. Until then, take care. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards. See you tomorrow. Bye-bye.