[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] [Music] Hello everybody. Good evening, good day and welcome to all of you to the Ask Abilit show. Today we are doing episode 242 and I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments a bunch of those and then if there's time I'll take questions from the live chat as well. Before that let's see who all is there on the live stream. I can see plenty of people. I can see Manu Krishna Oscar Madison feminist slayer Matias Vandal Berg from Belgium Rahul Dunake Manu Krishna Krishna Ragunat from the Surinamese Netherlands Mr. 88ers P Ain Nishal Nishal Ray Shri Ramchandra uh the priest of Vanasi Rahul Dunak Info King info King who else do we have Rushab Singh Kumar Patel Sai Sai Sasang Bharata Edits chat DSP Bishal Patro D KLC28 Samati Ravi Prasad Bushan Priyanka Javalia Prexen Aratim Roy Shri Watsa Shriatza Shubam Jane Aish Mishra Kiadi the Chad Vishnari Shesh Chri Jal Ra Sam Achara nationalist fam boy Rashmir Matop Pareth from Texas Sumana Gosh Official Deep Debbakar World Manu Krishna Tjas B Sergeant Skylan Daddy of Diddi Rash God Illuminati Creek Kuml Mclovin Arbhat Rama Krishnan Guru Morti Duv Jaganath Geopolitical Dub from Indor Mr. Bin Salman 86 786 Nabarita Das Mr. Jam Hirkumar Patel and lots and lots and lots of other people Ken Raf Ritwij Phenomena Brishnu Muan Mayangati Mr. Jam and B uh I lost that. All right. All right. All right. All right. Welcome to all of you and thank you so much for being on the live stream on this live stream with us. I can see Amisha as well, Sumesh and many other people. So let's get going with the questions. Once again, there's been a lot of questions about Pakistan because of the situation that's ongoing. So I'm going to take a bunch of those as well. Um and yeah, so let's get going with the the questions that uh we have. What are the questions? Let's get into it. Okay, this is a question by Karan Nagpal. Okay, Karan Nagpal says, "Humor me this. Pakistan's total debt, external debt is $131 billion as per available data online while India's strategic forex reserves are close to $700 billion. What if India buys all of Pakistan's debt and basically buys out Pakistan to make it a sort of colony colony just like China does? uh China tries to do so with other smaller nations. This will already save us billions of dollars in army expenditure and help us stabilize the border. A friendly or vasal Pakistan will also open land routes to central and west Asia, boosting overall economic strength of North India. Overall sounds like a good investment. Is this the right way to look at things? Well, that's an interesting question. It's an interesting thought experiment and I'm glad that people are thinking in creative ways. So what so what if we do this? So yeah according to the latest uh information let's assume that Pakistan's external debt is about $131 billion. Okay. So we so here's the thought that we as an India we buy all of that debt and that turns Pakistan into a Wasab is does can that work? So we have to understand what does that $131 billion of debt actually represent? What does it mean? Is who to whom does Pakistan owe this? So if you look at it, there's going to be several slabs of of debt. First of all, there's going to be a bunch of debt to multilateral lenders like the World Bank, like the Asian Development Bank, like the International Monetary Fund, etc. I would say about 30% of Pakistan's external debt is to these multilateral lenders, these treaty based organ institutions. Can India just buy this debt? No, we can't. Right? It can this debt that Pakistan owes to these organizations, institutions etc. It it cannot be traded like bonds without that institution's board approval. The World Bank's board has to approve it. The IMF's board has to approve it. the Asian Developments Bank its board has to approve it and it typically doesn't work like that. So that 30% we can't buy. Then there's another slab of debt about let's say 40%. Which goes to which which is owed by Pakistan to bilateral creditors like the Saudis like like like China like the UAE like Qatar it's been you know borrowing money from all these nations. So these are these are bilateral arrangements. These are sovereign states. Let's say it's 40%. Okay. Or that let's say that 40% of Pakistan's death debt is owed to these sovereign states. So can India buy this debt? Potentially yes. But only if the current lenders agree to to sell the debt to India. And I can assure you that Beijing that China will not agree to sell Pakistan's debt to India. Excuse me. So there you have it. So once again, see 30% IMF, World Bank, all that. Uh 40% is these sovereign nations, sovereign states that uh Pakistan owes money to. Then there'll be about 20% of of the debt which would be to uh commercial banks, various global investors. So theoretically you can purchase this on the open market. But uh these investors they if they if they sense that there's a grab there there's there's a potential you know opportunity to to make money uh you're going to have to buy it at a premium. So 20% of the debt may you may have to buy it at double the right the amount like 40%. You know, so uh so if you look at the big picture in this manner, then you will see that at the very most a few tens of billions of dollars of of of this debt may be liquid enough for India to purchase it and you may have to pay well above the current market value to to buy this uh debt and let's say so so practically you can't buy more more than 10 20 30 40 $50 billion of the debt. 50 would be too much, I would say. So, you can't even buy a third of the debt. Now, let's say theoretically we could purchase the the entirety of the debt. Okay? We we purchase the whole of the the entire $1 131 billion of debt. Um, so what does it mean? Does it mean that Pakistan becomes our Basal state? So you to understand that debt does not mean the same thing as sovereignty. You can own you can own sovereign bonds of a nation and if you own those sovereign bonds it it gives you the right to demand repayment on the agreed terms on the on the terms of the sovereign bonds. So let's say you you have done this then you have the right to demand repayment from Pakistan. You don't have the right to tell Pakistan how to run its army, what to do with its nukes and what to do with its foreign policy. You know, for example, let me give you a great great straightforward rightway example. China holds about $800 billion of US Treasury bonds. Okay, but China doesn't govern Washington. China doesn't is not in position to tell Washington what to do, right? So um so you can't even if you purchase all all of the debt from Pakistan you can't really control them you can't tell them what to do and Pakistan if you if India were to tell Pakistan give us the money back they would simply default they would say we are not in a position to give you the money do what you can yeah so it's not going to work it will simply stop payments and it'll dare India to escalate do what you can right so if you want to truly vasalize a nation if you want to truly control a nation, colonize the nation, you need boots on the ground, you don't need bonds, you don't need debt. Okay? Uh real control historically, even today, it it requires some form of either occupation or you need to have control over very strategic areas of a country like ports and air u air for um uh airports, military installations and all of that. or you need to install proxy rulers, okay, which you which you can see today in various nations. So none of these things can be delivered by holding a debt portfolio, right? And at the end of the day, even if we were to do all this, would it save billions of dollars in RB expenditure? Very unlikely. A Pakistan that is financially beholden to you but it is still sovereign would double down on its uh terrorism and whatever asymmetric tools it it has and they would create a headache for us. So I would say it's not going to work even if we are in a position to buy all of the debt. We have the money it would destabilize our economy to some extent to a certain extent we don't want to do that and and it's technically infeasible. So uh so this thought experiment is is interesting. It's it's entertaining but I would say it's not a sound uh it's not a sound investment. Uh when you own debt it's a financial claim. It's not something that gives you sovereignty and uh if you attempt to buy Pakistan in this manner it would deplete it would deplete our hard earned reserves resources etc. It would to some extent destabilize our economy and it would most likely not have any effect on the strategic risk we face from Pakistan. So not a good idea. Okay. Surendra Gupta says suppose you're in power. What would your response be to the pahilgam attack? Suppose I'm in power. What would I do? So yeah, I would give myself I would I would give myself 10 years to essentially reduce Pakistan to uh to atoms. I not to atoms essentially but uh I would give myself 10 years to have Pakistan uh essentially break up. So what would I do? What steps would I take? First of all, I would take the step that has been taken the abrogation or revocation or whatever you want to call it of the Indis Waters treaty. And over the next 10 years, I would put the requisite infrastructure in place so that after so that by the time the 10 years are out, we are in a position to completely stop the supply of even a drop of water to Pakistan. We we should be in a position to completely dry dry out the rivers that Pakistan that flow from India into Pakistan. That's one thing I would do. So yes, the the government has taken the right step. now and and we already have a bunch of projects, infrastructure projects, the dams etc that are in various stages of completion in this region. We need to double down on that. So I would have definitely done that. What else would I have done? Um I would you know what I would do? I would talk to all the various multinational corporations that we have in India. all these companies like uh you know Coca-Cola, Pepsi, um Pizza Hut, Domino's, KFC, uh Apple, all these companies. I'll tell them you want to do business in India, you need to shut shop in Pakistan. You cannot operate in India. If you want to also operate in Pakistan, choose us. You you are you are either with us or with them. You can't be in both places at the same time. So I would enforce a complete uh boycott of Pakistan, complete isolation of Pakistan. I would tell the world that we our our huge gigantic market is open for you only if you stop doing business in Pakistan. I would tell every single uh sporting board that if you want to do business with India, if you want access to the Indian market, you got to stop doing business with Pakistan. This involves cricket also. I would tell every single cricket board, the ECB, the Australian board, whoever else there is, if you want access to the IPL, if you want access to India, if you want India to uh do business with you to to play cricket against you, with you, you got to stop doing business with Pakistan, you cannot have a single Pakistani playing in your big bash league or whatever, whatever else. That applies to cricket. That applies to every other sport, every other event. So I would do everything that's possible every every lever that I have. We have tremendous amount of leverage in India. We we don't realize it how much we don't realize how much leverage we have uh by the consequence of being such a huge market being such a huge population and and increasingly becoming a manufacturing power. We have a tremendous amount of leverage. So I would enforce the complete isolation of Pakistan. There will be a few nations who will want to do business with with Pakistan. Let them do it. But they cannot long they can no longer do business with us. So I would tighten the squeeze slowly gradually using all these means. I would I will give Pakistan no opportunity to um you know uh start any any war with India. I would give myself 10 years to completely squeeze isolate and and finish Pakistan in 10 years. in 10 years it we should be in a position to stop the the flow of all water to Pakistan and then let's see what the economy does and in the next 10 years obviously our economy needs to grow it needs to be at least double of what it is today um hopefully close to a $10 trillion mark and then we'll see from there so that's what I would do I would not uh take recourse to in an emotional reaction and start bombing Pakistan maybe maybe a little bit here and there would would would be okay but I would not start a war against Pakistan. Pakistan has been has been doing this for far too long. They have they have bled us for decades and it's time we end the terror terrorist nation. And of course I would also uh tell various of our our partners partner nations who do business with us and who trade with us and who want access to a market and so on that you need to stop harboring Pakistanis on your soil. U if if we know that various Pakistani generals and politicians have families living in the west. I would start putting a squeeze on that as well. I would definitely the objective will be to turn Pakistan into a complete pariah state. completely isolated state. Um you know that's that's the objective. So that's what I would do. That that's what my response would be. It would be a cooled calculated long drawn out response. It would not be an angry instantaneous response of of bombing Pakistan and trying to turn Pakistan to Gaza. There are better ways of see what what we want to do is we want to win. We don't want to have revenge and you know u exalt in in in temporary revenge. We want long-term victory. And long-term victory means no more Pakistan. We want to see Hindu. We want to see Baluchasthan free. We want to see Pakunist Pakuna return to Afghanistan and so on and eventually long term our border needs to be with Iran somewhere in the Sindu region. So that's victory. That is what victory uh what constitutes victory for me. So I would give myself 10 years to do these things and then from there we can take it forward. That's what I would do. I would not get all angry and react emotionally. Okay. Chuching says why did our Indian government release water from the dam after suspending the Indis water treaty? That's a good question. So we suspend or abrogate or whatever the term is. we we suspend let's say the industry which means that now we we don't no longer um are required to let water flow into Pakistan right that's what we have done and then apparently the news comes out especially from Pakistan that we are releasing large quantities of water into Pakistan what does it mean so you see water can be used in two ways you can hurt your enemy you can hurt the terrorist nation either by stopping the flow of water that will hurt them because they'll you know um they they need water for agriculture and so on. So if you stop water it hurts them but you can also hurt them by releasing too much water which can flood their agricultural land and you know cause various kinds of small low low scale damage and all that. So that's also a way of punishing a way of hurting the terrorist nation. There are two ways of hurting the terrorist nation by withholding water or giving too much water which flows away and they can't stop you know. Uh so the main thing we are doing is that we are now going to be an an unpredictable nation. Pakistan will know have no idea as to what's going to come next. That's what we are doing. Uh so that's why sometimes we're going to stop water when the Pakistanis may need it and sometimes we'll release a whole bunch of water as per our convenience. That's what we will do and we are no longer under any obligation uh to inform Pakistan in advance as to what we are doing. So that's why the government must have released water after suspending the industry. Uh fat Bob says will India allow an entire country that is Pakistan to become a famine uh a country under famine where millions of Pakistanis will be on the brink of hunger. Does our dharma allow it? Does our dharma allow it? So we have been on the receiving end of terrorism for decades since 1979 essentially over and over and over again. Uh tens of thousands hundreds of thousands of Hindus were evicted from Kashmir. God knows how many were killed. They are still living as as as refugees in their own country. Pakistan has been perpetrating terrorist attacks on India. We can't even count them. Yes. Uh so it is is it is it dharmic to allow this to happen to continue forever? You know what what dharma says? It says that a hinsa perma dharma the the highest dharma is a hinsa. So what does it mean? Let's dig deeper into it. It means that hinsa is the worst thing. Hinsa violence is the worst thing in dharma. And we have a nation on our border that is constantly engaging in hinsa in violence. It is engaging in extraordinarily adheric activities. So our dharma is to end a dharma to end violence and to establish a hinsa. And we will do it at in whatever way we can in whatever way is needed. When you have a bunch of evildoers, you got to destroy them. I'm not saying kill all Pakistanis. Many of them may be perhaps innocent. But when you are a citizen of a terrorist nation, you are a terrorist by default. See, I'll tell you why. Let me explain. I'm sure this is very difficult to understand because it requires multiple levels of thinking. Let's say you are a Pakistani citizen. Okay? you're a Pakistani citizen, poor person, you don't have access to flour. Many people, you know, they don't have access access to roti, ata, all that stuff. They don't have that. And and they're always facing all kinds of problems, right? Uh but every time a Pakistani citizen buys a matchbox or a packet of of cigarettes or or a small bunch of hashish or whatever it is that they buy. Every time they buy something there is some kind of tax on that and that tax revenue goes to the government which is the ISI and the military. So every time a Pakistani person buys anything, there is a small tax, goods, services tax, whatever the tax is, local added taxes, whatever it is, every time they buy something, purchase something in the black market, white market, whichever market, gray market, some portion of that money is going to the Pakistani regime, the ISI, army, armed forces, terrorist uh machine, right? So simply by existing every single Pakistani citizen is contributing to the terrorist factory right and most of them actually have sympathies towards the terrorist factory and most of them actually support it. I'm sure some of them don't but they are unfortunate that they are born in Pakistan. My point is if you are a Pakistani citizen you are wittingly or unwittingly complicit in terrorism and you're going to have to pay the price for it unfortunately. So um until we establish complete ainsa in Pakistan until that time u unfortunately some innocent Pakistani citizens may have to suffer. So the best thing for Pakistani citizens is to leave Pakistan. That's what I would say because now enough is enough and uh things will no longer be the same after after this latest terrorist attack. Things are not going to be the same now between India and Pakistan. I think the clock is now ticking for Pakistan. It's it's a countdown. The countdown has begun. I don't know how long the countdown will last. It's counting down to zero. It may last 5 years, 10 years, maybe, maybe 6 months. We'll see. But the beginning of the end has started. Brianka Shikhar Biswas says with Pakistan's foreign defense minister in Bilawaval Bhau openly acknowledging the country's history of supporting terrorism and several MPs making inflammatory remarks about avenging whatever whatever whatever while key ministers reach out to international media. Is Pakistan trying to craft a strategic global message or are these actions driven by growing internal pressure and fear of international isolation? Um see what we are seeing is that the Pakistan defense minister came on on I don't know which channel it was a UK channel and he said he admitted that Pakistan has for decades been doing the west's dirty work the dirty work of the US the UK and the west and the dirty work the dirty work is obviously terrorism aimed at India and also at Afghanistan and god knows where else terrorism right he admitted that he called it dirty work and then this fellow Bilaval Bhau the son of Bayazir Bhuto. I don't know what his position is in the government. He seems to have some kind of perhaps official position. I don't keep track of these Pakistanis. But yes, he comes on on on another UK channel, maybe the same UK channel, TV channel. And he also acknowledged that Pakistan has been has had this history of of doing dirty work or whatever it is for the west. So it's clear that the nation is now openly admitting their officials are now openly admitting that Pakistan has essentially been uh indulging in terrorism on behalf of the west doing the dirty work so that the west can keep its hands clean right um they are openly admitting it. So what are they trying to do is the question. Uh by admitting that you have been indulging in terrorism, uh you can't quite claim victimhood, right? Oh, we have been terrorists until now, but we also suffered from terrorism and now that's all in the past. That's that's the kind of statement Bilawal BH made in his typical asinine fashion. Um that's what he was saying. You you can't claim victimhood if you are admitting that you you've been indulging in terrorism for decades. So what is Pakistan trying to do? It's trying to lay the blame of everything that happened on the west. You see that's what they're doing. That's what the the defense minister did. That's what Bilawal BH is also doing. Looks like there's this orchestrated campaign, plan, whatever you want to call it, among the Pakistani elites to admit that Pakistan has been a terrorist nation. Until now they have been denying it vehemently, but now they're admitting it. So first firstly they admitting that they they have done a lot of terrorism on behalf of the west and secondly they are pointing the finger at the west that the west made us do it. The west is the was the master. It was done on behalf of the west. We were simply the proxies. So they are pointing fingers. They're laying the blame on the west. Now in in what circumstances do you blame your master for what you have done for for what they made you do. That only happens when you have given them divorce papers. Right? You only blame your master if you have given them the divorce papers or if they have given you the divorce papers. So Pakistan is a small terrorist nation super poor. They are in no condition to give somebody divorce papers especially the US. So what this implies, what this tells you if you have some kind of understanding is that it is the US that has most likely served the divorce papers to Pakistan and now Pakistan is the jilted X and they are looking for a new master. And now now that everything is finished, they are blaming the West. That's the message they're sending and they are sending a message not to the global audience. They're sending a message to a prospective new master. Now who is the new master? Is it Russia? I don't think Russia has too much use for Pakistan. The nation that has use for Pakistan is China. That's what's going on. Pranay Paul says with Pakistan now officially suspending the 1972 Shimla agreement which formed the very basis for maintaining the line of control. Are we witnessing the formal death of any pretension of peace given that the Shimla agreement was Pakistan's shield against India taking stronger actions in Pakistan occup? Does this now legally and diplomatically free India's hand to fundamentally alter the ground situation? How serious are the implications of this move and could it actually backfire massively on Pakistan opening the door for India to reclaim lost strategic space? Uh once we um walked out of the of the Indust treaty, Pakistan had to save they had to save some face. So the only face saving mechanism they could find was that you know we will no longer uh recognize the Shimla agreement. Okay. So that's the Shimla agreement was something on paper and yeah it it may be the basis for maintaining the maintaining the line of control and whatever else it was. So uh Pakistan had to show its public and they had to show the world that they have taken some kind of retal they've done some kind of retaliation against India. So that's why they have suspended the Shimla agreement and the Shimla agreement counts for nothing. It was supposed to be have certain clauses which the Pakistanis have never uh respected. Right? I mean all these decades of terrorism. Was it respecting the Shimla agreement? So the Shimla agreement is now finished. Good that it's finished. It's a relic of the past. The Indust treaty is finished. Good that it's finished. Uh but um now that these treaties and everything all all of these things are finished, they're gone. They no longer stand. They no longer uh tenable, valid, whatever. Does this uh legally and diplomatically free India's hand to fundamentally alter the ground situation as in alter the the lines on the map? Uh legally [Music] look yes I I suppose it does diplomatically legally but you know at the end of the day you can do it only if you're strong enough to do it. And I would say I think it's it's still a little too early to start uh changing the lines on the map. I think as of today uh today is what date? Today is the 3rd of May, right? Today is the 3rd of May 2025. I think there is a significant chance that in the next 7 to 15 days there could be some military action taken by India against Pakistan. I think there is a 50 to 70% chance that in the next two weeks there will be military action by India against Pakistan. I think there is a chance significant chance better than 50% chance but even if we take military action it will not be a massive change of the border it will be a slap on the face of Pakistan and some kind of military defeat that's what will happen it it won't be a major military operation it will be a pulse pause war maximum 72 wars and then unilateral uh pause that sort of thing uh so whether the Shimla agreement holds or not doesn't matter. If India, if the leadership in India decides that we need to take certain actions, we'll take it anyway. Um see what will really massively backfire in Pakistan is first of all the rise of India as a great as a great power as a great regional power at least u and secondly their track record of decades of terrorism. That's what will massively backfire once you do such things once you do so much terrorism against all your enemy all all your enemies neighbors Afghanistan India even Iran doesn't like like Pakistan then you know your position becomes untenable the moment your neighbors get a chance they're going to give it back to you they're going to pay you back back um with interest so uh like I said it's a matter of time now for Pakistan it's a matter of them what they've done in in in the latest terrorist attack that is the straw that broke the camel's back. There's no going back for Pakistan now. Mrianka Sikhar Biswas says as the US reaffirms India's right to defend itself in the wake of the Bahalgam terror attack. Does this growing strategic convergence between Washington and New Delhi reflect a deeper shift in regional power dynamics and how might it influence India's posture towards crossber terrorism and its neighbors? Look, first of all, we don't need any any any any certificate from the U from the US or anybody else that we have the right to our self-defense. All right, first of all, we don't need that. But yeah, very nice of the US to say that. What does this mean? U it means nothing. It's possible that privately they may be pressurizing India not to take any action, not to take any military action. In public they'll say nice things or maybe in private also they may be telling India to go ahead if you want to. So we don't know what's happening behind the scenes. See diplomacy has two faces. One is the public face, one is the private face. In public you say nice things. In private it's a whole different story. You can imagine what happens in private. In diplomacy uh it's a very different world in private. Um so yeah the US has made this public statements. Various US officials have said have said said that they stand with India. Various world leaders from various parts of the world have said that even the foreign minister of Iran said that and I don't know if the Chinese have said anything but and so on. Uh so there's a lot of support for India. The US has expressed support. Uh does this mean that there's a growing convergence between India and and the US? It looks like there is growing convergence between India and the US and there are external reasons for that. Uh China is an issue. So look some of you may say that China has been doing its best to uh to engineer some kind of uh reprosh with India. the past year or so they have been saying nice things and uh there has been some kind of deescalation on the India Tibet uh undemarcated border all of that so yeah there's been these events the past year or so and there have been outreaches by China to other Indians also in various domains uh privately publicly wherever so the Chinese have explored various alternatives and options with India and and tried to see whether you know there can be a rush and we are obviously aminable to a rush we don't want tensions on the border but it's true that uh the kilash manser over yatra is starting now it's it's almost about to start apparently and and lots of confidence building measures are going on but the fact is that there are still tensions on the India Tibet border there is still kind of a standoff situation to some extent, not as much as in 2020 for sure, but you know, satellite imagery tells you that the Chinese are are building more and more infrastructure on their side of of the India Tibet border. So, they are actually strengthening their their infrastructure and their military presence and posture on the border. So, it's kind of, you know, saying one thing, doing the other. Um so that what does it tell us? It tells us that we have to be forever vigilant when it comes to China and as long as China holds debate it's going to be a constant problem for us especially as long as China is three four times more powerful than us as it is today. So when you have that situation it is natural that you will seek external uh friends. Let's say there are no friends in geopolitics but let's let's call the term friends. So which external friends can we look at or partners can we look at the natural partner historically has been Russia but Russia is in a peculiar situation right now where it is is very very heavily dependent on China. So Russia and and even if it were not dependent on China, it Russia was never going to be in a position to come to India in India support if there's a India China war. So Russia is out of the question. So who else is left? There's no other bigger power left except for the US. And the US has a very very very strong interest in the region especially the fact that they want to stop China's rise and and you know they want to contain China. So it makes sense for us to work with them. Now we don't want to contain China. We don't have anything against China's rise. We just don't want to be in a position where where China can you know attacks militarily. So we have to be careful. We as an India not to become pawns, not to become a big pawn on a geopolitical board. We need to have our own autonomy, our own strategic autonomy and we're going to ensure that happens. But we're going to work with the US to whatever extent is possible wherever we have convergence of interests. So that's what's happening. Um and the US also needs India in a variety of ways. They are decoupling from China very rapidly. uh their trade with China has has gone out gone down to nearly zero more or less and uh they need another place where they can have things manufactured. So the only nation that can replace something of the size of China is something of the size of India. So India is increasingly important and so it makes sense for them for the US uh to support India in various ways. So there is this growing increasing strategic convergence between Washington and New Delhi and it does reflect this deeper shifting of international global power dynamics not regional but global power dynamics and how might this influence India's posture towards crossber terrorism and its neighbors look we have no issue with any neighbor as long as they leave us alone we leave them alone and we want to be friends with everybody and when it comes to certain neighbors we have most I mean historically we have had some issues but you know when it comes to neighbors like Sri Lanka when it comes to neighbors like Nepal we have essentially no issues it's only neighbors like Pakistan and increasingly east Pakistan of late and Maldives at times that we've had issues um so as long as the neighbors don't create any trouble we we have always left them alone right um more or less more or less there have been issues in the past at at times when certain Indian governments have taken very stupid um very very counterproductive actions but okay we'll not discuss that here because it's not relevant so our posture towards crossber terrorism is going to get harder and harder now we're going to be less tolerant of crossber terrorism u if if another big incident happens now like what happened in pahelam I I can assure you it's the end of end of the world of Pakistan So we are going to be extremely intolerant now of crossber terrorism and it's high time uh we adopt that posture. Okay. Manka Shakhar Biswis says, "Does the deportation of a significant number of Pakistani women residing in India, some even married to Indian security personnel highlight a growing national security concern or is it a reflection of deeper systemic vulnerabilities in border and identity identity verification protocols and Prrenipal says with Gujarat police bravely detaining over 1,000 illegal Bangladeshies, Pakistanis, Rohingyas, many of whom had created fraudulent documents through whatever place. How serious is the internal security threat posed by this scale of infiltration? While the Gujarat police's work is commendable, isn't it clear that these numbers are still just the tip of the iceberg and far from enough to fully clean out the threat? From a national security perspective, how urgently must India act not just against the infiltrators but also against the political and logistical networks enabling this demographic and security assault. Yes. So um after the Bahelgam terrorist attack by Pakistan, India revoked all the visas given to Pakistanis and said that they have 48 hours to leave the country. And for those who had come across the Atari or whatever or which whichever uh border point they were given a week or so to leave from the same place and then there was some kind of a crackdown within certain parts of India on Pakistanis who had been overstaying their visas illegally and thousands of them were discovered and rounded up and in Gujarat apparently more than a thousand illegal uh infiltrators. Bangladesh is Pakistani Pakistanis Ringas were rounded up detained or whatever. The question is you know when the government issues the order to round up the illegals the authorities are able to find them so quickly right incredibly fast as if they know exactly where they are. So if if it's known where these people are staying and they're illegals, why have they been allowed to stay in India of so long? There are millions of illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators all across India. It's it's it's an open secret. In 2014, the number official number given by the government was 50 million in 2014. Today it must be 100 million possibly. I'm speculating possibly. Why is no action being being taken against these illegal infilters? Why are they not being deported? It looks like the government authorities know where these people are and who are illegals. They know it. And when such a terrorist attack happens, they will push out a few thousand Pakistanis. How come these Pakistanis were living in India all these years? Some of them were living since 1965. They have discovered like 80,000 Pakistani women married to Indians and living in India but still holding Pakistani passports. They have discovered Pakistani infiltrators who served in the Jammu and Kashmir police allegedly and who had been living for decades. Is India a sovereign nation or is India a joke of a nation? And okay, the Gujarat police has detained let's say a thousand of these illegal infiltrators. They detained them. Have they been deported or were they rounded up? And then what happens with them? It came in the news that these people have been rounded up. Okay. Were they expelled out of the country? What happened after they were rounded up is my question. And apart from Gujarat, I can assure you there are millions of these illegals all across the country. Why have other states not taken any action? I think the the question of illegal infiltration is not a state subject. I think the central government has to take the lead in this. So I think it's it's it's what we have seen is merely the tip of the iceberg. It is a gigantic national security threat. Imagine the Indian taxpayer paying for a 100 million illegal infiltrators who hate the country. who are serving in the uh in in in allegedly in police forces and god knows where else. Some of them said on camera that they've been voting they have cast their vote in India. How does a Pakistani get to vote in India? It's high time the government takes this very seriously and cleans the nation out from inside. I mean it's it's it's mindboggling the the level of dysfunction the Indian government has that we are so deeply penetrated by penetrated by people who hate us by our enemies who are enjoying the privilege of living in India while working against the country. It's incredible incredible I I just don't know what to say. I have no words to express how outraged I am and I hope you all are also outraged incredible and and what's the question uh that was asked is it a reflection of deeper systematic systemic vulnerabilities in border and identification protocols I mean who issues these fake ID cards these ID cards Aadhaar cards and PAN cards and whatn not these are governmentisssued ID IDs who is issuing them. If a Pakistani person gets a voter license, voter voter ID card, it means some government officials gave him the voter ID card and it was issued by government officials. There is a serious problem in India. Serious serious problem. It's not just the infiltrators who are a problem. There's an entire Yeah, like Prrenai Prren Paul says, political and logistical networks enabling this. Um I mean the central government has to take some action and it's high time they take that action on priority now that we are cracking down on on Pakistan. It's a time to crack down on the Pakistanis and Bangladeshes and Rohingyas and cookies and whoever else are illegally squatting on Indian territory. All these illegal invaders and infiltrators, evict them all. Deport all illegals. Enough of this. Okay. Manushi Sha says, "Cancelling of Pakistani visas brought into light so many crossber marriages of Indians married there, having kids there and coming and residing in India. What should be done with them?" Sunmoon0877 says, "How come the government just sent off illegal immigrants who lived here for almost two decades and the worst part is that they cast their votes in India? Why did the government send them back without any punishment? Will they send off any Pakistanis and not Bangladeshes, not Rohingyas also?" Yeah, that's good questions. Okay, let's say Yeah. So first of all I don't know how many 80,000 crossber marriages Pakistani women married to Indians here and living here having kids here but holding Pakistani passports and Indian women marrying in Pakistan but bringing their kids here. I don't know what kind of an absolute mess this situation is. It looks like we have no border at all. Freeforall. Come do whatever you want. It looks like that. And uh what Sunmoon is asking is these illegal immigrants were sent back. They were not punished. You know who should be punished? The government officials who allowed this to happen, who knew who knew this was happening and who were facilitating all of this, they should be punished. It's not the Pakistanis fault that they were allowed to live here. It's our job, it's our government's job to do their due diligence and ensure that there are no foreign illegal infiltrators living in India. Um and yeah the the other question is will they only send the Pakistanis back? What about the Bangladeshes? What about the Rohhingas? What about the other uh infiltrators in India? There's a huge problem in in Manipur, the cookies. God knows how many lakhs of them are are are squatting on Manipur territory. What about these illegals? Is India a dham shala? Like they say anybody can just come in and do whatever they want. I I I don't know. So these are the questions that the government needs to answer. Um people obviously will be outraged that that all of this has come to light. They're not outraged it has come to light. It's good. It's a good thing it's come to light. But will any action be taken now or will we wait another 20 10 20 years until the problem gets even more deeprooted? So I think the government should act. It's high time the government acts and you need to tell the people, show the people that you you're acting. Don't just do it in secret. Show the citizenry that you are rectifying the pro situation and solving the problem. Please do that. Samartha says given the recent statement by Muhammad Yus' Yunus's aid that if India strikes Pakistan, Bangladesh should align with China to severe India's northeast from the rest of the country. What does this provocative assertion reveal especially as regional tensions reach a critical point? Could it signal the beginning of a coordinated geopolitical strategy aimed at encircling India? And does it s suggest that China's string of pearl strategy is evolving into a more assertive and potentially successful containment framework? Look, um the Muhammad Yunus regime came to power in Bangladesh and Bangladesh became East Pakistan as a consequence of of a coup deta that was engineered by the Biden regime, the Joe Biden regime. Okay, she hassa the democratically elected leader of Bangladesh was ousted in a military coup and this puppet regime came to power and Muhammad Yunus is the puppet that is the face of the regime but the nation is actually ruled by the army. It was not a student re revolution. Those students are being are being oppressed today. Not a single student is in the government. It's a joke if you still believe it was a student revolution. So it was a coup da it was a color revolution uh engineered by the US by the by the Biden administration and uh Muhammadus has ancient ties with the Democrats and the Sorosh ecosystem and all that okay it's well known so um and and at the same time a couple of years before that there was a kuda in Pakistan as well and Iran Khan was ousted and whoever came to power after Iran Khan was put in power by the Americans. So there were two regime change operations that happened East Pakistan and West Pakistan. First in West Pakistan, then in East Pakistan, both done by the Biden regime. Now there's a new regime in the US, the Trump regime. And they seem to have no interest in continuing the freebies given to uh these vasal states. So that's why the Pakistanis are very openly looking for a new master in China which and China will be happy to oblige. So that's done and clearly Muhammad Yunus is also fishing for a new master. He was recently in Beijing where he made these statements in English from Chinese territory that we can cut off India's far east northeast and it's a landlocked place and China should invest in Bangladesh because we can cut off India's northeast that sort of thing. He made these statements openly at the age of what 97 or whatever he is. He's still not mature enough not to make these statements in public. Uh so clearly uh he would have been encouraged by his Chinese hosts and he maybe it was deliberate, maybe it was a slip of the tongue, but I'm glad it came out. So So it looks like we have two vasals which used to be American vasals which will now be Chinese. Um and what this tells you is that uh the Muhammad Yunus regime is is uh very deeply anti-India and if they get a chance they'll be very happy to to unleash trouble in India's far east. Anyway, we already have enough trouble in the far east because of project K cookie land for Christ which was another uh pet project of the Biden regime and then the deeper deep state in the US. Uh so what does this mean? It means that the Chinese may get involved in in Bangladesh now. And u look the string of pearl strategy was something from the 1990s and 2000s and obviously it evolves and the Chinese would obviously love to to encircle India to to contain India. But it it won't be that easy. It won't be that easy because India is not some not no longer a nation that just takes things uh passively. India is proactive proactively uh you know shaping its own neighborhood itself. So it's going to be a tug-of-war kind of situation. But it looks like the Chinese are now going to be involved in East as well as West Pakistan and Muhammad Inus and his regime they are very strongly anti-India. By now it should be um evident to everybody. Right. Brianka Shikhar Bispas says if Pakistan were to launch nuclear missiles in a desperate escalation would India's advanced air defense systems like the Pitri air defense the advanced air defense the S400 etc be capable of intercepting and neutralizing those threats midair or would such a situation expose critical gaps in overall nuclear deterrence stability of nations around across the with similar defense systems. Look, let me tell you something. The North Koreans have pretty capable uh ballistic missiles. They have ballistic missiles that can reach essentially any part of the US from North Korea. And I can assure you that apart from a few American cities, most of the cities are setting targets, setting ducks. If they were to hit Hawaii, there's nothing the Americans can do to stop the missile from hitting Hawaii. Um, if they they were to try and hit, let's say, some interior part of the US, they'll be successful. The Americans will probably be able to successfully defend places like Washington DC, uh, New York City, the major cities, they'll defend, they'll be able to defend them because they have adequate defenses, anti-bballistic missile defenses there. But the US is is a continent-sized nation and most of it is not going to be defensible. That's what you have to understand because antibbalistic missile defense systems are essentially point defense systems or small region defense systems. For example, let's take the example of the Israeli Iron Dome. The Iron Dome system can defend a small territory roughly the size of Israel. And even that's not infallible. It's simply a mathematical thing. You know, if you want to breach the defenses, let's say the Iron Dome system can can has X number of missiles, anti-missile missiles that they can launch. All you have to do is launch one more than X and that's it. You you you penetrated it. Sometimes you may have these uh laser systems. So you can take out incoming missiles by laser that may be more resilient and so on. But even that is point defense. You're simply able to defend a small area, a city perhaps like Tel Aviv. You can't defend the whole of Israel with a laser system. Unless you have hundreds of laser systems all over the place, you can't. So with that understood, if Pakistan were to launch ballistic missiles, forget about nuclear, let's say missiles, then what can India do? India will be able to defend certain cities where you where these anti-missile systems are placed. Uh I will not name the cities but certain very large cities, major cities will have these defense systems already installed. So the pritu air defense system it's it's a it's a two two-stage defense system. There's an exo atmospheric endo atmospheric. One interception is done at 40 km altitude. Another is done at 60 km altitude. And we also have an exo atmospheric interceptor which is the ASAP system which can also probably take out ballistic missiles uh if it's traveling at like 10 kilometers a second or something that sort of thing. So we have multiple layers of of defenses but these defenses don't um cover the whole of India. They can only cover some small areas unless you have hundreds of defense systems all across India which would be prohibitively expensive. No country can afford that. So it's only strategic targets that will be defended major cities nuclear installations and so on so forth. You get the point. Um, so that's that's that's the situation and I'm not sure how advanced our antibbalistic missile defense uh systems are. We have been testing them and developing them since the 2000s. I'm sure they're in pretty advanced stages of development and pretty advanced capabilities, I'm sure. Um, and we also have the S400 system, which is not primarily an antibbalistic missile defense system. It's a defense system that that is designed to take out incoming aircraft and possibly cruise missiles and perhaps ballistic missiles of a certain of a certain quality or maybe short to medium-range ballistic missiles perhaps. It it depends and even the Pritaria defense and all will be able to take out ballistic missiles of certain classes. Uh and the actual capabilities of these defense systems are obviously uh classified. They are not known to the public. And that's how it's supposed to be. So the point is any anti-bballistic missile defense system is at best a something that can defend a small area against ballistic missile attack. It can't defend the defend the whole of the country. We have a subcontinent sized nation. You can't defend the whole of it. That's just the deal. Right. Okay. Next question is by Mr. 88. The government of India has announced that they will do a cast census in the next population census. Reservation in the private sector is almost inevitable now. No political party respects the meritocracy and after the cast sensus it is obvious that they will use the data for their own political gain. What future is this nation actually aspiring for for its citizens? Is it even ideal for a responsible taxpayer of this nation to stay in this apathine state? Okay. So there's been this announcement by some I don't know which minister that uh whenever the next census happens uh they're going to include cast in that. So they're going to collect cast data information uh in the next census. I mean the the census was supposed to happen I think in 2021 but because of the corona virus uh pandemic the lockdowns and all that it could not happen. I'm not sure when the next census is going to happen. But whenever it happens, they're going to include uh cast. They're going to collect cast data and statistics. That's what has been stated. That's the announcement that was made. Uh what's my reaction? My reaction is I'm going to wait and watch. I don't know what it means. I'm not going to go out there and give you a knee-jerk reaction. Oh, this is terrible. Blah blah blah. Or oh, it's great great. I have no idea. What does it mean? First of all, what is cast? Is it like those four classical casts that the British had entrenched in India or is it the vernas and jatis in which you have hundreds of casts? What exactly is it? Um that I don't think it's clear at this point. And look one thing I'm sure you understand is a fact of life. CAST is required in all government documents right in your birth certificate in a school living certificate whatever certificate cast is there. So if cast has already been uh you know standardized and and mandated by the government then maybe they want to understand the statistics of the nation's uh castbased distribution. I'm not sure if it's a good thing or a bad thing or what but um does it mean that reservation in private sector is almost inevitable? I am not sure of that. Um I obviously am not in favor of any kind of reservations except for non-castbased reservations which are economic status based reservations. You know it's okay in my opinion to to to give assistance to people who are financially genuinely backward. So reservations should be given on the basis of your financial status economic status whether you'll be below poverty line or not on the basis of cast. But this is now entrenched in the system and any political party that undo that will is guaranteed to lose the next election because Indians love freebies right we are a nation of freeloaders. Um so cast is whether we like it or not it's it's a part of the system. So maybe the government wants to actually you know collect data and statistics about who contributes what to the uh excheer or tax whatever. I have no idea. So, I'm going to reserve my judgment until more information comes out. I'm not sure if it's a good thing or a bad thing. I have said this multiple times on the record that I am not in favor of reservations unless they are economic status based reservations, not cast based reservations and I I have said this multiple times that I am I don't believe in in this cast thing. We should abolish cast. We should abolish cast entirely. But look, there is an idealistic utopian worldview. The government lives in the real world. People like me can give all these all these all these recommendations and suggestions because uh we don't have to implement them. The government it it will face the consequences of any action they take good or bad. And obviously if you're in politics, you want to be in power. You don't want to lose elections. So it's the nature of the system that the government will do whatever the pe whatever the majority of the people want. Uh so that's the world. That's the real world, isn't it? So uh so it looks like there's going to be um cast included in the next census. It's not a cast census. It's a population census which will include various parameters. One of those parameters is going to be cast. So until more details emerge and are brought out. I will reserve my judgment and I'm not going to make any any um I'm not going to pass any judgment at this point in time. Let's wait and watch until more information comes out. I'm not sure if it's a good thing or a bad thing. Maybe it's a good thing in some way. Let's wait and watch. Let's be a little patient. Let more information come out. Um there is no guarantee that uh because cast is not going to be included in the census. That means that uh the private sector um is going to you know reservations are going to be brought into the private sector. I'm not sure about that and I hope it doesn't happen. I am not in favor of that and if it if if reservation if reservations are brought into the private sector also um that that look it's not happened so I I'm not saying anything if it happens yeah well that won't be a very nice thing Paul says with the US now signing a mineral and reconstruction deal with Ukraine giving UK giving it preferential access to Ukraine's natural resources. Are we witnessing the return of investment ROI phase of the West's involvement in the war? Is this about rebuilding Ukraine or securing long-term strategic control over its resources under the guise of aid? And how should other resourcerich but vulnerable nations interpret this model of support turning into economic capture? So, the US and Ukraine have finally signed that minerals deal. That deal was supposed to be signed the day Zalinski visited Washington. Uh but Zalinsky had other ideas and there was a public fight on live TV that Zalinski uh undertook uh against Trump and and Vance and whoever else and the deal was not signed at at that point in time. And now finally after some water has flown flowed under the bridge the deal was signed I believe uh yesterday or day before ju just in the past 14 hours something like that and um it's a revised deal it's not the same deal that was supposed to be signed when Zalinski was in Washington it's a revised deal the Ukrainians have pushed back against the Americans and they have extracted some concessions from the Americans so let's see in in case you want to See let let me put that on the screen and let's quickly take a look at what this deal is like you know roughly roughly let's take a look roughly at what this deal is like let me remove this from the screen so the US and Ukraine this is from CNN the US and Ukraine signed critical minerals deal after months of tense negotiations and this came out on the 1st of May today is the 3rd of May so past 48 hours yes uh so the US and Ukraine have signed an economic partnership agreement that will give Washington access to Kiev's mineral resources in exchange exchange for establishment uh establishing an investment fund in Ukraine. The US and Ukraine have been okay. They've been trying to hammer it out. Compared to earlier drafts, the final agreement is reportedly less lopsided in favor of the US and is not as farreaching. It stipulates that future American military assistance to Ukraine will count as part of the US investment into the fund rather than calling it calling for reimbursement for past assistance. Um okay, that's good. uh all that uh what else? What else? A among the terms of the agreement are full ownership and control of the resources staying with Ukraine. So the UK so Ukraine retains full ownership and control of the re of the resources. It doesn't uh automatically start belonging to Washington. All resources on our territory and in territorial waters belong to Ukraine. It is the Ukrainian state that determines what and where to extract subs soil remains under Ukrainian ownership that's established in the agreement. Um um the details of the agreement have not been made public. Ukraine's prime minister said that we will not the deal will not include assistance provided before its signing which means that whatever money and arms all that the Americans paid sent to the Ukraine that is not to be considered as a debt that Ukraine has to repay to the US uh and so on. So yeah it's it's a much better deal than before and it doesn't give Washington complete ownership of half of Ukraine. Zelinskate complained that the previous deal was essentially signing away ownership of Ukraine to the US and this seems to be different. So the Ukrainians seem to have been tough negotiators and they seem to have done a good deal of renegotiating and reframing the deal. But uh the US administration will portray this as a big win for the US to its public. uh Trump will say that you know we got what what we we were asking for and u we spent all this money in the Ukraine war and we are now going to u get this ROI on that. Uh so it's it's it's going to be spun in a variety of ways from whichever way you're looking at it. So there's going to be some ROI definitely. uh but u all the money let's say about $500 billion worth of money of of resources that the US spent during the Ukraine war in assisting Ukraine that is not going to count as a debt that Ukraine has to pay the west has to pay the US so that's that's a big change from the previous deal um so it's not really about rebuilding Ukraine it's about exploiting Ukrainian resources as much as possible that's obviously what it is and any resourcerich or vulnerable country has to be very careful that it doesn't get used in this manner the way Ukraine has been used. Um this this war the Ukraine war has been a proxy war. It's been a war that NATO fought against Russia using Ukraine as the proxy. And who has come out as the loser in the deal? Obviously Ukraine. they've lost I don't know how many people and you know they've lost so much territory and they seem to have lost some amount of sovereignty as well. So there you have it. Okay, next questions. Mrianka Sikhar Biswas says as India moves forward with the Rafal deal's next phase seeking not just fighter jets but a meaningful transfer of technology does this signal a strategic shift towards defense self-reliance or is it a calculated move to recalibrate global power dynamics in the Indo-Pacific region and Jagdish Mali says some foreign affairs experts are saying that France has agreed to give a transfer of technology along with the Rafal jets in the 4.1 one for in the $7.4 billion deal. Is this true? Will France give 100% technology transfer along with the Rafal jets to India? So the deal seems to be worth about $7.4 billion. Uh how many Rafal jets are we getting? 26. Let's do some math. We're getting 26 Rafal jets. Let's say if one Rafal jet were to cost $10 million, then the deal would be $260 million. So clearly this is much more. So let's say a Rafal jet costs hypothetically $100 million. Then the deal would be $2.6 billion. But this is more than that. So it looks like if we just divide the the the amount which is $7.4 4 billion by by the number of fighter planes 26 that we're getting then it it amounts to from that naive perspective it amounts to it means that each Rafal jet naively would cost about 285 or so million dollars which would make it the most expensive fighter jet in human history. I mean the most expensive fighter plane today is the F-35 which costs about $110 million a piece for the export variant and this from this deal it it looks like the Rafal jet naively would cost about $285 million a piece which obviously doesn't make sense. So obviously there is something else the deal beyond the Rafal jets. There is some kind of so there is some kind of transfer of technology. There are spare parts. There are defense. There are there are missile systems. There are all kinds of other things attached to the Rafale fighter planes that are part of the deal. It's not just the fighter planes we're getting. We're getting a whole lot of other stuff um including some form of transfer of technology. Now what exactly is the specifics of the transfer of technology aspect of the deal? I'm not sure. I've not looked into it. But there is some kind of transfer of technology. Uh are we going to get the full transfer of technology of the entire Rafal so that we can we can manufacture the whole of the thing here itself in India? I'm not quite sure that that's the case. There's going to be some kind of transfer of technology. The French obviously are going to not give all of the technology away. U unless we agree to manufacture 100 or 200 Rafals in India then they may be willing to give the whole technology but we are buying 26 uh the naval Rafal jets for the next aircraft carrier or whichever aircraft carrier. Um so I don't know which foreign affair expert is saying what uh transfer of technology yes there is a transfer of technology component in the deal. There are other components like weapons, packages and and other stuff as well which is which is the reason why the the total amount of the deal is $7.4 billion which is not just the price of the jets of the fighter planes but a whole lot of other stuff as well including transfer of technology. Um so yes we are we have the strategic partnership with the French uh and there is some transfer of technology. Uh does this mean a strategic shift towards self-reliance? We are trying to be as self-reliant as possible. We have been shifting towards self-reliance ever since Mr. Modi came to power Amanda Bha in defense and whatnot. And we are now actually exporting some weapon systems which we never did in the past. So we are moving towards self-reliance. It's a long process. It's not going to happen overnight. Um, it's not a calculated move to recalibrate global power dynamics in the Indopacific region. Not that sort of thing. It is a calculated move to become progressively more and more self-reliant in terms of technology, especially defense technology. That's what we're doing. Uh, will France give 100% technology transfer along with the Rafal jets to India? I doubt it very much. they will not give a 100% technology transfer unless we agree I would say to build 100 or 200 200 of these fighter planes in India in that case they will move they will be probably willing in that case to move the entire manufacturing ecosystem into India so for that we would have to manufact we would have to sign a deal for maybe 100 or maybe more Rafal jets in that case it may happen for 26 I don't think they will transfer the technology fully there'll be some technology transfer maybe a good amount of technology transfer but not entire technology transfer. That's the way I see it. Sam uh says with the US granting full technology transfer for the Shakti semiconductor FAB developed by Indian firms Bhat Semi and third tech in collaboration with the US space force. Does this significant procurement suggest that India is increasingly aligning with Washington's strategic interests? Particularly in light of the doctrine you mentioned where Donald Trump may have privately stated, "You're either with us or against us." India appears to be to have unequivocally chosen the position of we are with you in the US. Could this be seen as a clear indicator of India's strategic shift towards the US especially given that the US may view India as a crucial partner in countering China in the US does view excuse me the US does view India as a critical partner in countering China China there's no question about it right India is is the only nation in in in Asia that is capable of countering China and that's why it's it's going to be very much part it's going to be front and center in the US strategy to contain China. So that is clear. Now I did say that Trump will probably privately tell us that is privately tell our leadership that you are either with us or against us when it comes to China and other things. I did say that and it's possible that Mr. Trump may have uh said that privately. But when it comes to the Shakti semiconductor fab um the news that the US uh had given this full technology transfer uh to this fab this news came out in se I think in September last year 2024 that's before Trump came to power so that happened during the Biden regime the Biden uh administration so there So you can see that even before Trump came to power there was this this growing strategic convergence between India and the US and it's going to only accelerate uh during the Trump presidency. Um so yes this significant procurement does suggest that India is increasingly aligning with Washington strategic interests or maybe vice versa. Maybe Washington is increasingly aligning aligning with India strategic interest or maybe both are going strategically in the same uh direction where their interests converge and align. So uh there are signs and indications that India is is demonstrating some kind of strategic shift towards the US. Uh but it's not going to be a complete complete uh alignment with the US or becoming an ally of the US. India will remain autonomous. India will remain sovereign. India will have its own interests and uh everything um that we do with the US is going to be negotiated probably on a case by case basis. But it's it's obviously very evident the US sees India as a crucial partner in countering China and the Chinese only have themselves to blame for that. Okay, Kumar says, "With Iran's uranium enrichment now approaching we weapons grade weapons grade levels in recent US diplomatic overtures stalling, what are the most likely scenarios for the 2025 US Iran negotiations and which key indicators we should we monitor to anticipate each outcome?" It's a good question. For that, I'm going to have to go to my Twitter account. I'm going to just put put a tweet on the screen that I had tweeted some some time ago about this very matter. Uh let me give just give me a second. I'll put that on the screen very rapidly. Okay, let's bring this on the screen. That's my tweet from from a while ago and that essentially essentially answers your question. So, so this is a tweet of mine from what's the date? Uh, April 19, 2025. So, that's about a couple of weeks ago. I put it out and I said that there's a high possibility of a stalemate. The US has adopted a maximalist stance. The US insists that Iran fully dismantle its nuclear program and all of its enrichment facilities. You cannot enrich Iran uranium. That's what the US says. And Iran obviously refuses to budge on its red lines. Iran says that its enrichment rights are non-negotiable. So the most likely outcome I said on April 19 is that there will be no agreement. There will be a prolonged impass assuming that neither side is willing to make any major concessions. Obviously neither side will make major concessions. Impact no sanctions relief for Iran. And the less likely outcome is that there there can be an interim deal or some kind of deescalatory understanding only if cooler heads and creative diplomacy prevail which have not prevailed. So that's the deal. So I had laid it out on April 19 what was going to most likely happen and that's exactly where we are today. Two weeks from that time from the day I tweeted that. Um so there's a stalemate, there is an impass. Uh recently, I think today or yesterday or whenever it was, the news came out that the Iranians have cancelled or postponed the next round of negotiations which were supposed to happen whenever. So they have canceled that or postponed that. So looks like you know progress is not happening and the Americans like I said have adopted a maximalist stance. Iran has to abandon its nuclear program. Iran has to give up its attempts to enrich uranium and so on. And obviously no sovereign nation will accept such terms. Um so look I don't know what uh uranium Iran's uranium enrichment u uh capabilities are right now whether it's 60% like is being said by some people or whether it is closing on on closing in on 90% 95% which is weapons grade uranium I'm not sure what the capabilities are what what the status is but they have been at it for a very long time the Iranians and I well if you were to ask me if you are if were to ask me to give you my best guess, my best estimate, I would say they have enough uranium enriched uranium for a few nuclear warheads at least for a few maybe maybe five let's say tactical nuclear warheads kiloton scale warheads that's that's that would be my best uh estimate or guess um so yeah that's where we are and it looks like there's going to be no progress on that look what the Americans were trying to do and are trying to do. Um, see, ever since Trump came to power, they've been trying to isolate China. Uh, Trump wanted to end the Ukraine war on day one. So, he and Putin, he thought, would sit down and decide on what happens to Ukraine and sign an agreement and the war is over. But the world has a way of being inconvenient. So, that did not happen. The European nations came in the way. the western European nations, EU and NATO nations came in the way and goed Zalinsky not to give in and then Zalinsky went to Washington and fought in the vice white house with Trump and uh and Vance and things did not progress and for some time Trump stopped giving aid to Ukraine. Now it started again now the the minerals deal is is signed. So what Trump initially wanted was to bring Putin on his side by giving him a good good uh deal to to end the the Ukraine war. That did not happen. And and after the the Europeans came in the way and and u Zelinsky dragged his feet and all this happens all this happened then Putin started adopting a maximal a maximalist stance. he became very rigid on his demands um with his demands and as a consequence now the Americans have pulled out of uh whatever mediation they were doing. So looks like the Ukraine war is not ending. Trump had said he had promised that I will end the day the war on day one. It's not happened. He has failed in that. Uh so what he wanted to do put what Trump wanted to do was to bring Putin on his side and by bringing Putin on his side he wanted to isolate Xiinping and Beijing. That was number one. Then he wanted to slam slam all those tariffs on China the 145% tariffs and all that which he has done. That has completely decoupled the two economies. there's no more trade now essentially al it's gone down to practically zero. So um so that would um put a huge amount of pressure on China and then probably he wanted to give some kind of deal to Iran to bring Iran also on his side if possible he tried uh but by adopting a maximalist stance he ensured that Iran doesn't come on his side. Uh so what's happened is that there is this tug of war going on right now in the world between the US and China. The US wants to bring as many nations as possible on their side. The tried with Russia did not work because Russia also is not stupid. Putin is not stupid. He understands that long-term I mean short term you may get something longterm that's a whole different story. Iran also understands that. So uh the bottom line is that Russia and Iran and China and North Korea are the nucleus of a new coalition. Maybe some other nations may join them. Uh Mr. Xiinping was recently in the last couple of weeks on a world wind world wind tour of Southeast Asia, Vietnam and which other which are other countries he visited. And um apparently it was a very good trip and these nations are eager for Chinese investments but they are wary of Chinese expansion and so on. So it's same old story. So what we are seeing is a decoupling of the world and Iran is is something the Americans tried to bring on the side. It's probably not going to work. So this this deal is is essentially a non-starter. The Americans walked away from the last deal they had. Trump walked away unilaterally from the last nuclear deal with Iran. The Iranians are not going to be that easy to convince this time. And obviously with a maximalist approach doesn't work. If you are uh you know pointing a gun at somebody and then saying let's let's let's negotiate doesn't work. So yeah that's the way it's going to go. Okay 44 Krishnan says why are American missionaries hellbent on converting East Asia as seen in Korea, Nepal and parts of China? Are the chi Chinese and Japanese aware of this? Why are these two cultural Asian powers not taking any covert actions? Um yes uh if you go to South Korea you will see that South Korea is now probably a Christian majority country. Buddhism is very much on the decline now. It's kind of more and more becoming a fringe religion in a nation that was Buddhist for more more than 1500 years probably almost 2,000 years. So the American missionaries have wiped out Buddhism from from Korea, South Korea. And it's more and more Christian nation, South Korea. And this what made this possible? It's the US occupation of South Korea that made it possible. South Korea is under US occupation. Most of you will will be astonished to hear that South Korea is under permanent US military occupation. It's been that way since the 1950s, since the end of the Korean War um since the end of the hostilities of the Korean War. The war has technically never ended. So the the nation is under US military occupation and where the US military is there, you'll have US missionaries running riot and that's why they have been able to convert so many Koreans. When it comes to Japan, um there are lots of Japanese who have become atheists kind of but uh Christianity has not made s so much so so big of an of of an inroad in Japan as compared to South Korea. The Japanese are more resilient despite also being under US military occupation. Uh the Japanese have been under US military occupation since 1945 and they have been under very heavy US military occupation. The US has more than 120 130 permanent US permanent military bases on Japanese territory. Uh but the Japanese have not been that easy to convert. Many Japanese probably identify as atheists but Japanese mo but many Japanese still practice their their culture Shinto Buddhism a mixture of both and that's how it is. China there seems to be a lot of Christians there also but the the but the but the Chinese government is very very strict about this and they they appoint their own uh bishops the the Vatican doesn't get to decide who who becomes a bishop and who becomes a cardinal and whatn not I think it's the Chinese government that decides it and uh so they they have maintained some sort of control over the uh over the over the presence of Christianity in China so the Chinese are very clear about this that this is a foreign import. It's it's a it's a um it's a foreign religion that uh that needs to be controlled. That's how the Chinese see uh the various Abrahamic religions. Um the two major ones at least. Uh so the Chinese are aware of of the of the missionary agenda. Uh in Nepal it seems to be running riot mission the missionary agenda. Lots of Nepales I hear are converting to Christianity. The same thing is happening in various parts of India. industrial scale conversions to Christianity done by missionaries. Yeah. uh various parts of India they have essentially wiped out the the indigenous culture of the far east of India very to a very large extent places like [Music] misoram well not miseram is never indigenous in the first place but um I mean Nagaland it's happening in Arunachal Pradesh also happening in Manipur as well it's happening in Punjab it's happening in various parts of south India and so on so the question is why are the American missionaries and other missionaries is hellbent on converting people. See, it's about control. It's about control. It's not about uplifting people and and taking them to heaven instead of hell or anything. It's about controlling people. What's happening is that Christianity is receding from the west. If you go to Europe, most people no longer practice Christianity. When I was a little kid and the pope would visit Ireland, there will be millions of people on the streets there to get a glimpse of the pope. John Paul 2. Today, if the pope were to visit Ireland, nobody will come out on the streets. That's how badly Christianity has receded, lost ground in Europe. And when people stop practicing Christianity, the the church loses control over the people. This is the religion of control. So that's why they want new regions where they can control, they can establish control. So that's why they're seeking India and they're sitting seeking various parts of Asia. India I think it's just running riot and doesn't look like there's any government oversight on this um on this industrial scale demographic re-engineering of India and it's also happening in other parts of of Asia. It's been happening for a long time and South Korea well it's not a sovereign nation so there's nothing they can do about it. Okay. Krishna Ragunat um from the Surinabies Netherlands says what's the current status of research into Arian migration and indigenous arianism? Um what's the current status? Look, research is ongoing at various stages in various domains. Um there's been a big big breakthrough from the perspective of linguistics which is the recent decipherment of the Saraswati Synindu script or the Indas Valley script or the Harapan script done by Mr. Barat Rao also known as Deam. So the decipherment of the script is a crucial piece of the puzzle in answering the question about the origin of Hinduism and the origin of the Sanskrit language. Because what is the core claim? The central claim in the Arian invasion migration theory. The central claim in the Arian invasion and migration theory is that Sanskrit and Hinduism are foreign to India. That's the central claim. It was white-kinned barbaric invaders who brought this foreign language Sanskrit and the foreign religion Hinduism into India and imposed it on the natives the black-skinned people. That's what they claim either by force or by coercion or whatever. So the central claim of of this theory is that Hinduism and Sanskrit are foreign to India. And then if that is the case then the Saraspati Hindu script or the industelli script should be a pre-arian script right like a dravidian script allegedly there are two races in India arians and dravidians and if the arians were foreigners then the indust valley script harapan script Hindu script should be a nonarian language which means a dravidian language so the dis the decipherment of the script is the key is is is is is a major step forward. So what has what's been the decipherment? So Mr. Barat Rah who deciphered the script has demonstrated that it is Vic Sanskrit. The script was used to encode the Vic Sanskrit language and he he has deciphered all the inscriptions and they're all Sanskrit inscriptions. So if these seals, if these inscriptions which are like between 3,000 to 6,000 years old, which is way before the so-called arian invasion, if if that's the time period of these inscriptions, then it means that Sanskrit existed in in India before the ar invasion of migration, which means that Srita is indigenous to India and all these gods, the Rdra and what else who are it's mainly RDRA in the in these Sarasodi sinduh the seals. So RDRA is Lord Shiva. We call him Shiva today, right? He's the probably the central Hindu deity, the primordial Hindu deity, the only truly supernatural deity in Hinduism, the one who was never born and the one who will never die. Right? So that's the the central deity of Hinduism in some ways is a deity that was worshiped in India long before any ar invasion or migration happened. So this completely demolishes the Arian invasion or migration theory. Now obviously this decipherment it needs to be corroborated by independent sources. So we'll wait for that to happen. But the methodology that that Baratra was used to decipher the script it's it's uh it's watertight. So and and you know he he has a background in computer science and he's used u cryptographic methods to decipher this to to decipher the script as a cryptogram. It's a mathematical meth methodology. Uh you can't really play with that. I mean you can't really fake that and no linguist with a background in linguistics but no background in mathematics can challenge it. So that's the situation. So it's a gigantic blow to the uh Arian invasion or migration or tourism or picnic myth. Huge huge u blow. So that's the linguistic aspect. Gigantic progress in there. When it comes to the genetic aspect, well I'm not sure what the status of genetic research is. What we need to have is a you know we want to have this census in India. We're going to have a cast census in India. Let's have a genetic sens genetic census in India. Let's take genetic samples of a few lakh Indians and study them properly systematically to understand our deep ancestry going back tens of thousands of years, maybe going back 50, 70,000 years. Once that is done, I can guarantee you we will find that we are the oldest non-African population on the planet. But that is a claim I'm making without evidence today. I know it's true, but I don't have evidence to back it up. So whenever this research is done, it's going to prove that or it's going to prove me wrong, whichever way it works. So that's where we stand when it comes to the state of research, status of research into the Arian invasion, migration, myth and indigenous aranism. We are the indigenous Arians. The only people on the planet who can genuinely truthfully call themselves Arya or Arian are us, the Indians, and our Persian relatives not far away. Nobody else can call themselves Arian. Whoever else calls themselves Arian is is stealing our identity. It's it's a case of identity theft. Anyhow, next geopolitical Dubai says, "How different um is today's diplomacy is today's Indian diplomacy from Bharat's diplomacy before the Turk invasion?" It's an excellent question and I I wish more people would think this way that we have a certain state of affairs in India today. We have a certain kind of governance system. We have a certain set of institutions in the country. We have a certain way of doing diplomacy and interacting with other foreign powers. How was all of this done a thousand years ago before the Turk invasion of India? I wish more people would wonder about these things. So, how different is today's diplomacy compared to before the invasions? Well, first of all, we don't have any records from before the Turk invasions. Whatever records may have existed would have been destroyed in the destruction of the universities and libraries of India. when it comes to ancient diplomacy um if you if you see Egypt no longer exists as a culture or civilization today it's part of the Arab world today but we still have records of their diplomacy in the in the form of letters and correspondence between Egypt and various other powers in the region like the Hittites like the Mitani and so on um who was the Mitani king I think it Tesharat or Dasharat who maintained a long correspondence with one of the Egyptian kings pharaohs and uh one of I think his sister was married to the Egyptian king and his daughter was also married to the Egyptian king and he had a long correspondence ongoing correspondence with the Egyptian king. He sends the letter. The Egyptian king sends the letter back. And then there's this reply and there's another reply. And all of that was was discovered in Egypt. And after the Egyptian Pharaoh dies, uh the the the Mitani king, Tesharat, continued the correspondence with the king's widow. And it is a it's interesting correspondence because the Mitani king is kind of greedy and he wants some of the gold that is said to be very copiously available in Egypt. you have gold like we have dust on the streets. So why don't you send me some you know you had promised that you would send me some gold when are you going to send it to me? That was a gest of the correspondence ongoing. So that's how diplomacy was done between Egypt and uh various uh neighboring powers. So we have records that have survived. We have records that survive from Mesopotamia that region as well. We have records that survive from Rome and other countries in Europe. But in India, the ancient records have been destroyed. We have some understanding of of diplomacy because of the correspondence that seems to have uh survived between um between uh so we know that you know during the morian era u before the morals we had a different dynasty different empire that was in power in India. There was the Nanda Empire and when Alexander the Greek tried to invade India, you he came face to face almost face to face with the full might of the Nanda Empire and his soldiers mutinied and they refused to go forward further into India and they uh forced Alexander to go back to Babylon where he died and just a few years later when his general Salucas Nicer came to India there's a whole new empire in place which is the Moria Empire. So the Linda Empire was destroyed by Chundra Gupta Moria and Vishnut Tanaka and they set up a new empire. Chundra Gupta became the uh emperor of India, one of our great emperors. And Salucas Niger, he conducted a small brief war with India at the time. It was not a very uh serious war. It was kind of half-hearted. And at the end of the war, there was a treaty that was agreed upon. It was a peace treaty between India and Greece some two 2,300 something years ago. So that was a negotiated peace agreement. It was a negotiated alliance. India and the solucid empire became allies and we provided Salucas nicator 500 war elephants with um their drivers Mahawats and in exchange for that Sucus Nicator gave back whatever territories he had he or Alexander or whoever had taken. So we got back all of Gandhara and all of that all the way to Persia. So we so we got a good amount of our territory back and we got a stable border and we got friendship and we got an alliance. So there was diplomacy that happened here right but we don't have the records of the proceedings who who went and negotiated what was it Chandra Chandra Gupta himself will not obviously go he will have a foreign minister or a prime minister who will negotiate on his behalf. Was it Vishnopta Chanik who did that? Was it somebody else? Who was the negotiator from the Greek side? See, all of that is lost. But we clearly did diplomacy and it was a pretty good strong agreement alliance that we u uh that we agreed upon with the Greeks and it lasted generations. So after Chandra Gupta dies, after Sucus dies, Chandra Gupta's son and Salucas's son continue the same partnership and relationship and they have correspondence apparently that is also pretty friendly in warm. So it was a treaty that that lasted at least one generation more if not if not more after that the solucid empire itself disintegrated while the morian empire continued under rashok and so on so forth so I think the treaty lasted as long as the solucid empire lasted so we had excellent diplomacy at the time but I'm not sure how it was conducted uh we obviously were aware of u you know of all the other kingdoms and empires in the world uh it's not like we were isolated with but uh we don't have the records anymore. So it would be great if our historians would try and investigate these things instead of wasting the time on god knows what you know. Okay. Mr. 88 says back in the days during the Moria Gupta and Chola empires how did how much did international relations matter? Very similar question like today if you don't appreciate or please uh US wishes you face the fear of sanctions. So what kind of leverage did the Indian empires have over other nations back in the day? Uh what sort of hard power did we use on others? Okay, that's an interesting question. So um how much did international relations matter 2 and a half thousand years ago? International relations did matter. Um like I just said, we had excellent relations. We had a treaty, you know, an alliance with the Seucid Empire and the Seucid Empire gained a lot as a consequence of this treaty. He gained um cutting edge weaponry you know war elephants with mahads and using that silucus negative was able to carve a gigantic pretty gigantic empire uh for himself and if you look at Ashoka's inscriptions one of our greatest emperors Ashoke and you will see that he was aware of of who was ruling Egypt at the time so um before Ashoke came his father Bindusar before Binduar came Ashok's grandfather Chandra Gupta Moria And before Chandra Gupta Moria was a different uh dynasty which was the Nanda dynasty. Now during the Nanda period Alexander the Greek tried to invade India while he was on his way to India before he conquered Persia. He had conquered Egypt. He didn't conquer Egypt. He just walked into Egypt and the Egyptians allowed him to walk in because they were at because at the time Egypt was a vasal of Persia and the Egyptians thought that Alexander is a is is a is a is is bringing freedom to us. Well, it didn't quite work that way. Alexander installed a governor called Tommy in Greece uh in in in Egypt. And after Alexander died, Tomy's descendants became the kings of Egypt. Okay. So during Ashok's time there was a king called Tommy in Greece and in Ashok's inscriptions he's referred to as Tulameay in Greece in in Egypt. So our emperors were aware of what was happening in Egypt. They would have been aware of what was happening elsewhere also in the world. It's not like we were isolated insulated. We know we knew what was happening in various parts of the world. But those days we did not have the speed of transportation and communication that we have today. So things were different at the time and far away things didn't matter as much as they do today. Today the US sitting wherever they are they can rule essentially the whole world right and they can control the world and influence the world. those days Egypt could not influence or control India and we could not do the same thing vice versa except by you know by far away means uh uh that's how it was and during the Roman time Rome used to complain that they were you know giving away all their gold to India because uh the Roman population was very fond of Indian spices which were the best spices in the world and they would spend fortunes purchasing spices for from India which would come from thousands of kilometers way by by the sea road or land or whichever maybe a mixture of both. So India was was draining the wealth the gold of Rome. So you had international relations you had trade relations international relations happened through trade through warfare through many other means uh during the Gupta Empire also we you know these things mattered. So for example when the Gupta when the Gupta Empire started rising it it arose out of Magad out of Patutra the first Gupta king was Kodkach who was based out of Patipudra if I'm not mistaken if if my memory serves be right and the the initial base of the the Gupta Empire was partly it was a Bihari empire Magadan empire um and then eventually they started uh they were able to conquer the whole of the subcontinent and more and more even Bahalik which is Gandharbakistan that region and so on. Uh so during that time when the Gupta when the Gupta Empire was rising it had not yet taken over the whole of India at that time you had the Mahakshhatraas the western shatrups who were ruling in western India Gujarat mainly and they were fabulously wealthy because they controlled the ports that traded with the west. So that in those days it was the western poles in Gujarat in western India that were the the hubs of trade with Rome and Egypt and uh Mesopotamia and so on and they were fabulously wealthy as a consequence. And so the Gupta I think it was which Gupta empire was it? Was it Chandra Gupta? probably Chandra Gupta who finally ended the the rule of the Mahakshhatraas and took over Gujarat and took over these ports and the and the and the great shrine of Sumnat and so on and that was a great source of wealth not the shrine of Sumat but the ports you see so international relations mattered they really did matter during the Chola Empire international relations mattered the Shirija Empire was misrepresenting its relationship with the Cholas to China and the Cholas launched a maritime invasion of Shri Vijaya. How far is Shri Vijaya? Indonesia. Have you seen the map? So they were able to launch a maritime invasion and conquer Shijaya and vasalize the whole of Southeast Asia all the way to the Philippines in incredible. So we had hard power. It's very interesting. If you really study history, you'll learn so much and you'll be astonished as to what our ancestors were capable of compared to what we are capable of today. Okay, Ritu um Run Ryar says why do countries adopt other countries cultures willingly like Russia and Japan westernized and Southeast Asia Indianized or Korea and Japan sinusized? How does change of culture happen? What's the process of change of culture? This is a sociological question. It's also a question that is very integral to the study of history. How does it happen? What's the process of change? What's the mechanics and dynamics of change? Okay, I'll not um academize the whole discussion. How does it happen? Look, typically it's willingly or unwillingly. Unwillingly, it's by the sword. Like Islam has spread by the sword. We know that, right? And Christianity also has mostly spread by the sword or through various other um hard power means, right? uh but there have been cases where uh nations have adopted other cultures willingly. In what circumstances would one culture adopt another culture willingly? It can only happen when the receptor culture believes that the culture it is adopting is superior, genuinely superior. You will only adopt somebody else's culture if you believe it is genuinely better than yours. That's the only way it happens willingly. Right? So um Japan for example the the Maji restoration in the middle of the 18th uh sorry 19th century mid 19th century onwards uh Japan for a long time had this period of isolationism. They were isolated and they saw the might of the west the gunboat diplomacy of the west. They saw that the west had this technology and they had this discipline and they were barbaric the westerners but they were going to win. So the Japanese decided the the Japanese uh whoever was ruling the elites they decided that we're going to westernize Japan otherwise we we're going to be wiped out. And so they adopted western customs, western culture, western education system, everything western. They adopted everything western and they very rapidly westernized in a matter of decades. That's called the maji restoration. and they wiped out their samurai system as a consequence and they tried to eradicate Buddhism which failed. So when you feel somebody else's culture is better than yours and superior to yours, you you then develop an inferiority complex and you try to change things and you may end up doing harm to your own culture. So that's what happened when the Japanese tried to become westernized. They tried to wipe out Buddhism which had been in Japan for 2,000 years nearly. What happened to Southeast Asia? They Indianized, right? Well, you will say that when the Indian ind Indianization happened, it it was a very long process. The Indianization of Southeast Asia began probably about 3,000 years ago when merchants from Kolinga, today's Orisa, were trading with Southeast Asia with what was called Sarabumi, which is Thailand, Indonesia, mostly Thailand, the Thailand Cambodia region today. It's called it was historically called Sov Nabumi. Today the airport in Bangkok is called Subaru Nabumi airport. So um Indian traders, merchants, sailors would go from Kolinga across the Bay of Bengal and they which would be called the sea of Kolinga actually and they would trade with Sar Nabumi and over time the people of Sur Nabumi Southeast Asia slowly adopted Indian customs and culture and they became Hinduized. There was no force involved. It was a period of it was it happened over a very long period of centuries but clearly they must have believed that Indian culture is somehow superior to theirs. So they adopted Indian culture but they did not entirely lose their own culture. Which is why if you go to Southeast Asia whatever Hinduism is still exists today. It's very localized. It's a very very beautifully syncric form of Hinduism. If you go to Bali it's a very different form of Hinduism that what you have in India. They worship the same gods and goddesses but in their own specific way. and they include they incorporate a lot of their own ancient practices in that. So that's the thing about Hinduism everything is allowed. So they were able to practice Hinduism in their own way while not giving up many elements of their own ancestral practices. So that's how Indianization happened. It was not by force and probably the people of the region felt that there is something of Indian culture that they should adopt because it is probably good. That's how it happened. Japan and Korea sinusized because of conquest. China was very powerful at various points in time. It was always a cyclical process. But you see the the one of the characteristics of a civilization is that it is a net exporter of culture. So China was able to export its culture to Vietnam to to Korea and to some extent to Japan. And China exported a lot of Indian culture to Japan and and Korea. So a lot of Indian culture came into Japan and Korea through China in a in a in a Chinese in a sinized way. Um yeah, that's what happened. But the biggest exporter of culture historically was India and we are the opposite of that today. Now we are a net importer of culture because apparently it looks like our people believe that you know western culture is superior to ours today. The same process is happening today in reverse. Okay. Really now says how come Shinto is closer to Hinduism than Buddhism? What's the origin of Shinto? Why is there no Shinto in other East Asian countries? What are the similarities between Shintoism and Korean shamanists and the understanding America chapters are over after that? Let's do one more for East Asia, please. Okay, so yeah, I've said this, right? I have said this that if you compare Shinto, the native uh culture of Japan with Hinduism and Buddhism, you'll find it closer to Hinduism than to Buddhism. And Japanese scholars wrote about this about a thousand years ago that Shinto is more akin to Hinduism than to Buddhism. And they've criticized Buddhism in some way or whatever. But Buddhism took root in in Japan with a lot of Hindu elements obviously because it's the same thing overall. So um how is Shinto closer to Hinduism than Buddhism? What's the origin of Shinto? First of all, the origin of Shinto is the origin of the Japanese culture. It's Japan's indigenous traditional traditions and culture that's called Shinto. It's socio religious cultural practices. Uh there is there are elements of nature worship in Shinto. There are elements of ancestor worship in Shinto. There are certain gods and goddesses that the worship a whole pantheon of gods and goddesses called kami and so on. It's very similar to Hinduism. See Buddhism it it emerges some kind of reformation movement of Hinduism. It became very popular for a while in India. Uh so Gautam Buddha wanted to reform Hinduism and make it better. He never said he was starting a new religion. He said I am preaching you the true meaning of dharma dharma. Right? So he said that Hindu practice our religious practices have become too uh corrupted or whatever and I'm going to show you the right way. And his way was a more austere way and all that. Right? So when it comes to Buddhism, it's like a stripped down export ready variant of Hinduism. That's what it is. That's what Alan Watts said that Buddhism is Hinduism stripped down for export. Um so it's it's a much more narrow narrower path in some ways. Um very clear boundaries and and and boundaries and delineations in Buddhism. For example, you can't if you are a Buddhist, you will not worship nature. If you're a Buddhist, you will not worship your ancestors. True Buddhist, according to the true doctrine of Buddhism, you don't do all those things, right? Uh but if you're a Hindu, you are you are absolutely free to worship nature. You absolutely free to worship trees if you want. You can worship forest spirits. You can worship ancestral spirits. You can worship animals and plants and birds if you want. You can worship whatever you want as a Hindu. That's the essence that even Shinto has. So that's why it's closer to classical Hinduism than to the export version which is Buddhism, right? Um what's the similarities between Shinto, Tawoism, Koreanist? I'm not really sure about that. Uh Taoism, Towism I think it's a it's an atheistic uh system, isn't it? Thoism if I'm not mistaken. I don't remember very clearly right now but I think Taoism doesn't have the belief in God in Taoism. Korean shamanists once again I'm not really sure. Shamanists they typically are nature and ancestor worshippers. So there will be significant similarities between shamanism and Shinto. Also the Mongolian system which is called in English Tangism. It's not a monotheistic religion with the worship of one god called Tangri. No, it's a whole pantheon of gods. the sky father thing with the earth mother Uma and and ancestor spirits and nature spirits and whatnot. It's a polytheistic uh system. So it's it's in some ways similar to Hinduism and and Shinto as well. So yeah, it's a fascinating question actually and it's really interesting to to study this. Mr. 88 says, "Has time always been uniform on this planet like the Earth completing its one rotation in 24 hours? Has it always been like this or the duration of one rotation was different in the past and could be different in the future? Listen, in about 100 or 200 million years, the day on the planet will be about 25 hours long. 25 of today's hours long. In the past, the day was shorter. So what is one day? First of all, let's understand what's one day. One day is the time the planet takes to rotate completely once around on its own axis. So let's say this is my planet. It goes around the sun like that. Let's say this is the sun. So it goes around the sun, right? But while going around the sun, it also spins. Spins like legs spin off spin whatever it spins, right? So the time it takes to spin completely 360° that's one day. Now when the planet was born the when the earth was born when it was very new about 4 and a half billion years ago uh one period of rotation one 360° turn was less than 10 hours most likely 5 to 10 hours in that range. Then the moon was formed through a giant impact most likely with another planet and the ejecta coalesed to form the moon and then because of tidal friction the rotation period slowly slowly decreased and about 70 million years ago uh the day was about 23 or 23 and 1/2 hours long around the time the dinosaurs were on the last legs and today it's about 24 hours in 100 or 200 million years it will be 25 or more hours. So the period of rotation of the planet has always been changing. It's it's it's slowing it's it's gradually slowing down and the moon is gradually going further away from the earth and the earth is losing its rotational speed. Uh eventually in maybe about five six billion years the earth may be tidly tidily locked with the sun. So we always see just one face of the moon right we never see the other side of the moon because the moon is tidily locked with the earth and similarly in five or six billion years the earth will be tidily locked most likely with the sun which is going to be the post red giant phase which means the the oceans will have boiled off by that time. Uh so so that's how it has always been. Nothing is constant in the universe and is time constant on on each part on every part of the earth. The in this the center of the earth the core of the earth is about 2 to three years younger than the surface of the earth. The core of the earth is about 2 to three years younger than the surface of the earth because of gravitational time dilation the gravitational red shift. Uh yeah that you can study if you study relativity. So okay ultimate power A1 says what's the best martial art in the world for real life combat also what Indian origin martial art do you think can stand global competition and deserves serious recognition? I will not answer the last part of the question because it will generate enormous controversy controversy and I have had enough controversy for a while. So forget about the last part of the question but which is the best martial art in the world for real life combat. Um I think there are two or three martial arts that can fit the bill. One is Krav Maga which is an Israeli martial art. It's not a martial art for competition. It's a martial art for the street. In Krav Maga, you use anything at your disposal and your objective is not to win the fight. It's to end the guy. Okay? So, Kravaga is a real life combat art martial art in which everything goes. There are there are no rules. Everything is allowed and the objective is to quickly dispatch the guy. So, Kra is really good at that. There is one if you are talking about martial arts in which you want to not dispatch the guy or end the guy. I think jiu-jitsu is great. Jiu-jitsu is tremendous. People who are really I mean if you're a fighter who is really good at jiu-jitsu, you can defeat almost anybody. Jiu-jitsu is great. Even is great. is is a Japanese sorry Russian martial art. It has elements of wrestling, elements of you know striking. Uh Fedor Ebanenko is was used to be a Sambbo fighter and then he became MMA fighter. So sambbo is also great. Among the Chinese martial arts, I would say sanchu or sa is is is pretty good. It's it's a variant of kung fu and u it it's it's somewhat different. So I would say these are good for real life combat. Probably the two best uh the three best I would say are kravaga and uh jiu-jitsu and sambbo. Even karate is great. Actually karate the real karat not not today's karate. Today's karate is is a joke. the the 20th century version of Karate, the real Karati. That was great. Uh yeah, that's my answer. Okay, let's take some questions from the live chat now. I'll I'll do it for about 10 minutes. So, in case you have questions and you want to ask me them in life, ask me now. Raava Verodora says, "What's the purpose of life?" Look, the purpose of life depends on the person. Everybody has their own should have their own definition of what's the purpose of of life. Um, from my perspective, if I can give more to society than I take from society in my lifetime, then I think I've lived a pretty good life. So, that's one way of looking at it from my perspective. Okay, what next? Okay, Amisha says, "Did General Dyer ever regret his actions?" I'm not sure. I have I've really not read about General Dyer, what his life was like and what his writings were. I'm not sure if he regretted his actions and I don't care because whether he regretted or not he did something heenous. Yeah. Ananta Chandak says uh today's karat is a joke. I black belt but still well I'm glad you understand that. Recognize that. Well, you can climb up the ladder. Multiple don black belt right. Maha says, "Is emotion an integral path of consciousness? If yes, how can AI be without flaws since emotion is what causes them? Okay, I'm not sure what's the connection to AI. But first of all, the first part of the question is emotion an integral part of consciousness. Look, I don't know uh from a scientific perspective, we don't know what consciousness is because why why do I say we don't know what it is? It's because we don't have a scientific definition of consciousness. Look, I have a scientific definition of a sphere. I have scientific definitions for everything I can observe, measure, quantify. Every phenomenon that I can observe, I can define that scientifically because I have data. Consciousness, it's it's something strange. When when I see this ball, I know there's no consciousness here. When I see an animal, I know there's consciousness there. So when you see it, you recognize it immediately. So it exists. But what is it? How can I define it from let's say a physics perspective? I have no idea. How do I define it from a neurological perspective? Neuroscience perspective. I don't know. How do I define it from a biological perspective? I don't know. No one knows. It's one of the biggest mysteries in science. It's something that exists. We recognize it immediately when we see it. But science from a science scientific perspective, we don't know how to define it. Let's say I have a black box containing a consciousness. What are the characteristics that this consciousness will have? That's a good starting point actually to start. And we can use information theory to get into it and so on. Uh is emotion an integral part of consciousness? So emotions are are essentially these these feelings. How do you define emotions? Emotions are reactions, aren't they? To something that happens either externally or internally. These are reactions. So you could describe any reaction as some kind of emotion perhaps. Not sure. Yeah. These are very fuzzy topics. If if if you are conscious and you respond and react in some fashion to things that happen either externally or internally and if you can define that as an emotion then it should be an internal part of consciousness. Yes. Now if yes, how can AI be without flaws? Because emotion causes flaws. But the question is, is AI conscious? Right? That's the that's the question. What is consciousness? Once again, that that's what we have to ask. And is AI conscious? We don't have the answers. We don't know whether today's AIs are conscious or not. Whether whether they are semiconscious, they certainly pass the touring test. You can't tell whether that's a human being or or a machine on the other side. It can speak with you and communicate with you just like a human being would. It can even even pretend like it has it has emotions. But does it really have emotions? Um it's possible they may have some some level of consciousness which would be very sad actually but yeah so so the answer is we don't have answers as of today. All right. Okay. What else do we have? P questions. I've answered them enough. Okay. Answered enough P questions. When are they taking back P? Patience. Um, geopolitical Dubai points out a shocking occurrence in today's episode. I haven't opened the map yet. You're right. How did that happen? I think it's because we discussed Pakistan mostly, right? Pakistan, we all know the map. Yeah. Yeah. There, this is probably the first episode in which I have not opened the map. In which case, I should do something about it. Where is map? I shall open it just just for the sake of opening the map because how can there be an episode without the map on the screen? So here we have the map. Here's the map of the world. Check it out. Yes. Thank you sir for reminding me that I haven't opened the map yet and now that is done and now it is a complete episode. All right, let's see some other questions. Um, unknown says, "I'm passionate about art, drawing and painting. A map. I'm a aiming for a BF, a Bachelor of Fine Arts at the College of Art, Delhi. What other courses or careers should I consider in India or abroad? Look, I don't have a background in arts. I used to be an avid drawer and painter as a kid. I was really good at drawing like really good. Uh, I probably possibly could have been an artist if I wanted to. So listen, I don't have any uh understanding of what is the path forward academically for any person as an artist as an artist. Um so I I'm not the right person to uh to uh to ask this question. BFA is bachelor of fine arts. I know that um look being an artist I think it's easier today uh in India than before because in the past people had no wealth, no money and they had no time for art. Today people have the time to go as tourists to various parts of of the country and other parts of the world. People have the time to visit art galleries, even buy art pieces. So it's it's easier uh to be an artist today. It's it's more uh viable of a career than it was 20 years ago. uh but you have to be good at it and then you need to do the right things and play the play the right the game the right way I suppose uh what other courses can you can you consider in India or abroad I'm not sure um I'm not sure I'm not the not the right person to ask but uh you know you can be an artist in in residence at various art galleries in the world you to apply for that you have to show your portfolio you need to be good at what you're doing in which case you can become an artist in residence artist in residence in various art galleries maybe for a six month tenure one year or something and I'm sure there are courses that uh various universities, colleges offer outside of this country, maybe even in this country. Uh but the main thing is that um being an artist is difficult. If you're good then you can make it work especially in today's age when you have Instagram and you have you can showcase your portfolio online and all that. So, it's it's much more of a practical uh career choice than it was 20 30 years ago. That's the best I can tell you. I'm not the right person for advice on a career in art, but I wish you all the best, sir. Right. Okay. Let's see some more questions. Harry Koshel says, "How to get rich?" Listen, give society what they want and what they can't get. And if you can do that at scale like Naval says, you'll get rich. Uh Govinda Modelikar says, "How do you see chemical engineer as a career in India? Where can be its future?" The career its future is in industry. Uh India is going to is is increasingly becoming a nation that is a manufacturing oriented nation and economy. in that you need chemical engineering. So in any industry you're going to have some need for chemicals and chemical engineering processes and all that. So I think it's a pretty good solid career choice if you want to be a chemical engineer. Plenty of industries uh need chemical engineers. So that's what I can say. Mahesh partle says tomorrow is my neat exam. Wish me luck. All the best. All the best Mahesh. do well and yes succeed. All the best. Right. Okay. Um Mr. 88 says what type of artist you wanted to become. S I never wanted to be an artist. Artist was just art was just a hobby. I enjoyed it. I used to enjoy drawing, painting, coloring, sketching, all that. Other arts, music. Yes, I am a very artistic person, but I have never considered art as a choice, as a career choice. But yeah, it's fun. It's it's it's a good way to unwind and, you know, um unwind and relax and all that by indulging in some hobby, especially if you're reasonably good at it. And I'm reasonably good at this stuff. So, yeah. Uh okay. What else? Uh any other interesting questions? Let us see. Let us see. I don't know what to take. I've taken these questions before. Okay. Let's see this podcast of Punjabi. Oh, podcast G. Oh, Punjabi G. I'm from Punjab. Do you do you farming nowadays? No. What is I am from Punjab. Do you farming nowadays profitable business or farmers need to is farming a profitable business today? I think farming can be profitable it can be lucrative. I think about half of India's workforce is in is involved in in agriculture in some way. You know if we become a proper technology oriented nation and we bring in industrial tools in farming then we can make it even more profitable and even more productive. So if you have a decent amount of land, if if and if you use the right equipment, etc., farming can be really profitable. Yes, it can. Uh, all right, with that, I'm going to end today's session. 2 hours 15 minutes as always. So, thank you so much everybody for all your questions. It was fun taking them. It was fun doing the live chat as well. And I will see you in a week's time, same time, same channel next week. Until then, take care, keep asking questions, keep learning all the time, and keep raising your standards. Thank you very much, and I'll see you very soon. Bye-bye.