Heat. Heat. [Music] Hey, heat. Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Abijit show. I hope everybody is doing great. Everyone's doing fantastic. Let us see who all is there on the live stream. Before we get into the questions, before we dive in, I can see Rishi Patel, Mr. haters, Shagun, Chopra, Arian, Rocking Gaming, Baratia Edits, Tanay, Chandra, Illuminati Creek, Anand Chandak, Ankit, Vashish, Real Eyes, Meit Bat, Surange, Kapil, Rashmi, Ratour, Vidi, Manyar, Abhishek, Paleria, Ashish Singh, Shri Ramachandra, Namaha, Surendra Gupta, Alvin, Rodriguez, Shravani, Pranay, Paul from Kolkata, Shilaja, Vami, Vamshi, Kalem, Akshit, Lavish, Sharma, Lavish, Sharma Om Gupta Hirkumar Patel Nishal Ry Feminist Hunter Abhishek Hila Pratam Agarwal Red Rangers Wolf Rashmi Ratur Geopolitical Dubai Anant Chandak Laksh Deep Bhak Krishna Govinda Alfred Gunat Bulvay Savia Set uh Ka Red uh who else do we have? We have Gulu. We have unique pixels. We have Samarati, Somi, Jane, Ram, Krishna, Param, Hans, uh, Diddi Dudu, Baller Attitude, Shre Shreas, Mishra, Xenom, Morphosis, Hirk, Kumar, Patel, Pakar, Gupta, D, Dib, Tanu, Sarcar, Geopolitical, Dubai from Indor, Meit Bat, Surenda Gupta, Fate, Anand Sutram, Re Skywalker, Viral, Viral, Viral, Patel, Rajat, Duhan and so many other people. Abhijit supreme lord is there. Abhishek pande is there. Dyam Chawan who wants to talk about tariffs and so much more. All right. All right. Good to see you all and thank you so much for being on this live chat. Now let's get into the questions. We have questions. Lots of questions. A lot happening in the world. The whole world is being shaken up by things. Yeah. Lots of stuff. So let's discuss what's happening. Let's take questions from a variety of uh themes. Yeah. So let's see what do we have. Uh let's begin with this question. What is this question is from Argentina Paro. I have heard that Hinduism isn't a religion. It is beyond religion. It's a philosophy of life. So what is religion? What's the deal? It's a good question and yeah people say that Hinduism isn't a religion. It's a way of life. So what's the real real deal? What's what is Hinduism? What it is? What is it actually? So clearly Hinduism isn't see when when we talk about a religion the word or term religion we look at it or define it mentally subconsciously unconsciously from an Abrahamic perspective let me tell you a story so more than 20 years ago more than 20 years ago long time ago I was in a casino in Atlantic City New Jersey that Trump that casino was called the Trump Taj Mahal it no longer exists. I believe it it closed down. And don't ask me how I ended up there. It's because of uh the people I was with, you know, young Indian cyber coolies who wanted to get a taste of America. So I also was with them and that's how I ended up in a casino in Atlantic City. So I'm in this uh in in this casino, the Trump Taj Mahal at and at some point in time I end up I I find myself next to a guy who seems to be of Mexican origin. He seems to be a descendant of the Aztecs, the Trip Triple Alliance. Uh, and uh, he's very drunk and he he's trying to be to be friendly. He's trying to make friends with me. So, he's asking me what what what's your religion? What what god do you worship? What what book do you read? So, I said I I read lots of books. He said, "No, no, what is the book? Is it is it the Bible? Is it is it Quran?" I said, "I have I have lots of books. I I couldn't really answer his question." So then he's asking me okay forget about books. What what god do you worship? So I said have you heard of Shiva? He says what is Shiva? I said have you heard of Krishna? He says no no no. I I said I have lots of gods. He said no no one god. One god. Do you worship Jesus? Do you worship Buddha? Uh do do you worship what? Allah. So I said have you heard of Buddha? He says yes I've heard of Buddha. Oh yeah yeah yeah I now get it. I I get it now. So according to these people, so so I could not give any name of Hindu gods because the guy didn't understand it. But if I said Buddha, he got it. He kind of got it. He kind of got it. Yeah. So from these people's perspective, religion is about one book, one God and one prophet. And Hinduism is not a religion from this perspective, from this definition. Hinduism is not uh ideological. It's not dogmatic. It is not um it is not a militaristic top- down structure politically organized uh religion as such. Hinduism is more philosophical than ideological or dogmatic. I mean there's no ideology or dogma in in Hinduism. And it's got a whole bunch of lots of different philosophical schools of thought. And these schools of thought can be divided into the Astic and the Nastic schools of thought. Okay. The astic schools of thought are the other schools of thought that uh accept the authority of the Vedas and the Nastik schools of thought do not accept the authority of the Vedas. And today nobody really follows any of this but historically that's how it was. So you know the Astic schools of thought were called vimmansa, virant, sananka, yoga, nyaya and vehashik. These are the schools of thought. Some of these believe in the existence of the soul and and the existence of God. And some of these don't believe in the existence of God but they believe in the existence of the soul. And then you have the gnostic schools of thought which do not recognize the authority of the Vedas like Charvaka which is pure materialism completely atheistic. Then you have bodha and then you have ja. So these are various schools of thought within the dharmic umbrella. Um and this includes jarvaka which is pure atheism, pure materialism. So you can see how diverse Hinduism is. Uh Hindu Dharma is. So it's it's not monolithic at all. It's extraordinarily diverse. You can have wildly differing interpretations of the world. All these schools of thought are essentially models of the universe. These are essentially philosophical models of the universe which have an inherent inbuilt logic within them and so on. So it's it's very different from uh the various uh Abrahamic religions extremely different from those and you will find that despite having such incredible wide ranging variety in in the worldview in these schools of thought they all have the same moral values uh and the same ethics. So the the both the ethics, the Janna ethics, the Charvaka ethics, the sananka ethics, the vidanta ethics, they essentially the same. There's no difference in those things. But the interpretations of whether there is God or not, whether the soul exists or not and various other things, that's wildly different. So it's a very diverse thing. Everything is allowed in Hinduism. You can be an atheist and you can be a Hindu. You can believe in 78 million gods if you if you wish to and you can be a Hindu. You can worship your ancestors and their spirits if you want to be a Hindu. You can worship the spirits of the of the forests and the trees if you want to be and you can still be a Hindu or you can just worship one god if you like and that is also part of Hinduism. So it's extremely plural, it's extremely diverse, it's uh it's a philosophy of life you could say. There's no real definition of Hinduism but it's way broader than the uh much narrower definition that you uh see within the Abrahamic uh religions. So Hinduism is way way way broader than that. It's very inclusive, extraordinarily inclusive. And if you see the history of India, you'll say that everyone was welcome, welcomed. Uh yeah, extremely inclusive, extremely welcoming, extremely respectful, not just merely tolerant and so on. So yeah, that in brief is what you call Hinduism. Okay, Aayush says and Aayush has been asking this for a very long time. So I thought let me take this up. So let let's see the question is can you show some historical evidences recipes etc that people in India used to have a non-vegetarian diet in the past my friends and relatives don't believe me maybe they'll believe after watching you okay so uh let me show you a plethora of of of different pieces of evidence yeah let's do that uh let's uh for a change we'll not go to the map we'll go to our friend Google so Google and let's uh Google something. Okay, let's say Ganga Valley [Music] harpoons. Harpoons. So, copper horde culture second millennium BC and so on. You get all these harpoons, you know, that that that were used for fishing and and spearing various fish and all that. So, and you can also use this for warfare, but you can see from the way it is constructed, it's it's uh designed for, you know, trapping fish for for ensuring that uh the fish don't escape once you they are speared with this. You can also use this in warfare. So, that's one piece of circumstantial evidence that I'm offering you. But maybe you will say, "No, no, no. It was used for warfare. It was not used for killing fish or animals." Yeah. Okay. So, let us then Google something else. Okay. Let's go back to our friend Google and let me Google this. I'm going to Google a very specific term here. It is called manasolasa. So what was manasolasa? Let's go to Wikipedia briefly and please remember Wikipedia is not a reliable source of information. I'm just doing it taking a look for the sake of brevity. So manas also known as this is an early 12th century Sanskrit text composed by the kalyani chaluka king sowara III who ruled in present day Karnataka. So he ruled in Karnataka in the 12th century you know 1100s you know around that time and he wrote this uh text in Sanskrit uh while he was ruling. It's an encyclopedic work covering topics such as polity, governance, ethics, economics, astronomy, astrology, rhetoric, veterinary, medicine, horiculture, perfumes, food, agriculture, games, dancing, poetry, and music. It also includes food by the way and so on so forth. And what do we get in it? It's got a whole structure to it, governance and all. And what kind of food do we get? So, it contains recipes of vegetarian and non-vegetarian cuisines. Among the meat dishes, the text does not include the meat of cow, horse, elephant, parrot, peacock or eggs. It describes cuisines based on pork, venison, which is deer meat and goat meat and fish among others. Now, like I said, you can't really trust Wikipedia. Wikipedia is known to be super biased against us, especially when it comes to India. So, now let's go and actually open one of these. Let's let's go for one of PDF and let's open one of these. For example, this one. Let's open this one. Yeah. And let's try and take a look at what the actual translation. So this is uh okay. Maharaja Gakar of Boda he uh commissioned this translation back in the day 1939. So this should be a little more significantly more uh reliable. So let's go around somewhere around page 20. What do we have? Anabog uh vegetarian meal etc and so on. Hingu water means hing. That's fine. All right. That's all right. If doas at least while describing non-vegetarian preparations, the method of removing the hair of a pig is given. Haha. And yeah, it tells you how the hair of a pig should be should be removed. And uh in the opinion of the author, dishes prepared in earn vessels taste well. Peculiar mice living in the fields near rivers are also included in the non in the non-vegetarian food. So I think here we have significantly more reliable actually unquestionable evidence of uh meat being eaten in ancient India. I don't think I don't understand why people are so skeptical when you tell them that Indians used to eat meat. Indians always ate meat. It's not like you know you can't project today's lifestyle back into the old days. Back in the day some people ate meat. Today some people eat meat and back in the day thousands of years ago some people did not eat meat and same the same applies today right for example you have more over here for instance describing two methods of attracting forest deer um one second uh this is what what is this about user deer right deer hunting kind of hunting in which the deer are killed when they come into the forest and so on so yeah there's deer hunting over here Right? And when at the appointed place the hunters bring the decoing deer along with the forest deer, the latter are killed by the king with arrows. There you have it. So listen, let's not be let's not be naive. Let's not be childish, okay? We we are the the inheritors of a very ancient, very pluralistic uh heritage and we have had all kinds of lifestyles within India. Some people ate meat, some people hunted, some people were pure vegetarian. Everything was allowed. So let's not try and superimpose some monolithic idealistic worldview on on the past. So I I hope what I showed is clear evidence of the fact that Indians used to eat non-veg meat in the past, especially warriors, especially kings for sure. And there was no controversy back in the day like we have today. All kinds of people fighting each other constantly over tiny little minor matters. What language should be spoken and what what food should be eaten and so on. Come on, everything's okay. Some things aren't allowed like you know never in in Indian history you will find in any text the uh certain animals being eaten for example you know what I mean and so on. Okay. Amisha says where did India's people come from? Who who are Indians genetically closest to? How did humans survive the ice age? I'm glad someone asked these questions. It reminds me of something I wrote a long time ago. So, let's once again go to our friend Google. And let's see. Arian invasion myth. And when I search for that, what do I get? I get this article from Medium that I wrote. Let's open this article. This is an article I wrote. It's in medium and I don't need this right now. And you can see I wrote this on May 14th, 2017. That's a long time ago now. And this is the article from which everybody gets their knowledge initial knowledge of the RN invasion theory. Today you have so many scholars who are all fighting the good good fight that the RN invasion theory is false. But this is the article that started everything. This is the one article in which all the evidence is presented in one place. This is what started everything. This is the article and today everybody has taken this forward. Now anyhow uh let's uh let's look at this in in the concluding par concluding section conclusion before the references here we have this this paragraph that I wrote in 2017. Who were the first Indians? When did they first arrive in India? Where from? What were their lives like? What was their society like? What did how did ancient Indian civilization evolve? What knowledge did they possess? What kind of science did they have? What discoveries did they make? What technologies did they develop? How did they build the largest ancient urban civilization the world has ever seen? What did they call their great cities? What language did they speak? Did they really develop a protodemocracy thousands of years before the Greeks? What kind of future did they envisage for India? What lessons can we learn from them? These are the questions our eminent historians have not dained to ask for the past seven decades and these are the questions we must seek in order to rediscover our roots and understand who we really are. So yeah, so that's what I wrote a long time ago and I'm glad people are asking this. I'm glad asked this. So the question is where did the people of India come from? Great question and for that we have to go back about 70,000 80 75,000 maybe 80,000 years before today and it all starts okay now we go to the map okay we haven't cracked down the map we'll crack it out now where is the map well here is the map and let's let's go into the mystery the question of the origins of the Indian people so to the best of our knowledge the best information that we have says that about 75 70 maybe 80,000 years ago there was a migration of human beings a small group of humans out of Africa into Asia the out of Africa migration this happened between 70 and 80,000 years before today maybe 65,000 we don't quite know what the date was but it it was about around this time let's say roughly tentatively 70,000 years before today and this migration is believed to have happened around here the straight of Bab al-mand the straight of tears essentially it's called and it's a pretty narrow straight there are islands here and it's believed that this is where the crossing happened a small bunch of people small small group of people maybe a few hundreds maybe 200 300 less than a thousand people they crossed over from Africa into Asia and at that time these coastal regions of Yemen see if you look at the satellite image today it's all yellow it's all brown it's all ghastly uh desertified region Right. But back in the day when this migration happened, the the the coastal part of the Arabian Peninsula, the southern part, southeast part of the Arabian Peninsula was green. So it had sufficient vegetation to to sustain the lives of of a small number of humans. So these humans, they crossed over into Asia. They traveled eastwards. They traveled eastwards into Oman. They went northwards and again at some point they crossed maybe the straight of Hormuz and they reached the Balojasthan region and even there the coastal regions were green and then they went eastwards and then they reached the Indian subcontinent. So the first place where the out of Africa migrants permanently settled down was India because India had this huge lush gigantic uh geography. It had plenty of forest. It had plenty of fertile land. It had all the resources needed to sustain a gigantic population not just a few hundreds. And it's a huge subcontinent. So this is where the out of Africa migration the the people they first settled India was the first founders zone of the out of Africa migration and from India these migrants eventually went in all directions all across the world now how do we know the story am I not am I just making up uh a wonderful nice story is it is it is it that is that what I'm doing I'm just making up a nice nice story how do we know it happened in this way how do we know that the the migration happened in a certain direction from a certain place and it followed a certain route uh geographically. How do we know this? We know it because of various factors including genetics and there are various genetic lineages that we are aware of uh and um you know there are so many haplo groups today. HLO groups are ancient lineages. uh a haplo group is is essent essentially uh a group of people who live today who are all descended from a single person who was the originator of a specific genetic mutation. So that's hlo groups. Now there are two kinds of haplo groups patrineal hapll groupoups and matrineal hapll groupoups. Patrineal hapll groupoups are yna y chromosome hypoglo groups uh hlo groupoups and matrinal hapll groupoups are mitochondrial DNA hloss. The the mutation happens in the mitochondrial DNA. So there are various such families that exist in the world and the oldest non-African u haplo groups are all haplo groups that originated in India. Let me demonstrate this. We go back to Google. Where is Google? Our friends. Yes. Okay. Let's go to Google. Um so there is haplo group F for instance. It's a patrineal haplo group. uh haplo haplo group F haplo group F. Now guess where this originated? It originated about 57 to 62,000 years ago somewhat after the migration and it originated in India. It's a male uh haplo group patrineal haplo group. about 95% of non-African patrineal lineages are descended from Haplo group F which originated in India. Well that that's a gigantic clue here right now HLO groups. Now let's look at a couple of female haplo groups M and N hlo groupoups. Okay, first let's look at HLO group M. It's a human mitochondrial DNA hlo which once again originates in India. How old is it? Let's find out how old it is. Uh about about 55 to 65,000 years ago. Most likely South Asia obviously you put in some other things as well. But it is an Indian origin mitochondrial DNA. Hoglo group. Now let's look at HLO group N. Uh HLO group N. One second. Mitochondrial DNA. Mitochondrial DNA. Sorry, bro. Okay, here we are. H group N. Once again you will find that it originates in India and even this is so super ancient 55 to 70,000 years before today uh and so on. So these are the oldest genetic lineages not these are the oldest non-African genetic lineages in the world. These all originated in India. So India is the well you could say the original founders zone of the out of Africa migrants and from India people migrated all over the world. Now if you look at today's Indians who are we closest genetically closest to. So once again let's go to Z map. Yes where is map? We bring map. So look today we have these artificially created nations India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Maldives and so on. But overall this region is called the Indian subcontinent. And look we Indians who live in the present day nation of India. We are genetically closest to the people of the subcontinent. Okay. All the way from uh Bangladesh to Afghanistan, Pakistan to Sri Lanka, Maldives, Nepal and so on. Outside of the subcontinent, who are the people that we are genetically the closest to? Well, out of outside of the subcontinent, we are closest to the people of Iran, Tajakistan. I would say uh to some extent the people of Yemen who are very closely related to Indians because of historical reasons. I'll not go into those right now. And we will also find that there's significant Indian origin DNA in nations like Cambodia, Thailand, Myanmar um and obviously the Indonesia region. Obviously it's Indonesia and and so much more. And otherwise there is genetic uh affinity with the people of Europe as well because of the various Hapl groups that we share. R1 A1A or RM17 is one of the major HLO groups. It's the most successful extended family in human history and its origin is most likely India. Okay. Uh it's it's a huge controversy right now. Uh if if I if I Google that if I Google the distribution of uh that HLO group, it it's going to be very surprising. Okay, let's go to that R1 A1A distribution. If we R1 A1, whatever you want to call it. Here we go. If you look at the distribution of this HLO group, well R1A1A conquers the world where you can see you can see it's a huge concentration in India and another huge concentration in Eastern Europe. Uh you know Russia, Ukraine region, Eastern Europe, some parts of Germany etc. and also uh the Houthan and Tibet region for some strange reason and so on. So uh yeah so genetically even though these people some of these well Europeans look kind of different from us but yet genetically there is a significant affinity that we have linguistically as well and once upon a time culturally and civilizationally as well. That's a long long story. Uh so that's the second part of the question. How did we survive the ice age? We survived because we are super resilient. I'll leave it at that. All right next questions. Now let's get into geopolitics. Yes, here we go. Lots of questions about Trump and the tariffs. Ronak Mandal, Geopolitical Dubai, Rishab Tar and Arush Mahajan. How is it possible to counter Trump's tariffs? Should Bat be concerned about the tariff war? What's your opinion on the recent 26% tariffs imposed by imposed by Trump on India? What geopolitical implications will it have? And what do we do? What should we do in such a situation? And recently Trump announced reciprocal tariffs on every other nation and non-nations and the planet Mars, Jupiter Saturn and everything uh including India. But he also stated that India and PM Modi are good friends of his and he will impose discounted tariffs on India. What do you think he will really do and will he impose discounted tariffs? Uh the words don't matter in geopolitics. Right. So that's the big news the this week, isn't it? The tariff war. Trump has imposed tariffs on everybody. absolutely everybody left nobody out except Russia because there's nothing left to do with Russia. They have imposed so many sanctions on Russia that there is zero trade between the US and Russia. So there's no point imposing tariffs. Same with Belarus and some other nations. So Trump has announced reciprocal tariffs on various nations and this includes 26% on goods imported from India. So let's say an Indian thing, okay, an Indian item costs $100. So he's imposed 26% duty on that. So it's now going to cost $126 in the US. So it's going to be more expensive for for Americans to buy that. So it's it's it's problem for us, right? Because it'll be hard for harder for us to sell stuff in the US. So uh this obviously is going to place pressure on India and it's going to place pressure on the so there are right now these trade negotiations going on between the US and India. It's an ongoing bilateral thing, ongoing bilateral trade negotiations between India and the US and it's going to play it's going to place pressure on that. But um our economy is going to actually experience limited relatively limited impact compared to other nations because first of all uh because see first of all the the the tariffs that we impose on the on the US and its goods are actually very low. more than 75% of the items we import from the US we are imposing less than 5% 5% or less tariffs and there's a 25% left which we can negotiate and all you know so it's it's not going to be a huge thing so there's going to be a moderate economic impact on India because of the lower tariff rates that we already have going on compared to various other major trading partners okay of the US and we have a significant domestic demand so even if we are not if we are facing export pressures we have import uh domestic demand. So it's it's not going to be a huge impact for us but it's going to cast a shadow on these negotiations that are going on because the we are we are uh holding talks on a regular basis for a bilateral trade agreement between us and the US. Uh so it's going to impact that for some for sure. U so now what happens? So Trump obviously he's open to discussions with India. He knows that Mr. Modi has made it very clear that we should talk, we should negotiate and we should find the best way forward. We're not adversaries, we're not enemies. We need to sit down, talk, work it out. And Trump is fine with that. So he's open to discussions with with India and uh so that's that's what will happen. So the US is engaged in these discussions with India and uh I think this coming week okay there's going to be intensified diplomatic engagement between India and the US and there's going to be intensified uh trade level engagement between India and the US and the aim is to find a common ground. So it's it's a process. Okay. And India will definitely consider certain what do you call concessions uh on giving access to the Indian market to the US and the US in exchange might offer some flexibility on the tariffs that they'll impose and all that. So the objective is to avert a significant trade dispute. We don't want that. And both sides will have to do some give and take. India probably will have to go do some more give because we have less leverage against a gigantic power like the US. So we should not be super concerned about the tariff war. It is not really possible to counter the tariffs. If you impose 26% on me, I'm going to impose 26% on you. It's not doesn't work like that. We already impose tariffs on s on various US goods. Most of these tariffs are like 5% or less. But some tariffs are more. Okay. Uh so we we we have to find a negotiated solution. Uh there's no point doing a trade war. There's no point being confrontational. The US is way too powerful us power powerful for us to engage in a confrontation with. So I think among of all the countries that Trump is imposing tariffs on, the friendliest is India. and the the best uh potential outcome also uh I think we are the ones that will get it. So I think it's going to all hinge on the negotiations the talks that we have this coming week and and further and I think overall we'll find some kind of good mutually uh acceptable resolution and and solution to this entire issue. So we want to have a proper trade agreement with the US you know a bilateral trade agreement. So this actually may may hasten the arrival or the or the signing uh of such a bilateral trade agreement. So I think it's nothing we should be tremendously concerned about. Uh it's not like he has only imposed these tariffs on India. He's imposed tariffs on everybody including what nations you would call American allies. The EU nations, NATO nations, Bangladesh, Pakistan Pakistan. I'm sure he's imposed something on Pakistan as well and so on. So uh it's it's he's not singled out India and uh we're going to work we're going to find a way through uh consultations, negotiations and talks. Pray Paul says with Trump announcing a reciprocal tariff policy this week signaling a dramatic shift in US trade strategy could this trigger a new wave of global protectionism or even realign existing trade blocks? How might countries like India recalibrate their trade and export positioning in this emerging scenario? Uh and more importantly, will this have a lasting impact on US economic imperialism and its global leverage? Um yeah, so this is going to be definitely interesting what's what's happening. So look, the economy we've had for a very long time is a globalized economy more or less, isn't it? All nations are integrated together into a single trading system. We all do exports, imports and we have various good duties and stuff, but it's all under control and it's it's like uh open markets, free markets, right? A free free market economy. That's essentially what the western rules-based world or rules-based global order has been. The effort to impose a you know free market kind of system on the whole world where everybody trades with everybody. So I don't have to manufacture everything. I can just import it from wherever it's manufactured and I'll you know so if I don't have some things it doesn't matter because I can import those things and whatever other nations need I can export that to them. So it's it's a very open system. It's been a very open system a very globalized system. Now Trump has has imposed tariffs on everybody. This is essentially the end of the global system, the globalization system. It's no longer a free market. It's now a mercantalist market. Everybody's going to fight everybody else through uh you know mercantalist mercantalist uh strategies and tactics. Mercantalism is essentially an economic means of essentially beggaring your neighbor. Turn your neighbor into a beggar by, you know, by having these predatory policies and all that. So that's what it is. So what is happening right now? What is Trump doing? I mean, people are saying he's gone mad. He's gone mad, is he? No. This is a complete This is the beginning of a restructuring of the global order. So we are now witnessing the beginnings of a bipolar or tripolar world. The multipolarity will not last too long. From my perspective, multipolarity, real multipolarity means 20 nations with nuclear weapons, which will never happen. If it happens, it's it's going to be chaos. Um, so we're going to have bipolarity or tripolarity. What's what what do what do I mean by bipolarity? It's the US empire and its minions and the Russia China uh access and in the Russia China access you will have nations like North Korea like like uh uh Iran and various other nations who might want to be in that grouping and then there may be a third grouping which is the so-called global south led by nations like India nations that want to be neither here nor there who want to be friends with There may be a place for such a grouping in this emerging world order but right now we are witnessing a rapid shift global shift and what the US is doing. So we are witnessing the beginning of a new cold war the cold war hasn't really started yet it's it's beginning now. So in a cold war what you do let's say you have two major players in a cold war two major adversaries two superpowerless superpowers let's say what they do what each does is that they try to bring all the supply chains all the production facilities all the trade networks everything under their complete control. So you'll have two systems like this, two sets of supply chains, two sets of integrated supply chains, integrated with with production facilities and integrated with trade networks and all that. So China and Russia will do one of those things and the US and its minions will do the the other one. So u the US is right now uh forcing nations to make a choice. Okay. uh Canada, Mexico, all the EU nations, all the NATO nations, they are being bullied right now, but they're going to have to make a choice. So, in the old order, you know, in the old order, you you could do whatever you wanted. You you could have you could buy oil and gas from one one part of the world. You could access markets wherever you wanted. American markets, Indian markets, Chinese markets. And you and the European nations could at the same time while doing all this while enjoying Saudi and Russian oil and gas and enjoying access to American and Chinese and Indian markets, they could still benefit from the US security umbrella. And the Americans paid everything for the security umbrella. Now that's gone. Now they can no longer enjoy all those benefits. the European nations. They can no longer enjoy cheap Russian energy, cheap Russian gas or oil. They can no longer enjoy access to the Chinese market if they want the benefit of the American security umbrella. And if they want the American security umbrella, they'll have to pay top dollar for it. They'll have to ramp up their spending on GDP to 5%. Spending on military on on the military to 5% of GDP. So they are all being made to make a choice. Okay. Now nations like India may have a third option and we could be strategic strategically autonomous. We could be friends with everybody if we play the game right. So that is what's happening right now. So the Americans are are forcing. So Trump essentially is is setting has set this thing in motion through the tariffs and through so much more. So we are now once again entering a cold war era. Um and Russia and China are on one side. Iran is with them. North Korea is with them. Uh Japan is trapped in a very strange geographic neighborhood uh being an ally of the US. Of course it's across the Pacific, so it's kind of fine. And Hawaii is nearby, Guam is nearby. They have reasonable protection. But yeah, you have Russia and China right next door for Japan's perspective. So, uh for India, what we need to do is uh make sure the Americans aren't too displeased. Uh you know, have trade talks with them, hammer out an agreement, find places, find areas of of uh of convergence and work it out. work out the best possible arrangement when it come when it comes to trade and tariffs. Obviously, the Americans will demand access to this and access to that and more whatever they want. So, we may have to give into some of these things, but that's how it works in the world. Okay? Uh it doesn't mean we're giving up our sovereignty. It's it's just that we are, you know, changing some parameters here and there. Um so from India's perspective it may still be a good scenario because even the Chinese want access to the Indian market and that's why they have changed their game the past year or so. So it's it's a wait and watch thing but let's be very clear a new cold war era is upon us. The European nations are becoming very rapidly irrelevant. Okay. uh they will no longer be able to uh have these socialistic policies while being super liberal um you know welfare state policies. It's not going to work anymore for them. And if if they really want to be sovereign, if they want to stand up the to the US, they're going to have to become military powers again, which is very difficult. And the Americans might not even may not even allow that. So that's where we are. So it's a it's a it's a time of very rapid geopolitical change. A very rapid geopolitical realignment is happening right in front of our eyes. And Trump is actually moving the pieces of the chessboard in front of us right as we speak. And we seeing it happen in real time. We seeing geopolitical realities change in real time. Usually it takes decades for this to happen. Nobody notices what's happening. Right now we're seeing it on a daily basis. Very interesting times to live in. uh Brahar Gupta asks this question. Let's talk about a hypothetical question. Let's assume Russia Ukraine like situation with India and China. If China wages a war on India, it starts capturing territories of India with its big military strength. What will be the stand of the of Trump in the situation? Will he act in a similar way and make some peace deal with with China like Putin and force India to sign some deal like the minerals deal with with Ukraine? Will he force China to return the captured land back to India or will he take a completely different stand from this? I think he will make sure that we take help from the US instead of our friend Russia. What lesson can India learn from today's situation to safeguard, secure and safeguard itself from China in the future so we don't become prey of these powerful countries. Um foul play of geopolitics. There's no foul play in geopolitics. Listen, if if you're powerful, you're going to do certain things. And I can't blame you for that. There's no foul play. There's no right or wrong. There's no good or bad in geopolitics. There's no right or wrong in geopolitics. Geopolitics is amoral. Power is just a number. It's just a numbers game. So there's no right or wrong and and foul play. The greatest sin in geopolitics is what? It's weakness. So um to answer your question, let me uh bring your attention. Okay, let's let's let's put my own YouTube channel on the screen. And uh let's let's search for something. Uh the question is yeah this question right? Will America help India. If you search for this question you get this video. Will it's it's from about a year ago. I'll not play it over here. Will America help India in a war with China? It's a geopolitical analysis video. Now, let's just uh copy the let's copy the transcript of this video and place it into our friend chat GPT and let's see what chat GPT has to say about this. chatgpt.com. One second, let me put chatgpt on the screen and we will ask chat GPT to give an overview of the transcript. Please give an overview of the of the below transcript in bullet. Transcript in bullet points. Not that. Okay. One second. This one. Bullet points. Bang. Okay. Okay, let's see what Chad Jerry has to say about what I said a year ago. Okay, so here's an overview. Hypothetical India China war. The scenario starts with a potential future war initiated by China where India might need US help if its sovereignty and territory are at risk and China would likely seek to capture Indian territories like Arunachal Pradesh and Tawang. US help with conditions. The US would agree to help but would impose strict conditions essentially compromising India's sovereignty. Key US demands would include US military bases along India's northern border with Tibet. Permanent US military presence in India after the war. Access to Indian military and naval bases, air strips and control over key military installations. Economic and political demands. India must support US sanctions against Russia. Stop purchasing Russian oil and weapons and allow US inspections of Indian weapons. India would have to freeze its nuclear and missile programs and allow US nuclear weapons on it on Indian soil. India would need to become a formal US military ally and open its markets to US companies. Trade barriers with the US would be removed and US companies could operate freely in India. India would be required to normalize relations with Pakistan potentially reimposing article 370 in Kashmir. Social and diplomatic influence the the US would demand roll back of Indian restrictions on foreign funded NGOs and allow US diplomats to engage with local politicians. US experts would be allowed to reform India's education system promoting American values and ideologies. sovereignty loss. These demands was would effectively strip India of its sovereignty aligning more it more with the US influence similar to NATO members Japan and South Korea which are not sovereign at all. Historical context this situation is compared to historical instances of British imperialism like their intervention in Manipur in the 19th century which led to the downfall of both Manipur and Burma. India's sovereignty. India is described as a truly sovereign nation because it is not subjected to external demands like other nations. India must continue strengthening its own defense and deterrence systems to avoid such a scenario with China. Conclusion, the speaker stresses that India in its current state does not have military allies and is alone in its defense which is a part of its sovereignty and it emphasizes the importance of maintaining sovereignty and avoiding dependence on external powers like the US in the event of a conflict with China. That's what Chad Japeti has to tell you as a summary of that video that I made about a year or so ago. So that's the answer to your question. I took the transcript of my own video put into and that's the overview it gave me the summary it gave me. So the answer to your question is that if such a thing happens and if India is so weak that China takes over our territories then the Americans will be very happy to help. will first wait for India to become substantially weakened and they will wait until China takes big chunks of territory. Then they will come and offer help. Yes, of course, we can help and then they will extract immense concessions which effectively reduces India to a state to the state of a nation like Japan which is under US military occupation or South Korea or the NATO states less than NATO actually less sovereignty than NATO. That's what they would do. It would be the end of Indian sovereignty. The Americans would take over. It will be like British occupation all over again. So, so what should India do to ensure this doesn't happen? Build up our strength. That's what we need to do. We need to build up our strength across all domains. Economic domain, military domain, within the military domain. We need to build up various kinds of abilities, capabilities. We need to have a stockpile of let's say a few maybe 10, 20, 30,000 missiles. A few hundred missiles will do nothing. Oh, we have placed an order for 200 new missiles. What the hell will 200 missiles do? What does 200 missiles do? What does 300 missiles do? You need a stockpile of tens of thousands of missiles. learn from the Ukraine war how many missiles are being spent on a daily basis or or historically the past three years or how many missiles have been fired per day you need a stockpile of tens of thousands of missiles to be relatively safe so that's one thing you need you need to invest in drone technology the latest cutting edge drone technology you need to invest in EI enabled you know battle space awareness capabilities you need the best fighter planes at least good fighter planes large numbers not like the tiny numbers we have today. We need to have a much larger naval uh footprint and much better uh distributed lethality than we have right now. So much more. So we need to build up the economic and military muscle to ensure that nobody dares to look in our direction with uh nefarious intentions. That's what we need to do. You know the privilege that comes with being a sovereign nation is that you are alone. Okay. And that's the way to be. Right. Next question. Mr. Atus says, "What do you make of Muhammad Yunos's statement about India's far east states being landlocked and inviting China to extend their interests through Bangladesh? Is there any action that we can take against the against them aside from doing karinda? So Muhammad Yunus was in um was in China recently. He's the puppet figurehead leader of Bangladesh, US installed puppet leader. Uh I don't know what his title is. He's not the prime minister. He's just a figurehead. He's just a talking head installed by the Americans. But he's a great man because he's got a Nobel prize or whatever. So Yunus goes to China and he offers Bangladesh's mercenary services to China. He says that you know India's far eastern he calls it northeast. Northeastern states are a landlocked country. Sorry region. That's what he said. He said he first said country then he said region and he says that Bangladesh guards the the ocean and India can't reach the ocean from that region because of us. So China should invest in Bangladesh. So he's essentially trying to position China against India. He's trying to offer his mercenary services, his nation's mercenary services uh against India in in in containing India to China. Uh that shows his mindset. See, essentially people like him, they don't produce any value for society. They don't create anything good for the country. All they do is pedal their country to the highest bidder. That's what they do. Okay. So he is an US appointed puppet. But right now he is he was trying to pedal his country for a few for a few pieces of silver to China and he is positioning India as the enemy right so he tells you about his mindset so what action can we take against him against this apart from doing karininda first of all we should not do karininda which is you know um condemnation just ignore his statement which is what India's government has done I I don't think we have put out any statements again about about this secondly You don't understand that his words are also just words, right? His words are also words and they have exposed his mindset and they have exposed the nature of his government. So, uh first thing we have to remember he is a figurehead with zero power. All he all his job is to stay in the limelight. Draw all the media attention to himself so that the people who are really in power, they can stay hidden. That's his job. And who's really in power in Bangladesh? It's the military. It's always the military. So the military, Bangladesh is in the military role. And the military is aligned with the US and Muhammad is trying to sell his country to China. What should India do? India should not do Karininda. India should also not take any take any drastic action. Be aware that this is a very hostile Bangladeshi regime. aware be aware that this is East Pakistan again and take the you know required measures along the border regions uh be aware that you may have uh anti-India elements propping being propped up again in these regions maybe terrorists from Pakistan you know Pakistani people brought into Bangladesh to u you know to introduce terrorism into India Indian parts across the border or something else. So always be aware of these things and take adequate measures to ensure that none of this spills over into India. And when the time is right, we can we can perhaps uh uh encourage Bangladesh to to revert to a better form of governance, a more democratic form of governance. We can do it eventually at some point in time. So that's what we should do. But we should know that by now it should be clear Muhammad is an enemy. Okay. Tidik 73 says, "You stay away from Poland. Do not talk rubbish that Poland might get involved in Ukraine." Why are people getting upset? I said I talked rubbish that Poland might get involved in Ukraine. Okay, let's let's Poland prepares for war with Russia. Okay, let's see. Let's let's put this on the screen. So I'm talking rubbish that Poland is u might get involved in Ukraine. Okay, look at this. This is from the Jamestown Foundation which is a very very highly regarded think tank or organization. And the title of this document, this article is Poland prepares for for direct war with Russia by Yanush Bugashki. The date is April 4, 2025, which is yesterday, 23 hours ago. He wrote this executive summary. Poland is accelerating its military buildup for a projected war with Russia as Ukraine faces a potentially unfavorable outcome in the peace talks brokered by the Donald Trump administration. Wow. Everything I've been saying for the past 3 years is coming true, right? So, Warso plans to introduce voluntary military training for all adult males and bolster Poland's armed forces to half a million half a million military personnel and reserveists in addition to increasing military spending and urging NATO allies to raise their defense budgets and so on. So you can see Poland is preparing for a direct war with Russia. This is all happening in the context of the Ukraine war. So there you have it. Am I talking rubbish? I look you make projections based on the situation and these projections are are made based on just calculations and historical facts. There's no emotion involved in this. I'm sure you were from Poland, sir. That's why you got upset. But there you have it. What I just showed you is that Poland is preparing for direct war with Russia. I think just a day or so after you you made this comment, we get the situation. So I apologize if I upset you, but facts are facts and facts don't care about anyone's feelings. And that's what's actually happening. And it's it's silly. It's stupid of Poland to provoke Russia if it's trying to provoke Russia. Of course, Poland should be prepared for all eventualities. Poland has uh seen a lot of bad situations in the past, past 70, 75, 80 years, we know what happened. So Poland should be prepared and when you have a gigantic more powerful neighbor next door, kind of next door, almost next door, you should be prepared. So yeah, you should prepare for war. If if you should have all the preparations uh ready, I would say uh and Poland is in some way or the other already involved in Ukraine as well. So it's just a fact. Sorry. Okay, Abishek Ja says a very uh thank you so much. I really appreciate that sir. Uh the question is has the Indian government made the Indian economy sanction proof from the US? Uh it is said that we purchased Iranian oil and made payments for it not in US dollars but through various humanitarian aids. Also it's said that many ruby rupee rubal yuan trades have and are taking place completely ignoring the need for the dollar. is this true and so on. Okay, the the the core question is is India sanction proof and when we talk about sanctions we're talking about US sanctions. So let me put something on the screen which happened just a few months ago less than 6 months ago. Here's this article India response to US sanctions against 19 companies over support for Russia. So in November, the Biden regime imposed sanctions on against nearly 400 individuals and entities including 21 from India for supporting Russian military efforts amid the war in Ukraine. So the Americans impose sanctions on India and various Indian entities 21 Indian 19 21 whatever it is in November. So the Americans can impose sanctions at will whenever they feel like. uh they the they imposed sanctions on India in what 1998 after we uh tested nuclear weapons and I can assure you we are not sanction sanction proof the if they if the Americans hypothetically in in an alternate universe decide to impose on India the kind of sanctions they have currently imposed on Russia it'll destroy the Indian economy completely destroy the Indian economy so India is not sanction proof please be aware of Ronach says, "Do you think with the current bureaucracy that India has, can we seriously grow as a civilization and a country to a great extent?" Uh, the answer to your question is no. With the kind of bureaucracy that we have and with the kind of system that we have, we cannot grow as a civilization. We are not a civilization today. the way it is defined in the in in in the context of the current governance system and all that it doesn't define India as a civilization it just it just defines India as a as a nation state okay and uh even as a nation state you can't progress much with the kind of system we have and the kind of bureaucracy we have so the answer to your question is no we can't progress we can't we can't seriously grow as a nation as a country with the kind of bureaucracy and the kind of system that we have Today it's impossible. Sayan syanthan bis says why does India lack manufacturing base like China? Is it true that manufacturing power provides better employment than service sectors? If so, why? Uh manufacturing provides look uh manufacturing why why does India lack the kind of manufacturing base that China has? Okay, imagine that you want to manufacture something. Let's say you want to manufacture pencils. There's a huge demand for pencils. Let's say in the US in in Europe. So, you want to manufacture pencils. So, you say, "Okay, great idea, great opportunity. There's this opportunity for this big demand. So, let's let's uh fulfill the demand. Let's set up a manufacturing plant for pencils in whatever state you are in." So first question, you will need money, right? To set up a manufacturing plant. Second, you'll need land. How easy is it to get money? Let's say you are just a guy with an idea. Okay, but you've got a viable business plan. So you should be able to go to a bank. You've got a great business plan and the bank should look at your business plan, look at your credentials and determine whether you are a person who can make it this work. And if they think they can you can make it work, they should give you a loan for the amount of money that you that you need, right? Is this process easy in India? No, it's super difficult. It's very hard for anyone to raise money. You can go to venture capital and all but those people, many of them allegedly are like sharks, predators. Uh the government should help like like the Chinese government helps. In China, if you have a great business plan, if you if you want to do something good, uh you'll get the money, you'll get the funds, you'll also get the land. They will give you the best possible land for your venture. In India, getting land is a miserable experience. And then there's all the regulatory mess. You get you need permissions and approvals and certificates and rubber stamps and you have to deal with the entire bureaucratic maze. So many different levels of approvals. You need so many officials. You have to go to personally. Nothing is online. You go and meet people in person. When you meet people in person, you have to do other things as well. offer allegedly offer bribes allegedly and so on. So before you start anything, if you have to start offering allegedly bribes allegedly, then what profit will you ever make? And if it takes so long, if it is so difficult, so tedious, so painful to just start a business, why would anybody start a business? And in a place like China, you can get it done like that. So that's why India lacks a manufacturing base unlike China. That's why in India everybody if you want to have a startup it should be all online where you don't need any approvals should be an app or something that you can just click just you know tap on the app and do whatever Swiggy or Zumato or Flipkart or whatever right or whatever those apps are you know you know what what is it uh Blinket Zeppto Denzo order order whatever you want at home and you'll get it in 10 15 minutes that that sort of stuff works in India But manufacturing for that you need real world stuff. You need real money. You need real land. And doing all that is super super difficult in India. So it's because of the system that India is not a manufacturing power. It's because of the system. The system is designed to prevent India from being imagine this. The system is designed to prevent India from being a great manufacturing power. The system is designed to keep India mediocre. My question is why isn't the system being reformed? It's because the people you know I'm not talking about the highest levels but overall the people who are part of the system they benefit from the system. Overall, the people who are part of the system, who are in power, allegedly politicians, allegedly bureaucrats, allegedly whoever else, people who are part of the system, they allegedly benefit from the system. And it is in their interest to keep the system the same way it is and don't allow it to change. If it becomes transparent, if it becomes system that serves the nation and the people, then how will it serve them? Vested interests, right? So that's why it doesn't change. And when a system it behaves in a way that it is not supposed to behave, its stated purpose is X but its actual the way it actually behaves is not X but Y. It's called corruption. Right? That's a definition of corruption. Um so yeah that's why India is not progressing. That's why India isn't doing great. India has the the the potential to become the the next manufacturing superpower. If you just reform the system, if you just make all these things easy, if somebody has a great idea and has the business acumen behind it, then give the person the funding, give the take a risk on the person, give the person funding, give the person land, give them one chance and let's see how it goes. And as long as your vetting process is good, you'll find the good people, the right people, you'll give money to the right people. Now, obviously, everybody has ideas. It doesn't mean everybody should be given money. the right people should be given money and there there's plenty of the right people in this country but yeah because of the way the system is India lacks the manufacturing base because the system is designed to prevent India from becoming a great nation imagine that so why isn't it being reformed because allegedly the people within the system benefit from the system and because it's benefiting them they don't care if it is hampering if it is hurting the country that's the story of India 70 years 75 years whatever it Uber says ancient civilizations like China, India, Rome, present day Italy continue to live on. Rome doesn't live on as a civilization. Rome died a long time ago and I'll come to that why. Okay, let's continue. China considers itself as a civilization even today. India as at least per the constitution is a nation state. As per the constitution of India, India is not a civilization. India is a mere nation state as per our constitution. Okay. The constitution that has been imposed on India undemocratically. So is this one of the problems? The way we are perceived and the way we project ourselves which becomes an impediment in our growth. Right? So so that's the question. Um so if you look at the constitution of India you will see that u it it is it uh the constitution of India defines India as India that is bat and something or the other okay and it does not define India as a civilization it defines India as a nation state now Rome no longer exists Rome is Italy Italy is a Christian nation Italy is a non-s sovereign nation part of NATO part of EU it's not neither a civilization today because okay so then the question to understand why Rome is not a civilization today we have to understand what is a civilization so take notes a civilization is an advanced society which has a certain set of characteristics first characteristic it has a highly evolved and institutionalized indigenous culture institutionalized indigenous culture. Italy is a Christian nation. Christianity is not indigenous to Europe to to Italy, but it's in institutionalized into Italy. So that's number one. So um for example, in the Arabic nations, their culture/religion is Islam and that's part of the institutions, that's part of their legal system, it's part of their education system, it's part of their governance system. It's part of everything. So it's institutionalized. Now ask yourself this about India. India's indigenous culture, the Dharmic culture. Is it institutionalized anywhere? Is it institutionalized in the in the judiciary? No. The judiciary is based on the European system, the western system, the western constitution and the western legal system. You can give it some Indian name bhat sahita or whatever but it's still a western code of law right so it's not institutionalized in the judiciary is the Indian uh cultural civilizational system dharmic system instit institutionalized in the education system it's not our education is completely secular completely western so there we have it even we are not a civilization today okay now you need to have laws constitution institutions that are grounded in bas in the indigenous culture and indigenous values, indigenous ethics, indigenous morality. We don't have any of that. We need had for a civilization for you to be a civilization, you need to have an indigenous system of governance. We have copied copypasted the Westminster model from the United Kingdom the parliamentary system which is not suited for for a country like India for a for a gigantic subcontinent sized entity as India we don't have an indigenous system of governance we've lost it so we don't even have that then you need a strong civilization a single civilizational language we used to have it it was called Sanskrit we have ditched it. Right? Then you need to have a big geographical area. You need to have a powerful economy, a large military, high levels of prosperity. We have some of these. We don't have high levels of prosperity. We have a reasonably powerful military. We have a cumulatively large economy, but it has problems. And for you to be a civilization, you need to have a large sphere of economic, military and cultural influence that extends significantly beyond your borders. We don't have that. A civilization has has its own language. It has its own script. And a civilization has its own calendar system of timekeeping. We use a foreign calendar today. We use everything foreign. And a civilization is a net exporter of culture. India today is a net absorber of culture. We export nothing culturally. So you see that you see what's happening here from from a when you define something properly you will say that India is no longer a civilization today. India is culturally and civilizationally vasalized today. And the root cause multiple root causes the constitution is is is a big issue. the constitution defines everything that comes under it, the judiciary and whatever else and laws and all that. So yeah, so many issues we have today. So China is China a civilization in its own right. China also has a legal system that's somewhat based on the western system. They they have copied their education system from from the west. They have chosen to be a technically a socialist country which is again a non-Chinese thing. But overall it is still very uh it it is more indigenously civilizational than India is China. Rome no question it is not a civilization. It's not even a sovereign nation. India is a sovereign nation but India has chosen to no longer define itself as a civilization. It has chosen to throw away all the aspects of civilization it had and it's actively derinating its population through the education system, through the media, through the through the entertainment industry, through everything else to completely forget what a culture is. So no, India is on the way to becoming a non-ivilizational entity. Okay, Nillehani. Okay, let's talk about Nilani. So Mohit Chri says, "What's your take on the recent idea of tokenization of land by Nandan Nilakhani and Prren Paul says Nandanda Nilakani's push to tokenize land assets raises serious questions given his past remarks against India building core LLMs and Morti's take on nationalism? Is this another steps to shift control of a civilizational asset like land into centralized or foreign hands? Also since land is a state subject could this tempt regional parties to rush adoption without debate? Is this a digital trap masters progress? So Mr. Nille Khani uh recently spoke about he proposed the idea of uh tokenization of land. So the the his proposal for the tokenization of land. It it aims to digitize India's land ownership rights land ownership rights. It wants to digitize them by converting them into blockchain based tokens. Now I'll not go and explain what blockchain is and how it works. But there's something called blockchain based tokens and he wants to digitize land ownership rights by converting it into blockchain based tokens. So by doing this he seeks to uh unlock see land is about half of India's wealth is approx is is estimated to be in the form of land okay but this wealth is not a liquid asset it's not like like cash right you can spend if you got a let's say if you go if you have a one lakh rupees in a bank account you can spend 10 rupees today or 200 rupees or whatever whatever you wish to but if you have a a block of land you can't just uh you know sell it off piece by piece or any of that doesn't work like that it's not a liquid asset okay so about half of India's wealth is in the form of land and it's not a liquid asset there are legal restrictions on it that sometimes you have situations where the where the title isn't unclear and so on so forth so says that this enormous economic potential of India's land assets is frozen because of all these issues so let's tokenize it. So if you tokenize land, it will make these assets tradable. So if you're an owner who has a certain amount of land, you will be able to trade sell parts of the land. You'll be able to fractionalize ownership of the land. You can you'll be able to lo use that land as collateral for a loan. So you know this can give this can bolster entrepreneurship. It can it can bolster economic growth especially in rural areas where you have lots of problems. So one of the good things this can uh um one of the good effects it can have is that it can unlock all this all this frozen wealth this dormant wealth. It can transform this idle land assets into active financial resources. So if you're a land owner you can access capital for business ventures or investments or whatever. Right? So by making it tradable your land becomes a liquid uh asset and uh that's good for you. You can have fractional ownership. So you can have multiple multiple investors to own shares in a property. So that's good. So it it you know real estate is is something that very few people have access to. So it can democratize access to real estate investment. It can reduce barriers for small investors. And blockchain technology is is secure. it it uh the record keeping is secure and it reduces fraud and all that. So that's another uh plus point. But there are issues with this uh proposal. H what are the issues? Look imagine you have a person who lives in a small village h and that person u has a gambling problem. the person has a drug problem or the person has alcohol problem is an alcoholic and you know how how people with these issues are they need cash they they they always need cash they're always looking for cash to get the next high or get the next whatever right so if your land becomes a liquid asset then such people could just impulsively sell off their assets which would make their financial situation much worse. It could make their financial instability even more instable, right? So there are many people in rural rural areas who have these addiction problems and all that. So they could be very easily exploited by making their land tradable and and and converting land into a liquid asset and you know so that's one issue. Then the the liquification financialization of land, it could very rapidly result in the in the concentration of even that wealth um in the hands of large entities, large corporations and it would it can very rapidly marginalize small land owners. For a few rupees they'll they'll sell off their land to a big corporation. So eventually you may end up with just like five or six corporations who land who who own 80% of the land in India. You may end up in a situation like that. Do you want that? And and so on. And there are security concerns with uh with cy with with blockchain, you know, cyber attacks, the theft, all that. There are some uh concerns about that also. So there are various issues like this. Okay. The main issue is that uh it could lead to the exploitation of small land owners in rural areas who may very quickly be induced to to divest to to sell off their land and then they're left with nothing. you know um there was a time in in in India maybe about a thousand years ago before the Turkish invasions where everybody had land India's population would have been about 300 400 million and everybody had land land that was uh in the possession of their uh family and ancestors for for generations dozens of generations everybody had their own land then what happens is that the the Turks slowly took over India They got they they they they stole all the land. They uh divested Indians of their land ownership. They instituted the Zagindari system which took away the land of the of the indigenous people. Then you had the British who came in who imposed the riatwari act and so on so forth. And as a as a consequence of this most Indians today don't have any land of their own. And if you still have some land some ancestral land somewhere consider it to be a privilege. And when people like Mr. Nilleani come up with these ideas, they essentially want to induce people to sell off that land to they want to convert it into a liquid asset that can be you know traded like like shares on the stock market. Today somebody is the owner, next day somebody else is the owner. That's not how land ownership works. Maybe he's framing it as a good idea that you know it will uh bolster entrepreneurship and and so on so forth in in rural areas. But I think we have to be very careful about these proposals. So from my perspective, it's not a very good idea. I'm very skeptical about this. Uh and land as a state subject. Look, I will not speculate about whether regional parties would want to rush into adoption without a debate. I'm not sure about that. But this is what I have to say say about this matter. Uh, Lipton Barua says, "I am one of the descendants from Arakhan Chittagong region currently living in Dargiling. Our king from Chittagong wrote a letter to India about joining India. Mr. Patel was interested but Mr. Neu and Mr. Gandhi betrayed us." Well, well, well, well, well, well. I would like to I I I'll do some I'll have to do some research about this. Uh, I haven't heard of this matter before. We know of many uh kings who signed the uh instrument of accession that for example the Khan of Kalat in Baljasthan he signed the instrument of accession but Mr. Neu rejected it and did not allow Baljasthan to become part of India. So now when there are many other examples of this Mr. Neu repeatedly rebuffed the Maharaja of Kashmir's uh offer to join India multiple times at least three times before finally uh asking Mount Batan to agree to accept it. So Mr. Neu has done lots of things that don't make sense to small less intelligent people like us. Um but now we hear this now. So the king from Chetakong wanted to join India. Mr. Patel was interested but Mr. Nehu and Mr. Gandhi both apparently betrayed the people of Chetakong. I'll have to look into this but wow. Okay, one more such instance comes in. When someone wants to join your nation, why do you say no? I don't get it. Well, uh I I will certainly do my own due diligence, my own research on this, but uh I would like to thank Lipton Bara for bringing this to our notice. Very interesting. Very interesting indeed. Okay. I don't know how to read this. I there was a time when I could read Arabic, but I've lost the practice. I I learned the Arabic script over one afternoon when I was a teenager. I had a dictionary. That was the Arabic script and uh yeah I learned how to write write and read in Arabic over one afternoon's time. So the question is uh can you let us know if Iraqi Arabs in Iraq are native Mesopotamians because I've heard that they are Arabized Iraqi Arabs who were forced into Arab culture and Islam. I have seen Iraqi Arabs DNA showing they have more Mesopotamia Mesopotamian DNA than Arab, but I don't know of its real results. Well, that's a very interesting question. I personally haven't done research into this matter, but let's take a look at the map and talk about and see uh what's what is the region that we are referring to over here. Mesopotamia. Iraq, right? Okay, let's go to the map. We go to Iraq. What is Mesopotamia? First of all, for those who don't know, Mesopotamia is this region between two rivers, the Tigris and the Euphrates. Okay, that's what Mesopotamia is. It's a very fertile region. If you look at the the city of Baghdad, the river that flows through it is called the Tigris. And if you go to a different part of Iraq, you will have a different river called the Euphrates. Okay, this is the Euphrates. So, if you look at a satellite image of Iraq, it's pretty dry, right? Isn't it? But you have this greenish region which is the region between the the two great rivers and that region is called Mesopotamia. The region between two great two two rivers uh the Tigress and the Euphrates. So now the people so now this place is called Iraq and uh and the question is what's the origin of the people of Iraq? Essentially if you look at the if you look at Iraq today everyone speaks Arabic. Everybody essentially mostly most people are Muslims. You al you do have Kuresh people. You do have uh people and so on. Those are small minorities reasonably small minorities but most people are are uh they are Muslims apart from the even the Kar Muslims uh most people speak Arabic and uh most people identify as Arabs. But are the Iraqis really Arabs? because um even the Egyptians are considered to be Arabs today. They're part of the Arabic Arab world, right? But if you look at the map, Arabia is this peninsula here which is now called Saudi Arabia. So Udi Arabia and you have Yemen, Oman and the UAE, that's also part of it. Uh so that's the region where the Arabs historically lived and Mesopotamia was different. Mesopotamia was west of the subcontinent, west of Iran, west of Persia essentially. And we in India used to pray trade with Mesopotamia and the Mesopotamia gave rise to multiple great civilizations. The Sumerians, the Acadalians, Assyrians and so on. These were non-Arabic cultures. Now I haven't really studied the DNA or uh you know uh studies researches about this matter but u I am pretty sure that the u descendants of the Sumerianss the Assyrians the Acadians uh and so on they still exist they still live and they probably uh have been assimilated into Arabic culture that is probably most likely what happened u they had to accept the culture and the religion that the Arabs brought into the region. The same thing happened to the Persians. If you look at Persia, Iran today about half of Iran is ethnically Persian and uh they have obviously uh they today practice many of them practice uh the religion and the culture that was brought by the Arabs. They don't speak the Arabic language. That's one thing they have preserved. But in nations in parts of the world like Iran, in Syria, Jordan, Egypt, everyone speaks Arabic. Even in the northern African nations like Libya, Algeria, Morocco, etc. So it's it's part of the spread of Arabic conquests in this part of the world. I am pretty sure that if you study if if these studies have been done then you will find that the people of Iraq many of them have the original uh ancestry still in them Mesopotamian ancestry. I'm pretty sure about that. I haven't done the research myself. Now is not the time to do it live or because I have so many questions to answer but I am pretty sure and it's a very interesting question that someone from this region is asking. I'm pretty sure that if you actually look at the genetics, the DNA, then the ethnicities will be different from the Arabic ethnicity in the Mesopotamia and Iraq region. Even Jordan, even Syria, even Egypt, for sure the people of Egypt, most of them will still be descendants of the ancient Egyptians even though they today speak the Arabic language and uh practice the Arabic religion, Islam, right? Okay. Next question is by Abanu. Abimmanu Sharma. Why was the Mongol invasion of Japan a failure? How was Kubla Khan's leadership in contrast to Chingis Khan? Okay, the Mongol invasion of Japan, it was a failure. Now, lots of people imagine that Chingis Khan tried to invade Japan and he failed. Is not the case. Chingis Khan died in 1227 AD. I believe 1227 AD. And the Mongol invasions of Japan happened in the 1270s and 1280s. I think it was 1274 and 1281. Okay. So there were two two invasions done by the Mongols. Invasions of Japan, attempted invasions of Japan and both failed. And if you if you if you look at the the uh the prevalent uh mythology, let's say the mythology is that there was this divine wind that came and saved Japan both times. wind brought on by the gods. The kami the Japanese traditional gods are called the kami. In the Shinto religion, the gods are called kami. So this divine wind is called kami kaz. So it was divine wind kami kaz that saved Japan both times and destroyed the invasion fleet. That's that's one version of then there is some truth to it for sure. So here's what happened. It was the grandson of Shri Chingghis Khan Kubla Khan Shri Kubla Khan who ordered the invasions of Japan. So Shri Kubla Khan ruled China. He was the emperor of China. He he was the successor of Agodai Khan I think. So he was the emperor of China and he wanted to expand his possessions. So, so he ordered this first invasion of Japan in 1274 AD. And you'll find that the first invasion 1274 was probably nothing but a reconnaissance mission, a probing raid. It was not aimed at total conquest. Okay? And it did not really succeed very well. Uh there is a place called Hakata Bay. Hakata Bay in Kyushu in let let's let's go to the map and that's where the landing attempt was attempted and it was a failure after warfare and all that. So uh if you go here I think it is this region where is Hakata Bay uh sorry it's down here it's in the Fukuoka region. Yeah. So I think this is this place is called Hakadab Bay and it is in this region that the the the landing was attempted by the uh Mongol ships. So I think the first time the Mongols uh invaded they sent in close to a thousand ships. Okay. And it was a failure. uh and then in the um and there the when they tried to retreat from Hakata Bay that's when uh u a storm happened a storm set upon the fleet and destroyed a large portion of the fleet. So it's when they had already been defeated and they were withdrawing and after this invasion and what they did okay what what the Mongols did is that uh first of all they had tried to use diplomacy they had sent emissaries to Japan and uh demanded that Japan acknowledges the the supremacy of of Kubla Khan that Kublhan is our overlord and we are his vassals and Japan refused that. So after the diplomacy failed, the invasion was attempted in 1274. And during the invasion, the soldiers sent by Kubla Khan, they massacred civilians and they massacred monks. They massacred Buddhist monks. And when you do such things, it's going to enrage the samurai, right? So now the samurai were enraged and they saw these these soldiers of Kubla Khan as absolute barbarians and they said we'll fight you to the to the death and then what they did is that they built a very large coastal wall in the Hakata Bay region to prevent future landings and the samurai organized themselves very well and they bolstered their numbers and then u there was a second invasion in 1271 in 1281 and in the 1281 invasion I think the Mongols had about 4,000 ships and more than 100,000 more than a lakh men according to their records I believe and uh so they were trying to coordinate this force from from across the East China Sea and it was not a very successful thing uh they had to cross through as well and so on so once again uh that invasion did not work very And there was another storm that that that came in the way and destroyed a large portion of the ship. Uh many of the ships were dashed against rocks and they were destroyed. So uh there's a combination of lots of factors. So there is the the bad weather that the the the storms uh the Japanese were very well prepared especially after the first invasion uh happened. Uh the Mongols overreached themselves logistically. You can't go so far and be so out overstretched. Um the Japanese t tactics would have been good. The strategies would have been good because the Japanese knew their own home conditions. It's like playing a cricket match on your home ground versus playing your match on the on the opponent's ground, right? So it was home conditions. They knew what to expect. The Mongols probably did not have that much uh naval expertise that that also could be a factor. Uh and so on. So it's a it's a combination of lots of factors that uh caused the failure of both the attempted invasions 1274 and 1281. I think um ultimately it was about the Mongols about about Kubla Khan Kubl Khan being over ambitious. He was over ambitious. He tried to project his power into an completely unfamiliar territory. The Mongols were well traditionally they were they were nomads. They were horse archers. They were unbeatable in that form of warfare. Now, if you take these people and you put them on ships and ask them to invade an island nation, it's not going to work. It's a super unfamiliar, super hostile environment. And who's defending Japan? The samurai. Come on. It's not not going to work, right? So it's it's a combination of these factors that uh caused the failure of the attempted invasion by Kubla Khan. How was Kublh Khan's leadership in contrast to Changis Khan? Changist Khan and Kublhan were very different personalities. Uh Changis Khan was well a military genius probably the greatest military genius of all time. He conquered the greatest empire ever conquered by one man. He conquered more territory in in in 10 years than than Roman emperors conquered in 200 years. So there's that he was a ruthless organizer, superb organizer. Um he he he he believed in merit meritocracy. He promoted the best most merito most uh the ones who performed the best. He as a consequence he had the best generals. Uh JB Subodai uh so many more. Subai was probably the greatest general of all time. Subai Bhagat and so on. Um and as a ruler, he was a good ruler. He was tolerant. He tolerated almost every religion and everything except maybe one or two which I will not mention here. Okay? And so on. So he was he was very very open. Uh he was very good to the people he conquered after they were conquered. But uh if you did something bad to him, he would not uh let that go and so on. That's how Chingis Khan was. Um in contrast to Chingghist Khan, Kubla Khan did not Oopsie. What happened just a second there seems to be okay. So yeah, in in contrast with Chingis Khan, Chingisan ruled from the horse. didn't he? Kubla Khan ruled from the throne and Kubla Khan had he became a very uh sinusized emperor. He's he ruled over over China. His focus was not on conquest. It was mainly on administration. It was on ruling. He invested in a postal service. He invested in the bureau bureaucracy. He invested in dams. He invested in architecture. That's the kind of stuff Kubla Khan invested in. and he and Chingis Khan invested in other things. So Chingis Khan whatever he achieved Kubla Khan wanted to consolidate that consolidate all of that by civil by by being a civilizing force but he also at some point in life would have had that itch that I too should conquer right at some point in time something and that's why he tried probably Japan but it did not work. So yeah there you have it that's the difference between the two uh men very different styles of leadership. Shivam Johan says, "I am currently doing my master's degree in history and plan to do a PhD or pursue a PhD later." Okay, good, good, good, good. My dream is to become a great historian and archaeologist making meaningful contributions to our understanding of India's past. I want to focus on underrated and unexplored areas that still hold the potential for new discoveries. What are some lesser studied topics, regions or periods in Indian history that I should start reading about now or and later explore in depth? Look, everything is unexplored. Even if you talk about let's say talk about the period in India thousand years ago, just before the Turk invasions began, ask yourself this question. What was a typical day in the life of an ordinary man or woman in Bhat in the year 1000 AD? What is a typical day like? Okay, let's say you're talking about somebody who lives one person who lives in the region of Delhi, present day Delhi, one person who lives in the region of present day maybe Bangalore or maybe Chennai, one person who lives in present day Gujarat, one person who lives in present day Assam. Okay. four people north, east, west and one person who lives in central India. Five people and we go back a thousand years. What was a typical day in the life of a person who lived in these five parts of India? We don't even have those answers. What language did they speak? What was the language spoken in the Dilli region 1,000 years ago? What language was spoken in the Assam region a thousand years ago? In the Bangalore region a,000 years ago? What language was spoken in let's say Gujarat a thousand years ago? Do we even know that clearly? What was the the lifestyle like? What was the dress code like? What dress did they wear? What language did they speak? What was a typical day like? What kind of education did they We know next to nothing about these things. There is so much we don't know. A thousand years before today, we don't know a lot. 2,000 years before today, we know even even even less and so on. So there is so much you can learn. But if you want to if you talk about talking about archaeology, I can talk about I can give you a lot of archaeological sites that are like you say underrated or or neglected. For example, in the we know we have this gigantic dried up river, right? The Saraspati. She left us because we not worthy of her perhaps. So we have this huge dry riverbed that ranges from the Himalayan region all the way to the run of Kach and it used to empty into the Indian Ocean the sea of Sabarashtra. So along this dry riverbed the majority of which is in present day India not in Pakistan. Along this dry riverbed you have more than 2,000 unexplored archaeological sites from the Saraswati Synindu time period of our history. more than 2,000 unexplored sites. Can you imagine how much how much archaeological uh treasures left uh they are just waiting for us to uh explore them to discover them right so there is that you can explore that once you are an archaeologist there are obviously sites like Rakari which is well known now there is there are the the coastal sites like Davira and yeah do is a great one in in present day Gujarat Okay. In the run of Kacha region, there is Kalibangan in Rajasthan. The probably the largest site that no not the largest site, one of one of the largest sites we have. Rakari is the largest one. So, Kalibangan is is about I don't know how many maybe 3,000 5,000 BC some something like that time. Then you have places like Ganeshwar in Rajasthan. Then Soli these days is well known. Soli in Uttar Pradesh where that's a bronze age chariot burial site. Right. There is uh Dhaabad in Maharashtra. There is a site in Kashmir called Burahham which is a very ancient village kind of site 3,000 BC or something and it it has it has layers from different time periods and they also discovered a carving of of of a sky chart a star chart in the Burahham region where you have two suns in the sky and that's the first ever the oldest ever depiction of a supernova. event right. Um then if you go to eastern India Orisa there is Sushup Palgar which is a fortress like site okay very interesting site um maybe around 500 BC or something around that time. uh Morian era there is uh if you go to West Bengal there is Chundra Chundra Ketugar a fascinating site where so many fascinating discoveries have already been made but it is still like mostly unexplored there is Kosambi in Uttar Pradesh wonderful place then there is AIChatra in Uttar Pradesh the capital of Panchchal Mahajalapad so if you look for a Chhatra let me I mean the kind of architecture you have there let's go to Google Okay, there is a gigantic pyramidal temple in Ahhatra. Uh, sorry, not this. Let's go. I I want to do a Google search for AIR. All right. Here we are. Okay. Ahi Chhatra. Ahi Chhatra. AI means serpent. Chhatra means umbrella kind of thing. So, Ai Chhatra northern Panchchal capital. It made it back to the Namhahabara times. And look at this structure. This is an ancient temple or stupa or whatever. Look at that. It's it's a pyramidal structure. There's a person there. I mean, if you look at this, [Music] um, one second, let me put this on the screen. Here we have it. I mean look at this. This is an incredible structure. What is the internal structure of this? Like what chambers do we have inside? Do we have any hidden chambers inside? Do we have hidden secrets inside? There seems to be shivaling kind of structure on the top. Is there something be below belene the ground? I mean there's so much to explore right here in a chhatra. An incredible site. It potentially is a Mahabarat era site. Then there is Vishali in Bihar. There is Indra Prast in Delhi. These days it's called Puranakila. Uh that could be the site of ancient Indra of the Mahabharat era. In the southern part of India we have Adi Chelanor, Adi Chanalur in Tamil Nadu. Um then we have places like Dwara I mean Duara Krishna's Duara off the coast of Gujarat. Then you have uh cave pumatinam which is a submerged city possibly 10,000 years old but possibly older uh near pondicherry off the coast of the eastern coast of India not far from pondicherry and there is mahabali puram there is uh there is the ancient site of vikramila inj and then once again if you go south there is uh gangai k cholapuram the ancient imperial capital of the Chola Empire and that is not well excavated well well explored. So I I can give you so many examples you know there's so much potential for uh archaeological studies in India so much so yeah go ahead so study some of these sites read up about them then once you're an archaeologist you can go and explore them all the best okay Mr. 88 says why did so many Britishers decide to stay in South Africa after its independence and why couldn't they repeat the same in India we know that British interests are still present in Africa and India through a variety of means by how the white population remained there not in India or Pakistan okay the subcontinent so uh to answer that question first of all I will take a look at the map I mean the map is a great tool to understand a lot of Um so here's the map. Now as we know India is near the equator. India is a pretty hot place at least large parts of India hot. If you go to northern India is pretty pleasant climate and all. If you go to Ladak it's frighteningly cold and so on. The Himalayan region is very extreme very very cold. Uh and northern parts of India you know Punjab Orana Kashmir etc. Even the Nepal region even the Arunachal region etc. uh the u kaibar paktuna region all that pretty good weather good climate but most of India is hot really really hot one of the reason why the British left India is that they had plundered everything they could plunder there's nothing much left and the climate was too hot for them they didn't enjoy it that's why they left South Africa on the other hand okay it's in the southern part of Africa very very nice pleasant weather pretty cool weather if I click uh at the southern part of Africa The latitude is - 34.79. - 34.79. It's it's comparable to let's say if I go to SI it's - 34 something. So it's it's the same kind of weather you have at SI and SI has good weather, good climate. Tasmania has super cold. Uh if you go to the northern hemisphere to give you an example, it is like uh for example uh what if I click here? What's the latitude? 34 so Hiroshima so Hiroshima Coobe Kyoto that's around the 34 degree latitude you know it's pretty cold there right so yeah that's the kind of weather you have in South Africa pretty cool pretty pretty pleasant weather so that's one reason why the the Britishers like you say uh were happy to stay on in South Africa because of the climate climate was nice it was conducing conducive for them to stay on the second thing is that if you look at the demographics of South Africa the religious demographics of South Africa. South Africa is about 85% Christian today. And that must have been the case even you know uh in the 1930s 1940s. They the first thing Europeans do is they they convert. They they destroy the local culture. They eradicate the local religion and they impose their religion on the natives. That's what they've done consistently wherever they go. Failed in India. They tried their best. They still they're still trying. The Spanish did that in the Americas. The Portuguese did that elsewhere in Goa and so on. and the the Europeans did they're all over Africa. So in South Africa the native South African culture, religion, whatever is it, whatever it is, barely exists. About 85% of the population is Christian. The rest is whatever else. Right? So because of this it was culturally also nice for the British to stay there. People all believed in the British um imposed religion. In India it's very alien, right? India, India is full of Hindus, Hindus. So the British would not have been very comfortable because of that as well. So a multitude of factors multiple factors uh would have contributed to this. The first is the climate. Second is the religion and so on. So that's why probably and and and India was horrifically impoverished by the 1940s. The life expectancy was what 30 31 something like that. It's it's like it's like being in Ethiopia of the 1970s and 80s that that sort of thing. Horrible. India was like like a death trap. So they had destroyed India completely and they didn't want to stay in such a hell hole. They had reduced India to a hell hole essentially. So that's why they left. South Africa was was a very different place. Much more pleasant for them. So okay Pandit says Abijit Chra you recommended virtue success pleasure and liberation by Aliyah Danilu. I read this book. There were certain passages that referenced Arian invasion theory referring to Koroas as a pandas dravidian and termed intercast marriages unacceptable. So you're complaining. I referred a book and you're complaining. This is why I don't refer that's why I don't give any book recommendations anymore. I have said this so many times that there is no book that's written by anyone about India that doesn't have any distortions. Now Allah Danyu lived a 100 years ago. At that time everyone believed in the arian invasion theory. So that's why I wrote about it. Even today there are books that are superb but they still have distortions. I have said this so many times. There is no book written about India in which no distortion exists. But there are good aspects of the book which is why I recommend them. But then we get people like this who will complain who will start nitpicking and complaining and pointing fingers. You recommended a bad book. So that's why I've stopped recommending books. I mean Indians, lot of Indians have this habit. It's not their fault. The education system has done it to them. The education system it it puts this habit in your head of looking for tiny minute mistakes and faults because you know in the Indian education system your teacher in when you write an exam paper even if you make the smallest of mistakes they'll cut one mark two mark whatever even if overall you're right but because you missed a full stop or a comma somewhere they'll cut two marks. So Indians because of this they are conditioned to look for tiny minute mistakes in everything and Indians are a nation today of nitpickers who will simply miss the big picture because they're all squabbbling among each other over tiny minute things which are completely unimportant. So here's an example of that. I recommended a nice book because there are some things that are nice about the book but the person finds problems. So that's and I have seen this I have have had this happen to me over and over and over again which is why I don't recommend books anymore. What do you expect anymore? Uh Phoenix says why is it so hard for people in India to realize the Indian system desperately needs a system reboot? Because Indians don't get the big picture. Because Indians are nitpickers. Indians look for tiny minute flaws here and there and they squabble among each other about these tiny little things and they completely miss the big picture and it is not the fault of Indians. The education system has destroyed their ability to think. Those who still can think are are doing it superheroically despite the education system, despite the trauma imposed by the education system. But most Indians they simply can't think. They are mentally lovized. They can't think. The education system has destroyed their ability and will to think. Thinking is painful. So that's why Indians just don't realize what's what's going on. And if you say something that goes against a prevailing narrative, prevailing narrative, then they will call you a conspiracy theorist or something or you are a conspiracy theorist or this book said this and that or that great person of authority said that. So how can you go against them? H you have no idea what you're talking about. So that's why most Indians they will they simply engaging in pulling each other down. When someone tries to think against the established narrative they'll try and pull the person down and at the best of times they'll Indians will be squabbbling among each other about about tiny minute issues. Oh Hinduism and Buddhism are different cultures. Oh because this this 2% something is different in Buddhism from Hinduism. So it's different. Keep fighting over small things and they will completely miss the big picture. So that's the issue in India. The root cause of the is the education system. Freddy Joe HS says the largest volunteer army in the world was the British Indian Army where 2.5 million Indians volunteered. They saw it as much as an Indian war as a British war. That's why it's called the Second World War. And I am British and I put this thesis forth towards you silly unwashed Indians. The largest volunteer army in the world. This is what people in the UK still apparently believe. H volunteers. See in India during the British occupation of India, during the British during the brutal, genocidal, barbaric British occupation of India, Indians were impoverished to the nth degree. There was no means of sustaining yourself and of sustaining a family unless you worked for the oppressor. Without a government job there was no stability, no future, no security in life. They had they had stolen all the land. So nobody owned land. In the past when people owned land they could farm, they could do whatever they want. And the British had also destroyed all all of India's indigenous industries. India was the first ever fully industrialized civilization. The British completely de-industrialized India. So all the people who had all these incredible skills which ran in the family from generation to generation everything was wiped out in their entire livelihoods were uprooted destroyed. The livelihood that their family had had been part of for dozens maybe hundreds of generations was destroyed. So there is no industry anymore. There is no agriculture anymore. So if you want to have food on the table for your for you and your family, you had to work for the government. So then they would employ Indians as clerks or as soldiers. So just to stay alive, just to provide for the family. Lots of Indians had to become soldiers in the British army. They didn't volunteer. They had no choice. You see, this was not an Indian war. This was a European war. It was a useless, needless war perpetrated on the world by the Europeans for their own petty squables. You and your Hitler and whatnot. And you made us fight fight fight on your behalf. So that's what it was. Nobody volunteered for this. The Indians who fought had no choice. They were fighting for their families. They were fighting to put put food on the table. They didn't give a damn about your your cause. It was not our war. And it's sad that these people who still have these feelings of superiority, they come up and put these comments over here in front of us. I mean, just take a look at the state of the UK today. You people who live in the UK should be ashamed of yourselves. Absolutely. You should be ashamed of yourselves, of what you have allowed to happen to your country. Your women aren't safe in your country today and you people aren't even able to to to ensure their security. We know what what the Pakistanis have been doing to your women and you people just sat and let this happen. You should be ashamed of yourselves. You British people and you have the the the g to come here and talk talk all this and and and say all this over here, please. Okay. Really now says Japan and South Korea are seem similar but are different in many ways. Can you shed some light on the ways they are different politically, economically in the society? I feel it feels like the South Koreans emulated the West and the old Chinese culture while Japan is a more distinct culture despite the westernization. Also, Japan has a much larger economy. Is it because they weren't colonized but colonizers? Why isn't Japanese entertainment and music as popular but has a higher and has a higher fertility rate? Which in your opinion is more advanced? Okay. To answer this, I have to do a two over episode essentially. Okay, it's a very complex uh topic that that you have brought forth. Very interesting as well. And is South Korea overhyped in front of Japan? See, one thing they have in common, they are both US vasals. They're both under US occupation, permanent US military occupation. Okay, so that that's one thing they have in common. Now, if you look at the geography, as you can see, Japan is is offshore. It's an island nation. It's an archipelago and it's always had a separate existence as a separate entity. South Korea has always been under the shadow of China for the most part to some and also under the shadow of Japan and Japan has always been very independent. They of course did absorb Chinese culture. They absorbed all of Buddhism and Indian influence via China which is why uh they they have a very Chinese influence uh on their Buddhism and on the Indian culture they've absorbed but they are still very different very independent very different from South Korea and very different from China that's Japan Japan has a very old history uh goes back at least two and a half thousand years maybe more South Korea also has an ancient history going back 2,000 or maybe more years but they have always been very very strongly sinized under Chinese influence which means they have been under Chinese influence. Uh Japan is uh a larger nation a larger economy and they've always been especially since the uh major restoration of the 19th century mid- 19th mid to late 19th century they have been very very uh industrialized. They have been very uh westernized. they've tried they've sought to emulate the west which eventually led to their disastrous downfall in the second world war. Um so you could say that the major restoration of the 19th century was the beginning of the end of Japan because they they threw away their old lifestyle way of life the supremacy of the dharmic system that the the sham samurai and shogunet system had established and so on um and so on. So very different cultures very there are similarities as well there are they have issues they have their own issues which we'll not go into uh at the point politically different systems uh economically Japan is a much bigger e economy society the South Korean society is is is well again different they have taken different trajectories South Korea has is mostly atheistic now and the rest are Christians very few Buddhists I I hear still remain in South Korea, they've completely lost their indigenous culture. When it comes to Japan, they still retain the Shinto Buddhist culture. Um, they also are facing Christianization and all those problems because of foreign occupation, but they still have have resisted much better than South Korea. Um, fertility rate, both nations are suffering very badly. South Korea's fertility rate is catastrophically low. Japan's is marginally better. I don't remember the exact figures right now. I'll not go and research it, but it's marginally better than South Korea. Um, so which is more advanced? Look, as a nation, as a as a as a culture, as a civilization, Japan is more advanced, has always been more advanced. Uh, what is overhyped, what is not, it depends on the overlord. The US today both are vasals, both are under occupation. So, whoever the the overlord will favor will be hyped. So they have both been given some rewards for for being US vasals. South Korea was allowed to industrialize and become a major industrial power in service of the west in service of the of the US and it has suffered catastrophic demographic decline as a consequence. But they they are given a certain amount of prestige and people are fans of K-pop even though nobody understands the Korean language but people for some reason like K-pop. So that's the reward they've been given. what are the rewards they've been given and when it comes to Japan they are influential in the world through anime and and other stuff uh video games all of that and so on overall I would say Japan is u from my perspective at least is a is is a more significant culture and civilization uh than Korea that's the way I see it right let's take a couple more questions and I'll take questions from the live chat. Maybe there's not enough time. I'll just go for the live chat now. How about that? We'll do live chat for about 10 15 minutes. Um, Matthew Perez says, "UK is warped. Glad I live in Texas. We got Texas justice." Okay, Texas justice. I think it's it's not a bad idea. Texas justice. What else the Okay, let's see the some of the uh questions from the live chat. My views on the movie Animal. I haven't watched the movie Animal, so I can't say. Vak board. Yeah. Yeah. Something has happened. Look, I don't comment on internal politics, internal matters mostly. And I haven't even studied what's happened. Okay. I know the Vak Act has been passed, but I have not studied it. I look at geopolitics. I look at the big picture. There are other picture who look other people who look at the internal picture. We all are on the same team but we we we we serve different functions. So I I I have not really looked into the VA waka board matter. Um which IPL team do I support? I don't watch IPL. I watched the first season of the IPL which which was what 2007 2008. The Pakistanis were still playing at the time. The first season the Pakistanis played and the first match Brendan McCullum hit 158 or something. The last match was Shane W's last professional match I believe and he was on the non-strikers end when Sahel Talir hit the winning runs for Rajasthan Royals for yeah that one. So I watched the first season after that I lost interest. I think it's very artificial. I think it's very made up. Every two three years the teams are re reshuffled. So there's no continuity. Sometimes one team disappears like CSK disappears for two three years. Then there is some super giant team that comes and disappears again. There's no continuity and I mean these are all six hitting fests. The bowler has no role in this to a very large extent. I like to see balance between bat and ball. I like to see the batsman being made to respect the bowler but in the IP result it's all just hit sixes. hit everything for six. I just don't find it interesting. I I like sports. I I enjoy all sports. I've played some sports as well. Uh when it comes to cricket, I like test match cricket. I even like T20 one day. It should be international, not this. This is just a merrygoround. So I I don't watch IPL. I don't enjoy it. I I don't mean to offend any of you who watch IPL. Please enjoy IPL. Please please watch whatever you like. It's entirely your choice. This is merely my perspective. But I' I've seen cricket for a very long time and it's no longer the same these days. Um Shri Ramachandra says, "What's your favorite food?" These days I eat one meal a day. I'm trying to get a little fitter, meaner, leaner. Um so I eat one source of protein and a large quantity of vegetables. Then I eat and I eat a large bunch a large quantity of watermelon as well. It's the simple foods that are fun. So that's what I look I like food. I like all kinds of food. I like foods. Foods. I like every cuisine. I like most cuisines. Japanese, uh, Mexican, uh, French cuisine, Thai cuisine, Indian cuisine, obviously we like it. Chinese, Mongolian, um, Eastern African cuisine is very interesting. It's similar to Indian cuisine. Arabic cuisine, it's nice. You know, the if you if you look at Arabic cuisine, there's so many good vegetarian dishes you get over there. You know, the mezz platters, the the the stuffed wine leaves, wine is grape wine leaves stuffed with rice and whatnot. There is muham. It's a very nice thing. There's so many nice cuisines in the world. Croatian cuisine is nice. You may even say a few good things about British cuisine. Russian cuisine is nice. Hungarian cuisine. I I like all foods. Look, I don't have one favorite food. Anything that's cooked well, you know, with with passion and love, it's going to taste good. So, yeah, my my approach to cuisine is like my approach to music. I like it all. I enjoy it all. Okay. I was looking at something else and this comes up. Okay. Ritik says if a young individual between the age of 20 25 with no political background aspires to be a leader of this country one day what paths are available to them only democratic or coup or through AI the current system will not allow any coups you will have to go do it through the democratic way you'll have to enter some political party show that you are capable of being a leader which means you know what is the measure of a leader at the grassroots level to prove yourself you have to show how many people you can thing on the street on demand. That's the value of your leadership. So a so that's why lots of leaders in India in Indian politics emerge from from colleges and universities student politics because they have a readym made pool of students at their at their disposal and if you if they have the leadership qualities the political leadership qualities they'll be able to mobilize students and bring them on the streets on demand. So then when you can do that over and over again the political party will see this guy has potential. So then you will be fasttracked based on your performance and then you'll have to perform in other ways and you to become part of the system and see all the good and bad parts of it and so on. That's how it goes. AI won't work in India at this point in time. At this point in time no chance for AI to work coup. Haha. I mean come on. Are you kidding yourself? How old are you? I think you still have a little bit of growing up to do. If you want to learn how to do a coup, read the book Kuda, a practical handbook by Edward Lutwak, who has appeared on my podcast. It's a very interesting book. And it is said that after a failed coup attempt in Africa, I don't remember which country it was, but the person who attempted the coup, his body was found with gunshot wounds. And inside his jacket was that book by Edward Lutwak, Kuda, practical handbook. It's actually a pretty good book if you want to learn how the mechanics and dynamics of a coup are. Uh yeah, but I would not recommend trying a coup in India. It is of course illegal. It is not in the country's interests. I'm just being a little light-hearted here. If you want to look at a coup from a theoretical perspective, but the only path available to you in the current system is to do it the hard way, bottom up. Or you could be a very rich person and buy your way into a political party. There there's multiple ways. But if you are a young kid, 20 25 years old, the only way is to uh do it through student politics. Show that you are a great student leader who can mobilize people students on the streets on demand. On demand essentially then you will have a great future. That's how it goes. That's how it goes. Abijit Chow Light says any update about aliens and UFOs. I have not been paying attention to aliens and UFOs. Right now, they are not they're not anymore the flavor of the season. Aliens and UFOs. A few months ago, they were UFOs were all over the place in New Jersey and in the US. I mean, there was an invasion of UFOs on live TV. They were showing UFOs flying over the sky. Now, they've all disappeared. And then after Trump comes to power, his uh spokesperson, that lady, I forget her name, whatever it is, the press secretary, she said that those UFOs or whatever were drones and and they were being they they were being deployed by the Biden Biden administration. So they were not really alien artifacts. They were drones, advanced drones belonging to the United States government. Now if you look at those videos which is very interesting some of those drones they morph they they change from aircraft or drone like structures to to orbs which is very strange very interesting but yeah Navin Kumar says GoGa or Bangkok I've never been to Goa so I can't say I've been to Bangkok once hardly saw the place I went for the World Hindu Congress in the end of 2023. I found Bangkok fascinating. Very beautiful place, a very nice people. What I loved about Bangkok is that nobody bothers to speak English. They all speak Thai. But you can somehow communicate, you know, and they are more Indian than us. They are more Dharmic than us. Okay, they and it is their culture. It's not our culture anymore. It's their culture they are practicing and they value their culture. If you go if you go to those airport Bangkok so nabi you will see manifestations of of dharmic um dharmic manifestations everywhere whether it is hanuman whether it is the samudraan whatever all Indian cultural elements portrayed there as Thai elements and they're proud of it they're not ashamed of it so different from India so I would so I have never been to Goa so I can't say anything about Goa but I really like Bangkok the brief time I was there like 3 days or something. It was fun. I don't mind going again. Wonderful place and I would like to explore more of Thailand and more of Southeast Asia. Um Rajil Kh thank you so much for becoming a member. I never ask anybody to become a member but some of you still do that. So I really appreciate that. Thank you so much to everybody who has purchased memberships despite me never asking anyone to do that. Thank you so much and thank you so much Rajil. I really appreciate it. Thank you for your support. It means a lot. Okay, let's um I have spoken about Okay, let's see this. Uh Rajil says, "Can you please explain about private data security and theft?" Sun alien private data security and theft. That's a very technical subject. It's a very corporate subject, isn't it? So, look, every corporation, every entity, every individual has some private data, right? We all have it. uh you may have a laptop in which you have your own private data whatever word documents or uh whatever it is that you keep PDFs or videos or whatever that's your private data. Okay. Um and that needs to be secure and it can be stolen as well. So maybe you have credit card information or maybe you have some financial statements or maybe you have passwords or something. If it is stolen then it becomes a huge problem for you. People can steal your money, people can steal your identity or whatever. So you need to keep it secure and there are multiple ways of doing it. You can encrypt your data so that nobody can you know crack it. Crack the code. That's one way of doing it. Private security, private data security. Another way is to disconnect your laptop your your your machine whatever it is from the internet is called air gapping. An airgapped system which is secure because no internet can penetrate there. If you want to be really airgapped then you can have a room with um what's called a faradic cage. In case you don't know what a faradic cage is, look at a microwave oven. If you look at the front window of the microwave oven, you can see a grill structure over it. Grill. That's a Faraday cage which keeps the microwaves inside and prevents them from leaking out of the microwave oven. So you can have a room with a faradic cage situ paradise kind of a kind of setup which will genuinely ensure that no outside signal comes in or no inside signal goes out. So there are various ways of achieving proper data security. Most of us we have systems that are connected to the internet. So you have to u ensure that you don't keep any sensitive information first of all on um your internet connected system. Um and if you have such information you need to keep it secure in a variety of ways. Yeah. And theft there's there are lots of ways of of of stealing uh private data. You know hackers this they specialize in this and some hackers are really good. There are various ways of doing it. The Chinese are good at it. Apparently India is not not bad in in cyber security. One hears one hears whispers. Okay. So yeah there are people who are professionals and who can do that. So you've got to uh you got to employ basic common sense essentially. So that's what I can say. It's a very very big topic very complex topic. You can do like one single twoour live stream only about this but that's what I'll say in brief about this. All right. Um um um Mr. Adus says do I listen to electronic or Indian music? Electronic music some of it was used to be good. There was this uh this band called Astral Projection. They had this song called Mahadeva. There was nice electronic music. Some of it is good. Some of it is good. Um, I don't really keep up with electronic music these days. Ambient music used to be good. Ambient music should be something that allows you to focus on the work that you're doing, but it should create a nice ambiance, nice atmosphere. Ambient music is is something I'm still into sometimes. So, yeah, I do I do listen to it sometimes. And um Okay. Um, what shall I do? What shall I do? What shall I shall I take one more? Who's my favorite sports person says Mayori? I don't know. I don't have any one favorite sports person. I I've admired lots of sports people from different sports. Uh for example in tennis I what uh Roger Federer Noak Jookovic I used to like Agassi uh Pete Sampras uh among women Stephy Graph Monica Chesh these days I have no idea who uh maybe the the Williams Serena Williams probably who else in in cricket there are so many Viv Richards uh Jeff Thompson if anyone remembers him and so on so any I mean there's no one person that's my favorite. Okay, with that we will end today's live stream. We are way past 2 hours. So thank you so much for all the questions. I enjoyed this very much. Enjoyed the questions I took from the comments. Enjoy the questions I took from the live chat and we shall keep doing this and the next episode will be next week. Same time, same channel, same day. So until then take care. Thank you so much for everything. Thank you so much for your viewership. Please keep asking questions. Please keep raising your standards. Please keep learning. Take care. I'll see you soon. Bye-bye.