Heat. Heat. N. [Music] Hey, [Music] hey, hey. Heat. Heat. Hello everybody. Good evening and good day to everyone and welcome back to the Ask Kabijit show. I hope you're all doing great. Today we discuss history. We discuss world and Indian history and I have selected a large number of questions that you have asked in the comments and I'll take as many of those as possible today. Before we do that, as always, let us see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Krishna Krishna of the Surinamese Netherlands. Vicash PJ Namaste. Sukun Vatcher, hello. TSTsts 67 GK GS1K. Crazy Brain, hello. Geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor, good evening. Animals for laugh is here from Mumbai. Real painter, all hail to you as well. Swami is here from Jaipur. Vidi Manar, thank you ma'am. Good to see you. Um, Tanmay Desh Pande uh TS Okay GKGS. Okay. Vikash PJ Saudi from Chandigar. Hello. A real painter is here. Um, who else? Sumit Agarwal Ram Sumit Mahul Rajes Babu Swami M A K4J Ankita Kachab is here. Good evening. Rocket Rocket EJ Adwit Ashwani Aayush Singh is here. Panam Panam uh Sagar G is here from Bangalore. Bangaluru Om Nak is here. Tanmay once again event countdown 1 2 3. Hello Manisha Kardosu. Namaste. Namaste. Daam Da Priya Priyadashi. Okay, good to see you. Um Vikas PJ Sukum Vatcher. Who else do we have? Surajit Achara is here. Uh Nutan Roshan uh Som Somia Paul Somaly from West Bengal. Um who else? Who else? Uh Arian Rocking Gaming 6950, Nutan Roshan, Namaskaram, uh Surajit Achara, Om Nikk, good to see you. Raj, John 03 and everybody else. So I'm streaming I'm trying an experiment streaming in two different aspect ratios. Uh if you are used to the uh you know the horizontal one you can see in that one. If you want to see on a cell phone then you can see the vertical one. It's up to you. It's not like I'm forcing one aspect ratio on everybody. We have two aspect ratios being streamed on at the same time on YouTube and I'm also streaming on Twitter and wherever else Facebook link LinkedIn and um kick etc twitch and so on. Okay. So let us go with let's get going with the questions. What questions do we have? All right. Let us go let what questions let me quickly check the questions. Here we go. What is the first question that we have today and that is by Amish Mishra. Do you agree that the term South Asian was invented to erase the legacy and history of what has for centuries been known as Indian civilization? See the term South Asia was invented by the US state department. At least it was popularized and brought into the mainstream by the US state department. Maybe the term was used before that but it's when the state department starts pushing it somewhere in the 1950s 1960s onwards that the term south Asia becomes common place and today Indians use the term south Asia without understanding what it means we even have the sark south Asian association for regional cooperation why do we have to you know accept this term south Asia so why has this term being in been invented and what's what is the point of it all so if you want to understand that let me put this image on screen that will explain in very in great clarity what what this what the intention of this is and and I don't take credit for this uh this graphic it is credit where it is due it is it was created by somebody called strider eel so this is a strategic guide on the usage of the term south Asia and western media in academia and so on this is more about western media so what kind of news do we have if it is good news okay and the country of origin of the good news is Pakistan then the western media will use the term Pakistan they will not say South Asia if there is good news but it's coming from India they will use the term South Asia not India if there is bad news that's coming out of Pakistan they will say South Asia not Pakistan and if there is bad news coming out of India then they will say India not South Asia so South Asia is is used to erase is the existence of India when there is something good that you want to speak about that comes out from the subcontinent Indian subcontinent right and if there's something bad that's happening then you use the term South Asia for example in in the UK you have these Pakistani gangs who pray on girls and women right and that's a well-known scandal I don't know how many tens of thousands maybe hundreds of thousands of girls have been victimized by these Pakistani monsters so What term do they use for this? They use the term Asian gangs or maybe South Asian gangs. They never use the term Pakistani gangs, right? So they want to make people believe that even Indians are included in this when something bad is going on. So when something bad happens, use the term South Asia, don't use the term Pakistan. Even though most bad things come out of Pakistan and when something good is going on which is coming from Pakistan, then don't use the term South Asia. use Pakistan and something good happens from India use the term South Asia to include everybody else. Even when it comes to history, the history of the subcontinent is Indian history. It's not Pakistani history or Bangladeshi history. It's Indian history. The entire subcontinent was India before the 1940s, right? But once again to erase the Indian identity of our history and civilization, they use the term South Asia. So it is a deliberate ploy to erase our history, our our culture, our civilization and uh whenever something bad happens that comes from India, they lose India otherwise they use the term South Asia and so on. So that is why they're doing it. And so what should we do about this? What we should do is we should reject the term South Asia. Stop using the term South Asia. Use the term Indian subcontinent. That is the correct term. The term Indian subcontinent includes all of what they call South Asia, right? Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, um Sri Lanka, Maldives. It could it can also include Burma and Persia depending on how you want to use it. But if you want to exclude Burma and Persia, that's fine. But the rest of the subcontinent is part of that. So use the term Indian subcontinent. Never use the term South Asia. All right, great question. Next question is by Shub and Subjit Karmakar. Why did Persians never try to invade India? Was it because of a cultural reason or or because of powerful Indian empires? Did they lack the strategy of fighting against Indian war elephants? And Shojit says, "The more I study about Persia and its link with ancient India, the more it feels like an extension of the western Indian population." like Gujarati Hindi baloji DNA is similar language is pretty closed even the surnames uh end in similar tones if that's the case did batwash actually stretch from Persia to Bengal and the pomer to Sri Lanka maybe Persia with time came to became too big in its own right to be called just an extension if that's the case what prevented other distant parts like Bengal Tamil Nadu etc from becoming separate cultural entities during the same time period okay so what's the deal with Persia is it an extension of India? Is it was it actually part of Batwash? Did Barhatwash Barat wor stretch from Persia to to Bengal and Palmer to Sri Lanka? Is that the case? Well, what is the origin of Persia? That's what we to ask ourselves. What's the origin? Now if you study your standard history textbooks, the colonial history textbooks which even today when it comes to dealing with Indian history, they they have all these colonial baggage that they carry. The Arian invasion theory which is now you know transformed into an Arian migration theory but this the the same premise right. So according to that theory they said that Indian you know the Indian and Iranian people they have the same ancestry and then they were part of the arian invaders. one branch split off and went into Iran and one branch split off and came into the subcontinent. That's the story. So even the colonial um version of history will tell you that India and Persia have the same ancestors and same original uh history. Now the truth is that there was no Arian invasion on migration or tourism or picnic. That's a lie and that's that's going to be debunked and um I have spoken in detail about that so I will not go into that. The origin of Persia can be understood when you study the rigida and one episode or one one event that's mentioned in the riga which is the battle of the 10 kings the battle of the 10 kings and king sudas wins the battle against more than 10 kings who are arrayed against him and the losing confederation of kings and and clans are expelled out of India they are expelled exiled permanently out of India they go westwards and northwards out of India and one of the clans was the Parhua clan. Para and that name comes from the battle axe which is called Pu in Sanskrit. So the Pawa clan went westwards and settled in what is now Persia and the name Persia comes from the Pwa clan the name of the clan itself. So Persia in from that perspective is a is a daughter civilization of India. So the parhas were they went out of India. They settled in what is now Persia and eventually um they became a civilization in their own right a pretty robust civilization a pretty great civilization right um and that's why you will find that there is obviously a very clear linkages there are clear linkages between India and Persia uh but see understand this that the Persian population of today if you see the Persian people today they will be nothing like the Persian people, the Persian population that existed around 500 AD. In 500 AD, the the Persians had not lost their sovereignty yet. They had not been invaded and overrun by the Arabs and then by the Seljuks, the Turks and so on. So they were still sovereign and because of that foreign populations had not been settled in Persia. So the original true Persians of 500 AD they don't look like the Persians of today. If you go to Persia today you will find lots of Persians who look almost like Europeans. These are the descendants of people who were brought in by the Turks from the Caucases region and settled in Persia. You'll find lots of Persians who look more Turk smaller eyes and that's sort of those those those features right that's because tremendous amount of Turks a tremendous number of Turks were settled in Persia by the Turk occupiers of Persia the Turks ruled Persia for roughly a thousand years right before that it was the Arabs who ruled Persia for several centuries so the population has been significantly transformed today but the original persons of around 500 BC they would have looked very much like the people of western India Balajasthan sind the gujarat and so on they would have looked very much like the people of these parts of the subcontinent so that is one thing to understand today's Persians are kind of different the original Persians they will still look like people from western India but lots of Persians lots of Iranians today look more like people from the Cauasus region or maybe like Turks so So that's one thing we have to keep in mind. Now so that we now that now that we understand that what about Persia never trying to invade India. See the Persian Empire especially the Aminid Empire the Hakamanish Empire was an extremely militaristic empire an expansionist empire. They constantly fought against the Greeks and eventually with the Romans. They they conquered Mesopotamia. They conquered Egypt. Right? They fought the Greeks continuously, relentlessly, they even fought the Romans, the Persians did. So if they were so powerful, if they were an expansionist empire, why on earth did they never bother to expand eastwards into India? See, Persia and India had a common border. Okay? And that border changed from time to time. See when India became fragmented when when India was unified under a single empire like the Morian Empire and so on then the border would shift westwards because India was more powerful but when India was fragmented then the border would shift slightly eastwards when the Persians would take small bites of territory that is a natural process and there's going to be some border tensions low-level tensions but there was never a Persian invasion of India border skirmishes and all those things they happen between any two neighbor neighbors So there were times when the Persian India Persia border was at the Synindhuru river, the Indust. There were times when it was further west, significantly further west from the Indust. There were times when Gandhar was was part of the Akimerid Empire. There were times when Gandhar was with us. Historically it was ours. But why did Persia never bother to invade India? Why did they never even draw plans to launch an invasion of India? That is a big question and that's another big question that no historian has bothered to answer. And to understand the reasons why, let us revisit a period, you know, a small episode of history that happened after Persia was overrun by the Arabs. So after the Persians were overrun by the Arabs, the Persians composed a poem. See when the Persians when the Arabs conquered Persia at that time in India, the Gupta Empire had essentially disintegrated and there was a period of time for several centuries where where India was not unified under a single empire. India was a collection of kingdoms at this time. It's a cyclical process. So because India was no longer unified and under a single empire, India could not help the Persians. And when the Arabs invaded and conquered Persia, the Persians wrote this poem. Let me put this on the screen. Okay, it's called the ballad, the ballad of King Vaham. And it has, you know, you'll find multiple versions of this. Let me put this on the screen. So if you want the actual uh if you want an actual research paper, this is the one. Okay, it's by JC Tawadia. It's from 1955 journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain in Ireland. And this gentleman writes about this this uh you know rhymed ballad in the Pali language. Okay. And what's it say? Um it says when may it be that the kurer comes from India and says that the shaharam from the family of the kais has come that there are a thousand elephants upon their heads are elephant keepers and that he ro hold holds the raised standard in the manner of the hostas that the advanced guard is led by army chiefs and intelligent man should be made our clever interpreter who may go and speak to the Indians. What have we seen from the hand of the Arabs? They ruined the religion and killed. They ruined our religion and killed our kings. We are from the Aryan race and they are like demons the Arabs. They have taken away the sovereignty from the hoseras. Not by skill, not by manliness but by you know mockery and scorn. They have taken away by force from men, wives and wealth, palaces, parks, gardens and so much more. Okay. Now this is a let me show you a different translation. It says when will a kouya come from India to say that king vaham of the family of the kawi has come upon elephants and you know to to to rescue Persia and a man should be dispatched a clever interpreter who may go and tell to India what has happened to us at the hands of the Arabs they've destroyed our religion and killed our kings and so on so the Persians wish clearly from this poem it's clear that they wish that India would come and rescue And they they they wish that they could send an interpreter or a messenger to the Indians who could tell the Indians what has happened in Persia, what horrors have befallen Persia and maybe the Indians could come and help us. And King Vaharam from the from the family of the Kavis will come from India. What does that tell you? That a Persian king from the family of the Kavies will come from India. What does it tell you? It means the Persians regarded Indians as their kin, as their family, as the same race and blood. Do you understand what that means? It means Persia and India were always kin. They were all we were sister civilizations, you could say, or daughter, mother, whatever you want to call it. But the Persians did not regard Indians as as foreigners. And when you come upon the worst times in your life, who who do you ask for help? Do you ask strangers for help? No, you ask your closest relatives for help. So that is the tragedy of what happened in Persia. And they wish that Indians could come and help them. But India at that time was fragmented. We did not have a single empire. In case we did, perhaps our emperor could have come and help could have gone and helped the Persians. But at that time India was fragmented. The Gupta Empire had ended because of the Hunik invasions, relentless Hunic invasions. And that's what happened. So why did the Persians never try to invade India? Because we were family. They saw us as their kin. They saw us as their own people. And I suppose we would have seen the Persians as our own pe our own people too. And there seems to have been some kind of understanding between India and Persia. We won't fight each other. We may have some border disputes. We may have some disagreements, smallcale disagreements about the line of the border where it should be and all. That's a different story. But I will not invade you. you will not invade me. We may have disagreements but we will resolve them in a civilized manner. That was the deal. Right? So the Persians did not attempt to invade India because they were scared of India because you know because the Indian war elephants were very scary or whatever. It was some kind of cultural civilizational blood level understanding that we won't fight each other. And that's something we can't imagine today. If you look at Persia today, they look today many Persians look very foreign to Indians, right? The language also is incomprehensible almost. The language is actually very comprehensible. You spend a couple of weeks in Persia, you'll start speaking Persian. If you are someone who speaks so a so-called Indo-arian language, it'll be very easy to pick up Persian. I when I was a student I knew Persians who were you know people from students from Iran who were studying in India and they spoke Hindi fluently they just picked it up the two languages are very very similar the roots are very similar so that's the deal about Persia subjit says hypothetically wouldn't it have been better if the ancient Indians pushed beyond Gandhar into Persia and control the Zagros mountains. Given that Persia was our sister civilization, daughter's civilization, whatever you want to call it, and culturally not very different from us and stopping invasions of the Zagros mountains would have been easier instead of the Kyber past. The Arabs were able to reach India so rapidly because the Persians failed to defend the Zagros mountains. Okay. So, what's the deal? What should India have done? First of all, let's ask ourselves where is where are the so-called these these Zagros mountains? So, let's take a look at the map and let's determine where these mountains lie. So, let's just ask the map. Zagros mountain range. There we go. So, it's going to be in western Iran. There we have it. As you can see, it's highlighted over here. It's in western Persia, Western Iran, the Zagros mountains. And when the Arabs invaded Persia, they came through this region. They did not come by sea. They came by land and they had to cross the Zagros mountains and uh they were able to do that successfully and they conquered Iran and Persia and transformed it forever. Right? Persia has never come back from what happened. It lost its sovereignty and the sovereignty never really returned culturally and civilizationally. The culture and civilization were erased. That's what happened. So would it not have been better for India to have pushed beyond Gandhar and and taken over Persia and control the Zagros mountains right did it make sense for us to do that so two things first of all like I discussed in the previous question India and Persia had had an understanding we won't fight each other I won't invade you you won't invade me and that's it we are the same people we fight each other. We'll fight the M lectures, the barbarians, the Greeks and the Romans and the Egyptians and the Mesopotamians and all. That's what the Persians did. And our people were happy in the subcontinent gigantic land mass. We don't need to go beyond that. So why why fight our own people? That sort of thing. So India and Persia never fought each other in any significant way beyond minor border disagreements or whatever which never led to a war, a full-scale war. maybe some small clashes here and there that is natural even among Indian kingdoms it is to happen but never a full-scale invasion so that's why India never invaded Persia secondly how would the rulers of India know that something has emerged out of out of Arabia that would very rapidly take over Persia and then attempt to invade India see when the Mongols suddenly erupted from Mongolia under Shri Chingghist Khan the Chinese initially did not take them seriously. Why? Because nothing had ever come out of Mongolia that had any serious consequences. Mongolia was forever a land of small tribes that constantly fought each other. So the Chinese never imagined that the Mongols would suddenly unite under one person and they would become the greatest conquering force of all time until that time. Similarly, the Arabs were pretty similar. They came from a land where almost nothing was there, nothing grew, uh, a desert land. And they they themselves were these small tribes. They were a polytheistic culture. And, uh, those days you did not have social media and TV and journalists and whatever. So, you did not know what was happening in Arabia. And let's say you find out that this new this new religion has come from Arabia, you won't take it seriously, right? And the Arabs had never conquered anybody until this point in time. So the Indians would never have imagined, our ancestors would never have imagined that something monumental would emerge out of a out of Arabia and very rapidly conquer Persia and then start knocking at our doorstep and trying to conquer us. So multiple reasons why India did not do this. Firstly, we had this understanding we will never fight each other, India and Persia. Secondly, nobody had any idea of something monumental that's going to erupt out of Arabia and conquer Persia and then eventually seek to conquer India. These are the reasons why uh none of these things happened. Feline lover says, "Why are all Indo-Iranian people of Central Asia classified as irranic, the specifically eastern Iranic when they seem either when they either seem to be equally close to Indians and Iranians or closer to Indians even modern eastern Iranic like pashons are genetically closest to northwestern Indians? Do you think eastern Iranic is a misnomer? See there's this there's this there's there has been this concerted effort in the west. See today who has written our history. It's the westerners who have written our history. They've written the histories of the world of the of the countries of the world when it comes to the history of Persia. They will draw upon Persian sources but they will come to their to their own conclusions. So the history of the world the way we read it the way we are taught it is written by westerners. Now for the west India was a civilization to be destroyed. that that attempt is still going on to destroy India civilization, culture, etc. It's still ongoing. So when they see us as a civilization to be destroyed because they want to make the entire world a monotheistic place, right? In that case, you have to erase Indian history. You have to erase any signs of Indian greatness and you you have to justify your destruction of India. Right? Because the British ruled India for two and a half centuries. They had to justify the destructure of India. So what do you do to justify that? You portray the Indians as barbaric savages, backward, primitive people who have all these horrible problems in society and they deserve to be ruled by by white people. That's what you have to portray India as. So you have to you have to erase any aspect of Indian history that that shows that India was great. Now it's known that Indians in ancient times did venture out into Central Asia and various parts of the world and settle these places for for example before the Turkification Islamization of Central Asia. Central Asia was Hindu Buddhist all of it. You still have stupas in Turk Manistan and Kazakhstan and whatn not all across central Asia even in so-called singang even in Armenia you will find Hindu temples that were repurposed into churches who have now those have now been repurp repurposed in Araasak etc into mosques you will find statues of of Bhagan Vishnu you'll find them in in Russia so Indians were spread all across central Asia and Indians established kingdoms and dynasties in central Asia and these eventually intermingled with local peoples and maybe the the genetic makeup became mixed but these were still culturally Indian so to deny India's greatness to justify your destruction of India and your plunder of India you have to deny these things so what do you do you classify all these various central Asian peoples as irranic not India Ian the skitians the shakas irranic the pashons irranic everything ironic nothing Indian you don't you deny any presence of India anywhere India was a backward poor you know society nothing great ever came out of India that's how you justify your rule over India and that attitude has continued even after the British Raj ended because the British Raj has never ended. The British Empire has simply transformed into a different entity which is the American Empire and the the same the same uh thought process continues and uh they still seek to subjugate India. They still seek to destroy Indian civilization that pro that those efforts are ongoing right now on India's soil. Right? So that is the reason why uh you have what you have described here. The central Asian peoples are all described as irranic. The skitians are described as irranic. The ptoons are described as irranic. The pashons are an extension of the northern Indian population but genetically and culturally very clearly so but they'll be described as irranic. Next, Amisha says, "Why does Turkey deny the Armenian genocide so vehemently when the genocide was done by the Ottomans, not by the current Turkish state?" Oh, first of all, this is a horrible topic, okay? The Armenian genocide was not one event. It was multiple events. There were at least three different waves of ar of the Armenian genocide starting in the last quarter of the 19th century and it culminated around 1915 when the triumvirate of Anar Talat Talat and Jamal the three Pashas the young Turks they decided to exterminate the Armenians from what is Turkey currently now Turkey Anatolia and so And um so this was a horrific event and a horrific series of events. Um so the first phases in the in the late 19th century of the Armenian genocide happened under Ottoman rule. But the culmination of the Armenian genocide happened during the rule of the three parashas the young Turks Anwar, Talat, Talat and Jamal. So that was not the Ottoman Empire. And beyond that, it's not just the Armenian genocide. There's been a Pontic genocide. The indigenous Greeks who resided in what is currently Turkey, they were genocided, right? It's it's a long story. We cannot go into all the details today. The question is these events did happen. The genocides did happen, right? So why does Turkey deny that this happened? Because it was done by the Ottomans and then by the young Turks by the by the triumpirate of Anatal Jamal Jamal. What does it have to do with today's Turkey? Right? That's the question you're asking. Well, you see today's Turkey is is a continuation of all those eras. And so after the triumvirate period of alatar jamal you had a brief period of foreign occupation then you had the Turkish war of independence which was won by Shri Mustafa Kimal Ataturk and that's when the modern nation of Turkey was founded. Ataturk saved Turkey. He freed it from foreign occupation and he ruled as a dictator for until 1938 or something. You can look it up. the exact years and after Ataturk's death you had the continuation of Turkey and you had multiple dictatorships all of those governments you had periods of military rule and so on and they all claim to be continuing what Ataturk started now today you have Erdogan right Erdogan who seeks to undo whatever Ataturk did and go back to the time of the Ottoman Empire. He seeks to reisslamize Turkey because Ataturk tried his best to essentially erase Islam from Turkey. He turned he transformed Turkey into a secular nation by force. He changed the day of the holiday from Friday to Sunday. He said that no women will wear a veil and so on. He did so many many of these reforms. And today Turkey is going back to its Ottoman heritage. They're kind of the young younger Turkish people are beginning to turn their back on the reforms of Ataturk. The older Turkish people, they are still secular. So Turkey is reverting to its to its Ottoman roots and Erdogan seeks to create a neotoman empire of sorts. So when Turkey is clearly identifying with its Ottoman heritage and the Ottomans did this barbaric thing and the later government also well Turkey will deny that right and the the thing is there will be lots of Turks who privately extol and glorify the genocide. There was another event the burning of Smyrna. There's a city called Smyrna in Anatolia which is now called Isizmir. So that city was burned. The Greek, Armenian, Christian, etc. Jewish quarters were burned by the Turks and lots of people obviously died and the Turks like to make fun of the Greeks saying that you know you guys swim very well. That's why you survived. You great swimmers you Greeks. So, so privately the Turks they they celebrate the genocides they they glorify the the genociders but and that's why publicly so they identify with what happened they are proud of what happened privately and publicly that's why they will say that this never happened the genocide never happened so that's the deal the genocides did happen the Pontic genocide the the Armenian genocide and god knows what else the Turks Absolute brutal barbarity. Right. Okay. A couple of questions. Seroni Mishra says, "Why was Zoroastrianism almost wiped out by Islam but Hinduism wasn't?" Bijit Shira Rajan says, "From what I gather, Dharma seems to have declined rapidly in Gandhar and Kashmir soon after the arrival of foreign rulers but didn't decline quite as severely in the other parts of northern and western India. What was the different in Gandhar and Kashmir? Let me address the second one first. Dharma did not decline in Kashmir. It declined in Gandhar rapidly. Kashmir it took a long long time for Dharma to decline. Okay. Now coming to Salon's question. Why was Zoroastrianism wiped out rapidly? Very rapidly by Islam but Hinduism did not. You see what is the thing that we call Hinduism? It's the oldest known religious, cultural, civilizational practice in the world that still exists, right? It's thousands of years old and it has absorbed all kinds of local folk traditions. Everything has been absorbed into it and it's part of Hinduism. So if you look at the way our ancestors practiced what we call Hinduism in different parts of India, the practices were very different. They would they would worship local gods, local goddesses, folk deities, nature deities, rivers, mountains, hills, trees, ancestors, pitrus, all kinds of local traditions were combined into Hinduism of tremendously diverse, tremendously plural religion if you want to call it a religion, right? And those traditions came back from thousands of years before, maybe tens of thousands of years. So these were very ancient practices. And Hinduism doesn't have this pyramidal military style command and control structure where you if you do a decapitation strike at the very top, everything crumbles. It's not like that. Hinduism is completely decentralized. There is no pope in Hinduism. There is no cardinal. There are no there are no priests. There are I mean priests, pundits and all we have but we don't have bishops and cardinals and popes and all that. So if you take out that leadership portion everything else just crumbles and collapses. It's not the case. And people held on to their their their heritage, their culture, their their ancestral customs because those came back thousand went back thousands of years. So these are some of the reasons why Hinduism could not be wiped out uh by the Turks. Even though they tried, they tried their best. It was not from for a lack of trying that they were not able to in convert the Indian subcontinent. But as we know what is now Pak I mean you know what is now Pakistan, Bangladesh that's almost exclusively Islamic now. Afghanistan which was historically Gandhar is almost exclusively like 99.99% Islamic today. So these things happen right? So the there was success but today even if you look at the overall population of the subcontinent it's still majority Hindu at least nominally. I'm not sure how many Indians today in India actually practice Hinduism. Some of them are Hindus only in name. Some of them have have converted to some foreign religion quietly secretly and yeah Hinduism is is you know the way things are going it will be extinct soon 50 years 100 years maximum if we don't change course but that's a different story. We will not go into that right now. So that's why Hinduism because of its incredible antiquity because people were practicing these traditions for thousands of years they didn't want to give them up because we did not have this top- down structure. If you take out the leadership top leadership everything else collapses and because of the incredible decentralization and plur plurality of Hinduism that's why Hinduism could not be wiped out. also because of the vernati system which acted as a preserver. The vernati system acted as a preserver and and savior of Hinduism. Okay, you may call it evil or whatever cast system you may call it. It's not a cast system. It's a vernata system. It's a totally different thing. It's an organization of a self-organizing society which every every so society has. So that's why Hinduism could not be wiped out. What about Zoroastrianism? Well, you see, Zoroastrinism, it emerged, we don't quite know when it emerged, maybe around 700 BC or somewhere around that time. Probably after Kurush, Kurush, Cyrus, Cyrus the Great. His name was actually actual name was Kurush. Kurush Vajarak Vajarak. So uh most likely it is after the ru the reign of kurush that zoroastrianism emerged. That's the consensus today. We're not I'm not quite sure if it's true but let's assume that's around that time that zoroastrianism emerges. Ratasra is born and he brings about this new religion maybe around 600 700 AD uh BC around that time. So what was this new religion zoroastrinism? It was a polytheistic revolt against Hinduism. See before Zar Zaratustra, Persia had only one religion and culture which was Hinduism. Okay, the old Vic religion. Let's ask Google if Google agrees. Let's ask Google if many people will disagree and Google may disagree. But let's see. Okay. Uh, what was the pre the pre zoroastrian religion of Persia? Let's see what it says. Okay, this is going to be fun. The priestan religion of Persia was the ancient Indo-Iranian religion, a polytheistic and shamanistic faith that shared many similarities with the Vic religion. Okay. So it is indirectly telling you that it was Hinduism pre Iranian indo what the old Indo-Iranian religion shamanistic and polytheistic what what on earth is that the old Indo-Iranian religion was Hinduism vic Hinduism so Persia was Hindu then Zaratustra comes into the picture and he says that we need to revolt against Hinduism we need to reform Hinduism he was another great reformer we have so many reformers in society in India today We have so many so-called reformers of Hindu society today who want to reform the backward religion called Hinduism. So Zaratusra was one of those. He was born a Hindu. He said I will reform Hinduism and I will create this new religion or or an inversion of Hinduism which eventually came to be known as Zoroastrianism in the English language. So this was a polytheistic religion and now some people will say it was a monotheistic religion. Many parses will say it was monotheistic. If Zoroastrianism was monotheistic. Why did why was Mitra a deity in Zoroastrianism? Let me show you. Okay. Okay. First of all, the Romans worshiped Mitra. Okay. So, Mitraism. What was Mithraism? An ancient Roman mystery religion. Let's see what Wikipedia has to say about this. Even though it's not necessarily a reliable source of information. So it was a Roman mystery religion. It was inspired by Iranian worship of the Zoroastrian Zoroastrian divinity mitra. The Zoroastrian god in Iranian god. Okay. So as you can see this is and they'll say it's a yazata which is a divinity which means a god. And who was mitra? It comes from the Sanskrit word mitum in the common noun mitra vic common non mitra. What is mitra? Mitra is a vic god mitra varun. So the point is zorostinism was a polytheistic religion but it was an inversion of Hinduism. The das became the bad guys. The assuras became the good guys that sort of thing. And you see zoroastinism was not deeply rooted in society. It was imposed somehow upon society. We don't quite know how. And 1,00 years is not a long time for a religion to take root which has been imposed externally on society. It did not emerge organically like what we call Hinduism did over thousands of years, maybe tens of thousands of years. Zorashism was an artificial religion. So it was imposed somehow on Persian society. But when Islam came I suppose Zurashism may have had this sort of structure where if you take out the priests the dust or whatever then the whole society the whole system collapses and that's why Zoroastrianism was easy to wipe out from from Persia. Of course some Zoroastrians refused to convert and they had no option but to flee they fled to India obviously because well who else will welcome them but their own people the Indians. So that's why Zoroastrianism was wiped out rapidly. Hinduism could not be wiped out. What about Gandhar and Kashmir? See Gandhar, present day Afghanistan a thousand years ago was almost entirely Buddhist, not Hindu. If you want to differentiate between Hinduism and Buddhism like today people do. So then it was Buddhist not it was not Hindu. There was Hinduism but it was not not the majority thing. It was Buddhism. You will see that central Asia also was mostly Buddhist at that time. And whenever you had Buddhism, there was a very rapid conversion to Islam. You've heard of Muhammad Guri, right? Muhammad Guri's ancestors were Buddhists who converted to Islam. So wherever you had Buddhism, for whatever reason, there was very rapid conversion to Islam without much resistance. No fight back, just convert. Why is it so? Well, ask yourselves about the nature of Buddhism. I will not go into that in detail. I will not. But try and find out what is different between Buddhism and Hinduism. Why did all the Buddhist regions, regions of Central Asia, Gandhar etc convert so rapidly to Islam but Hinduism did not. So Kashmir was Hindu. It was shite and Kashmir did not convert to Islam for several centuries after Gandhar. It's only in the last 300 or so years that were those mass conversions by force, not voluntarily. So these are the differences between these different cultures and why why the things happened the way they did. All right. Amisha says, why what did Islamic scholars think of the pyramids in Egypt? Were they considered some sort of pagan monument? Were there any attempts to Islamicize them in some way? The pyramids, the pyramids. So, so Egypt loses its sovereignty first to the Persians about about 2300 or so years ago. 2400 or so years ago, give or take a century. Okay. Then Alexander walks in and liberates Egypt from the Persians. But he rules he he he installs a governor who reports to him. So that's the beginning of the Greek period of Egyptian history. So Egypt still hasn't recovered its sovereignty. It's now under Greek rule and Alexander dies and then Egypt Egypt becomes ruled by the tomebe dynasty. Tulamay tomic dynasty after to the tomic dynasty the last ruler was Cleopatra the great famous after that you have the Roman rule over Egypt and after that you have the imposition of Christianity and all that and eventually the Arabs take over. So what did the Arabs? So once the Arabs take over the society is very rapidly converted to Islam. Okay. Uh because of a variety of reasons. Now so society the society becomes Islamic and then uh once a society becomes Islamic you will say that there is a tendency to destroy your own ances your own heritage like the Taliban did with the Bameyan Buddhas as an example. the old Taliban, not the current Taliban who are friends if you want to look at it that way. Maybe you don't, whatever. So, Egypt becomes an Islamic society. And how did they regard the pyramids? They regarded the pyramids as manifestations of polytheism and idolatry and paganism or whatever you want to call it. Bad stuff. Bad stuff. Bad stuff. So did they ever try to islamicize Islamicize these pyramids in some way? No. But the some of them tried to destroy the pyramids. So for example, you had the great Islamic ruler Kuresh ruler Salahadin Aub Saladin who fought the crusaders and who took Jerusalem from the crusaders and then retained Jerusalem and he fought against Richard the Lionhearten. Long story. So Salah Houdin was once the governor of Egypt and his second son Al Aziz Otman later became the Sultan of Egypt. So Saladin's son Al Aziz Usman he said that the pyramids are evil. They are manifestations of polytheism, polytheism and idolatry and they have to be destroyed. So he actually tried to destroy several pyramids. He tried his best. He had I don't know how many hundreds maybe thousands of workers attempting to dis dismantle pyramids. The pyramid of manure. It still bears test testimony to what happened. Let's let's Google that, shall we? The pyramid of Menore. Pyramid of Manor. What's it look like? Can you see this huge gigantic slash in the pyramid? Uh let's go to the Wikipedia page, shall we? One second. I'm sure the Wikipedia page has a better uh image of that vandalism. So yeah, as you can see, there's a big gash in the pyramid. So that is what the the Arabs what what uh this sultan alizman that's this is what he was able to do over a period of nearly one year he had I don't know how many workers working on this and they wanted to dismantle the entire pyramid and they were able to make very slow progress uh I mean um you know one or two stones stones per day they were able to bring down once a stone will fall into the sand. It'll sink into the sand. It's almost impossible to remove. So after a tremendous amount of effort, they were able to make this gash into the small pyramid, small smalish pyramid, and then they gave up. So they tried, but maybe the pyramids were built by aliens or whatever, but humans could not dis at least the the Islamic rulers were not able to destroy the pyramids. Eventually, they gave up. They said that you know what, this is beyond us. We'll just ignore these things. But today Egypt in this is in this very very paradoxical situation. They don't like the pyramids. They consider the pyramids even today to be a manifestation of polytheism and whatever else. All bad stuff according to them. They hate the pyramids. But the entire economy of Egypt is based on the pyramids. And they have to welcome foreigners who want to see the pyramids. That's the situation Egypt find itself in. Paradoxical, isn't it? Okay, multiple questions here. Salony Mishra says, "How come Arab Muslims were able to Arabicize the Egyptians but not the Persians?" Math etc. says, "How did generation of after generation of Turks get irranicized, Persianized? Because Ayadi was the first person to rule Iran in almost a millennium." Nisha says, "Why didn't Iran start speaking Arabic when it was under Muslim Arab rule much longer than the 11th northern Africa or Sicily?" Right? Interesting questions. First of all, one correctional was not the first person to rule Iran in almost a millennium. He was third. Who were the first two? It was uh Muhammad Raalvi and his father. So Muhammad Raz Phahabi Pahvi's father was what I forget his name. You can look it up. Razasha I think his name was Razasha. He started ruling Porsche around 1925. Then after him his son Muhammad Raza Pelvi he ruled Porsche until 1979 which which is when the Islamic revolution happens in Persia and Mr. Kmeni takes over. So Mr. Mr. Ki was a third Persian after those two shas uh to rule Persia in almost a millennium. What happened to Persia for a millennium? You see around the what 11th century you had the Selijuk Empire that took over Persia. Okay. Uh there were Turks who had converted to Islam. They originally were Tangists or polytheists obviously and they conquered Persia and they established a huge empire. The empire was culturally Persian. So the so the Seljuks conquered Persia in the 11th century and from that time onwards Persia was ruled by Turks and that's how all the transformations happened in Persian society. Lots of foreigners were settled in Persia. Today about only about half of Persia's population is Persian and even those Persians are mixed with those foreigners who are settled in Persia. Uh which is why I say that you know the Persian population of today is very different from the Persian population of 500 AD which was like us genetically ethnically culturally and so on. Now the question is the Arabs were able to Arabicize the Egyptians but not the Persians. Why? Why didn't Iran start speaking Arabic? What what happened? And how did Turks become Persianized is the question. See, the Arabs were able to Arabize the Egyptians because well, I would say for multiple reasons. First of all, the Egyptian lang language is very closely connected related to the Arabic language. They probably come under the semmitic language familiar or something similar. Let's quickly fact check what I just said, shall we? Let's remove this. Okay. Uh Egyptian language. Egyptian language. Um what language family does it belong to? Language family. Language family. Language family. Afroasiatic. Afroasiatic and subdivisions are Berber, Chadic, Egyptian, Osmodic, Sematic. Okay. So it's a sister language of the sematic language family and in the sematic language family you have the Arabic language. Okay, I'll not I don't have to prove that or should or do I? Let's quickly take a look at that. Okay. Uh where do I search? Okay, Arabic language. Arabic. Yeah, Arabic is a central sematic language. Okay, there there we have the proof. Okay, so where's the question? Where's the question? Here we are. So the Egyptian language was quite similar to the Arabic language. That's one reason why Arabic was very rapidly successfully imposed on the people of Egypt. And secondly, the conversion to Islam also happened very rapidly. So that's why Egypt was very rapidly Arabized. I'm sure there must be other factors and the other reasons but this is what I can think of because the languages were so similar. So the Arabs imposed their language. Why not Persia? Because see this Zoroastrian religion was easy to wipe out because it was an artificial religion that was that had not fully taken root in Persian society in a in a deep way the way Hinduism had taken root in Indian society for thousands maybe tens of thousands of years. So that's why Zoroastan the Zoroastrian religion was eradicated and replaced with Islam very rapidly. But the Persian language was very ancient going back 10 maybe thousands of years. Thousands of years all the way back to Vic. They would not give that up right because it was so deep rooted. And one of the reasons the Persian language survived is because of the shahaname written by Ferdosi which became the standard for Persian language for the Persian language which is what the Persian language spoken today is very similar to the Persian language spoken during the written in the Shaame. The shaame if you look at the oldest founding founding myths of the people of Persia it essentially echoed rigidic stories we'll not go into that in this question so that's why the religion was replaced by Islam but the language could not be eradicated but but what happened is that the script the Arabic script was imposed on Persia the Persians had their own uniform script that was dismantled discarded and the Arabic script was imposed in Persia and the Persians modified the Arabic script somewhat. Okay. And there are certain certain pronunciations that don't exist in the Arabic language but they exist in Persian language in the Persian language like Jer. The Arabs can't say the Persians have this the the the pronunciation. So they have modified the Arabic script. the jer term has three dots instead of instead of whatever exists in Arabic. So it's they they have kind of repurposed the Arabic script somewhat to use it for the Persian language. But some of the Arabic things have crept crept into the Persian language. For example, instead of saying parsley, they say farsy, right? Because the Arabs can't say P. They can only say f or b. So the Persians had the choice of either saying bars or farsy. So they chose far. It should have been parsi from Persia Pua. So some changes happened but overall the Persian language survived because it was so ancient the Arabs could not approve it. The Persians would not give it up. Uh so that explains hopefully um why Iran did not start speaking Arabic. Iran Arabic never took over in Iran became mainstream in Iran. uh but obviously the Quran etc are in Arabic and the Persian did not use Persian as far as I know in a large scale way for the for the Quran it was always Arabic. Now why did Turks become irrani portionized? What happened? See Persia was a very ancient civilization as we know right and and and because they had converted to Islam so there was no need to destroy their their their language and culture and whatnot as far as the non-religious aspects are concern are concerned so if you so so Persia was was was you could say what's the term it was it was what is the term So Persia was was this great culture, prestigious culture, prestigious Persia was Persian culture was prestigious. So the Arabs So the Arabs did not want to become Persianized because they said that we are the originators of Islam. They should not adopt any foreign culture. But the Turks were happy to do that. The Turks wherever they went, they adopted the local cultures in India. They they became the Turk Shahis. They adopted Hinduism and Buddhism in India. And when they when they conquered Persia, they became Persianized because they wanted to adopt the absorb the more prestigious culture. Turks married Iranian women, lots of them. And that's why if you see the paintings of Turkey of of Persian rulers from like Nadia or whoever, you will see them having slanted eyes like the like the Turk peoples of Central Asia. So uh the Turks absorbed Persian culture because Persian culture was way more prestigious than any other culture they knew. That's how it went. Tuhinre says Tuhinre says the west has organized universities like Oxford, Harvard, Yale from medieval ages. Well, Yale isn't medieval. Yale is more recent. Okay, we Indians were also wealthy and knowledgeable to their levels to their levels. Okay, yet why did we not have such organized institutions for education? Okay, see this is the problem with the Indian education system. I don't blame my dear friend Tuhin for asking this question. Probably they never thought the truth when when he studied, right? It's not his fault. We were not knowledgeable to the levels of the west. We were the originators of all knowledge. The west absorbed and digested our knowledge and now they present at it at as their knowledge. Have you heard of Takshashila? The university of Takshashila. That's the oldest university we know of in in the world. There must be older ones too. But I can think of Takshashila which was founded maybe around sometime in the first millennium BC. Vishnu Gupta Chanaka was a student in Takshashila and later he was a professor in Takshashila. Have you heard of Vikramashila? Have you heard of Odantauri? Have you heard of Nalanda? Have you heard of Shardit? Have you heard of WABI in western India? There are so many universities that that I can name and there must be way more that whose names have been erased. We invented the concept of the university. When the University of Nanda was destroyed by the Turks about a thousand years ago roughly, it is said that the library burned for several months. That's how much that was the the the volume of of of books, texts, whatever you want to call it in the library. We had we were the inventors of the concept of the university. So I'm not sure why some Indians are not aware of this. I don't blame the Indians who are not who are unaware of this. I blame their teachers. I blame the rotten education system of India. Right? Udit Mahesh says, "How did England become the origin of the English-speaking people which it is today? Did the Anglo-Saxons wipe out the Kelts from England before achieving complete settlement over that region like the US did in North America or did the Anglo-Saxons raid the Celtic people and settle and intermingle with the local population and the region became England as it's known today?" The name England comes from the angles. Now let's let's start at the beginning. Let's start at the very beginning like I always like to do. You've heard of something called Stonehenge, right? Stonehenge. Let's Google that. Stonehenge. Stonehenge is a prehistoric landmark. It's How old is it? Let me see quickly. How old is Stonehenge? It was built what uh about 2600 BC or maybe 3,000 BC or something roughly. So it's about 5,000 years old. Stonehenge. This is in England. So the original English people built this monument Stonehenge. I'll not go into the details of what this is. So the original people of the islands built it started building it about three about 5,000 years ago. Those people their male lineages have disappeared because there was an invasion of these British of the British islands by a group of fantastic people who are now today called the Yamna. Okay. Um they had the Haplau group R1B. They were absolute what can I say barbarians let's say and they invaded and conquered the islands and killed off all the males and then proceeded to have offspring with the females who were subjugated. That was the origin of the Celtic people. Typically Celtic people have red hair. Okay. uh and and the Celtic people they live they lived in the British islands Scotland, Ireland, Britain etc. They also lived in Spain and in western France and all over France, Gaul also present in Switzerland. So that's the original homeland of the Celtic peoples. Um then what happens is that the Romans conquer the region and they take over what you know large parts of what is today the UK. Uh up to the they did not conquer the northern parts. They built a wall there to keep the barbarians away. The barbarians had red hair and blonde hair. And for a few centuries Rome ruled what is today the UK or some parts of it. Some not not all of it. not Ireland, not Scotland, but the rest of it. Then the Romans eventually had to leave because their empire crumbled. And then you have an invasion of the British islands from Germany. A bunch of Germans invade uh the what is today the UK. It's the Angles, which is one ethnic group, and the Saxons who came from present day Saxony. The Angles and the Saxons, both Germanic tribes, come and they attempt to invade the islands or multiple decades. Eventually, they take over the islands. They subjugate the local Celtic people, the red-headed people, and they establish the Anglo-Saxon rule over um the British islands, not all of them, but what is present day England, more or less. Okay. So, you have the Anglo-Saxons who are ruling now. So, now we have how many ethnic groups in England in in the UK? You have the the Kelts who are the descendants of the original women and the Yamna invader males and then you also have the Anglo-Saxons. So two ethnic groups. Then in the year 1066 AD there was a new invasion the last successful invasion of England which was carried out by Normans who were of Nordic ancestry mixed with the French the Normans and they invade England. uh their leader the ruler was William Duke of Normandy who came to be known as William the Conqueror and now you have a period of time where the Normans who are French-speaking Nordic people who rule England and it is the combination of these three ethnic groups the Kelts the Anglo-Saxons and the Normans it is the combination of these three ethnic groups their cultures and their languages that gave rise to what is today English so English is a Germanic language. It's not a Celtic language. What are the Celtic languages? Well, um Irish, GI, Scottish, these are Scott Scottish most likely. Yeah, these are Celtic languages. English is a Germanic language. It's it's an invasive language actually and that's how it happened in very brief. That's how it went. So there are three ethnic groups that intermingled and uh today which is the dominant culture and language English. Tuhin Ray says the first sorry Tuhin says the South American civilizations like the Aztecs or the Incas outnumbered the Spanish very heavily. How did these flourishing civilizations fall to the Spanish conquest like a stack of cards like a pack of cards? What happened is the question. So in North in in Central America, present day Mexico, you had the Aztec Empire, the Triple Alliance, which was the dominant uh dominant force, you know, geopolitical force in the region in present day Mexico, that region. And in south on the west coast of South America, you had the Inca Empire. Totally different empires. Let's let's take a look at the map so that we understand what I am talking about. One second. Okay. All right. Let's go to the map of the world and we'll check out what regions I am referring to. So we go to the Americas. When we talk about the Inca Empire, it was located in this region around Mexico City. Mexico City was called Tenokitlan. All right? Mexico City was called Tenokitlan. And that was the capital of the Triple Alliance, the Aztec Empire. And then you had the Inca Empire which was based in Peru, right? Where is the great lake? Is this the great lake? This is the lake Titikaka which is well the Inca Empire kind of emerged on the banks of this lake and it became a very massive empire and it's it was the largest empire of its time in the world the Inca Empire. It was established by the great king Pakoti. So now what happened? So you have these great civilizations and empires, not merely empire but also civilization, right? Ancient cultures and they were very populous the Aztecs as well as the Incas. So what happened? How did the bunch of ragtag spaniads barbarians take over? So the Aztec Empire fell to Hernand Cortez in the year 1520 21 or something and the Inca Empire fell to another barbarian called Franchesco Pidaro in the 1530s 1530s all the way to 1570s it's a long process but you can say 1530s that's when the Inca Empire felt fell so it all the whole process begins with this misguided person called Christopher Columbus who was looking for India stumbled into the Americas and he he claimed he has discovered India. Then the Spanish very rapidly understood that it is not India that he has discovered. It is a new land and they proceeded to brutally colonize it. Um the French also tried and that's a long story. Okay. The French attempted to do that. They were massacred by the by the Spaniards. Matamaza no m okay whatever the place is called. But uh you had you had multiple expeditions by the Spanish to more and more colonize the Americas. And the Spanish brought with them not just brutality, not just the the their their foreign religion, Christianity, but they brought with them the diseases of Eurasia. The worst of these was smallpox. So when Hernand Cortez was in the process of invading the Aztec Empire, he came with a small number of men. How did he conquer an empire that had hundreds of thousands of soldiers? One factor was smallox. There was a horrific smallox epidemic that was raging across the Aztec Empire. The people of the new so-called new world of the Americas, they had zero immunity to the eur Eurasian diseases. So they were just dying off dying left right center right tremendous uh death toll tremendous mortality rate. So you have them trying to survive the small pox. Many of them are dying and then the Azak Empire was a hegemonic empire and you had many other states that they had absorbed through force through hedgemony and those people they obviously wanted to be free of the Aztec. So they said oh a bunch of foreigners have come let's align with them temporarily the foreigners will go back right well it turns out the foreigners never went back. So the the guys of Pizaro they had about 20 30,000 allies with them who were willing to fight on their side and that's why there was a massive massive battle and smallox turned out to be the the the you know game changer the deciding factor and that's how the Azak Empire was dismantled by Karan Cortez not with 200 men but with tens of thousands of of of native indigenous allies who then also were eventually brutally barbar barbarous ly killed and converted. Killed and or converted by the Spaniards. That's one reason. Okay, that's about the Aztec Empire. What about the uh Inca Empire? So, you see after the conquest of the Aztec Empire, you had these expeditions that were going out in the into the Americas. You had the Narvay expedition whose great survivor was Kabisaka. uh that was that that tried to go into what is today Florida to explore the land and they brought with them smallpox and other diseases. Then you had the Coronado expedition which happened later actually in the 1540s or something and then you had the Herand the Sto expedition who brought with in pigs. So all these expeditions and all these paners they brought in small pox and it this small pox eventually came reached all the way down into South America. And when Franchesco Pizaro was in his in the process of trying to invade and conquer the Inca Empire, it was beset by smallpox. Uh the last great Inca emperor was Atawalpa. Okay. And his father died to died of smallpox. And then Atawalpa had a conflict with his brother who eventually who initially became the emperor. And then Atawalpa became the emperor. He was treacherously captured and eventually killed by Pizaro and that's how the Inca Empire also went down. So you have small pox playing a big role. You have uh indigenous traitors you could say who allied with the Spaniards who also played a big role. The same thing happened in the Inca Empire as well. And these are the reasons why the Spaniards were able to conquer u the Aztecs and the Incas in brief. If you want to understand in more detail, check out my podcasts on the understanding America series which is currently on hiatus. Right. Amisha says, how accurate is the idea this that Spanish colonization in the Americas was significantly more brutal than the other colonial powers which is the French and the English. So the Spanish were pretty brutal, very brutal. They wiped out the entire population of Hispanola which is the island which is today Cuba and uh Dominica for let's let's where is Hispanola not Dominica not Cuba and Dominica but Heii and the Dominican Republic. This island here was called Hispanola. It was the home of the Ara people and Christopher Columbus uh was the governor for a while of this island and he exterminated those people, wiped them out of existence, genocided them. Um so that's one. So there is Spanish brutality, right? Um and the Spanish also brutalized the Mexicans which is the Aztec triple alliance, the Incas. conducted all kinds of bar barbaric genocides, massacres. Uh when you had u the coronado expedition which started in Mexico which was then called New Spain, it went further north into Arizona etc. uh what they did is that they had this directive from their from their king from their government and you see your job is to find a treasure and wealth for the king but it's also to convert the local people to Christianity and you are allowed to fight the local people but you have to first give them a chance to convert so they they had this legal document which they had to read out saying that you know this land is now taken over by this by the king of Spain and this document shows you that it is it is legal and you are exhorted to convert to Christianity if you do that then we will not murder you and and rape you and enslave you but we will treat you as secondass citizens and we'll allow you to live as long as you become Christian and if you don't then we are at liberty to kill you all and the Spaniards would you know what they would do they would stand outside a native city at like in the middle of the 5 km away and they will read it out to nobody in particular but in the direction of the city and then they'll say yeah you see they did not convert they did not listen to us they didn't convert so let's go and kill them all so they were pretty brutal in that manner so the Spanish were very brutal but once the natives converted to Christianity they were allowed to live they were not massacred there was obviously and they were not enslaved also if they converted to Christianity they merely became servants and secondass citizens those who survived the small pox. That's the deal with the Spanish colonization. Pretty brutal. They destroyed the native culture, language, religion as far as possible. In certain parts of South America, you still have local languages that survive. Some local culture survives. Sometimes some local religions also survive, but mostly it's all all the official languages. I mean the official language in all the countries in South America is Spanish apart from Brazil which is Portuguese. A different story. When it comes to the other colonial powers, French, the French and the British, the French, they tried to be nice to the natives, they actually tried to be friends with the natives as as long as was possible initially. Initially, I'm talking about the 1500s later when the French established colonies in North America, north way more north of Florida in what is now Canada, etc., or Quebec and so on. They were pretty brutal against the natives. Okay. But the the French did not win the war, right? The the war to colonize the North America. It is the English who won that. Now, were the English less brutal than the Spanish? The English were far more brutal. They wiped out the the Native Americans. They killed millions of bisons. They almost completely exterminated the bison from North America because the native Americans depended on the bison for their for their for living. And today, how many native Americans exist in North America? And what is their status in society today? I would say overall, if you look at the colonization of the Americas, about a 100 million Native Americans were exterminated. Most of that happened at the hands of the Anglo, not so much the Spanish. So overall, the Anglo were the most brutal, very systematic, very bureaucratic about that. They passed laws, they passed laws that said that, you know, various large parts of North America would be cleared of natives. The natives would be moved to other parts of North America. You had the Trail of Tears. You had the uh so-called Indian wars that went on for like a couple of centuries in which they were essentially genocided out of out of existence almost out of out of existence and today the native Americans are allowed to live on small parcels of land called reservations where they technically have a sovereignty of some kind apparently to some extent not real sovereignty but you know local police level sovereignty they have and it's typically baron land and there's not not much you can do to you generate any income or whatever. So overall the Spanish were indeed brutal. They were indeed barbaric but not as much as the Anglos. Okay. Math N cf LM okay whatever says were the Turk Shahis Sanskritized Turks or did they follow Tangism? The original religion of the Turk people and the Hunik people is Tangism. It's called Tangism in English. And there is this mis myth or misconception which is very prevalent today that Tangism is a monotheistic religion. They worship one god called Tangri which is utter nonsense. Tangism is a polytheistic religion. They worship the skyfather Tangri and the earth mother Umay. They also worship their ancestors. They worship forest spirits. They worship so many other divinities. It's a polytheistic religion. But today there is this effort to to portray Angorism as a monotheistic religion which is a lie, a malicious lie. So theism is a polytheistic religion. Now the Turks and the Hoons wherever they traveled they absorbed the local religion and culture wherever they went. So, so the Turk Shahis were most likely descendants of the Shwa Hunas and maybe some other Turk elements were there and they ruled various parts of Gandhara essentially that region for a while. How long did they rule? Maybe a couple of centuries or so and they fought the Arabs. They defended India from the Arabs. Okay. Uh, so Turkah, how long did the Turksha How long did they rule? How long did did they rule? Brah, did they rule? Okay, a couple of centuries, roughly couple of centuries, right? Um, Zabulistan, Kabul Gandhar, etc. So what was their religion? Were they Sanskritized? What is the meaning of Sanskritization? I'm not quite sure. They practiced Hinduism and Buddhism. It is alleged that they practiced more Buddhism than than Hinduism, whatever. But they practiced both religions. They patronized both religions. And as long as they ruled, they defended India from the Arabs. Um and eventually they were defeated by the Arabs. They were one of their kings was forced to convert to Islam and one of his ministers, one of this king's ministers who was a Brahman, he fought the Arabs, he decided to fight the Arabs and he set up the Hindu Shahi dynasty. So after the Turk Shahis you have the rule of the Hindu Shahis and then things happened as we know. So there was a deal they were not Sanskritized, they were Indianized. I don't know what Sanskritized means. Did they speak Sanskrit? They probably spoke the Gandhari language or maybe a Turk language. I'm not quite sure. But they adopted Indian titles etc. And their inscriptions etc are probably in Sanskrit. But they were not Sanskritized. They were Indianized. If you adopt Sanskrit and Hinduism, Buddhism, it means you are Indianized, not Sanskritized, not Brahmanized or Brahminical religion or whatever. Okay. So that's deal with the Turkah. Himmanu Sharma says, "We know Chingis Khan was one of history's most influential rulers. Yet his burial site remains undiscovered. Where is his grave believed to be located? Let me tell you where his grave is believed to be located." Okay. Uh Buran Khaldun Khani. Check this out. Khani. Khan Khanti strictly protected zone area. Okay, so that is the thing. Uh we can take a look at the map. Okay, I I don't need to go to the map for that. And there is this great mountain there in the Khani. Maybe we can take a look at that on the map. Why not? Yeah. So we go to the map. We search for Khani strictly protected area where nobody is allowed. Okay. Khan Kenti zoom. There we go. So we zoom we use the satellite image. So this is the Khan Kenti region strictly protected zone. Huge huge uh region part of Mongolia north of Ulan Batar south of uh the Russian part of Mongolia. And if you look at Burhan Kaldun, well, this is the mountain that uh Chingish Khan, you know, he lived in this region and uh as a child and it is believed that his grave, his resting place is somewhere in this region. And like I said, the Khan Kenti uh region is is a strictly protected region. U no one's allowed there. During the Soviet era when Mongolia was a Soviet vasal that region was a no-go zone and even today you know access to the region is is strictly controlled and there have been European expeditions to the region who have sought to discover the resting place of Chingish Khan but nobody has succeeded thus far. So it is believed before I elaborate further let me just put this on the record. It is believed that Chingis Khan's grave burial place is in the Khani region, the Burhan Kaldun region somewhere around that place. Now how do we know that this is the case? See when Shere Marco Polo the Italian traveler traveled to Mongolia, he was told this nice story that when Chis Khan died, they brought his body back to the to you know his childhood, the place where he lived his childhood which is the the Burhan Kaldun mountain region and he was buried there and after he was buried the place was trampled over by a million horses apparently and a river was diverted over the place. So the river flows over the burial place now and whoever the soldiers who buried in they were killed and any traveler who came on okay who saw what happened was also killed that's the story that was told to Marco Polo and this story traveled into Europe so the Europeans have been fascinated and the westerners have been fascinated about finding the burial place because apparently if you find his burial place then it'll have a tremendous amount of wealth and gold and treasure and whatnot. So they crave to discover the resting place of Chingishan. Now what do I make of this? Me personally what I have to say about this is that Chingaskhan's burial place will never be discovered. Never ever ever ever be discovered. It won't. Why do I say this? Because first of all, if you understand Chingghist Khan and I have studied Chinghan in great detail for decades. If you understand Chinghan, you will understand that he did not care about wealth first of all. So if he would be buried somewhere, he would not be buried with tremendous amount of wealth or whatever. Secondly, when Chigasan's father died, Yugay, what kind of burial was Yes given? He was given what they call a sky burial. Sky burial. I will not Google it and show you the images because not appropriate. What you do in a sky burial is that you the person who is who is dead who has died you do whatever prayers etc you want to do. You strip the body of all its clothes. You take it to a hill and you leave it there and the birds will take care of the rest. That's called a sky burial. Very similar to what the Zoroastrians have. The Zoroastrians also have something very similar to this. In Tibet today, they still practice sky burials. Tibetesha and I suppose in Mongolia also today they some people may practice sky burials. So when Chingish Khan's father died, he was given well he was kind of his body was abandoned but u yeah they practiced sky burials and it is my opinion that Chindaskhan would have preferred to be buried or or you know for his funeral arrangements to followed that procedure. Why? because he died. He died in what is today China. He was fighting the Chinese and somehow he died. We don't we're not quite sure how he died. But his last order before dying was to his brothers go and destroy the kingdom of Shishia. Destroy them. And that's what happened. His order was carried out even after he died. So he was on this campaign in China to to reconquer China because the Chinese had rebelled against him once again. When he went for this uh for the conquest of the Quaras Empire to teach them a lesson, the Chinese rebelled who he had initially conquered. So he went back to China to conquer to to crush the rebellion and somehow for whatever reason he died there. That was a huge distance away from Burhan Kaldun the Kenti Khan Kenti mount. region. So in in those days, how do you transport a body over a thousand plus kilometers without it decomposing? It's not you don't want that to happen. It's not dignified, right? So most likely he would have been given a sky burial wherever he died. That's what I believe. I have no proof, but I have a reasonably deep understanding of Shri Chingish Khan and what kind of person he was. So I don't believe he was buried anywhere in the Khani region. He would have been given a sky burial and his spirit would have flown and reconnected with his ancestors. That was the Mongolic belief system. But then why was Marco Polo told the story? Because he was a barbarian from a far away foreign country. And you don't tell the truth to barbarians. You mislead them. So I believe that Changistan's burial place will never be found and that's how it should be. No club says I'm following you for two years discovered you for the from Ranir's podcast. Well thank you very much. So thank you. Could you please explain the great man theory in detail and what are their traits? So the great man theory is an ancient well not ancient it's a it's a theory that's been around for the past couple of hundred years and it says that all major geopolitical events that drive history forward who is responsible for that it's typically a few great men okay let me give you some examples Alexander the great man, right? Then you have Julius Caesar, another great man. Uh you have Napoleon, great man. You have Chingish Khan, a great man. If you go back all the way back in Indian history, we have King Sudas, a great man. Before that or after that after kings that great man who fought the battle and won the battle of the 10 kings 10 plus kings then you have Shri Ram great man we worship him as an incarnation of Shir Vishnu today then you have Shri Krishna another great man if you look at more recent Indian history Vishnu Gupta Chanaka Chandra Gupta Moria Ashok Kaneshka these are the people who drove Indian history who who sh and who shaped the course of Indian history. You have a great man who emerged out of the out of Arabia, Prophet Muhammad who changed the course of world history, didn't he? No question about that. In more recent times, we have Napoleon Bonapart who changed the course of European history. We have the iron chancellor Otto Bismar. We have the great evil man Adolf Hitler. We Stalin, we have Maadong. We have in Turkey Mustafa Kimalatatur who changed the course of world history. We have the Turkish Sultan Salem II who took Constantinople and changed world history. So my point is the the theory the great man theory says that it is a few great men in world history who who who shaped the course of world history. It is their leadership and their great traits or whatever that is the uh the the factor the the force that shapes the course that the world takes. That is the great man theory. Um what do I think of this? Well, you know today there's a lot of criticism that this theory takes because it says great man not great person. It doesn't include women. So that's one criticism that has emerged in the 20th and 20th more 21st century that it is a misogynistic theory. Women aren't included. Okay, that's one thing. And apart from that, it says that apparently the great man theory says that you know leadership traits are are people are born with those leadership traits and leadership isn't learned. It is it is innate in you or that sort of thing. I don't agree with that at all in case it is true because if you look at various leaders like uh whether it is king Sudas, whether it is Julius Caesar, whether it is Sriam Shir Krishna, whether it is um Chandra Gupta Moria, whether it is Changis Khan, whether it is Napoleon, they all were not they may have had some leadership traits in them when they were born, but it was the events of their early years that shaped them and and forged the leader in fire of in the fire of trials and tribulations. So, so leaders, you know, some people may have leadership qualities. They may be born leaders, but they they would never potentially never go through that those those tribulations and trials that forges a true leader and maybe lots of leaders simply did not emerge because of that. So the point is there are some criticisms that are levied at the great man theory but in my opinion it makes a lot of sense. The course of world history has always all major world events all major geopolitical changes in world history have occurred because of warfare and what drives warfare is typically what they call great men. I can't think of too many great women. Maybe the world is an evil place. Maybe the world is an evil patriarchal place. It is what it is right I am who am I to judge that we don't judge we simply observe we simply observe and we notice the patterns and then we discuss the patterns so if you look at the patterns it's clear that it's been these great men who have taped the history of the world and that essentially is the great man theory you may agree or disagree with it you may consider it to be you may consider it to be a misogynistic theory whatever outdated theory that's entirely up to you but that's what great man theory Okay, let's talk about the Chinese and plagiarism. Ashish karn karnashish says Chinese are plagiarizing Indian dresses and cultural items and calling them Persian or from western regions of China because they can't digest India influence them heavily. How should we Indians deal with this? Same thing with Hindu numerals. I don't know why they add Arabic the term Arabic to it because it was invented in India really now says Chinese use modified Indian clothing jewelry and classical dances in so many of their productions but fiercely deny any Indian origin for them saying it's central Asian or Turk or Persian influence that even India got this culture from there they deny Gandhar was literally India and say Pompei Lakshmi is not Indian So what are we talking about here? Let me show you. Uh let me show you. Okay, give me a second. So here is one example. This is from Twitter or X. Let me first remove this. Uh we have it. So this is the Shin of which means the Chinese embassy in France. They say that this is a costume from Zing Jang. Please take a look at the costume. Does this look like a costume from China? This is so clearly so clearly an Indian costume. The Chinese are claiming claiming it's from Shinjang. Now, let's take a look at something else. This is a new controversy that has emerged in Twitter, which is good. Uh they are calling this a traditional Chinese clothing from western regions of China. Once again, it's Indian clothing. And I'll not play the video because of whatever copyright thing. But you see even the dance is Indian, right? It's inspired from India and whatever this other thing is. So the Chinese are essentially plagiarizing Indian culture and that's what we are discussing here. Right? So what they claim is that it's either Persian or Central Asian or Turk. Well, if you just look at the historical record of the kind of dresses Indian ladies used to wear during let's say uh the Gupta period, the Kushan period, the modern period, it's clear that these dresses are of Indian origin. But the Chinese want to claim these and they claim it's it's from wherever Persia Persian clothing is Islamic clothing in the past 1500 or so years 14 12300 years and before that the ch the Persians did not wear the kind of clothes Indians wear in Persian ladies. So it can't be Persian. Central Asia the climate is such that you can't wear such clothing in Central Asia. The Turks for the past at least thousand years they've been Islamiz Islamicized they don't wear such clothing. The Arabs they don't wear such clothing they wear burkas. So it's clearly Indian clothing the Chinese are trying to pass off as either Turic or Central Asian or Persian or Arabic but not Indian. Right? If you watch the movie Alladin, that's a movie called Aladin, a Disney movie. There's this character called Jasmine in that. Okay, let's take a look at that. Uh Disney Alladin 1992 film. Okay, let's take a look at the images. So, this is the main character Aladin and there is this girl called Jasmine. Jasmine costume. Let's take a look at the costume. So, this Oh, come on, man. Where's the original? Okay, just look at this. So, this is the kind of dress that Jasmine wears. Once again, it is it is being passed off as as an Arabic costume, but Arabic ladies would never wear such a thing. It's unimaginable. Once again, this comes from India. It's inspired by India, but it's passed off as Arabic. So, even Hollywood does this. As you can see, this is not an Arabic style of dressing. This may be, but this is not. So, the West does it, the Chinese do it, everybody does it, and they get away with it. Why is that? Why does everybody get away with this? Because Because we don't take ownership of our culture. Take the example of yoga. Yoga has been plagiarized and distorted the world over. The the Europeans, the the Americans, the West has they have taken over yoga and they have distorted it beyond belief. Hot yoga, cold yoga, dog yoga, goat yoga, drunk yoga. I don't even know what what other forms of yoga. It's because we have never bothered to take ownership of yoga. I have been saying this for years. India should India needs the government of India needs to wake the hell up and establish a yoga a a global yoga standards institute a global institute of yoga which will which will decide what is yoga and what is not yoga. It will decide the standards of yoga. It will play the role that the that the Shaolin temple plays for kung fu. The Shaolin temple decides what is kung fu and what is not. Not any goddamn thing can be called kung fu, right? Similarly, we need to have this in India but we are not doing it. The government of India is simply not interested. India has become a secular nation which rejects its cultural heritage. Oh, we have established a world you got. Nice, fantastic, great thing. Beyond that, what that's so easy. Do a little bit of hard work sometimes, right? And similarly, we need to be very clear about what constitutes Indian culture and what what for example the dresses are these Indian dresses or Chinese dresses. So, we need to reclaim our culture. We need to take ownership of of our culture. We people can keep on doing it but it can be denied. The moment the government declares something to be Indian heritage. It's very hard for others to to fight back against that once we do it officially. But the government of India is simply not concerned. I have no idea what they're doing and it's incredibly frustrating. It is what it is. There we have it. Okay. A question from a year ago. Was he a hidden Jew? And we're talking about Mustafa. So somebody someone else says it's not clear what he was. He was definitely not a Muslim. He was a Freemason. However, his followers created a cult around him reading verses from the Quran and replacing Allah and the prophets with Ataturk. Okay. So the question actually is who was Mustafa Kimal Ataturk? The dictator of Turkey who saved Turkey from the west. Was he a hidden Jew? Was he a Freemason? Was he something else? Was he not a Muslim? What was he? Was he not Turkish? What was the deal with Mustafa Kamalat? What we know for sure is that he tried to eradicate Islam from Turkey. He his name was Mustafa. Kimalat Kamal comes later. Kimal is an Arabic word which means perfection or perfect. Uh his name was merely Mustafa. He did not have a surname. His father's name was Ali Raza. His mother's name was Zubeda. His sister's name was Makbula. How do I know all this? I've studied Ataturk in detail. So the the his name is today called Mustafa Kimal Ataturk. The word Kamal was added by one of his teachers, mathematics teachers who found that he was brilliant in mathematics. And Ataturk was a title given to him by the people of Turkey after he saved Turkey from the from the west. Ataturk means the father of the Turks. Now what what's the deal? Was he not Muslim? So look, first of all, if you look at Ataturk, let's take a look at let's let's uh Google. Let's Google him. Ataturk. So if you look at Ataturk when he was young, this is a younger Ataturk. You can see that he has blue eyes. And uh if you atatur apparently Oh, I had no idea he could smile. So if you see him as a young man, you will see he looks kind of European. Even in in his older age, he look European. Uh but if you see the color pictures of Ataturk, you will see that he has blue eyes. And uh why am I searching for young images? Because typically hair color changes as you grow older. When he was young, he had blonde hair. And you can look it up yourself. I'm not going to waste your time looking for the specific images. When he was young, he had blonde hair and blue eyes. Why does a Turk have that? See, Turks, they they have Greek and Anatolian ancestry. The Greeks were not necessarily blue-eyed and and blonde people. The Greeks typically have dark eyes and hair. So why did Ataturk have blue eyes and blonde hair? His mom, his mother, Zubeda, most likely was Albanian. Okay, Albania is further west in Europe, slightly east of Italy across the Adriatic. So his mother was Albanian and from her he probably got and and she had blue eyes and blonde hair. So that's how he got those characteristics. Now his father was a Turk, clear-cut Turk and they were all Muslims. Father, mother both both Muslims as far as is known. When he was young, he was involved in various organizations. something called union in progress. Something called uh there was something called union union in progress. I am not sure if he was ever a freemason. There are some allegations that are unsupported by known evidence as far as I know that he became a freemason. What I can tell you is that he tried to ban Freemasonry in Turkey in the year what 1930 something. Let's let's Google that as well, shall we? Did Ataturk did At ban Freemasonry? Okay. While not a direct ban, his government oversaw the closure of Freemason lodges in Turkey in 1935 based on the rationale that their principles were incompatible with nationalistic policy and in response to external. Okay. So Ataturk did not do a direct ban but he did close uh Freemason lodges in Turkey in 1935. So if he was a Freemason, why would he do that? Right? So the Freemasonry angle doesn't seem to be correct. What about the Jewish angle? Some people accuse him of being Jewish. Well, I can tell you his father was Turkish to the best of my knowledge. You can check it out. And his mother was Albanian but Muslim. So I don't see a Jewish angle there either. If you see for a person to be Jewish their mother has to be Jewish but I personally have not seen any Jewish angle to his mom to his mother Zubeda. So you know there are all these um theories that float around on the internet that was a freebason he was a Jew or whatever. Um but I've seen none of that. Uh I've seen evidence I've not seen any evidence for that. Was he not a Muslim? There could be some truth to that. U he tried his best to to eradicate Islam from his nation. So you would not do that if you were Muslim. Right? So that probably there is truth to that. Beyond that I can't see anything else. Aayush Singh says why call a nation sorry why call a region northeast when it is the far east of India? This shows the leadership of the nation has no ambition of getting over this colonial mentality. Let's take a look at the map of India. What are we talking about? We're talking about what they call northeast India. Northeast India is these states over here, right? Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Migal, Nagal, Manipur, uh, Tripura, Misaram. These are the states that constitute what we call the northeast. If you look at the geography of India, the north is Ladak, Kashmir etc. South is uh Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Lanka of the subcontinent. West is Gujarat, Sind, Balojasthan. And east is east of Bengal. We have these states, right? Nagal, Manipur, Misaram etc. So it's clearly the far east of India just like Balojasthan is the far west of India. It's not the northeast. How is it north? It's the east. Northeast would be Nepal possibly. So this should be called the far east of India. So why is it called the northeast of India? Shall I explain why it's called the northeast of India? The British occupiers of India, they first colon established colonies in what is now Bengal. Okay. They first colonized India from Bengal. So situated in Bengal from if you are sitting in Bengal then to the northeast of Bengal you have these states. So sitting in Kolkata or wherever from there this place was the northeast of Bengal. That makes sense because from Bengal geographically northeast is this entire region. But eventually the British took over the whole of India. But they had written about these states as the northeast because they were at that time situated in Bengal. But the Indian historians mentally colonized morons I would say continued calling the far east of India the northeast of India. And even today without even bothering to understand why it was once called northeast, our historians, our politicians, our leaders, our our citizens, they keep calling it northeast, northeast of India. It is the far east of India. It's a British colonial hangover. That that's why we call it the northeast because the British were initially based only in Bengal. From there it was in the northeastern direction. We are so mentally colonized. We just blindly keep doing things without understanding why these names and terms exist in the first place. We Indians don't think at all. Right? The the switch has been turned off. The thinking switch, the the switch that asks questions if someone if this place is called the northeast, why is it called the northeast? Because it is not in the north. It's simply the far east. But no, we will blindly keep on paring whatever our textbooks and teachers told us, taught us. And that's it. We don't think mentally lobtomized. That's what we are. All right. Shub says why does why do north Indians UP and Bihar seem more dassinated from their ancestral culture and way of life as compared to South India, Bengal, Maharashtra. The longer you are under foreign occupation and under foreign brutality, the more dassinated you're going to be because the foreigners, the Turks tried to eradicate our culture. They tried to impose their foreign religion and culture on us, didn't they? And they succeeded to some extent. They destroyed all of our temples. That's why you have great temples in southern India but no great temple that is standing intact in northern India. In northern India you were under Turk rule for centuries and Gandhar was the longest under Turk rule which is what now it is completely um converted. The same thing eventually happened in Kashmir and various parts of northern India, Punjab, Hiana, um whatever else it was these parts of India were for for several centuries under Turk rule. So the Turk culture, the Muggal culture, it it seeped into our our culture in various ways. Why do you have weddings in the night in North India? In northern India because the Turks practiced something called bride kidnapping which I've spoken about in Anatolia. They would kidnap young girls who had just got married on their wedding night or wedding day. And so so it was it was necessary to do weddings in a way that the the Turks would not notice. That's why you had to do weddings in the middle of the night and that culture is now our culture apparently. It was not our original culture. See um so the longer you are under foreign brutality, oppression, occupation, the more destinated you you're going to be. And that's why we have the situation that we have. Okay, let's uh Okay. Bascar Bandit says, "When did the idea of white skin being superior actually start or originate? Was it from the Anglo-Saxon British Empire?" Do we see traces of this earlier in Roman Empire or even before that? Thank you, sir. This notion of white skin being superior, it dates back only about 230 years. See the Europeans became dominant in the past 500 years and eventually after a couple of centuries to three centuries they started believing that their skin tone is racially superior and anybody who has the skin tone associated with Europeans is naturally superior to other people because they became so dominant because of a variety of reasons. During the Roman times or Greek times was white skin supposedly superior? The Greeks fought the Persians for centuries. Did the Greeks believe that the Persians were inferior to them because the Persians had darker skin than than the Greeks? No. Did Alexander believe that the Indians were inferior to him because Indians had darker skin? No. No such thing. Absolutely nothing. Right. um Roman Empire. The Romans, the original Romans, not today's Italians, the original Romans had dark hair and dark eyes and they had darker skin compared to the Nordic people and the Celtic peoples. Okay. Then you have the conquest of Gaul and the conquest of various other parts of Europe. When this happens, the Romans start start bringing in large numbers of slaves from these parts of Europe which they had subjugated. So when you bring in slaves, women slaves, let's say, from the Celtic parts of Europe etc., most of those women and people will have blonde hair and those were enslaved. And when you when the Romans enslaved women, they did all kinds of terrible things to them because slaves are just property, right? So, so the Romans, you know, they passed a law, what was the law? All prostitutes in Rome had to either wear a blonde wig or to dye their hair blonde because Roman women could not be prostitutes or if they had to be prostitutes they had to dye their head hair blonde or wear a blonde wig because blonde hair was um a mark of the non- Romans, the white people. The Romans were they had darker skin tones than the than the uh northern Europeans. the Kelts. So, did the Romans believe that the Northern Europeans who had whiter skin than them and blonde hair, blue eyes, do did the Romans think that that was superior to them? No. They believed Romans were superior to the white people, to the whiter people. You see, and you can fact check whatever I've just said. Check it out, Google it or whatever it. So the idea of white skin skin being superior originated pretty recently maybe two- 300 years the past two 300 years the Irish were discriminated against for a very long time in North America the Irish have whiter skin than the British right but they were discriminated against. They were considered non-white or or or racially inferior for a long time. And to get rid of that, the Irish had to be super racist against the blacks. And that's how they were accepted as whites. Long story, pretty pretty dark stories here. So the the entire thing of white skin being superior, it it it emerges in the past two or 300 years roughly. Krishna's Krishna of the Suridumi Netherlands says after finding the Sonali chariot when are we going to find the Kurukhetra chariots? So we have discovered chariot a chariot or chariots at least one chariot in Sonali. What about Kuruketra? Well I suppose there could be chariots buried in the Kurukhetra region. But how will we find those chariots if we don't do an archaeological dig in Kurukhitra? What about Indrata? Indra Prasta is in Delhi. But do we do anything there? Has any archaeological expedition or dig or project happened there? No. That's the problem in India. Our entire history is buried under the ground and the ASI doesn't bother to do a thing about it. I mean if you look at the the paleo channel the dry riverbed of the Saraspati along the the banks of the dry riverbed you have at least 2,000 known but unexplored archaeological sites. When are we going to start exploring those? Imagine the amount of new information that will emerge if you do that. We have Raki Guri. We have a couple of sites Kalibangan Rakuri Daval four five places that we keep on talking about talking about talking about. What about Dara which is lying offshore under the ocean? When are we going to start exploring that archaeologically in a serious way? when when do we even care? I mean we care we people but what is the government doing? What is the ASI doing? I'm not sure what so you know unless this is taken up in a serious manner nothing's going to be found. Sali was an accident we just stumbled upon the chariot. If we start looking properly using various you know modern technologies like LAR and whatnot so much more will emerge. But uh why waste money on that when you can use money somewhere else? Okay. Um let's take one a couple more questions. Let's let's take this one. Sha says ni restoration in 1868 rejected the dharmic way of life and made Japan move towards westernization and the result was absolutely horrific. Yes, we know Japanese soldiers became absolutely barbaric, brutal. We know that. Yes, India is also going forward in the same direction gradually. What are my thoughts? Well, we aren't wholesale rejecting Indian culture the way the major restoration did. See the major restoration was brutal in so many different ways. Japan for a thousand years was a vegetarian society. The samuris, the warriors, the chhatrias of Japan, they were also vegetarian but they ate fish, seafood like the people of Manipur or the people of Bengal today who claimed to be vegetarian but they can eat fish. So fish was like vegetarian food for them. So the samurai the great warriors were almost vegetarian but they ate fish and the rest of the people of Japan they were completely vegetarian. Cow slaughter was taboo. So what did the the Maji restoration do? The bureaucrats who carried out the Maji restoration, the coup, they made the king of Japan, the Maji emperor consume beef so that it is no longer a taboo. If the god emperor does it, the people can do it. And that's the kind of thing it was. So in India, we don't have that extreme level of very rapid, very radical cultural extermination of our culture. That's not happening. It's happening gradually. uh but if it continues in the direction we also may go in the along similar paths who knows yeah because we are today uh gradually dassinating ourselves the the education system dassinates Indians uh the textbooks the teachers they do that the media does it the news the entertainment industry does it government does it in a variety of indirect ways knowingly or unknowingly you know so eventually we will also go in the ction which is terrible if it happens. So I hope we change course. We course correct and we return to our civilizational roots. That's what needs to happen ideally. Sunmoon08 says why don't we have our own type of beauty standards like in ancient times having mustache was a form of masculinity. Now it's considered unhygienic because of the current Indian beauty standards are Korean K-pop standards. We always follow the west in our or other countries. See India I keep referring to India as a civilization right but a civilization one of the characteristics it has is that it's a net exporter of culture today India is a wholesale importer of culture because of the inferiority complex we have been saddled with or people have been saddled with and u that sort of thing so we are now an importer of culture we copy trends that come from the west or from the east or whatever K-pop what is K-pop I don't get You don't even understand the language. So Indians are dassinated. Indians have this inferiority complex, massive inferiority complex. Which is why Indians want to absorb and and ape like monkeys everything that comes from abroad, from any nation that is, you know, financially more prosperous than ours. So it's a terrible thing, right? We should have our own standards. We should once again become a net exporter of culture. But for that, we have to become more prosperous. And the government needs to reinvest reinvest in Indian culture and civilization which it is not doing right now. So that's the deal. And let's take one last question by Swapnil. How did the resettlement of freed African-American and Caribbean slaves shape the founding and development of Liberia and Sierra Leon in the 19th century? Okay, first of all, what part of the world is this? Let us figure it out. Let's go to the map. So we're talking about western Africa, southwestern Africa. Okay. So we have this small nation here called Sierra Leon with whose capital is Freetown. And we have this nation called Liberia which is to the east of Sierra Leon whose capital is Monrovia or the largest city is Monrovia. Now what is the deal with these two nations Liberia and Sierra Leon? So, Sierra Leon was founded by freed slaves from the Caribbean region in the late 18th century. And Liberia was founded by freed slaves from the United States in the early 19th century. And so what happened? What was the outcome of this? So in both nations, the people who migrated, the freed slaves who came from the Caribbean in the case of Sierra Leon and the freed slaves who came from the United States in the case of Liberia, these people who came from North America and the Caribbean, they became the dominant societ, the dominant community in these two countries. But these two countries had natives who lived there. Those were completely sidelined and marginalized and oppressed. So the freed slaves come and oppress and kind of enslave the natives of the land. Imagine that. Yeah. So what were the consequences of this? Eventually disaster. So in Liberia you had this I forget the name of the political party which was the political party of the freed slaves. They dominated Liberia until about 1980 when there was a coup and a gentleman a fine gentleman called Samuel do assassinated uh William Tolbert or whoever his name was and became the dictator of Liberia. And then um about 8 n years ago he was himself assassinated in a very nasty way by someone called Charles Taylor. So Samuel Doe was a native who assassinated one of the descendants of the free freed slaves and he himself was assassinated in a very brutal way by somebody called Charles Taylor and this led to a civil war which spilled over into Srira Leon and uh this went on for years and it's been a pretty horrific period of time and I would highly recommend do not search for images of the Liberian civil war and Srira Leon civil for on Google images. Do not search for that. Horrific. Um, so the resettlement of these freed African-American and Caribbean slaves, it destabilized the part of Africa where they were settled because they themselves became the oppressors. They were like we are superior. we came from North America or wherever and we are Christians and we are European in in values and we are better than you black Africans because we have a some amount of white blood perhaps that sort of thing. Imagine that. So it destabilized these places and the outcome of that has been absolute horror and these are some of the poorest countries in the world. Yeah. So it did not work out very well this experiment. Okay, that brings me to the to the end of today's questions. Now, let's take a few questions from the live chat. All right, let us do that. Um, what do we have? What do we have? Um, do we have any questions? Sukun Verer says, can you tell us about the Kash temple at Laura? How big of an engineer achievement it was for ancient Indians? I am not any kind of expert in this, so I can't say. Oh, I see that we have some super chats. So about the Kash temple, I am not aware of the details. I am aware of the the fact that it's a it's a monolithic temple, a rock cut temple carved out of a single hill or mountain and it must have taken an incredible amount of time and effort and expenditure to to to make it. But I don't know about the specifications in detail. We have supercharged. Please, first of all, stop taking super chats because I have run past the two-hour limit. Okay, Basker Bandit says, "When did the idea of whites king being superior start?" I just took this question a while ago. So, there we have it. Anyway, thank you for the question. Basar Bandit once again says, "The West is hellbent on showing Shri Chinghan as a barbarian. If Alexander as if Alexander and Alexander the Greek was very civilized in his travels, is it only because they can't digest somebody in the east had a bigger emperor empire? Yes, of course. See, today the west dominates the world and they seek to downplay the achievements of all non-western peoples, kingdoms, cultures, civilizations, empires, especially non-white entities. Changing Khan one man conquered half the known world of his time. He conquered half of Eurasia. He himself did not conquer half of Eurasia. Maybe maybe at least more than a third of Eurasia but eventually the Mongol Empire encompassed half of Eurasia essentially right and was Chingghistan by India. So he is portrayed as a great mass murderer or whatever. If you compare Chingishan with Tim Thimur, if you look at the the amount of land Chingishan conquered and the alleged death toll and if you divide the death toll by the land in square kilometers, then Chingish Khan killed way less people per square kilome than kilometer than Timour. But nobody says that about Timur and I'm not sure about Alexander. We don't even know how many people he killed but he was pretty brutal and extremely cruel and I've spoken about this in in detail what he did in entire what he did in thieves absolute brutal cruel behavior and what he did in India you know in western India he he burned entire villages alive so much more Alexander was a was a barbarian and he he was motivated by personal glory he was a robber on a vast scale that's what Alexander was Jinger Khan was not that. So why is the west hellbent on showing Jingis Khan like this? Because he was not white cuz he was not Christian. You see that's why MK says enlighten us about the theft of Indian art, fashion, textiles, beauty, handiccrafts, mathematics, pharmaceuticals, pharmacological toxicology etc. by the west. Why are soul vultures relatively less successful in north? How many questions do you have sir? Look, I have discussed this in so many episodes and I took the question of the plagiarism of the Chinese and the west today as well. So I have kind of covered this uh but you have given so many different point data points Indian art, fashion, textiles, beauty, handiccrafts and so on. It will take like at least an hour to discuss this this in detail. But yeah, it all of that has been stolen, plagiarized, absorbed, digested and it is now being repackaged as western inventions. For example, we have something called pranayam. Now they call it cardiac coherence breathing as if they invented this thing. They came up with this new thing. There is you know Indian sadhus Indian Indian sadhus etc. They they they have been known for thousands of years to spend years in the Himalayas wearing very little clothing and they can take the cold of the Himalayas. Right. Today there's this guy called Vimhof who has taken that cold exposure thing from our sadhus and he's also taken the kapala or bastria um methodology from pranayam and he's combined that into the vimhof method. It is nothing but the vimhof method of cultural theft. So there are so many examples of this. The Chinese are also doing it and one can discuss this in great detail. Uh WBR says historically has any currency been as dominant as the US dollar aside from gold. What are the reasons for the dominance of a particular currency in the world? No currency has been globally as dominant as the US dollar beside aside from gold. What are the reasons for the dominance of the US dollar? The US's military might and global power projection capabilities. Okay. They can intervene militarily anywhere on the surface of the planet at about 60 minutes notice. and they have more than 700 800 extr territorial military bases all across the world. When they have that sort of global power production capability and the world's strongest military, they can use that to enforce the US dollar as the global reserve currency and that's why it is the case. CS19 J Hint says, I've been watching your show for a very long time. My question is why are people in north morphologically different than people in south India even though the genetics are almost almost the same? Genetics almost the same people in northern India look kind of different from people in southern southern India. Let me give you a very simple contrasting example. Imran Khan the Pakistani cricketer who in jail now prime minister and Mutya Muridan the Sri Lankan cricketer Tamil cricketer they will have very similar genetics but they look very different. Why is that? Because see today we have to look at the world not from today's lens. Today if I want to go from Tamil Nadu to Delhi or or Kabul, I can do that in 4 hours, take a flight and go there. So we imagine that we can travel very easily all across India. And why are people different? In the past, people had to travel by foot. to travel from southern India to Kabul Gandhar would take several I don't know a couple of years right and that's only in the past maybe 5 10,000 years before that the the subcontinent was full of forests and people were isolated wherever they were so people who lived in southern India would have communication contacts to some extent with the rest of rest of India in some way but they would not travel migrate intermar all of that so people who lived in different parts of India they because of the different climates because of the different amount of sun exposure they they developed different different skin tones and so much more and that's why morphologically they are different because this was the case for thousands of years maybe tens of thousands of years the people of the Yamuna valley Ganga valley who lived there 30,000 years ago their descendants would stay there most likely for another another 10 2000 thousand years without going elsewhere because it was so fertile so you don't need to go elsewhere and because there are forests everywhere, jungles with tigers, you had hundreds of thousands of tigers in India and bears and and pythons and whatnot. You don't travel, you stay where you are. So even though we all originated from the same population group, we spread across the subcontinent and for tens of thousands of years different population groups um evolved in different ways and that's why we have this difference in morphology. James James says you could send a thousand 10,000 Europeans in Antarctica and after 100 years there would be people trying to seek asylum. You need class look at Australia, etc. Australia is a great case study of European colonization. It is said that you know you send Europeans to a certain part of the world for 100 years and they will completely transform it. They will turn a barren place into a first world country. Take the example of Australia or the United States or Canada or any of these countries that the Europeans colonized. Well, I'll tell you what. To do that in Australia, they first had to genocide the natives. They had to classify the natives as flora and fauna. Yeah. Would you like me to show you something, James? James, first of all, I appreciate you. Let me repeat that. Okay. So, um, Australian aborei jeans um in chains. So, check this out. Um, they won't show it. Why? Why is this safe search nonsense on view image? Check it out. Check it out. Check it out. Check it out. See, this is how they they treated Australians, the natives. They were treated like animals. You had to first eradicate the natives, marginalize them, diminish their population, push them to the fringes, and then you could take over the nice parts of Australia and build cities there. When it comes to the Americas, they had to wipe out a 100 million natives to build this beautiful these beautiful countries, a country built on the genocide of the natives and the slavery of the Africans. So yes, once you do that, once you ethnically cleanse your land, the land you have you have occupied, then you can build a first world country over the bones of the dead, I suppose. Right, James? Thank you. Appreciate you. MK says, "Who were more brutal, barbaric, Arabs or Turks?" Look, how do you quantify brutality? The Turks learned it from the Arabs. I would say the original Arabs. I would say both were in different ways, you know, equally brutal in different ways. For us, it's the Turks. For the Iranians, it's it's the Turks more than the Arabs. But the Arabs were the first to to brutalize the Persians, weren't they? So different, but similar. Kevin says, "Keep up the great work, Abij. God bless. Much love." Thank you so much, Kevin. Thank you so much. God bless you too as well. Thank you so much for your support. Uh Akil Sai says I don't like what the cast system has turned out to be. I want to know what I want to know more about Si and Shai was pori or ajat. Look sir, I have no idea. Um I I don't know about the the si or or suraseni etc. Lineages uh there are so many of these there are tens of thousands of lineages in India. all ancient lineages going back all the way to the Vic times, right? And it was not the cast system, it was the Jati Vera system. And today the cast system has become this oppressive thing. But this was institutionalized by the British. And the government of India after 47 continued this nonsense. If cast system is so bad, why don't you simply abolish cast? Abolish all cast divisions. Don't give reservations on the basis of cast. Right? Give reservations on the basis of financial status. Isn't that simple? But the politicians they benefit from the reservations and the cast politics. Right? You have to completely abolish cast if you really believe in that. So my point is we had a verna system which was incredibly complex and the British could not understand it because they did not have the brains for that. So they decided to divide India into four casts and they forced Indians to choose what cast you are part of that sort of thing. But I don't know about whether porus was a sini or a jat si I mean jat the term jat did not exist during the time of porus right it's like it's like saying that Buddha was Nepales Nepal the concept of Nepal did not exist 2 and a half thousand years ago so please understand that the past was a different time you cannot force you cannot retrofit today's classifications ations into the past you can't Amisha says Indian kings wear Indian king wear is sign of royalty turbans or crown uh the the concept of crowns I I don't think it's it's native to India turbans I don't think it's a sign of royalty either lots of different jati worers wear turbans so it's not a sign of royalty the turban and crowns were never part of Indian culture as far as I understand it's a western thing so what did Indian kings have as a sign of royalty I suppose they would carry weapons but the katrias carry weapons right yeah that's a great question I'm not sure what was a sign of royalty the I don't think the crown was an Indian thing turbans lots different groups of people wear turbons. There must have been something but we have lost the records of those times right what did Chandra Gupta Moria wear that others did not wear I'm not sure if you look at the coinage of Kaneshka he doesn't wear a crown I suppose you were king because you were king and you do not have to wear something special to to to tell the people that I am superior to you and your soldiers and your power that that made you superior and that made you the ruler. And you were not someone who ruled, you were someone who served. That was the dharmic way of ruling. Right? UMX glow. Haha says maybe Indians crave other cultures because Bollywood which is apparently supposed to be our culture is terrible propaganda. What's the solution? You see what passes is Indian culture. Today if you look at if you look at Bollywood they think that Indian culture is Bollywood dance. Bollywood dance is not Indian culture. It is I don't have a polite word to term what Bollywood dance is. Bollywood music sounds sometimes more West Asian Middle Eastern than Indian music. Um so Bollywood has has played a big role in in uh brainwashing Indians and Indians for the longest time were starved of entertainment. So they just absorb whatever nonsense comes from Bollywood. And today Indians play these Bollywood songs even during festivals. What is the solution? The solution is the democratization of of culture. Today you can see if you're a singer, if you're a musician, if you're an artist, you don't need a record label. You don't need a big producer to put your work in front of the people of India, right? Or the world. You can simply make a YouTube video of your of your song or or whatever it is that you're doing. And I think that is going to be the solution. But is it too late? Are all Indian artists already infected with this mind virus? I'm not sure. The solution is the democratization democratization of of of content creation. Uh so that could be a solution but I it's possible that it's already too late because most Indian creators, artists etc are are brainwashed. They have been infected with this with with this Bollywood virus. But I think there is still hope and hopefully that that will be the solution. Okay. Um UMX go when is another episode of Delulu Indians believe in coming? Delusions Indians believe in coming. Would you like one? I could make an extended version of that. Perhaps I could do that. Let me know. All right, that brings me to the end of today's live stream. Thank you very much. This was great fun as always. Um let's see uh let's take one last question. Nirj this says why does Sanskrit have so many words for the same things like surya ravi etc. What was the reason for this? Was this just for poetic purposes? It's because Sanskrit is so old. There must be a 100 different words for snow in Sanskrit. There must be 100 words for love in Sanskrit. Vatalia, sna, pre just three I can think of. There must be so many more. Sanskrit is so old that it has so many synonyms. For example, we have the word ratri for night. But an older word for the same ratri in the Vedas is nakta. Nakta. That's the older word for night. Nakta in Vic Sanskrit nakta in German night in English. So it's the world's oldest language that we know of and it's been around for thousands and thousands of years. That's why we have so Nisha Mahita says Nisha. Thank you ma'am. Great example Nisha. So it's so old and that's why we have so many synonyms. All right people, thank you so much for the questions. I really enjoyed this. I got you all asked so many great questions in the comments. I could not take them all but keep keep doing it. Why are we doing this these these history live streams? Because history is the foundation of the world. We have to understand history if you want to understand the way the world is and the direction in which it is going. History the study of history shows us the patterns and regularities in history. History is cyclical. So to understand today, we have to study history and that's why I keep doing these history live streams. Thank you so much for the questions, for your viewership, for everything. And tomorrow we're going to have a geopolitics live stream, a super chat live stream. I look forward to seeing you there. Thank you so much. Keep asking questions, keep learning, keep learning, and keep raising your standards. I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you. Bye-bye.