Heat. Heat. [music] [bell] [bell and music] [bell] Heat. Heat. [music] [bell] [music] >> [music] [music] >> Heat. [music] Heat. Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Show. I hope you're all doing great. This is episode 327 and I'm going to take questions from the super chat today as many as I can uh over the next couple of hours or so. Before we do that, let's see who is there on the live chat. Arun Romesh, Baskcar Bandit, Sharon B3M, uh, Sharon B3M, Baskar Bandit. Who else do we have? Anikit, Anikit is there. Who else? DN0 HR is here. Uh, Manhattan I6W Geopolitical Dubai is always here from Indor. Good to see you. Always sir, good to see you. Thank you so much. Honey Sharma, uh, Honey Sharma is here. Vidy Manar, good evening ma'am. Honey Kit once again. SKR7733. Madav Gupta 38. Um Adwit Ashwini Ngui Manhattan Raika Huml Jes Ma'am Madav Gupta 38 Shri Sudir Kumar Jes Madav Gupta Anu um geopolitical once again real painter real painter Nirvana Shanks Nirvana Shanks son MK Madav Gupta uh Nabit Tadas Namaste Anime Paratia Ram s online. Uh uh who else we have? Feel strong man. Good to see you sir. Um Field Strong Man Honey Bagger Honey Badger of Kalinga. That's quite a name. Chhattabish. Chhattabish. Good to be back. Good to see you sir. Good to see you once again. Jasan Singh. Good morning. Sumit Agarwal Mojour Partam Sharma Manhattan. Anime Baratia, Abishek Shastav, Abishek Shukla live, um Anu Ashikade, History Go, uh anonymous scientist, Bon Bonjour, good to see you. Oh, it's good to see you sir. Tak Raguir Soleni Madav Gupta feel strong manpin aband from U Jnatar Namaste G real painter once again long time good to see you G Manish namaste ma'am as always Swami hi uh who else um Swami is here from Jaipur the Arian Raj is here Gajapati Dv from Odisha good good evening sir Abhisha live from Kpur Um, Raguir Soleni is a visual student. Sumitagarwal Hola Tech G78807. Namaste. Asal 24. General Sumutai is here with us. Somi says, "Have I seen the thing?" Quite a movie. I've seen it. Yes. Science fiction, horror of some sort. Yes, good movie. Vijay Vagela, good to see you, sir. Um, who else? Who else? Who else? Everybody else. Vidit Chhat where is it? Vidit Chhatrellia. Okay. Uh SKR7733 is here from Takashila India. Well, good to see you sir from Takashila India. Uh CVS 2K6 from Andhra Pradesh. Namaskaram G. Sujit Sha Gunda good to see you. Uh General Subutai is here from Mongolia of course. Yes. Uh Anurag Dikshit. Mar Kane good to see you ma'am. Good morning. Vihang Kuran from Mumbai and everybody else. Okay. So let us Apurva Apurva. Yes. Uh dragons one to three slayer is also here. Abishakas says dharma will rise a dharma will lose. One certainly hope so and we should work for work work towards that. Okay. Um Tutti Patel. Namaste. Namaste. Hello. Tech G7. Namaste. and anonymous scientist is here from Lucknau. Okay. Uh enough of greetings. Let us get going with the questions. What do we have today? Arun Romesh. Thank you very much sir. Thank you very much indeed. Uh Basar Bandit says Piety. Piety sir Baskar G. Um hope I'm well. Yes, I'm well. Thank you. I hope you are well as well. Uh very ghastly disturbing info coming out from the Epstein files. Yuck. Some entity allegedly trying to arm twist the US to strike Iran anytime now. Also, it seems Trump won't win the midterms. Well, the the the Epstein files uh revelations that are coming out are utterly ghastly, disgusting, disturbing, concerning. I mean, inhuman, monstrous. I don't have the words to describe what we are seeing. I mean, every conspiracy theory is coming is turning out to be true. Everything that was that was described as conspiracy theories, all of that is come is has turned out to be true. The Pizzagate stuff, I mean, the the Satanism, the the the all the stuff. I mean, it's horrific. Howard Lutchnik, what a depraved, disgusting person. And what about his boss, Donald J. Trump? Where is he today? He's not on X. He's not on Truth Social. Truth Social. I mean Nikki Haley h I mean what do I say about these people monsters. The people who are ruling that country the United States are monsters right and they go this nation goes around preaching human rights and democracy to the world. I mean, what can I say? Terrible. Uh, the question Baskar Bandit is asking is that is there some entity that's allegedly trying to arm twist the US to strike Iran anytime now? Well, that's what some people are speculating. Some people are speculating. Let me just say it straight. Some people are speculating that this uh see the question is how come Donald J. Trump's government has released these files which prove that this guy is a pedophile and a pervert and god knows what else. Donald J. Trump, how come his government has released stuff that is so essentially incriminating about him, about the president? Does he have no control over his government? Does somebody else control the government of the U FBI and whatn not? Who could that somebody else be? So some people are speculating that the United States is controlled by Israel. Okay, that's speculation by some people. The US is controlled by Israel and the FBI is controlled by Israel and everything is controlled by the is by the Israelis and the Israelis want Trump to strike at Iridan and he has not done this so far. That's why they're pressurizing him by releasing some part of the Epstein files. Maybe there's more about Trump. Who knows? So that's the speculation that some people are indulging in. Um what do I think? I have no idea. I could not possibly say whether it's true or not. Uh so I don't know. Yeah. If if if hypothetically theoretically Israel does control the United States and Trump is dragging his feet about is about striking Iran, then well from a logical perspective kind of makes sense. But does Israel really control the US like some people say? I don't know about that. Um it seems that Trump won mid will not win the midterm elections. That's November this year, right? That's still a way away. Uh in the US, you know what? Who knows? He may even win the midterms. The I don't know. The people of the US seem to be fine with this the sort of stuff. I have no idea. But yeah, it looks likely that he will lose the midterms. We we'll see about that. It will make him a weaker president than what he is right now. Unless he does some fantastic things, in which case everything is forgiven. So we'll see about that. Bascar Bandit says uh Baloi's tore through 12 cities yesterday. Some reports are even saying that u core commander Pakistani army in Kuwa has left. Um how is the Balojasthan angle connected to Iran US instability right now. Um look the US uh is pro Pakistan. The US wants it needs Pakistan to be the strong stable nation reasonably stable at least. so that it counterbalances offsets India. So the so Pakistan is important for the US and if something goes wrong in Balojasthan like what we see right now it's not good for Pakistan which means it's not good for for American interests. The Americans need a stable Pakistan not just to counterbalance India but also to potentially do something in Iran whenever the time they decide is right. So if they want to let's say not go ahead with a full strike on Iran but destabilize Iran gradually through terrorism the Americans do that right they've used Pakistan against India like this in the past for decades so the Americans in that case would need Pakistani terrorists to enter Iran from the east right but if Balojasthan is no longer in Pakistan's full control then that doesn't work that doesn't happen so I would say this is not working out well for the US if Balojasthan is unstable if Baloi rebel are succeeding in taking over cities and maybe even Quita POS possibly, right? Um so I would not say that the US is behind this. So who else could be behind it? Well, I don't I could not possibly speculate. Um um yeah. So I I don't know how the US could be behind this. Obviously Baloistan, if you look at the map, okay, let's open the map. All right. Um let's put the map on the screen and let's look at Baluchistan. It it clearly is a border border region between the temporary nation and Iran as well as Afghanistan. So let's look for Baluchistan. Okay. Baluchistan Pakistan temporarily part of Pakistan. So once again it doesn't give you the outline but yeah. So Bulajjustan is this western part of Pakistan. And some of it is it borders Afghanistan, queta as you can see over here and Iran as well. So if Baljasthan is unstable, the Americans can't really use Pakistan to push terrorists into Iran which could be a problem for the Americans. So um I doubt the Americans would be behind this. Why would they destabilize their own asset? Doesn't make sense. So yeah, we'll see how it goes. Okay. Aniket says how Indian and English days are the same like Raviar Sunday. Well, it's even that way in French. Okay. So, Ravivar is deos in French. Dimosh, I don't know what's the origin, but uh savvar Monday is learni. Lundi comes from lun which means the moon. Monday is ladi is is somir. Monday is moon day. Somar s is also moon. It's not just English. It's also French. Okay. Tuesday is Thursday. Tyr is this Nordic deity. Uh that is uh the counterpart of the Roman god Mars which is also mongal. Mongalwar Tuesday and uh mi in French. Once again, Mars. Uh, what's what's Wednesday? Wednesday is vooden or >> [clears throat] >> udin, right? That's bud bud. That's Mercury me in French. And so it can you can go through the all the days of the week. They all are the same. They have the same meaning whether it is Sanskrit, whether it's Hindi, whether it is English, whether it's French. I suppose other European languages as well. which shows that there is some ancient common tradition that under that that is the foundation of all these all the names of the days in various Indo-Uropean languages right that's what it tells us and says baseball or cricket which one is hard interesting complex well I don't really I'm not really familiar with the rules of baseball um baseball I think has multiple innings and uh a six is a home run and that sort of thing and this this you know you can only play in this this particular angle that sort of thing cricket it's like 360° I think overall it looks like cricket is more complex uh interesting well if you're American cricket is boring for you if you're Indian uh baseball I'm sure is boring so that's a subjective question for me I don't really know the rules of baseball so I can't say whether I would find baseball interesting or As far as cricket is concerned, it's pretty complex for sure. Okay. Sharon says, "How can be Indian? His ancestors were from Iran and settled here." Many Indian Shia Muslims fu fu fouad mira also trace trace their roots to Iran 19th century. So how can Rhulah Kamei be Indian is the question that Sharon is asking and it's a valid question of course it's a legitimate question. So let's look at first of all who was Rhulah Khabi. Let's take a look at the gentleman's face ruli. So the former supreme leader of Iran of Iran Iran Persia this is okay. Um and if you if you see his nickname that he he used for himself, it was Hindi. Okay. This is in Hindi obviously. No, no, no, no, no. Al Hindi, was it Al Hindi? He called himself al- Hindi or something. Um he the suffix Hindi meaning from India was used by his grandfather and sometimes by Rahul Kami himself in his poetry. Uh so he used to write gazals. Okay. And uh in some of his gazels he uses the the nickname Hindi for himself. So what's the deal? His grandfather was was from his father's name was Syad Ahmed Musavi Hindi. Okay. He was born in Kinur in Uttar Pradesh in the 1800s. And his parents I mean his father at least he he they his his ancestors they migrated to India from Iran in the 18th century. Now Rola Kamehameh's grandfather was born in in India but then he at a certain age he left India and he went to Iraq and then to Iran and then he settled down in the in the town of Hain in Iran and that's how the name Kamei uh comes about. So that's the story. Now his grandfather was born in India for sure we know that who he he called himself sayyad ahmed musabi hindi. So he was born in India but obviously that doesn't necessarily make you Indian if your ancestors were Persian. Did his father have an Indian mother? We don't know for sure. His father definitely did not did not marry Indian women. His father I think married three women whatever it is sorry grandfather. So we don't know for sure but he called himself Hindi and even Kamei Rohul Kamei called himself Hindi at times. So that's the Hindi or Indian origin. uh genetically I'm not sure how much Indianness is then is there in Nurola Kmeni or his grandfather I'm not sure of that but uh they called themselves Hindi his grandfather called himself Hindi and Kmeni himself called himself Hindi that's why one can say that he had a Indian grandfather now you make of it whatever you want if you don't like them to be called hind Indian or Hindi that's your choice all right okay basar bandit says how bat to make how bat to make use of its rare earth reserve by preserving nature. Given how environmental environment damaging rare earth mining is some suggest in north Burma where Chinese China mines them a lot of cancer happens. Look mining [snorts] is going to be damaging. Mining is going to be terrible. Mining means you tear up the earth, dig it up, extract you know or which is earth with a little bit of whatever substance you're looking for. Then you process it through chemical processes and other processes which are pretty damaging to the environment. And that's how you extract what you're looking for. And it's not just rare earth mining that's damaging to the environment. It's essentially all mining that's damaging to the environment. Okay. Uh now the US, it also has rare earths on its territory. I'm not sure how many how much of the world's reserves the US has, but the US also has it. But the US doesn't mind it. The US pres prefers to have other countries do that the mining and the and the purification process because it's environmentally damaging. The US wants North America to be as clean and beautiful and pretty and as undamaged as possible. That's why the Americans they export their garbage, their trash to third world countries for for it to be recycled or or done whatever the the these countries want. The Americans don't want all this trash in America. That's why they export it to other countries. Now India has probably the world's largest rare earth reserves. Okay. But we haven't done a thing about it and that's why we are completely dependent on China right now. So let's say we go ahead and we want to operationalize the rare earth reserves. We want to start mining them and not just mining. We whatever ore we extract we want to process it and we want to be the end to end you know consumer of the thing. We ex we we extract we mine and extract it. We process it and we use the the end product and maybe we even export it because we are the largest um you know nation with reserves. So in that case we're going to have to uh do mining and processing. Now you are right if you look at northern Burma I've shown it in the past on on Google on the on the maps. You have all these rare earth mines in northern Burma, right? Right west of the Chinese border with northern Burma. And all of that mining and extracting and and processing is done and then it's shipped off to China. Okay. And these rare earth reserves in northern Burma are one of the reasons for the civil war in Burma, which is a proxy war between the Chinese and the Americans. Um, and yeah, if you if you do all this processing, this this damaging processing, you know, with with chemicals and whatnot, you're going to have effects, side effects of that, I suppose, you know, uh, you're going to have more cancer like you're saying. I mean, it's it's weird because in the far east of India, states like Manipur, the incidence of cancer is much higher. It seems to be quite high. Uh, so this is going to be an issue. So how can India make use of its reserves while preserving nature? Well, you try to preserve nature as far as possible. Uh wherever the rare earth deposits are, you do the mining. Um and you make sure that the processing is done as cleanly as possible. But beyond a point, you can't do a thing about it. Beyond a point, there's going to be some damage to the environment. And that's just the way it is. That is something you either accept or you simply don't mind the stuff. That's it. Um I'm sure there are ways in which you can um process the rare earths uh the rare earth ore in which so you you can make sure you you use as clean a process as possible for you know uh for purifying or extracting the the end product from the ore make the process as clean as possible uh don't dump the byproducts into the ground process it or clean it or whatever so I'm sure there are things there are steps we can to ensure that the damage is limited but there's going to be some damage. Basar Bandit says if a faction from within Ghara Raja allegedly are doing demographic re-engineering of EU a possibility we discussed earlier with intention of more EU control how allegedly will they feel about this India EU free trade deal. What they will feel about the India EU free trade deal will probably not be very connected to what they are doing to the EU. See, whatever they're doing to the EU is a long-term game they're playing. They want to possibly introduce some cultural or religious elements into Europe that in the future they would like to control because you know of the way things are. But uh what what the EU is doing with India, it's it's more immediate. The demographic re-engineering game is a long-term game. What the EU is doing is more immediate. And obviously even that the Americans let's let's say Gharaji or or deep state is American they won't be pleased about this because this gives the EU options beyond the US right it gives the EU access to a very major market and it's win-win for India as well as the EU it reduces the pressure on both both entities India as well as EU so uh what they will feel about this is that they will not be pleased about it and they may actually try and pressurize the EU to pull out of this deal you know or to maybe delay the deal or something because the the ratification of the deal will take some time maybe 6 months maybe by the end of this year by the time the Americans will have plenty of time to pressurize the EU for sure. So uh they're being displeased about this FDA will actually have little connection with whatever they are allegedly doing about the demographic re-engineering of Europe. Totally different processes but they will be displeased about it and they will try and perhaps uh you know make this not happen if they can. Says why is it difficult to train cats than dogs but relatively easy to train tigers lions cat family then wolves hyenas dog family. Wolves. Hyenas are not dog family. Hyenas are feline creatures. That's a great question. First of all, okay. Uh let's see. Are hyenas dogs or cats? Okay. Are hyenas a feline or canine? And you'll find that they are felines. Oh, they are higher cid whatever that is. They are more closely related related to cats than dogs. Okay. They are closer to feliformia than cannormia because of their evolutionary history. They have a common ancestor with Monguses, civet cats, civets and cats despite their doglike appear appearance from convergent evolution. So their family is hyenas. Okay. So that's they are neither cats nor dogs but they are closer to cats than to dogs. Okay. So why is it difficult to train cats than dogs? I mean there are dogs you can't train. We have the Indian wild dog, the the dole. You know what the dole looks like? It's a red dog. Okay. Dole dog. This Indian wild dog, you can't train it. I mean, have you ever heard of somebody domesticating this dog? These dogs live in forests. They don't live in people's backyards or they don't live in people's houses. These these I don't Can Can these guys be be domesticated? Let me see. Uh can uh be domesticated? Let's see. Can it be domesticated? Cannot be domesticated. They are social and intelligent. They are wild and they don't like human beings and so on, etc. They are aggressive, unpredictable, and unsuitable for pets. Pet pets despite being a part of the dog species. It's a dog. It's not a different species or a subspecies. It's it's a dog. And yet, you can't you can't adopt them. you can't domesticate them. They are wild and predictable and they will they don't like to be with humans. So, it depends. It it's the same species. It's a it's it's a kind of dog. So, it's it's you could say you could say it's a different breed so to say. It's not really different breed land what's it called? Land race. It's a different land race of dog. Okay. But, uh you can domesticate it. And now let's talk about cats versus dogs. Very different creatures, right? Very different creatures. Cats essentially are nocturnal animals. First of all, nocturnal. And you'll see they're they always look lazy because in the daytime they actually are supposed to sleep. But because they have adapted to living with humans, they kind of are semi awake during the daytime. Sometimes they're awake but they prefer to sleep. But the moment it's dark, they are totally active and they live a different parallel life. Cats do. And there are there are various cat species. You have the standard house cat which we humans are familiar with. We have different species of wild cats. We obviously have the uh what's it called? The cheetah. We also have the lion. Tigers and all. I mean look at lions and tigers. They are almost the same size. Tigers are slightly larger but they are so different. Lions are so social and all the ti tigers are solitary creatures, right? So each species has its own characteristics. I mean uh chithas chias are you can you can um domesticate a chita just like a house cat. Chas don't really hurt humans and chithas even vocalize like you know meows like like house cats and they are very easy to to domesticate. So these are different species and they all have their own characteristics. Our house cats well they they are happy to live with humans. They have no issue with being friendly with humans, most of them. But you can't train them. They they won't be trained. You can train dogs to do tricks, you know, stand on two legs and do that and roll over and all. Cats, no thank you. So, you know what they say, you know, it's kind of a funny thing to say, but uh you know, humans humans tame dogs, but cats tame humans. That sort of thing. So, the cat is the master of the house. It's not the human. That sort of thing. And cats apparently they see humans like a really dumb cat. Dogs see the the human being as the boss, right? Dogs are pack animals and they always have the alpha dog. Wolves, dogs, they all have the alpha dog, alpha wolf. So dogs see humans as the alphas. Cats see humans as dumb creatures. So the way they see humans is different and they are not aminable to being being uh trained to do anything. They want Riket says why does Russia consider Ukraine NATO as a joining NATO as a red line but not Finland as Estonia Latvia which also shares border with Russia. Good question once again. So let's take a look at the borders of Russia. Yes. Let's [snorts] take a look at borders. Right. Okay. So right. So here we are talking looking at Eurasia. Let's go northwards. mouth of India you have uh you know you have Tajakistan then Kyhistan then Kazakhstan then Russia right north of India now if you go westwards then you have all these neighboring nations of Russia Belarus Ukraine these are historically part of Russia or Slavic peoples the Belarusian people are Slavic just like Russians the Ukrainians are Slavic just like Russians the Serbians are Slav Slavic people just like Russians and then you have these nations here Finland Estonia Latvia Lithuania India, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, etc. The the Baltic nations and the Nordic nations. Okay. So, why is Ukraine joining joining NATO or Red Line but not Finland? Well, multiple reasons. Look, Ukraine was part of the USSR. Ukraine is a Slavic nation, right? And it's a much larger nation and NATO has never had a presence there. When it comes to Finland, Estonia, Latvia, see even Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia were part of the USSR, but they are not Slavic peoples. They are obviously Indo-Uropeans. So, some of these languages are very closely related to Sanskrit, which is a totally different matter. But they are not really Russians. They are not really Slavic people. Their their culture etc is different from the Slavic culture. Um and Lithuania, Latia, Estonia are tiny little nations and uh so the Russians are not that concerned about those nations. When it comes to Finland or you know the other Nordic nations once again totally different culture, totally different context in history. They were never part of the USSR. But Ukraine, it's a strategically important nation, very large nation, second largest nation in Europe. If you exclude Russia, if you consider Russia to be European uh and uh and huge territory, huge u the bread basket of Europe, Slavic people once again. So because of the these multiple factors and the fact that Ukraine is the original Russia, I mean the first ever capital city of the Roose people, the Kievan RS was Kiev. The original capital of the Roose people was Kiev, not Moscow. Moscow comes much later. Moscow comes like 400 500 years later. The original capital was Kiev. So because of historical reasons, because of cultural reasons, because of ethnic reasons and so on and so forth, all these things, that's why Ukraine is a red line. Those other nations are not that important. Okay. DN0 HR9879 says, "Why did Kushim need 28,086 measures of Bali? Love your content in your Norse skull. Skull skull. I'm not aware of this now. This seems to be some interesting folktale or something. Let's find out. Kushiman 28,000 etc. measures of Bali. I'm not aware of this. Let me learn what you're talking about. So, who's Kushim? Will that give us a clue? Who's Kushin? Aha. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. The earliest known recorded name of an individual in human history. Are you kidding me? Okay. Appearing on sugent clay tablets dating around 3,400 to 3,000 BC. found in his ancient Mesopotamia, modern Iraq. These tablets are administrative records, suggesting Kushin was an accountant or scribe responsible for tracking barley rather than than a king or a hero. The first signature, the name appears on several tablets dealing with the 29,086 measures of barley. One tablet contains a note interpreted as 29,086 measures of barley, 36 37 months Kushim. So Kushim's name highlights the writing was initially developed for practical economic purposes specifically tracking resources rather than literature or dealing with the rule deeds of rulers. It's unclear if Kushim refers to a specific person or is a job title for a record keeper. Uh the name is prominently highlighted in Yal Noha Harare's book Sapiens. Okay. Sapiens to illustrate the origins of writing and bureaucracy. Okay. Okay. Okay. Got it. So he probably was some kind of record keeper and he his job was to you know track the consignments and shipments of Bali and so on. When it comes to Harari's book, I haven't read it. I tried reading it. I could not. It wasn't for me. Hari, you know how Hari approaches the human species. He approaches the human species. I mean the way he writes about the human species, it's like, you know, um someone who is doing a dissection is writing about, you know, I mean someone's dead and the dead the dead body is lying on your dissection table. It's a cadaavver and you are slicing it up and you're you know clinically coldly talking about you know all this stuff and just denying that this is you say that this is just an object lying in front of me these are the organs and these are the um characteristics I'm seeing and you deny that this was a person that this person had atma a soul all of that so you know Harari's writing is cold it's it's dismissive of the human spirit and all I I can't stand his writing actually he may He may sound very intelligent to many people to me I I I can't stand Harari's writing. Anyway, I'm I'm glad that he wrote about Kushim and that I was not aware of this. So yeah, we don't know why Kushim needed 28,000 28,08 measure Bali probably he was a record keeper tracking consignments and storage and whatnot and that's why I recorded this. There's also the other guy right Naser Ayan Naser he was a copper merchant and the world's first recorded customer complaint is about a naser uh selling delivering poor grade of copper that's another interesting story from there from Mesopotamia okay anik says Scott Basanti crying because of FTA is India handled you as Look, let's not be all triumphant and you know start bloating. The US is way more powerful than India. They can even if they want stop the India EU trade deal. Okay, they can apply pressure on Europe on the EU people on the key people in Europe and who knows. So Scott Bessent well Scott Bessant is actually well not as annoying as Howard Lutnik but yeah so he's upset. Trump is upset. The US uh administration, the US uh Trump regime is upset. His officials are upset and they may actually do something about it. They may actually apply pressure on the EU. So let's not be all start celebrating too early. Let it be let the FDA become let the FDA be be ratified and become operational then we can gently celebrate. Anik says India is dumping US treasury bonds and buying more and more gold and silver. Is India making itself sanctions proof? Is India preparing for war? Look, US Treasury bonds. Yeah, it it's okay. So, we are dumping US Treasury bonds. We're buying gold and silver. Uh that doesn't make India necessarily sanctions proof. What makes you sanction proof is that if you can bypass Swift, what is Swift? Swift is is the system that the Americans control by which you do uh transfers of large sums of money across nations. The Swift system. Okay, let's let's see what uh EI has to say about Swift. What is the Swift system? EI the Swift society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication. It's a secure global messaging network, not a bank itself. Used by 11,000 plus financial institutions in 200 plus countries to securely transmit payment instructions headquartered in Belgium. essentially owned by the Americans or controlled by the Americans. It streamlines cross control crossber transfers using standard standardized BIC codes. I mean if you want to transfer money as an individual to a nation you have to enter a BIC code okay for the bank that you're transferring to and obviously the account details of the person. So yeah, Swift/BIC codes. Anybody who has done international monetary uh transactions knows what Swift and BIC codes are. Without Swift, without access to Swift, you your country essentially is cut off from the global financial system, right? So Swift is one of the big means of imposing sanctions. You simply cut the nation off from the Swift system and the nation can't trade with the world because the Americans control the system. So if India wants to become sanctions proof, India has to create or participate in some kind of alternative to swift and maybe there is something being done about this India and the BRICS nations and so on. Yeah. So that makes you somewhat sanctions proof to some extent to some extent which means that using the alternative system you can trade with certain countries but maybe not all countries but maybe the ones you need to and so on. Um so yeah India is obviously buying more gold and India India has the world's largest uh private gold collection in the world. Indian ladies I suppose. Yeah it it's it's larger than all the gold reserves of the top 10 countries put together. So we have that uh silver also is important obviously. So is India preparing for war? I think India is preparing for all eventualities. Let's put it that way. The India's preparing for more volatility in the global economic and financial order. It makes sense the way things are going right now. Anik says which why are countries purchasing less US Treasury bonds? The US is adding $1 trillion debt every 75 days. It will cross 50 trillion in 2026. Where is this going? See US Treasury bonds. What's a Treasury bond? It's a bond, right? A US Treasury bond is a piece of paper that is worth a certain amount of money. It says maybe $100, maybe thousand, whatever, whatever. And if I am a sovereign nation, let's say I'm India, and I buy this one of these treasury bonds, let's say worth 100 rupees, $100, then the US owes me a $100. Now, why do nations buy this treasury bonds? Because historically, these treasury bonds were were good investments. you let's say you purchase a million dollars in treasury bonds and if the US dollar and the US e economy are strong then in two three years it may be worth $2 billion let's say hypothetically right so these are these used to be good investments but today the way the Americans are printing money recklessly these treasury bonds aren't good investments that's why nations are staying away from these treasury bonds which means then that and the way this whole thing is structured that's how the US gains money that's how the US becomes you it's it's it's able to purchase things from other nations and so on. Um so because of the way the Americans have been printing money recklessly the past few years especially since Obama came to power the US Treasury bonds are becoming less and less attractive as investments and that's why countries are now being very cautious about whether to purchase these bonds or not and people are countries are now increasingly uh opting not to purchase treasury bonds. Right? So where is this going? The US economy is a huge bobble. The US dollar is is backed by only brute military power. It has no real value of its own. It's just paper. It's it's worthless paper. Actually this entire global economy is the US bullying other nations to assign value to paper and by doing that they are able to control the world. One day this bubble is going to burst. So, Han Sharma says, "I want to I just want to leave a mark on those whom I talk to. How do I do that and create an interesting personality even though my life is boring?" Continued, "How do I make others want to know me and care about me? While trying to do this, I just end up copying personality of those I find interesting." Uh, will telling interesting stories help though I have no such stories. What can I do to leave a mark on people? What you can do to leave a mark on people is do some meaningful work. What makes a person interesting? You have to ask yourself this simple question. What makes a person interesting? Is it the way the person speaks? I mean look, there are people who don't really speak very well and yet they are fascinating. Look at Elon Musk. He doesn't have the most uh polished manner of speaking, right? He stutters, he stumbles, he does and all and yet he's fascinating. Okay? He does leave a mark on every person he speaks to. Okay? It's not because he has got an interesting personality. It's because he has he's doing extremely meaningful work which has made him very very rich, the richest person in the world. So my point is if you want to leave a mark on people you talk to, it's not by creating an interesting personality. Um it's not by copying the personality of people you find interesting. Okay? It's not by telling interesting stories. It's by being yourself. By becoming a person of substance. So you have to do something meaningful. Something that most people don't do. You have to find something like that from your you to first introspect. You to think about what are the things that you find interesting that you you find motivating. Don't think about today. Go back to the time when you were 5 years old. Most people can remember things from the when they were 5 years old. What interested you when you were five? What fascinated you? What did you want to do when you grew up? Who did you want to become when you grew up? Those are the things that that will motivate you for the rest of your life. Not not various uh passing fads or whatever. So find something meaningful, some kind of mission that you need to go on in your life. Okay? And uh maybe it cannot be your career. Maybe perhaps for for all for everybody you can't make your your your passion your career but you can keep it as a meaningful thing in life and work on that construct something build something create something that will automatically make you an interesting person okay then you don't have to speak in a fascinating way or something just be yourself and talk about what you're doing your passion will will shine through okay so telling interesting stories what's the point right what's the point. Whose stories will you tell? You have to tell your story. You have to talk about what you're doing. Uh so that's what you do. That's how you leave a mark on people. Uh why are fascinating people fascinating? It's not because of the way they speak or the way they dress or the way they look. It's because of what they do. That's what makes them fascinating. Every fascinating person is doing something meaningful, something that is impactful and something that most people can't do. That's what makes them interesting. Think about all the people that you find interesting, right? And ask yourself what is it that this which makes this person unique. Some of them may be good speakers and all that. But it's not generally that that makes them interesting. There are many people who are smooth talkers. No one cares. So be an interesting person. Do something meaningful and interesting. That is what will make you uh leave a mark on everyone you speak to. And it won't leave a mark on everyone you speak to. There is there will be some people who don't care. Well, who cares about them, right? Okay. All the best sir Anisharma. Okay. Vidi Mana Vidi G says Nepa virus. What's coming now? Especially for India. Look Vidi G. The world is full of viruses. Take a glass of sea water. This is not sea water but take a glass of sea water and put that under the electron microscope. You'll you'll find new viruses that humans have never seen before. The world is full of viruses. Viruses are genetic ideas. They're small. The viruses have small strands of DNA. Their their genome is typically much smaller than the human genome. And sometimes they do nothing. Most of the times a virus does nothing nothing to to humans. Sometimes they are kind of beneficial to humans. Which is why if you look at the human genome, a significant percentage of the human genome is actually absorbed viral genome. We have absorbed viral DNA and a lot of the DNA is is part of our DNA today. But there are some viruses that are bad genetic ideas and that they kill their hosts or or make life miserable for their hosts and those are the bad ones and it looks like this Nepa virus is one of those nasty ones perhaps. Um is it really becoming a problem in some parts of India? I'm not sure what's coming for especially for India. There's always some viruses floating around that that are potentially nasty. We have to be careful about them to identify them and take the measures to isolate them and so on. Hopefully this doesn't become a big deal. That's all all I can say at this point in time. I hope it doesn't become a big deal. Yeah. Anik says Rigveda mentions Sarasati as a river in its prime. So what is the real prime of Saraswati? 4,000 BC when monsoon started declining or 10,000 uh BC when satage goes east or 50,000 BC when the Yamuna goes west as far as we are concerned the last time the river was in her prime is the real prime there may have been other primes but from our perspective look what are we interested in all of us we are interested in having a reliably reasonably reasonably good date of the writing of the riged we want to figure out when the rigida was first written. Okay. And from that perspective which is the type the prime of the saraspati we are interested in the last time it was in its prime which is about 6,000 BC. The river Saraspati was last in her prime around 6,000 BC. That's when the Indian rainy season starts very gradually declining, monotonically declining and the river kind of dried out in the southern half of its course half around 2,000 BC or some around that time. So 6,000 BC is the time the river was last in her prime. There have been other it's it's been a long-lasting river you know. So all those other primes we are not concerned about. The last time the river was at her maximal prime which is about 6,000 BC. That's what we we are interested in. Of course, it's it's had all of that, right? The satlage goes east and all that all of that. But that's part of the older history which is not that relevant for our purpose which is the dating of the Riga. Harish Sharma says, "How do I increase my attention span whenever I'm taking a lecture? After every two minutes, my mind is wandering everywhere. I don't even watch reals." How do you increase your attention span whenever you are watching a taking a lecture? Well, one thing you can do is take notes. Take notes. Tell yourself every 30 seconds I'll write down a line of what I'm hearing the maybe the key words, maybe the important points. So, if you're doing something actively, you're forced to pay attention. If you're sitting and watching as if you're watching a movie, your mind will wander. But if you're doing something actively like what is the guy saying or the lady saying, "Ah, that's an important point. Let me write it down." So write down the key points that sort of thing thing stay active active active. As long as as you are actually actively doing something your mind won't really be able to wander. So that's what you do sir. Uh Han Sharma says did you get a chance to watch Tumbad? If yes tell us how you feel about it. I still haven't watched it. I'm not sure which uh OTT it's available on and u uh yeah so I haven't watched it yet but when I do watch it I will let you all know for sure. I obviously I know that it's a great movie. Right. An Diviu says, "Sir, you always recommend government reforms for education. Why not focus our energies on getting government out of the way and starting groundup alternatives?" Uh, okay. How do we do that is the question. Look, um, [snorts] in the current system, we vote for the government, we pay taxes to the government, and the government, which is made up of our elected representatives, carries out the work for us. That's the deal. And uh well in their wisdom they are not concerned about education. They think that the current education system is fantastic. Best best education system in the world. Yes. Outstanding. NP 2020. Brilliant. That's what they think. So in their mind it is great. In their mind maybe I'm an idiot. Okay. So then what do you do? Focusing our energies on getting government out of the way. How do you do that? You're talking about what are you talking about? Are you are you suggesting we we carry out a people's revolution? You can't do that. I mean you can but that that will not be great for the country because if you have an internal let's say completely hypothetical internal revolution in the country hypothetically I'm not saying I want it then national security becomes a casualty. Your neighbors will start biting at your borders and take out chunks of your territory. Right? That's a very genuine possibility. Your GDP will plummet. Your economy will crash. Your industries will will crash. There'll be chaos. Do you want that? We don't want it. So, what can we do to get the government out of the way? We can't do get it get it out of the way. So, the people we elect have to make changes. Or the alternative is that someday in the future, maybe 20, 50, 100 years down the in the future, some great leader will emerge will take the nation by the scruff of its neck and and just change the system and impose a new system on the on on the nation that will make the nation better because currently we have a rotten system actually, right? Starting groundup alternatives. What can we do to start a groundup alternative? Create an groundup education system. with that education system will it help people let's say we start a groundup alternative of a different education system as long as the current job market is such that it demands degrees if you create a new education system it won't be that relevant hopefully soon um we will have a situation where you know companies don't demand degrees they demand your your experience they they'll ask for what work have you done? What are you capable of? What skills do you have? In that case, in once that happens, the education system will slowly start becoming irrelevant. So, it's easy to talk about these things. Let's focus our energies on getting the government out of the way. But how do you practically do it? It's almost next to impossible. That's just the truth, right? I'm not being defeist or whatever here. I'm not being pessimistic. You can't take on the might of the state and try to get the government out of the way. Even if you succeed, you're going to harm the nation significantly. You know, don't do that. MKUP says, "Does INS vilization inch closer if does India's vasilization inch closer if Iran falls [snorts] somewhat somewhat?" Yeah, it it becomes slightly more likely that India will get vasized if Iran falls to some extent. Yeah, maybe 5%. Maybe so. Slightly more. Okay. Pranjal Chasia has gifted one channel membership. Thank you very much sir indeed. Thank you so much. Very kind of you. Abisha Shivasam says your views on Epstein files latest videos. I haven't seen any of the videos. I have seen whatever has come out on X on on what was formerly called Twitter the screenshots of whatever. I have not even opened the links or whatever. And uh what I have seen is that Trump is mentioned gazillion times. He seems to be one of the nastiest pieces of work on the planet. Trump, okay, an absolute I mean, I don't have the right words, polite words for him to describe the kind of person he is, Trump. And Howard Lutnik is another sob. So that's what I know about. I Nikki Haley is involved. The Clintons, I'm sure, are involved and so on so forth. Elon Musk is dancing around the periphery and some Indian politicians are trying to involve the Indian prime minister and who so on but it's not going to work out at all and some other Indian political connections seem to be there which I shall not mention here. Uh overall this is what I'm aware of. I've just glanced through things and I've been like disgusted with what I've seen especially Trump. Um I have not seen any of the videos. Thank you. I am not going to watch those. I have no interest in watching I mean spoiling my day and spoiling my appetite by watching those videos. I'm not going to watch that. Uh Net Grapp says age is a barrier to education in India but not in the US. I'm I've heard of a few people who complete their PhDs when they they're in their 60s or whatever. So it looks like at least for for the higher education PhD or whatever you can do it when you're in your 60s or even 70s I suppose. um when it comes to other degrees for let's say a master's degree or a bachelor's degree do is there you know maximum age limit or something okay let's see let's find out let's let's Google this um does India have a limit does India have an age limit for bachelor degree uh bachelor degree let's Do we have no maximum age limit? Uh there's a minimum age limit apparently. Yeah, minimum age of 17 or 18. But what if I'm a super genius at the age of 12? I want to do a bachelor's degree. They won't allow me. That is sad. So there is no u maximum. No, there's no upper age limit. What about a master's degree? Master's degree. Do we have something? Generally there's no upper age limit. Okay. No general age barrier. No age limit uh no restrictions uh some in rare cases specific specialized or government things may have age restrictions as part of their their uh institutions eligibility criteria. What about um um 12th standard 12 uh pass degree? Let's see. Do we have that? Generally no upper age limit. So even at the age of 35, you can get get your 12th standard done I suppose. Uh what about 10th? 10th. Let's see. Generally no maximum. Okay. So okay, we get it. All right. All right. All right. So age is a barrier to education in India. Not quite. Right. I mean there's no official barrier. Um yeah that's what we just saw. Maybe you're trying to say something else but I'm not able to get what something else could be. What we have seen is that there officially are no major barriers. Pratik Shinoi says who's winning the proxy war in Myanmar? Is India involved? India is not involved India is a spectator or if India is involved it may not be involved in the best possible way. Okay. I mean what's happening in Manipur is is is a disaster. Right now the media is not watching it because because the situation seems to have stabilized in the absolutely wrong way. It's the many person of foreign occupation at least half of it and the native people are are suffering. Now who's winning the proxy war in Myanmar? I haven't been keeping track of what's happening. There are all these little factions who are fighting each other. I think the government has kind of stabilized the situation to some extent. The government that's based out of Nyapido. Uh earlier the capital used to be Yangon Rangun now it's Nyapida. So I think uh there is some stabilization that's happened. It's not like the proxy war isn't raging that much but the northern uh the Chinese are definitely involved in the northern factions right and the northern factions are selling the rare earths to the Chinese and uh India may be involved in some you know diplomatic way or whatever to some extent but yeah we aren't fighting or or taking sides as far as I know in the fighting I could be wrong about that but not officially taking sides not officially taking sides Unofficially God knows what we are doing. Shashwat Ames says what are the difficulties of the next leader or prime minister of India? What are the difficulties the next leader or prime minister of India would face? PM will have PM Modi will have to choose his successor someday. Well, the prime minister Mr. Modi can choose a successor but he can only choose a a candidate for his successor. The people have to vote for that person, right? It's not like uh in the Chinese Communist Party when the polit bureau decides who's the next next leader. It's not like uh a dynastic rule where the king decides who the next which of his sons is going to be the next ruler. Um so what are the difficulties the next leader in the prime or prime prime minister of India will face whoever it is? Well, [laughter] I mean, it remains to be seen if they see it as a difficulty or as an asset. I mean, if they think that the bureaucracy is an asset, then that's not a difficulty for them. But if they really want to reform the country and reform the bureaucracy, that's going to be a big hurdle for them, a big difficulty. If they're trying to reform the bureaucracy, they're going to face all kinds of issues and lack of cooperation and whatnot potentially. Right? I'm not saying the bureaucracy is a necessarily evil or bad thing. There are plenty of fantastic great people in the bureaucracy, but overall it's it's in it's in desperate need of reforms. Um various other institutions that I shall not name here may not cooperate are definitely um in you know once again crying need of reform. uh getting the states to cooperate because India is a very federal nation and a lot of um you know a lot of areas are states state subjects so even if the government central government wants to do these certain things the states may not cooperate and there's nothing you can do about it right they to wait another five years for the government to hopefully change potentially so these are the these are the problems that India faces every leader of India faces and of course these are the internal problems I'm talking about the the education system. Obviously, I keep on talking about that. No one cares, I suppose. Um, the quality of the population, the population is is is hooked to the drug of of uh of of cash transfers, unconditional cash transfers. I mean, if you want to give cash transfers to people, those have to be conditional, right? Some some requirements have to be met, but no, this is all unconditional. So, some of these issues we only have created, this government has created. So all these issues the next leader will have to face. And if they are some are a if that person is a leader who wants to reform the country, they're going to face significant problems. If the person is someone who thinks the country is in the best shape possible, no problems whatsoever. Keep it going another 5 years. Okay. Hyphen says, uh, dumb question. No, there's no dumb questions. I know wormholes are like shortcuts, but does the speed of light speed limit still apply inside of a wormhole? Thank you. Yes, it does apply. The speed limit the speed of light limit does apply inside a wormhole. You can't break the limit the speed limit the limit of the speed of light inside a wormhole. A wormhole is is is like a bridge actually more than a shortcut. They are called Einstein holes and bridges and yeah if if matter is traveling inside a wormhole it can't break the speed limit the speed of light it can't. Okay but that's all hypothetical. Nobody has actually seen a wormhole. We don't even know if they like take question study that the wormholes want to snap shut immediately and turn into two black holes. But how do you keep them open is a question. So you may need exotic matter for that. Maybe a negative mass matter which nobody has ever seen. But according to the equations of physics, you can have negative mass matter, right? Um you can also use topological defects like um uh cosmic strings u to keep our mole potentially open but these are all exotic matter that nobody has seen but anyway anyhow to answer your question the speed limit does apply you can't break the speed limit inside of our molehuran says uh watched the movie arrival which introduced me to separ hypothesis on how language change perceptions. Could Sanskrit and meditation and our learning methods be the reason why our ancestors were so brilliant? Okay, I am not very familiar with this saper warf hypothesis. Okay, let's see. Warf uh what am I doing? WARF hypothesis. Okay, let's see what it says. The saper warf hypothesis or linguistic relativity proposes that the language a person speaks influences or determines how they perceive and think about the world. Oh, I completely agree with that. And people who think primarily pime primarily in English are dumber, stupider than people who think primarily in Sanskrit. No question about that. So, uh the language a person speaks suggests that no this this hypothesis suggests that grammatical and lexical structures shape cognitive patterns and worldviews making it easier or harder to conceptualize certain ideas and so on. [clears throat] I completely agree with this. I mean, I've not heard of this hypothesis, like I said, but it makes sense. I've I've thought about it along those lines, but not calling it the saber warf hypothesis. Of course, the language you speak influences the way way you think, it influences how intelligent or stupid you are. It does. If you speak a a crude language like English, if that is your primary language, you're going to be a little lower in intelligence and cognition and what not than somebody who speaks a high language like Sanskrit. But today, nobody speaks Sanskrit. Fortunately for the English speakers, we have killed Sanskrit in India. It survives as the vocabulary of the existing languages. But nobody actually speaks Sanskrit anymore. maybe a handful of people who speak it as the primary language I suppose. So I completely agree that Sanskrit and meditation and our learning methods were the reasons why our ancestors were so brilliant and and because we no longer speak Sanskrit. We no longer meditate and we have abandoned our indigenous learning methods. That's why Indians are so much lower in intelligence today compared to our ancestors. No question about that. I completely agree with you. Totally. the movie Arrival. Well, yeah, I saw that. It's more of an art film masquerading as a science fiction film and that's my opinion and it's an opinion that is not very popular but anyway yeah so I agree. Vin says they preach atheism and liberalism while worshiping pagan things of Mesopotamia and canonite uh that do wrongly interpretation horrific things in email. Yeah, the Epstein files. These people are monsters. They are pedophiles. They're cannibals. They're murderers. They're torturers. They are the most despicable human beings you can imagine. And they are ruling the most powerful country in the world. And even though this has been all released to the public, I doubt if anyone's going to be public going to be punished. I don't think uh Trump is going to be punished. I don't think uh Latnik is going to be punished. I don't think the Clintons will be punished. I don't think u um Nikki Haley is going to face any real issues, right? They're flaunting their invincibility to the world. So the nation that lectures the rest of the world about human rights and freedom and democracy and you know adopts this morally superior stance. This is the most depraved nation in the world. This nation was created out of genocide and slavery and now their rulers are are pedophiles and and murderers and and cannibals and whatnot. I mean that's the truth. Amisha says it's my birthday tomorrow. Well happy birthday to you in advance madam. Happy birthday. What's your best advice for me to excel as a student and grow as an individual? My best advice to excel as a student and grow as an individual. How to grow as an individual? You have to be you have to understand who you are. See most of us we don't even know who we are. Most people the things they say they are not the product of their own thinking. Most most people in the world they will absorb things from here there etc etc and then they will regurgitate that as if that is their own thinking but they have no original thoughts of their own um and they don't even know who they are who they really are scared to spend three three hours in the room alone by themselves they're scared so most people are like that so I would say you need to get in touch with who you really are you spend time alone you need to understand who you are and that will then inform you as to what decisions to take in life and what directions to go in. So, so uh that's one advice. That's how you grow as an individual by by introspecting. It's not you should spend 5 days out of seven introspecting. No, once in a while do that. Try and think about who you really are and what you you know what you're really about and all that. Uh how to excel as a student? How to excel as a student? If first advice, don't spend your entire day studying. You'll go crazy. Okay? your parents I mean many parents will tell students at least 8 hours a day you have to study ideally 12 hours a day you wake up study study until you sleep then go to sleep then next day repeat rinse and repeat that is terrible advice [clears throat] you should force yourself to study only within a certain time frame even if the exam is coming in two weeks time last 5 days maybe you can study 8 12 hours a day only the last few days that will ensure you don't get burned out mentally Otherwise you should ideally not study more than four to six maybe four hours a day. If you are reasonably intelligent four hours a day is enough. And by forcing yourself to do all your study in a in a certain amount of time you'll actually maximize the the the outcomes of your study. And that way you'll also be able to balance your out of balance your life and do interesting things beyond studying. So I'm not saying it should be four hours. You can decide whether it whether it's 4 hours or 6 hours or 3 hours or whatever. But that's how you excel as a student. You don't excel as a student by spending your entire time studying, right? Um yeah. All right. Happy birthday. Do well as always. Best wishes. Ainta Anand says, "Hep G wrote article for make in India. Now we know why our lobbying failed. Epstein was also targeting Indian women and after the USSR fall targeted Slavic women reason for children removal by Russians mother of New York City mayor is also in the files okay you mentioned a lot of things here uh Hardep Singh Puri so when everyone's writing about all kinds of nasty disgusting things to epsteep Singh Puri G is writing about making India man he was educated so Hardep Singh Puri the minister right he does figure in the epste files how how does he figure he's lobbying for India is lobbying for making India the one clean guy in the extinction file I suppose noteping puri um I don't know if that's why our lobbying failed or whatever did our lobbying fail okay the Americans obviously see our lobbying in the US will not work well because the Americans are pro Pakistan and they don't want India to do well that's why lobbying fails it if you have a smarter minister your lobbying will not work no matter who you have the Americans don't want India to succeed this is something you need to all understand. Okay. Now, Epstein was targeting Indian women. Okay. I've not seen that part of the Epstein files, but I'm sure he must have targeted all kinds of women. Uh and they would have targeted Slavic women. Of course, where there's misfortune, the vultures will circle, right? The vultures, the western vultures will circle wherever there is misfortune. After there was an earthquake in Nepal, the Christian missionaries started circling like vultures and they have successfully converted God knows how many Nepales after that. So these vultures they they they feed on misfortune. So yeah they I suppose lots of Slavic women were targeted and brought to the US and God knows what happened to them. Yeah. Uh reason for children removal by Russians. I don't know about that. Mother of Okay. So the New York City mayor is this Zoharan Mani character. His mother is Miran. Miran Naer the filmmaker and she was once married to a guy named Epstein but a different Epstein. And then she married the guy who allegedly is Zoharan Mandani's father and she is in the Epstein files. Uh that's what I know. I don't know in what capacity or what to what activities she's in the files but she's in the files. Nasty stuff. Okay. Vive Singh says uh how can the untapped potential of states like UP, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar etc be used? Their key for 10 10% of GDP growth is they are a massive workforce. See the states first of all they need top quality leadership that's one thing you need so at least Uttar Pradesh I know that the leadership is great it's Yogi Aditina G who's the leader I think he's a great leader I mean a gigantic state like Uttar Pradesh with the population higher than the US he's managing that and so there is that okay so first of all you need high quality leadership I'm not sure who's the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. Let's find out. Okay. See, as you know, I'm not keeping track of internal issues in India. Uh MPCM, who's this MPCM? Moanov. Okay. I'm not aware of uh his his work, so I would not comment about that. Bhar who's the Bihar CM. Okay. Mr. Nitesh Kubar, a pretty well-known gentleman. So, first thing you need is high quality leadership. Second, you need to end the alleged corruption that may exist. Uh what else can you do? You have all states compete with each other for per capita GDP or the highest GDP growth in the country. Compete in a healthy manner, right? You have all the states compete with each other uh for the most amount of investment they can they can garner uh for the for the highest GDP growth, for u the maximum amount of manufacturing they are doing and so on. So there are all kinds of creative ways to do it. Each state can have multiple special economic zones, sees that's how the Chinese, you know, jump started their economy. You can do all kinds of creative things in India. If you really want the nation to grow this un massive untapped potential, especially in places like Bihar, Magad, Kamar, that is that is the old that is the historic heartline of India. That's where all the great empires came from, right? The Moria Empire, the Gupta Empire, that's Mad. And today look at the state of the situation in Bihar. I mean there's so much potential there. So Ashoto Dar says government budget rare earth corridor. How important is securing met cap? Securing met cap. How much time do we have before China weaponizes it? Government budget rare earth corridor. Okay. So there is I I haven't seen the budget. Okay. By the way, I haven't seen the budget. I am not a if you ask me about the budget, I will not know what to say because I haven't studied it. It's it's come out today, right? The new budget. Uh so I'm not aware of this rare earth corridors thing. So I can't say about that. How important is securing metrif cap? What's a met cap, sir? What's a metrif cap? How important is securing a met cap? Uh what's a met cap? I'm I'm not sure. Sir, I'm so sorry. I probably I'm dumb. I'm not able to understand what a met cap is. Metal riff cap. I I'm I'm so sorry. I'm not able to get it. Sorry. Sergeant Skylan says, "Hi. Well, hello. Does India really benefit from having defense platforms from multiple countries instead of a single country? Uh, does it cause communication issues? It doesn't cause communication issues. It causes logistical issues. Let's say you're talking about the Air Force. The Air Force, what kind of aircraft does the Air Force have? The MiG 21 is now phased out. We have the Jaguars, we have the Mirage 2000s. Um, we have Mig 29s, we have Sukoy 30 30 MKIs, we have the Tajis aircraft. So that's at least five different kinds of fighter planes. Then we have various kinds of so if you have five different kinds of fighter planes they all have different characteristics they used for different purposes but if you have lots of different kinds of fighter planes you need different you know you need to supply them with spare parts of course after some time you need to change spare parts for a fighter plane or any aircraft so you will need so many different supply lines but if all your manufacturing is done all the equipment is manufactured let's say in one country India itself then is so much easier to get all the spare parts Right? For if you are buying some uh defense equipment, let's say the Chinook helicopters from the Americans, then there there's going to be additional layers of bureaucracy to get the stuff that you know that you want. Maybe the Americans are unleashed with you. Then they will delay the supply of the spares and so on, right? So it's a problem. So ideally, you want everything to be manufactured in your own country. That's the ideal situation, right? Um in that case there's not going to be any issue. So it's not about communication issues. It's about logistical issues. It's about spare parts and it's also about politics and geopolitics you know diplomacy as well. Prattana says Indians were making fun of Pakistan a few years ago for JF17's inferior Russian engine but they are able to export it and fly it but our thing is kind of dead. Uh which thing is kind of dead? You're talking about the Indian engine, the cavary engine. I'm not sure what this what the deal is with the cover engine but apparently we are going ahead with Safhon the French company to manufacture a completely new engine which will serve um you know which will be the right one for our requirements that will take a few years. The JF7 uses a Russian engine. Now I'm not aware of Indians making fun of the Pakistanis and the JF7. The JF7 is a decent aircraft. I suppose it's a derivative of the big 21. So the the Chinese took the Mig 21 and you know improved upon it and created this JF7 and that's what the Pakistanis fly and the Chinese obviously for the longest time they didn't not have their own jet engines that's why it uses Russian engines. Um have the Pakistanis exported the JF7 somewhere? I'm not sure. Maybe a couple of nations may have taken it. So okay good for the Pakistanis. uh our engine the caviri engine it has never got under sufficient funding and I don't know what the such a story is with cowi but yeah we are going with u new French deal so we'll see about that simply aweb says what exactly led to ultimate breakin what exactly led to ultimate breakin in India was it because we were too kind that we forgave multiple times or we became arrogant also Indian history book recommendations If you want Indian history book recommendations, well, I'm going to have to uh I'm going to have to uh point you towards my older videos for history book recommendations. First of all, let's do that. Okay. Uh you go to my channel. Here's my channel on the screen. You go to the videos tab that we are on. You go to the oldest And you see these these these cringe thumbnails. Uh which are the best books for learning Indian history? It's a 13-minute video. I've got some recommendations there. Uh so so that is the deal. Now what led to the ultimate breakin in India? Are you talking about invasions of India? Um was it because we were too kind to be forgive multiple times? No, it is none of these things. It is because we were not politically unified under a single empire. It's because we were politically fragmented. At the time when the Turks started invading, attempting to invade India, you did not have a single empire in India like during the Morian period or the Gupta period and so on or the Kushan period. That's when the whole of the subcontinent was unified under a single empire. When you had that situation in India, nobody could invade you. But when the Turks started invading 10,000 AD approximately before that actually before that at that time India was divided into small kingdoms and that's why because we were not politically unified that's why the Turks eventually started gradually succeeding okay that's what happened slow that's a great name like fast snail [laughter] thank you so much thank you anu says why didn't the US ensure its European and East Asian vasals maintained enough relative power to offset the rise of China seeks like a seems like a geopolitical blunder. The Americans had gone had grown very complacent. So they started the Americans started aiding and abetting and midwifing the rise of China um after somewhere around the early 1970s. Okay. In 1969, the Chinese and the uh Russians the Soviets almost went to war and the Americans saved the Chinese from being nuked by the Soviets and that's when the the process of the the begins the thaw between the two countries. Eventually, China starts very cautiously, very gradually opening up its economy and and and starting they start manufacturing stuff for the Americans in China in Chinese factories starting with screwdriver stuff, you know, very basic assembly and all but eventually they they become slowly bigger in 1990s onwards they start shooting up their economy. So the Americans were under the delusion that if the Chinese uh economy is allowed to grow and China becomes gradually more prosperous they Americans were under under the illusion that China will then become democratic. I mean they actually believe that nonsense and that's why they did not make their uh other vasa of the region Japan, South Korea etc stronger. They actually weakened Japan 1990s onwards 1980s onwards right they weakened Japan they they did the plaza accords that slowly gradually deflated and shrank and sank the the Japanese economy. Japan is now a middle-income nation. It's no longer a high income nation. The Americans did that to Japan. So the Americans were deluded. I suppose they thought that the Chinese will become democratic. Well, the exact opposite happened. China has become an empire. Okay. Rajuran Rajar Rajar says, "By the way, no Epstein file leak from September 1 only October and November." September01. Only October and November. Okay. I'm not aware of that. Maybe that's an interesting point. Yeah. Okay. Rajun Rajar says, "Last time you were pro proven wrong besides the Iranian invasion." Ah, last time I was proven wrong. Um, last time I was proven wrong was one of the times recently I was pro proven wrong was when I said that India that operation Synindur will will cause a change of territory. I have this tweet. Okay, you want to see me proven wrong. You enjoy that? Does it make you happy? Yeah. Let me make you happy then. Give me a second. Let me pull up Twitter and let's go to my profile. Okay. Let me please you to show you how I was pro wrong. So, I have this Twitter account. Um, and we go to May. Uh, let's say one second. Let me just search for it. We are at war. Uh, we are at war. Let's see. Do we find that? No, the Twitter search isn't great actually. Let's see. War. Um, war, war, war. Okay, this one. So, here is me being proven wrong. We are at war, friends. Within the next 12, two to 14 days, India will inflict in inflict a comprehensive military defeat on Pakistan. The borders will change permanently. Clearly, I was wrong. Clearly, I was too optimistic. Does that please you? Are you pleased now? [laughter] All right. V Hung Kuran says, "Hello, Abjit. How are you doing?" I'm doing great. How are you doing? I hope you're doing good. I had a question. What exactly lies in the region between the two entrances of a wormhole? Also, can a collapsing and unstable wormhole turn into a black hole? Let me answer the second one first. A collapsing and unstable wormhole. All wormholes by definition are actually unstable. They will not turn into a black hole. They will turn into two black holes. So, you have a wormhole like this. Uh let's let's see the an illustration of a wormhole on on on Google. Yeah. Uh wormhole. Okay. So these are your artistic definition representations of wormholes. But see over here you have okay this is a this is science fiction. Sorry other universe. Uh let us where can I find a simple simple diagram of a wormhole. Okay, here we have a wormhole. There's a left entrance and a right entrance, right? And in between there's there's this bridge, the neck of the wormhole. Wormholes want to the the the neck the neck of the wormhole wants to snap shut as soon as possible. Okay. So, what happens is that wormholes are unstable and the neck snaps shut and that gives rise to two black holes. That's what happens. So those two entrances become two black holes and that's what happens. I mean as per the equations. Okay. Uh so what exactly lies in the region between the two entrances of the wormhole? The neck the throat of the wormhole which is the region that connects these two disparate regions of spaceime. It's it's like a shortcut you can say right. It's like a tunnel that you can go through. Well that's what science fiction movies tell you. But actually it's unstable and it snaps shut and that gives you two black holes. So as long as the tunnel the the throat exists you have a tunnel essentially or a shortcut between two very vastly disperate regions of spaceime that's what you have praumar says should India lead a group like the OIC to protect Hindu Buddhist and dharmic cultures safeguard communities and strengthen times ties among dharmic nations I would love if that happens but the government of India is a secular government and it will never do this as a secular government you can only appease the external religions that are that exist in the country. You can't appease the indigenous religions or if you appease indigenous religions, you can't appease what is called Hinduism. You can appease Buddhism, Sikhism, Janism, whatever elseism, but you can never appease Hinduism. See, India is a Hindu phobic apartheid state. India is the world's most hindophobic country. This will never happen. Never happen. So, it's just the truth. Yeah. Virtually present says US pays more interest on debt than their defense budget. Countries aren't buying bonds after the Russia asset freeze. AI says they AI says they can't just print dollars. Thoughts big fan. Thank you. You're very welcome. Thank you very much. Um countries. Yeah. So now those Treasury bonds are not that attractive. Nations aren't buying those treasury bonds and that's a problem for the US. Now, what how do how to run the scam? Now, that's the question. The US dollar scam, the dollar is a scam. It's it's it's a bubble, right? It's a worthless piece of paper, but it has value because the Americans enforce that the value of the dollar through their military muscle. Um, but you now increasingly see nations move away from the dollar. You have the Saudis selling oil to China and getting yuan in exchange instead of dollars. uh you have the India EU trade deal which is obviously not going to be in dollars right obviously it's the India and the EU India is purchasing Russian oil in rupees the BRICS nations also don't want the dollar US dollar nations are selling off their US dollar assets and purchasing gold and so on right so u eventually the world will move away from the US dollar which is a complete scam that's why so many nations are now going after gold physical gold. Um, so my thoughts, what are my thoughts? This entire thing, the entire global economic order that is that is based on the supremacy of the US dollar, it's a scam. And this this scam has allowed the US to print worthless paper money and buy real things in exchange from from the rest of the world in exchange for pieces of paper. It's a scam, right? And the sooner it ends, the better it is for the rest of the world. And AI says they can't just print dollars. They can print dollars. I mean, they can create virtual imaginary dollars in computers and turn them into real currency. They can. I I'm not sure what AI actually means by that, but the Americans, they virtually print billions of dollars every day. Okay. Aman Kumar Dhankar says the naval buildup can even look east also a naval buildup can look 360° if there's a naval buildup by the Americans in the sea of Saashtra which they call the Arabian Sea right let's say there's a naval build up by the Americans in the in the sea of Saashtra right this place here well it can look west it can look at Oman and Yemen it can look at the Gulf of Oman it can look at the Hormmo state it can look northwest at Iran It can even look east. It can even look south. So it is what it is. Yes. It is what it is. It can look east. Okay. Prardana says on UPI Hapl group R1B origin is east of Iran. That is so naughty. Very naughty. How can it be east of Iran? That's a very naughty place, isn't it? [laughter] Hlo group A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A RB the HLO group of the Yamnaya. The so-called Yamna. So what is upedia? First of all, let's find out what is upedia. UPedia ecology, map, statistics, etc. European European prehistory. Okay, let's see what about R1B. R1B HL group R1B YDNA. So ital let us see. Oh, what am I doing? I'm I'm showing you something else. Give me a second. Okay, I was aware the map was still on the screen. Okay. So I've opened updia and I have this thing about uh hypoglob yDna u origins and history hypstar in north Asia. Okay. Okay etc etc. Raavan blah blah blah. The oldest forms in R1B are found dispersed at very low frequencies from Western Europe to India. Vast region. Uh, Haplo, R1B, Western, South Asians. Um, three main branches all seem to have stemmed from the Middle East. Okay. So, it has got various ways of looking at this. But if it says that it was the origin was east of Iran, well that's a very naughty statement to make because that kind of destroys the arin invasion, migration, tourism, picnic theory, right? Nan Parik says, "Where did you get your PhD from?" I do not have a PhD. I almost got got a PhD almost. I submitted my PhD thesis, but at the end of the day, I never got the PhD. So I don't have one even though I did all the work. Raml Buju says good deeds done by Gandhi and Nehu for India. No. Good deeds done by Gandhi and Neu for India. No, you tell me. Uh Arian Sorti says, "Does India hold air superiority over Pakistan?" India does because of its overwhelming missile advantage. Okay. And also the air Indian air force is overall superior to the Pakistani air force somewhat not by a great deal but the missile advantage we have is overwhelming and that's why we have air superiority over the Pakistanis right I mean uh how did we achieve air superiority during operation sindur through those missile and drone strikes initially it's only after softening up the Pakistanis and wiping out their air defense radars and all that's when the Indian air force probably was was allowed to go and was was able to go and strike at will. That's on day three or something. So yeah, we do have air superiority because of our missile advantage. J no KJ Wonders says who is a financially independent man. A financially independent man is somebody who doesn't have to take orders from anyone that be here and so and so time and spend these many hours working for me. That sort of thing. If you're financially independent, you can decide what you want to do with your life. If today morning you wake up and say that I'll go and watch three movies, you can go and watch three movies. If today morning you wake up and say, you know what, I want to travel to so and so place, you can do it. That's a financially independent person. Some are more independent. Some somebody could say that tomorrow morning I want to wake up and go to Switzerland. You could do that. For some people it may be tomorrow morning I'll go and uh visit the next city. So different levels of financial independence. But financial independence means you are not under any obligation to anybody. You have no debt. And secondly, you can live your life without having to work. That is financially financial independence. Actually uh financially independent of also means that you know what you are not for those of you who are starting out in life. Financial independence means having a source of income for which you have to work which means you are no longer financially dependent on your parents or family. That's also a form of financial independence. But for that you have to work. But genuine financial independence means you don't have to work. You do what you enjoy. And even if you don't work, you have sufficient money to to take care of your life. So that is the real financial independence. Prataradana says it's first fair and no engine delivered by GE. Yeah. You see that's how reliable our American friends are. We have a we have a deal. We we have paid the money but they are not delivering engines. They are trying to kill the the program and shame on India for believing them. Shame on India for for actually believing that if you sign a contract with the Americans they will honor it. Seriously so incredibly shortsighted of the government of India for actually believing that the Americans won't use these things to arm twist India. Yeah, we are learning the hard way through the through pain. I am Pratish says, "Is quantum technology the future? Quantum computing and quantum machine learning? Where does India stand? Where should I pursue MSE in IT at TUM Germany or in India amid global tensions?" Uh first of all to answer your other second question, where should you pursue MSSE? pursing your MSE in the best university you can get into and I promise you if you can get into any university outside of India it's going to be better than Indian universities especially if it's a western university if it is western if it is TUM Germany I don't know what TUM Germany is but if it's T if it's in Germany it probably is going to be better than any Indian university in including IIT and whatn not the Indian education system is garbage it is trash so I will recommend to all students try to go abroad code for education if you can afford it otherwise please don't do it if you can't afford it if your parents you don't want your parents to take huge loans right um so if if that's the case then I would say stay in India but if you can get get a scholarship or if you can your parents can afford it or if you can afford it then go and get an education outside of India because western education is always superior to the garbage trashy Indian education system uh that's my deal about where to get your MS MSC from uh even if you have global tensions and all you can still get a degree in a foreign country and if you if required come back to India if you can afford it as always. Now is quantum technology the future? Are quantum technologies the future? Even slowly quantum technologies will become more and more u you know available and uh eventually affordable. So right now look you can't have a phone that runs on a quantum computing chip right it's it's your classical standard computing chip that it runs on but eventually in maybe 15 20 years you may have maybe not phones but computers that may have quantum computing abilities so eventually it's going to become more and more widespread quantum computing quantum technologies right and it's not for everything I mean if you want to do your regular work you don't need quantum computer for that quantum computers will have very specific applications. So yeah, eventually it's going to become widely adopted. No question about that. Quantum computing, quantum machine, I'm not sure about quantum machine learning. I've not thought about that. But quantum computing, yes. Right. There are some problems that your standard classical computers can't solve or can't solve any in a reasonable amount of time. And quantum computers can do that because of the quantum properties that are used quantum superposition, entanglement and all that. Um so yeah it is going to be the future. Not everything is going to be quantum computing but some of the things that you will have quantum computers computers take care of that right. Provin J says there is a tweet dated 171125 still present of Mr. Ashwin Vashnov showing Bhutan as a part of India in the map. Has India Bhutan reached any kind of agreement or understanding? Let's find out. Uh it is a tweet by Mr. Ashwini Vnau. Okay. Ashwini Wnau. Okay. Where is his Twitter? Where's his Twitter? His Twitter is here. So, his Twitter, his tweet is from 171125. Let's find out. Let's just scroll down. Scroll down. 171125. He tweets a lot, does he? Oh god, that's going to be a while. Um, January. Oh, okay. It's only showing up to there. Maybe I should see somewhere else. Uh anyway, so let's not go and look at the tweet. So the question you ask is has have India and Bhutan reached some kind of agreement or understanding? I wouldn't know about it. I I wouldn't know. I have no privileged access to um confidential information from within the government. I don't have any of that. So I can't say clearly Indian Bhutan have a have a pretty good relationship. Um and Bhutan I mean Bhutan sees India as it as its protector right. Bhutan essentially is an Indian protectorate. It's a very small nation can't defend itself from a nation like China. So it needs Indian protection. So clearly there is a special relationship. But has is have the two nations reached an agreement or understanding of merger? I I would not know about it. Hyphen says, "In India's GDP is nearing $5 trillion, but but with 1.5 billion people. How meaningful is that figure compared with smaller economies that have far fewer people?" It's a great question. It's a it's a simple question of GDP per capita. You take your GDP, annual GDP, where let's say it's 5 trillion. You divide it by the population, 1.5 billion people, right? That gives you a GDP per capita of 2 something,000 USD which is poultry poultree right so actually we are a poor nation we are a low-inccome nation and if you compare it with a small economy with far far fewer people you will see those nations have way higher standards of living because the GDP per per capita may be like 10 times that of India. What is Japan's GDP per capita? Let's find out. A much smaller nation. Okay, forget about Japan. Let's say Switzerland. What is Switzerland's population? It's about 9 million, right? It's it's it's peanuts compared to India. Switzerland GDP per capita. [laughter] uh nominal GDP per capita is uh $111,000. So Switzerland's GDP per capita is about 50 times that of India. 50 times roughly roughly give or take. That tells you that the quality of life in Switzerland is way higher. Obviously Switzerland is a very expensive country. Go there and you'll find out. Everything is super super expensive but they can afford it right. So GDP per capita is the real indicator or measure of what kind of living standards a country will have. Obviously, it's not the only thing that contributes to living standards. If your country has a high GDP per capita, but it's super corrupt, you're going to still have all kinds of problems. But overall, it's a good indicator of your quality of life and living standards. Jin Kumar says, "How to keep gut healthy? Eat lots of vegetables, eat lots of fiber, eat probiotic things like yogurt, curd, all of that. uh eat fermented stuff like sauerkraut or kimchi or just eat a good clean healthy Indian diet. Your get gut will remain healthy. Fast snail says why did the EU free trade agreement take decades? Do EU nations get to override the EU trade agreements? Does India need to deal with each country separately or not needed? India doesn't need anymore to deal with each country separately. India is going to have India is going to deal with the EU as a block of 27 nations. No need for separate dealings with each individual country. Uh do EU nations get to override the EU trade agreements? I don't think they can override the EU trade agreements. Why did the EU FDA take decades? Because the EU was not that interested in in doing this at the in the beginning. So this deal is has been at least 20 years probably more than that in the making and the negotiations were stop start negotiations and the EU most likely wasn't that interested in FD with India. 20 years ago India's GDP was like way way lower than what it is today. Right? 10 years ago India's GDP was half of what it is today and 10 years before that it would have been another half of that. So maybe uh what was India's GDP in um 2006? India GDP in 2006 what was it in US dollars man? USD okay it was less than a trillion and what was EU GDP in 2006? EU's GDP in 2006 was 12 trillion. India was not even 1 trillion. So they didn't care at the time, right? It was not that important. But now what's happened is that Trump has come in the way and he's bullying everybody and he's disrespecting the EU and he's making life miserable for them and for India. So now it makes sense for us to have a FDA beneficial for both sides. India is a much bigger economy now. Right? So that's how it it goes. You know if you are less important people don't care. Vinit says India was so chad and based from 70 to 75 punching above its weight risk-taking based RNW information bureau in Indra Gandhi poor but with blade like Iran after 1990 graph gone so down appeasement coalition so after the '90s you had all these coalition governments governments that would last three months and go three months and go three months and go you I don't know what kind of prime ministers let me try and remember the names of the prime ministers You had a gentleman called Mr. Chandra Shakhar. You had a gentleman called Mr. HD Deviodora. You had a u a gentleman called Mr. Aik Gujaral, Indra Kubar Gujaral. Uh then you had coalition governments that came and went. The Waj governments came and went a couple of times. Then you had Mr. P Noimar Rahu's government lasted five years and yeah in the '90s India was a very different country, right? Wasn't it? You also had the VPC government that brought in reservations and Mundal commission things and all that and made a huge mess and left a mess that we are still dealing with. So the '90s was this very turbulent time. The USSR had collapsed. India's big daddy was gone. India did not have great leadership at the time. Um I'm sure I've missed some prime minister prime ministers but that's okay. I'm sure. Um so it was a period of chaos and uncertainty and instability in India. Poor leadership I would say no disrespect meant or intended to the to the the gentleman I named. I'm just saying overall if you have instability if you have uh if you don't have political continuity if you have governments that come in 3 months and go obviously the leadership is going to be poor because there's no time for a leader to make any kind of uh contribution. Um so that's how it was. That's how it was. And then yeah, you had yeah appeasement and coalitions and Mundal commission and the introduction of of of of uh reservations, the further consolidation of divisions in society, artificial divisions, all of that. Yeah. Baser Bandit says, "One suggestion you can consider using the 60-cond intro from Geost Strategy episodes here in live streams. those 60 seconds with that specific music is one of the coolest things on YouTube. Okay, how about I consider bringing Geost Strategy back itself perhaps? Let me think about that. Then I could use it for that. Maybe I can create a new intro for this one. Have been created. Let's see. Anyway, thank you for the suggestion. Shatabish says, "Our R&D to GDP poor for years. Why low contribution from private sector even with naturally guaranteed high ROI when government's spending government's actually spending decently in comparison? Uh yeah the private sector obviously see there are there are issues all around there are issues in the government there are issues with the bureaucracy you have the private sector okay I mean take the example of Barat Forge by Baba Kalyani okay they manufacture some of the best artillery in the world barat Forge Barat Forge okay they manufacture some of the best artillery pieces in the country and all kinds of other But they don't get orders from the government of India. So who's responsible for that? So you have examples like Barat Forge that do good work but they don't get orders. And then you have other private sector companies that maybe are not interested in um in R&D. So yeah, I mean R&D is something that takes time. You have to invest a lot of money into it. That's what the Americans do. They invest billions of I mean American private companies like Google like Alphabet Microsoft etc. They invest billions and billions of dollars. Look at OpenAI. They have invested how much money into R&D. That's why they are able to be world leaders, market leaders in with the cutting edge technologies. In India, the I I suppose the older entrepreneurs are simply not interested in that. They just want to have an easy way of making money. One of the easiest ways of making money all the way from the 80s 90s onwards was labor arbitrage. So we have a this big pool of software developers in India. America has fortune 500 companies. In the US, if you have if you're a software developer, you can charge maybe $100 an hour hypothetically. But in India, if if I am a company who's who's employing software engineers, I can pay a software engineer 10,000 rupees a month. That's peanuts. 10,000 rupees a month is what? It's it's a $100. I'm charging 100 and and and a US software engineer will charge a $100 per hour from uh from the Fortune 500 companies. So I will bill every hour at $20, okay, to the American company and pay $100 a month to my to each individual. I mean imagine the amount of money I can make through labor arbitrage. So you have these easy ways of making money. then why invest in why do R&D and all who cares that's the kind of mindset Indians the Indian private sector has had for a very long time right so there have been these issues in India that's why we are where we are Rahul Lak says what are the odds of micro black hole in the solar system well depends on the size of the micro black hole right depends on the size not not the size the mass um there a different [snorts] how large, how massive could a micro black hole be? We don't know. I mean, if micro black holes were produced in the very early universe, okay, um 13.8 billion years ago and if they have been because black holes evaporate, right? They lose mass. So if they have been evapor evaporating then so if if some of them still survive then they would be like lunar mass sized the size of the moon mass of the moon roughly that's a pretty massive mass uh no if their original initial mass would have been lunar size and that's why we would be able they would still be uh evaporating today but they would be dying out today. So um the odds of a micro black hole maybe planet 9 whatever they call it maybe it's a micro black hole of some kind maybe it's a black hole hanging out in the fringes outer fringe of the solar system and uh maybe that's what where we are able to not we are not able to find it but we are able to see that the orbits of the outer solar system bodies are all perturbed and out of uh you know out of they are no longer in the plane of the solar system. Maybe there's something out there. Maybe the planet 9 the what we think is a planet planet may actually be a micro black hole. Maybe a small black hole. Maybe moon size moon mass black hole. What's the schwartzfield radius of a moon mass black hole? Maybe maybe this much this much with the mass of the moon. Yeah, that's a possibility. So it's possible but it's highly unlikely. Highly unlikely. I mean and if you're talking about real micro black holes then they would have radiuses smaller than the atomic radius like if it's a plank size plank mast a plank mass micro black hole it's it's its size would be less its size would be less than the uh distance between the between the nucleus and the electrons of of a hydrogen atom. Okay, Abishek Singh says, "Your viewer since 5.3 years. Thank you for everything. Thank you so much for being a viewer for 5 5.3 years. It really means a lot. It's been a pretty interesting journey." But it's I'm still doing this because of people like you. So I really really appreciate it. I'm I'm very thankful to Obishek Singh, you and all the other viewers. Thank you so much everyone. Nin Johan says, "Administration just did a Pearl Harbor on General Cast. No matter which government it seems general cast is for paying taxes and getting abuses, systematic subversion to erase our identity. People this time are in pain. What can I say? Like I have said many times before, India is the world's most hindophobic country. It's a hindophobic apathide state. U if you're a Hindu you have more rights outside of India than inside India in most countries in the west you have more rights you have more equality and one of the things people face in India is this this artificial segregation of so-called casts and the the permanent categorization of certain casts so-called casts as permanent oppressors and certain casts are then categorized as permanent victims and everyone's in the race to the bottom everyone wants to be a backward backward cast or backward class or backward this or schedule this or schedule that a rotten system and our politicians are making it worse horrible what can I say they claim these politicians of yours who who you vote for that they don't believe in cast you talk to them they'll say that one of the biggest problems in India is cast so if it's a problem why don't you annihilate cast make India a castless society remove every mention of cast from every every official document. Make cast irrelevant. If you want to give reservations because otherwise you won't you will not get votes. Then give reservations based on each family's economic status, economic condition, financial condition. Those who are below the poverty line or near the poverty line, give them reservations. Maybe for 10 years, for 20 years, but not permanent, right? This politician, these are the solutions, simple solutions to the country's problems. These actually can be implemented. But your politicians they don't want to do this. They want to keep dividing the country. All the politicians that's the problem. Honey Sharma says I don't want to jinx it but yesterday how India flattened New Zealand I think no way we are not willing the 2020 World Cup in February that to India. What do I think? I haven't really followed this New Zealand series or whatever came before. Uh so I'm not sure. Uh yesterday there was a match right and Ishan Kishan hit a century in I 42 balls. I I hear and he was not in the team for a long time. A guy of his caliber is kept out for non- cricketing reasons. Um strange even even Shami Mohammed Shami why is he not in the team? He's one of the best bowlers in the world. He's not in the team for what reason? I don't understand. Anyway, that that's a different story. Um so India flattened New Zealand yesterday. Did India bowl very well? I think Bumbra was taken all over the place. That's what I saw from the figures. So Bumrah doesn't seem to be in good form for whatever reason. But uh the lefty what's his name? Arshib he got five. So yeah I do I I do look at the scorecards and all. I don't watch this stuff a lot these days. Um so and Suri Kumar also is getting runs now. Is he good for him? Anyway I hope I hope we win the World Cup. When the world cup happens if we are progressing to higher stages I certainly will watch the matches. Uh maybe the quarterfinals and do we have quarterfinals? Maybe the knockout matches and the semi-finals and final I'll watch if we are playing. Let's see. I hope we win. Of course. Pratam Sunni says, "How to develop critical thinking in any daily habits?" How to develop critical thinking? First start by asking questions about everything. Let's say uh so and so minister makes a statement. Ask yourself is this true? Find out how to do some learn how to fact check that. So the first see I can't give you a long answer here about how to do critical thinking. But I'll tell you this at the basis of critical thinking is asking questions. Being skeptical. How do you how can somebody be skeptical? By asking questions. By doing factchecking. Somebody says something. Don't just believe it. Ask yourself is this true? In what circumstances could it be false? How can I find out? And that's that's sort of thing that leads to this habit of and and this the skill of critical thinking. MK says what's your view on MM Kiraavani the music composer of Bahubali and RR is he a musician or a music music music engineer like Rahman I not very familiar with his work I I think I watched some of RR I don't remember the music from that Bahubali one I haven't seen Bahubali 2 I did watch the music was all right I suppose but apart from these two movies I'm not aware of Mr. Kiraani's work. So I could not possibly comment. Um yeah I'm not sure. Yeah Raman not a fan of him. Um Kirwavani I'm I'm not sure. Not sure. Krishant Baloy says in the budget government of India has said that they will start promoting Tibetan Buddhism in the northeastern states. You think it's to combat conversion and in the long long term make the majority again revert to Buddhism? I heard that there's going to be a Buddhist circuit in the northeast of India including Manipur and Assam and whatnot. Uh there has never been Buddhism in Manipur. Never. There's never been Buddhis Buddhism in Manipur. The indigenous polytheistic culture of Manipur is called Sana Mahisam in English. And for the past several centuries, the primary culture has been mixture of version of Hinduism and and what they call salamism right that there's never been Buddhism in Manipur the other northeastern states I'm not sure but I kind of get it kind of get it if the government promotes Hinduism it becomes a a communal government but if you promote Buddhism then you are being secular right so I see the issue in in what we call the northeast the far east of India is this industrial scale conversion of people that's happened there by American missionaries helped by various Indian governments So if you want people to come back to indigenous culture maybe you can do it through Buddhism perhaps Tibetan Buddhism any form of Buddhi Buddhism I suppose it's fine. So maybe that is the intention and if if so I'll say okay I'm not sure what what Buddhism has to do with Manipur. I'm not sure about that but okay at least it's not some some other foreign religion I suppose. Okay. So Bishak Singh says what's the history of Vishnovism and Abhira Gopas tribe of India? Are they related to modern A Yadas and Ahir people of North India? What's the origin of both? I have no idea. The Abhira Gopas tribe of India tribe. See we don't have tribes in India. First of all please use please use um non incorrect terminology. I'm not scolding you or criticizing you. I'm saying let's understand what a tribe is. Okay. What is a tribe? A tribe is a small group of isolated people who live in some isolated region. Maybe you're on a hill, maybe in a forest. That's a tribe. Typically maybe 100 people, maybe 500 people, maybe thousand people. That's a tribe. It's a small group of people who live in isolation from the rest of humanity and who are pretty primitive. That's a tribe. In India, we don't have tribes. Rigidic tribes. You idiots. The Rigidic tribes, the Rigidic people gave rise to the greatest civilization we know. They were not they were not tribes. They were clans. So these you could say these are clans possibly. I don't know who the abas and goas are. I have not studied their history. So I don't really know whether they are related to the yadavah. I I don't know. I don't know. Okay. I don't know their origins. I have not studied their history. What's the history of Vishnuism? Uh it's this it's the worship of Lord Vishnu. Lord Vishnu is one of the three major gods in what we call Hinduism in English. Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva, right? The trinity and the trinity are essentially the same god but different facets of the same god. Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva. Um, so Vishnu, the worship of Lord Vishnu is Vishnuism and typically you do it in the form of the worship of the avatars of Lord Vishnu mainly Shri Ram and Sri Krishna. That's Vishnuism. It's very ancient. Uh that's what what I can say. Pascal Bandit says, "Question from Star-Lord 32 3721. From a geopolitical perspective, how did the 1966 rupee devaluation affect India's monetary influence in the region in the role of the rupee in neighboring economies like INR and Gulf? See the Indian rupee was used as the primary currency in the Gulf region. You had the Trucial Gulf States." Okay. The trcial states, trillial. [snorts] Okay. The group of seven shikdoms in the Persian Gulf that entered into protective treaties between with Britain between 1820 and 1892. Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharah, Ajan, Umar Aluain, Rasal Khima and Fujira. They are now the UAE. Okay. They became the UAE in 1971. So the true shell states okay they used the Indian rupee until the 19 yeah until around 1960 something u INR the Indian rupee the Indian rupee was the de facto currency of the crucial states until 1959 um and India introduced the Gulf rupee in 1959 which circulated until 1966 and the devaluation of the Indian rupee in 1966 led to the introduction of the dirham eventually in the UAE Right. So that obviously was a blow to India's u to to India's standing in India's influence in the region economic influence in the region the 1966 rupee devaluation it certainly was uh a blow to India's influence in the region imagine if that had not happened then even today the Indian the RBI's Gulf rupee would would be the primary currency in the UAE in the in the in the in the Gulf region. that would give India so much influence over these nations in so many different ways. So many different ways. It's like we we have this habit of of digging our own you know not of our own grave as such. We don't dig in India's grave but shooting ourselves in the foot. Shaswat aims says I am in first year MBBS. I really want to practice in India but seeing many people glorifying leaving India due to its toxic world work culture puts me in dilemma. You're in the first year of MBBS and you want to practice in India. You want to be a doctor in India. [clears throat] Um people glorifying leaving India due to toxic work culture. Uh look when you if you're a doctor in an American hospital, you're going to work insane hours. Okay. I suppose doctors if you're a trauma doctor somewhere, you're going to work insane hours. Um it depends. If you have your own practice in India, for example, let's say you get your MBBS degree and you start a practice in India. If you have the capital, the cash to to acquire your equipment and start your own practice, acquire a clinic and and start your own practice and you're able to get good customers after a while, then you're going to have a very good time. If you're working in a hospital, you may have to work with all kinds of other seniors and all that. the seniority culture in in that case you may have to face toxic culture so it depends on what your objectives are do you want to be in a hospital you want to work in a hospital that's a different environment you want to have your own own practice as a GP or whatever as a specialist or something perhaps that's a different thing altogether how much money do you want to be able to make are you okay with the money that a GP makes or a doctor working in a hospital makes um or do you want to make lots of money? It depends on so many things. So figure out exactly. I'm sure you'll figure it out but if not you've not told me so I can't answer for you. Uh I would say go wherever you're able to achieve what you want to achieve. Okay. If it's outside of India, go for go for that. Um and if you will be able to achieve whatever you want within India, well stay in India. All right. of the west died with priojin says how good is or was Russia USSR in STEM R&D and education. Russia had a excellent u excellent education in the scientific fields. Russia did fall behind in in certain uh technological fields such as computing for example uh going from the 60s7s ' 80s onwards but the education system in Russia was outstanding in the USSR it was outstanding you know the USSR produced some of the best physicists um in the 20th century it produced the USSR was leading the space race until uh 1969 9 and even after 1969 they did some things that the Americans have never been able to do like land on Venus and send back images and rec audio recordings from Venus. The Americans have never achieved that. So overall the Russian the Soviet education system was outstanding when it comes to science and technology. Outstanding. And I'm sure it's pretty good today also. Nakshra Agarwal says, "What makes the F22 Raptor the most lethal fighter jet?" Ah, the F225 Raptor, the most lethal. Well, I'm not entirely sure about what makes it the most lethal one, but I know that it's the best one. I haven't studied the details of exactly what makes it the best. See, I'll tell you one way of externally validating whether it's the best fighter plane or not. There are two u fifth generation fighter planes. The Americans have F-22, F-35. The Americans export the F-35 export versions to various nations. They are even offering it to India. Obviously, we'll not take it thankfully. The Israelis get the best version. The others get various other export versions. But the full version, it's available only to the US, maybe to Israel, the F-35. So, the Americans are willing to export certain versions of F-35s to other countries, allied countries, basal states. But the F-22, they don't even export it to Israel. They export it to nobody whatsoever because it is that advanced. It is the crown jewel that they have. That itself tells you that it's the best fighter plane they have. What the details are you can look it up but u I haven't done that. Meet but says what do you think of the idea that one must achieve power at all cost? Anything that is demanded to achieve it is worth sacrificing power at all cost. Well, if you are someone who seeks power. So this is not for everybody obviously. It's only for those who are engaged in politics or or yeah politics essentially power or or in in geopolitics. So if you're a nation, you should acquire as much power as possible at all cost. Now that depends on your value system. Or there are certain things that some people want to but other people will do that. So it it depends on your on your value system. If your value system is such that you will it allows you to do essentially anything at all like Epstein file stuff okay to acquire power well then go for it. It's your choice I suppose. Not not for me but for you. Sure. So what do I think of it? I think that power has nothing to do with morality. Power is immoral. Uh some people want to acquire power because they are ambitious and they they they are greedy for power. They lust after power. Some people want to acquire power because they want to do something good for the world. Depends. Power it's like it's like money. It's it's it's like it's like a force. It it is not intrinsically good or bad. How you use power is what makes you good or bad. Um so that's that's about power. Now whether you will whether you want to achieve power at all cost by doing anything that's entirely up to you. It's a subjective matter. Driosin says why you call old thumbnails cringe? Why change old haircut? People change. Everything changes. Old thumbnails are very basic. I had made them myself. I did not even know how to use Photoshop. So that's why they were kind of cringe. Okay. McLevin says, "Are we a vasal?" That's the only explanation for UGC. No, we're not a vasal. We are not a vasal of anybody. The explanation for UGC is that our politicians, they they they want to keep the nation divided. Our politicians are for what reason? I don't know. Maybe they are mentally colonized and they actually believe what the British have taught us, which would be so sad, but it is what it is. The explanation for UGC is that politicians believe whoever the politicians are, I think you can understand. They believe that only by keeping the Indian public divided can they get votes. That's the explanation. It's not vas minimalist Maverick says Putin told India Russia indigenous swift will happen back in 2025 for Russia India trade. What's the status of that? your opinion on building on bringing raw agents to politics. Um I'm not sure if Putin said that but India and the BRIRC nations are working on bypassing the swift system right now. That start that process started in in in mid 2025 and that's one of the reasons why the Americans have Americans have imposed such massive tariffs on India. India is leading the way in this. How far have we gone ahead with this? How operational is that? I'm not really sure. But yes, so India is is working with the BRICS nations on [snorts] creating an complete alternative to the Swift system which will completely bypass the Swift system which will make all these nations essentially immune to the Swift PO Swift related sanctions that you know sanctions can that can be implemented using Swift. So yeah it's it's we are working on that. Um now my opinion on bringing row agents to politics ah what's the point of that row agents have a very specific set of skills those should be used for spycraft for tradecraftraft not for politics and of course former row agents can can become whatever they want they can become podcasters YouTubers politicians whatever okay Sumit says Sumit says Why few know real Max Ooler who made his amnesia? Why few know real Max star Oler who made his amnesia? I have absolutely no idea what you're saying sir. Sorry. Uh Posh died with Posh says allegedly Zoran Mandan's father sir very naughty. Um I I suppose you understood what I was saying there. [laughter] Allegedly, I suppose Vya Shashank says, "Is time a physical reality or just a human concept to track our growth and aging? Why do our bodies experience a one-way flow if uh if physics says otherwise?" Physics doesn't say otherwise. I mean, if you look at the equations of physics, they are kind of time irreversible. Sure. Or time reversible. If you look at the Newton Newtonian equations of motion, well, you can t put a negative t in there and you'll you can go backward in time. It has nothing. It doesn't prevent that from happening. And various other equations also you can have reversible time I suppose. So the equations, it's not physics that's saying otherwise it's our equations that we have the the equations of physics that we have those are our approximations of how the universe works. That is what we have seen of the universe. Maybe our understanding is faulty and incomplete. Right? These equations are not the gift of the gods. The equations are what we have deduced from whatever we see. The equations are our creation. Our equations have flaws. We know that. We know that Einstein's field equations have flaws. We know that. We know that Newton the Newton Newtonian equations also have flaws because they make certain assumptions. So it's not like physics says otherwise. It's it it's actually that our equations seem to say that time is is reversible at least mathematically. But mathematics in the real world you see you can't have a onetoone correspondence in that way. Mathematics it encodes certain laws but there are things in the universe that we are not able to encode in the mathematic equations. Uh and so the question is is time a physical reality or just a human concept to track growth and aging. Time does clearly pass. We perceive the passage of time. We know that there used to be something called the past. Actually, there's only the present, but we have memories of what happened previously. And the the forward arrow of time seems to possibly be a consequence of um of the of of thermodynamics. You know the fact that entropy of the entropy of a system either stays the same or increases that could be the reason possibly for the forward error of time. Another reason why time may may be an emergent property of the universe may be because of quantum entanglement. We have very vague understanding of all of this stuff. Time is a very poorly understood concept. Uh we the two best theories that we have of the universe. One is a theory of the very large large scale universe which is general relativity. In general relativity, time is a fundamental component of the universe. It's one of the four dimensions of the universe. It's one of the elements of the space-time fabric, right? So, it's in a it's intrinsically part of the universe in general relativity, but it's a dimension. It's not something emergent or something, right? Um when it comes to the other best theory we have, which is quantum mechanics, which is the theory of the very small, time is not something that emerges from the equations of quantum mechanics or the laws of quantum mechanics. Time is an external parameter. It's a classical parameter. So, none of these theories actually gives you an answer as to what time is, but maybe it's quantum entanglement, maybe it's entropy. We're not quite sure yet. Uh, hyphen says, "Is aging an evolved feature rather than a flaw?" Well, there are some some creatures, some organisms that don't don't age, right? There are some organisms that don't age at all. So, maybe it's it's an evolved feature. Maybe it's evolved. Is it is it a flaw? I don't think it's a flaw. It's a feature. It's not a bug. It's it's a feature. Aging is a feature because some organisms don't age. They can essentially live forever as long as nothing catastrophic or disastrous happens to them. Which are the some aquatic creature was it? Uh which organisms don't age? Okay. Immortal jellyfish. Uh hydra which constantly renews its cells. Immortal jellyfish. Hydra plenerian flatworms. Lobsters also have tomeores that repairs DNA allowing them to continually produce new cells and potentially leave for an extremely long time. Sponges, corals, sea anemmones, tardigrades. So you see all these all these rather primitive or or simply simp simple creatures some of them have this this feature in which they don't age at all but the more evolved organisms all have the feature of aging. So it's more of a feature and less of a bug. Why is it so? Well that's that's something we have to think about but yeah it's a feature not a bug. Hit dia says India's surveillance uses Chinese hik vision etc. And cyber security uses is Israeli exmosad run cyber arc checkpoint software etc. Are we doomed? We are potentially doomed. We we use things that others manufacture for our most critical vital work. It's a yeah it's it's a massive massive security flaw. See there is one element of sovereignty that is called technological sovereignty and in that domain India is not sovereign. India is not a technological sovereign nation. The good news is that there is no technological sovereign nation in the world. All nations depend to some extent or the other on technology produced by other nations. But India is severely compromised when it comes to technological sovereignty. and and it's it's scary actually [clears throat] scary it gives uh so much leverage to other nations I mean imagine surveillance security using Chinese equipment imagine that Arun Arun thank you very much thank you very much indeed an DVU says followup getting government out of the way of education allowing non-government approved curriculum religious schooling homeschooling etc. Not overthrowing the government. Okay. So, okay, let's say you allow religious schooling. Now, how will that help a child's career is the question? Because at the end of the day, the education system should give you the skills that are applicable in the real world and will give you a good career. Let's say you want to be a software engineer. Let's say you you want to be an aeronautical engineer. Let's say you want to be a rocket scientist. Let's say you want to be be be something else. Will your religious schooling give you the skills you need for that? No. Right. U homeschooling can do that. If you have a non-government approved curriculum and if you have let's say you know an institution that that has a non-government approved curriculum, it issues a degree but that degree is not accepted by the companies where you will apply then you have wasted essentially your childhood. Right? So these are the issues the system is geared in a certain direction right. So for these things to become viable the private sector even even the public sector will have to be in a position where it accepts certificates from nongover approved uh educational institutions or don't need certificates at all only look for skills. So that evolution needs to happen. Then we'll be able to get the government out of the way of education even if they don't want to. Ryik P says would we see a major military buildup from all countries in the near future as the US starts flexing its muscle and are we all heading towards a big war? Well, I hope we are not heading towards a big war. We may be heading for instability. We may be heading for more regime change operations like potentially America hitting Iran possibly, right? That sort of thing may happen. I don't think we are heading for a big war right now thankfully. Yeah, we don't see signs of that. We could see a localized war between the US and Iran. Maybe India Pakistan also could happen. Taiwan seems to be unlikely unless the Chinese go crazy. So that's the situation. Now will we see a major military build up from all countries? No. Only some countries have the resources to have a proper military buildup. India is one of those. The Pakistanis will also do that with American help. Russia is already obviously building up. China is also building up. The US will build up. So the major countries, France also, the the EU will do that. The NATO nations will do that. So we're going to see more build up militarily. But not all countries. Most countries don't have the resources and they can't afford to do that. No African nation will do that. None of the various nations in Southeast Asia can afford to do that or need to do that even if they may so desire and so on. So only some nations will do it. Abha Patartel says is there any role of foreign occupation on Britain in English language monkeyness English language monkeyness? Okay. Uh is there any role of foreign occupation on Britain in the way the English language has evolved? Of course. Of course. See, the original population of the British islands was the people who constructed Stonehenge and those monuments, those Neolithic monuments. Those people were wiped out. Some of their DNA survives. Their their female DNA survives. Their male DNA was wiped out, which means their males were massacred, but the females were continued to were allowed to continue to exist. Who massacred the males? A bunch of invaders from far away east. The Yamna they invaded England the British islands and they were killed off the males. That's why the male DNA disappears but the female lineages continue which means that they took the women forcibly and procreated with them and that's how the original that's how a new population was created in the British islands. These people became the Celtic peoples eventually. But even the Celtic people, oh yeah, the Celtic peoples. Yeah. They say that their ancestors came from far east, right? The children of Danu. Danu, the Vic goddess Danu. So those are the Celtic people. Then you have an invasion by the Romans, Julius Caesar, etc. So they invade the British islands and subjugate the people there, the Celtic peoples, and rule over them for like four centuries roughly. So the Romans leave behind some DNA. Obviously naturally that's going to happen among in the population. Then the Romans Roman Empire you know it it slowly collapses. The Romans withdraw from the British islands and after that the angles and the Saxons and and the Judes invade. These are Germanic invaders who come and subjugate the Celtic people and the they become the dominant elite the rulers um and they come in large numbers. So now you have a Celtic population and a Germanic population, Anglo-Saxon population. Eventually they intermingle over time. The north remains more Celtic. The south becomes more Anglo-Saxon. Right? North is in Scotland, Ireland. That's more Celtic even today. Then you have [clears throat] the Viking age a couple of hundred years where the Vikings took over England from time to time, right? The great heathen army and so on and so forth. So you have Nordic DNA that comes in which is also kind of related to Germanic DNA which is why in the north of England in Durham in Yorkshire you have more Nordic DNA in Scotland you have Celtic plus Nordic DNA in Ireland you have more Celtic and less Nordic DNA and very little Anglo-Saxon Saxon DNA and so on. That's how all this happens. Then in the year 1066 AD you have the Norman invasion. The Normans were half French half half Nordic but they spoke French and then you have new DNA that comes in and with each DNA comes new languages and stuff and that's how eventually you come up with this thing called the English language which is an amalgam which which which has a basis a bedrock of of German grammar and German structure with a lot of French vocabulary and vocabulary taken from many other languages. That's how this happened. Karthik Ayar says, "YouTube is not allowing me to criticize Donald J. Trump." Well, shall I do that on your behalf? I understand YouTube has all kinds of fantastic censorships and restrictions and all. What's What's my subscriber count right now? Let me check my subscriber count. Let me see. My subscriber count right now is 951 something. Oh, wow. They allowed me to go above 950. For the longest time, they had stuck me on 949 like for like 8 9 months. Now, it's gone above. So YouTube has all these issues. My channel has been very badly affected by YouTube. We know that. So YouTube is not allowing you to criticize Donald J. Trump. Well, let me criticize him for you. He clearly has been exposed as a as a pedophile, as a pervert, as the kind of person you don't want to be in the same room with. Yeah, I totally agree. The details in the Epstein files are disturbing. They're disturbing. They are disgusting. Horrible. Disgusting. And I've not even had the courage to watch any of the videos. I don't think I'll watch any of them. Apparently, some videos also are also there in the Epstein files. So, what it tells you is that these people who rule the US are a bunch of monsters. Monsters. Only monsters will derive pleasure from from harming helpless people. And the most helpless members of society are children. And these people eat children apparently and kill and torture children and do all kinds of god knows what kind of horrific things. These people rule the US and they preach they preach human rights and democracy to the world. Absolute hypocrites. Innocent USA. [laughter] Innocent uses Arab Chava channel Journey Poker face good quality content to joyful clearly even more good quality content. How was journey? Journey has been good. I'm not sure exactly what you're saying but uh the journey has been good. Um it's been good. I've enjoyed it and it continues. Okay. Thank you. Okay. uh hyphen says were colonial empires primarily motivated by economic imperatives or by elite power consolidation through violence. I don't know about elite. I don't know what what you mean by elite. Whoever is powerful eventually becomes elite, right? If you're powerful, you can control money and that's how that's what that's what makes you elite. So initially you have somebody who comes and grabs power and then they eventually are called the elite. um colonial empires were they motivated by colonial empires are empires of occupation and extraction. Okay, the one we are familiar with is the British Empire. Uh they occupied India for they ruled India for about 2 and a half centuries, right? The presence of the Anglo starts in India around 1600 AD 1600 or 1610 whenever it was. They they set up this factory in western India in Surat right and then eventually you have the slow gradual expansion of their influence and eventually in the 19th century beginning of the 19th century they defeat the Marata Empire in the two Anglo Marata wars that's where they start ruling the country properly um they they were motivated by by plunder okay the reason they set up the Indian administrative system and all this stuff was to plunder India more effective ly it was not to make you know make India a better place and to uplift India and to bring their civilized ways of life into India. They did the exact opposite. They they u they engineered hundreds of artificial famines starved hundreds of millions of Indians to death did did worse things than the epsteel fines we'll talk talk about to Indians. Okay. But they did all of this in order to plunder India as effectively as possible. and they took out maybe 70 or something trillion dollars worth of today's money out of India in terms of value. So they were motivated by economic imperatives. They were motivated by plunder by loot and they were willing to do whatever it takes whatever it took to plunder the country. Jior TV says did the Shunga dynasty try to erase traces of the Moran Empire on purpose because of hatred? Because of hatred I am not aware of the Shunga dynasty trying to erase traces of the Moria Empire. I'm not aware of that at all. Um, did that happen? I am not sure. I have not read about Shunga efforts to erase traces of the Moria Empire. I mean, look at Pushya Mudra, right? Look at his life and his career. Pushy Mitra Shunga was the Sapati, the commanderin-chief of the last Mori Empire. Brihadit Da I think his name was. And the last morian emperor was incompetent and India was in deep trouble because of him. It was being overrun by yawanas and whatn not kind of milletchas right the economy was bad and empire was crumbling. So pushaunga did the right thing during a military parade he assassinated the morian emperor the last one and he installed himself on the throne. Now after that what happens? Pusha Mitra rules for the rest of his life and then his son becomes the next emperor. But Pushya Mitraunga never called himself emperor. He always called himself synapathi. So he so he if you call himself yourself synapati you are acknowledging the fact that you were theapati to the previous morian emperor right? So it doesn't indicate any desire or any attempt to erase the trace of the Moran empire. So at least pushing did not do that. I don't know about his descendants. His descendants did not last long, right? They did not continue the empire for too long. Aayush Gupta says which is the best startup you liked in India and also Russian girls are mentioned a lot in Epstein file. Can't Russia take any illegal action? I'm not sure which startup I have liked in India. I think all startups are good as long as they succeed and and make India a better place, more prosperous place. I will refrain from naming any one startup. Uh Russian girls are mentioned a lot in Epstein files. Can't Russia take any illegal action? Where where does Russia go? Is there a court that that that rules over Russia and US both? What legal action can Russia take? Where which court does they go to? Do they go to the Russian Supreme Court, the American Supreme Court, some other international court of justice which the Americans don't recognize? Where does Russia go? Think about it logically. There's no place for legal action. What? You go to the UN, the UN is anyway useless, right? There's nothing the Russians can do. Uh Brown Leprechaun says, why does Trump 47 look more hurried than Trump 45? Because he has been given a mission by the US establishment to achieve a certain certain number of things. He also knows that he's got three years left in his term and after that he doesn't get any more time as the president of the US and he is driven by public by by personal ambition. He wants to be remembered as the greatest president of all time. So that's why he wants to achieve as much as as much as possible in the next 3 years. That's why he looks so much more hurried. Gora TV says do you see India getting rid of secularism and democracy in the future? Someday it will happen but it doesn't look like it'll happen soon. The current lot of politicians and leaders they worship democracy in secularism. They worship the constitution. Right? So I I don't see that happening anytime soon. But yeah, India will only regain its civilizational status once we get rid of at least secularism and this this current system this Westminster parliamentary democratic system that we have. We need to this is holding India down. It's like it's like a 100 kilo weight put around your throat. Terrible. Griik P says which is wiser to pursue in life power or money it depends on on who you are and what your objectives are if you're a politician you should pursue power money will automatically come to you if you're an ordinary person what power will you get if you're an ordinary person who is not into the pursuit of u you know political if you're not into politics then you should try and accumulate money because money will give you the freedom that you seek in Restore Barat says, "Torn between multiple citizenship and OCI for global freedom, money and power as an outsider or Indian citizenship with full rights to improve governance but less freedom. Is this path viable in India?" Okay. What are the options? You have multiple citizenship and OCI for global freedom. So let's say you are a citizen of two nations and you also have an OCI card. So that gives you global freedom um money and power as an outsider. or Indian citizenship with full rights to improve governance but but less freedom. Is this path viable in India? Which path? The [snorts] path of Indian citizenship with full rights to improve governance but less freedom. It's a viable path but it's for you to decide whether it's for you or not. [snorts] If you have decided to dedicate your life to improve governance in India and to improve the lot of India, then you can pursue that path only if you are really wealthy and an Indian citizen. You can also do it as an OCI card holder. If you are a very wealthy person by investing in the right sectors in India, yeah, maybe setting up businesses in India, setting up local with with local whatever the method is, you can do that. But if you so there are multiple options. If you are a wealthy person with with a foreign passport, you can still and an OCA card, you can still do a lot to help things in India. You can set up foundations. You can you can have people mentored who will provide the right kind of leadership to India. There are people who do that from outside of India. You know, some of them are actually foreign agents, Trojan horses. Maybe you can be an actual non- Trojan agent, you know, somebody who does good for India. So, it's entirely up to you what you seek to achieve and how wealthy you are. You can only make a big impact, positive impact if you are wealthy. So if you have wealth and if you have an OCI card then you don't have to become an Indian citizen you get almost the same rights apart from voting rights if you have an OCI card and you can do a lot to help India with an OCI card and wealth so that's what I can tell you sir all the best I'm glad that there are people from who of Indian origin who seek to uh serve India in some way so all the best sir do well I wish to the greatest of success. Pravin says, "Apologies for the typo in my previous India Bhutan super chat. The tweet of Ashi Vashnov is on 18th September 2025. Just my observation." Okay. Should we try and look for that again? Ashwini Vashnov tweet. Um, give me a second. Um, let's go to All right. Give me a second. Let me search for this. Ashwini Vishnav. Um, [clears throat] Ashwini Vishnav. Okay, let's find his Twitter and let's just search for Bhutan. That may be a better way of doing things. Search for Bhutan. September 18, 2025. Okay. I'm not sure about that. Let's go back. Um, okay. So, I think that will take time to search for it, but okay. Anyway, so thanks for letting me know. I will check it out at a later at a later stage. Maybe after after this live stream, we'll check it out. Thank you. Uh R. Raun Rajger says, "I mean no Epstein mail leaks 911 month skipped." You mean September 11 to that thing? There's been nothing about that in the Epstein uh piles. That's interesting. Okay. Interesting. Mr. Sid says, "How do planes or jets descend? Do they dip the nose or adjust the flaps for descent? I'm curious about the science of descent and landing." You know aircraft they have wings right? The wings they have flaps and spoilers. There are these things these these uh surfaces that you can control you know uh which can rise like that in the front of the wing and in the back of the wing. In the back of the wing it typically go typically if the wing is like this the the surface at the back which is called the flap will go down. This is called the flap or the or the spoiler. And there's a surface in the front also which which can be raised or whatever. And by doing that you can slow the speed of the plane and you can also pitch the nose down. I mean even in the tail of the plane you have the the these two little smaller wings that can pitch the tail up or down by which you can also make the nose go up or down. And through all these control surfaces you can actually essentially uh control every aspect of the plane's movement. You can, you know, if you have two wings, you can put one of the flaps up, one of the flaps down. By that, you can, you can change the angle at which the plane is. So, when you're making a turn, you typically want the plane to to go at an angle like that, you know, so that inside the plane, people are not thrown around or whatever. So, you can do that by by pitching one wing wing down, one wing up and going in that direction. You can even do interesting things like side slips by using the horizontal stabilizers control surfaces and so on. So you've got multiple control surfaces in fighter planes. You even have cannards at the front of the near the nose of the plane and so on. So each aircraft based depending on the design has a bunch of control surfaces and by using those you you can control the rate at which you descend and whether you stay uh going stay at a certain altitude or start descending or even go up and also the engine output matters right. So if you want to descend you typically uh bring the output of the engines down so that the plane also slows down and you can descend. If you want to if you want to ascend, if you want to make take the plane upwards, then you typically throttle up the jets and you go faster. That's what you do. Ritikani says, "With the US squeezing global oil outlets, China may end up relying more on Russia for energy." Correct. Would that shift give Russia more leverage and power over China, which they were losing? Absolutely. So, what the US is doing is it's trying to do that. It's trying to squeeze China. There's only a certain number of sources of oil and gas in the world, right? Sources of energy that China so desperately seeks. China doesn't have sufficient oil and gas reserves for its needs. It has to import a lot of oil and gas. Mostly oil we're talking about. And there's only a few nations where you have oil. One is Saudi Arabia, one is Kuwait, one is Iran, one is Iraq. uh you have the UAE, you have uh Nigeria, you have Indonesia and so on so forth and Russia and Venezuela. Venezuela gone, if Iran is gone, Iraq is controlled by the US, Saudi is controlled by the US to to a large extent. Um um UAE on the side of the US and so on. So if the Americans get to control all the sources of oil for China, then they have to completely rely on Russia, which gives Russia tremendous leverage over China. But it also isolates China which is good for the US and then if the US can cut a deal with Russia which will not that be be easy at all but so the objective is to isolate Russia and China and bring them together and then perhaps deal with them individually or something. D with precision says many are labeling Epstein as KGB honey trap. What's my opinion? I don't see Epstein. I don't I don't believe that for one second. Yeah. Blame everything on Russia. US is clean always, right? Russia did all this bad. KG Ipstein was a KGB agent. What utter nonsense. He was pure American. This is American culture. It's not Russian culture. This is the American culture. This is this is American values and western values and western culture. That's what we seeing. Han Sharma says, "Is it important to go to gym gym if I want to be jacked? As of now, because of cat, I can't really go to the gym." Continue. You think push-ups and pull-ups will be enough or what else can I do to achieve a decent aesthetic physique at home? You can acquire a couple of kettle bells and a couple of reasonably strong dumbbells, reasonably heavy dumbbells, what you can handle and do push-ups and pull-ups and crunches and sprints. And if you Yeah, that can give you a decent uh aesthetic physique if with the right diet for sure. You can use the kettle bells and dumbbells for other you know core workouts and uh shoulders and traps and arms and back and whatnot you know kettle kettle bell I mean in a gym you get all the various weights you know a whole range of weights you can't do that at home but if you get the right weights and it's it's usually good enough so if you can't go to gym if you're stuck at home then I think a couple of kettle bells a couple of dumbbells is enough along with push-ups and pull-ups and crunches and sprints or walks or whatever that is enough to give you a decent um aesthetic physique at home. Um as long as you have as you ensure that you have a good clean diet, right? All the best sir do well. Harish Sharma says good night sir and I humbly request to watch tumb. I shall watch tumb. Thank you so much for the recommendation and the reminder. Thank you. Uh, Rohan Beir says, "Your personal favorite upper and lower body exercises." Well, I like barbells. Barbell bench press and barbell rows. I love rows. I done so many rows, tens of thousands of rows. Um, that's my favorite upper and lower body exercises. I like the deadlift, too. I really enjoy it. And I do uh and I do this exercise. I don't know what it's called. You know, there's something called the shrug, right? You can do shrugs with barbells or dumbbells. I do these I I I I do these uh I'm not sure what to call them. I do the shrugs, but like I do these very rapidly. And that's not quite the right way to do things. If you you're supposed to, you know, shrug the weight up, bring your shoulders to your ears and hold for a couple of seconds and then bring it down slowly. But I do it very rapidly, not as a shrug, but as an exercise that builds the forearms, the grip strength, even the back. It's even good for the core. So that's one of my favorite exercises. I I where did I see it first? I think I saw Bill Goldberg, the WWE wrestler, do that and I incorporated that. That worked out great for me. So that's one exercise. I like lower body um standard. You know the deadlift is also a lower body exercise of course but also the squat and the lunge. I think squats and lunges are enough for lower body. Okay. So that brings me to the end to the end of today's uh session. All the super chats are dealt with. So that's about it. Thank you very much everybody for all the questions. It was great fun as always. And uh Manhattan asks me do I have six-pack abs? I currently do not have six-pack. I do have a six-pack, but it is not visible right now because there is a topping on top of it. [laughter] I need to bring it out again. Yes, I need to excavate the six-pack. So, yes, that is the mission now that for me. Okay, so thank you very much everybody. I really enjoyed this. And there's one more super chat. Let's deal with that. This is the last one for today. Please don't take any more super chats guys and girls. Would you travel in SSJ and SSJ00 and IL1 if they enter service? The Sukoy Super Jet and the illusion 114 if they enter service? Oh, I would love to. I would love to. Yeah, I'll take the first opportunity to travel in that. All right, thank you everybody. Thank you so much. Good night, good day wherever you are in the world. And do always remember to keep asking questions, keep learning, keep raising your standards. And I will see you very soon in the next live streams. Take care. See you soon. Bye-bye.