[Music] Heat. Hey. Hey. Hey. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Good evening, good day and welcome back to the Ask a Widget Show. Today we are doing episode 248 and I'm going to take questions about everything that you want to ask me and I haven't had time to select questions from the comments. So I'm going to take all the questions from the live chat. It's going to be a completely interactive session today and I'm pretty sure that you have lots of questions about Pakistan, about Trump and and we'll see what else. So let's see who all is there on the live stream today with us. I can see Adman Anand Padmanaba Mahik Kata Geopolitical Dubai uh Yashwant Sudhir Kai Basant 007 Shakhar Airil Gandhi 74 Vishar Bijes SK Manoj Prasad 9393 Abi Aush Pand Moria Ral Bju Ajit Ja Creator GK Amisha Mishra Shashank Koshik Pratip Reddi Kota Squidward Gotham Val and Zub Zubon easing indrain surrender sharp subraman lakshman again beneath prians sdv siddhant shashank da um maheshwari bot gaming rishies samarati sarak mahapatra rishikh tazupta tan chandra abijit singh god was alive. Ritik Vishnoi Ritupan Bora Janel Nirupam Abin Pradan Oscar Madison Dastanoi God of Kunal Jala Ravi Narayan Mr. Batsy Crazy Brain Park Jimn Dj Kamat Truthful Penguin Ashi Ashish Pandel Insanely Boy Mur uh Vinay Sahil Vag Shrihari Arun and so many other people. So, thank you so much all of you for being on this live stream with me tonight. And I'm going to stop greeting you all otherwise that's all I'll do today. But uh let's get going with the questions. What questions do you have? Please ask me your questions and I'll take as many as I can over the next couple of hours. And I have a question by Mark Levin. IAF used dummy aircraft to fool Pakistan's air defense system. That's some deep center of gravity. Well, this is war. In war you use all means at your disposal. Uh as Sununsu said all warfare is about is is a matter of deception. So if you have the technology, if you can create fake aircraft, dummy aircraft which cost next to nothing and have the Pakistanis have the enemy waste valuable missiles at those by firing at those well you should do that and we clearly are in a position to do that. So we did that. So outstanding good job. Uh Prrenip Paul says, "Do you see do you foresee something massive unfolding in the next two weeks as part of round two of operation tendur? Is this the calm before a decisive storm?" I don't know. I would love there to be a part two. We had the Pakistanis where we wanted them to be but uh they have kind of slithered away. But if there's a calm before a decisive story storm, if this is the calm, then I am all for it. But uh yeah uh can't really say can't really say at this point in time. Duv says was it in the American interest to uh have a ceasefire to to ask India to agree to a ceasefire or a pause in the fighting as India was going in nuclear exchange would have left no counterweight for China. I'm not sure what you're asking but let's consider the scenario. We are at war with Pakistan and uh JD Vance goes on a podcast or interview or something and he tells the lady I think it was a lady he tells the lady that you know what this fight between India and Pakistan it's none of our business it's none of America's business we need to stay out of it that's what JD Vance the vice president of the US says and in less than 24 hours Trump comes on social media says that I have uh mediator he's fired blah blah blah that sort of thing Right. Essentially I have forced the two nations to agree to a ceasefire. Essentially he has forced India to agree to a ceasefire. That's essentially what he's saying because Pakistan was begging for the ceasefire. So what changed in those 24 hours and and how is it in the American interest to uh to stop India from doing whatever it was doing to Pakistan? That's the question you're asking and that's a great question. So I think the Americans had never anticipated my friends the extent to which India would hurt Pakistan. They thought probably going by historical precedent that India may do another surgical strike in Pakistan. Hit some terrorist outposts a couple of kilometers from the line of control perhaps. Or maybe India will do an air strike, one air strike and we done. Maybe that's what they calculated. Maybe that's what they thought. Right. But what they saw was totally different. India goes deep inside Pakistan, hundreds of kilometers inside Pakistan, hits, I don't know, nine terrorist camps over and over again. India doesn't just hit hit those terrorist camps. India sends loitering drones to calmly film everything and then India puts all the evidence uh on display. So Pakistan is humiliated. So the Pakistanis try something again. They try to hit Indian targets with drones and missiles and whatnot. We bring everything down. Another gigantic shock for the Americans and the world. How does India, a nation like India have the best air defense system in the world, better than the Israelis, better than everybody else? How did that happen? And when the Pakistanis tried this against us, we hit them with missiles of all kinds. The world had never seen what an Indian missile strike looks like. The world had never heard an Indian missile, what an Indian Indian missile sounds like. And we got to see this from the Pakistanis, the Pakistani social media, right? And now we know what an Indian missile strike looks like and sounds like. We can hear the missile coming, but you can't stop it. And we can see how it sounds and what the explosion is like. Wham! Right in front of you. And this happened over and over and over again. And then they saw what Indian drones sound like and look like and what the explosions are like. It was like we are hitting them and they are helpless and defenseless. But that still wasn't enough. They try again the Pakistanis they they try to launch a ballistic missile apparently at Delhi. We brought it down over Saharana. And once that missile was brought down by India, the missile that was aimed at Delhi, that's when all hell broke loose. I think Mr. Modi then gave the green light to the to the armed forces to take the Pakistanis down in whichever way they wanted. And then what happens within 30 minutes India strikes 11 air bases of Pakistan including the Nurh Khan air base including Sarodha and so on and so forth. The Americans had never imagined I think that India would be able to do that. India rendered the Pakistanis completely helpless. Destroyed their air defenses, wiped out their their radars, took down their AVAC, one of their AVAC uh aircraft, cratered all the runways. The Pakistanis are helpless and they went begging to the US and they probably must have threatened the US. We'll use nuclear weapons. Yeah, you want to try that? Do you have the means to deliver them? India takes everything down. India's air defense works unlike the Pakistani air defense. So that's where the Americans stepped in right after all this happened. Now how is it in America's interest to prevent India from destroying Pakistan? Pakistan is valuable for the Americans. Pakistan is an entity that has been created for to serve the western geopolitical interest in the subcontinent and beyond. This entire region and Pakistan has been very valuable for the US in the past multiple times. Pakistan was the staging base for the jihad against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan in the 1970s and 80s. Pakistan was a staging base for base for the terrorism against India in Punjab in the 1980s. Pakistan was a staging bage base for the terrorism in Kashmir against India the 1980s, 1990s and all the way to until now. This terrorism like the Pakistani defense minister has said multiple times Pakistan was doing the dirty work on behalf of the US and the UK and the West. Isn't Pakistan valuable? Who taught terrorism to Pakistan? how to use terrorism as a as a as as a tool of state policy. Who taught this? The Americans did. Pakistan is valuable. There are times when the American there have been times when the Americans have had had no interest in Pakistan and let the Pakistanis go to the Chinese for a decade or so. But the Americans still value Pakistan. Pakistan needs to keep on existing. If Pakistan ceases to exist, the whole balance of power in in the subcontinent region and and Asia changes completely. and India becomes way more powerful suddenly. How can you allow that to happen? So yes, it was in the American interest to to maintain the status quo and the balance of power in the region otherwise India becomes much larger than they are comfortable with much more confident than the Americans are comfortable with. That's why the Americans saved Pakistan. All right, next question. What's question? What's the next question? Geopolitical Dubai says is Trump's make in America practically possible. Are we seeing a typical US president who wants to remain the sole superpower? I mean if you are the president of the sole superpower, you want the nation to remain the sole superpower. Why would you want to share your greatness with others? Why would you want others to become great? It it makes no sense for the only hgemon in the world to want other hammans to pop up. Why would you want that? It makes no sense. So he's a typical US president. Of course he is. and he wants the US to remain the sole superpower. And if I was in his place, I would want the same thing. If I was the president of the only superpower on the planet, I would want my nation to remain the only superpower on the planet. Why will I want others to to pop up and become competitors and challengers to my hgemony? I would not want that. Think about it logically. So, uh Trump is exactly that sort of president as he should be. Every leader needs to look out for his nation's interest. That's how the world works. And if he's not doing that, he's not serving his nation. He's not doing his job. So he's doing his job well. Well, or well or not so well is a different question. But he's doing his job. So we are seeing that. Of course, we seeing that and that's what we should expect. Now is making America practically possible? A lot of it is not practically possible because it's too expensive to make in make in America. First of all, they have lost the ability to manufacture a lot of the stuff they are having manufactured in China because for decades they had everything they were relying on China from the 1980s and 90s and 2000s and until all the way until now. Everything was manufactured in China. It was much cheaper to make it in China. So the Americans just moved their their their manufacturing chains away from the US and now they've lost the ability to do all that to replicate the manufacturing all over again in the US, you know. And I'm sure with some given some time they can put it back all together and start manufacturing everything once again in the US. But in the US, manufacturing is way more expensive than having something manufactured in the 1990s and 2000s in China or today in India because the the daily w the the hourly wages in the US are way higher than the rest of the world, much of the rest of the world and everything is much more expensive in the US. So it makes no sense for them to have everything manufactured in the US because it's going to hurt their economy very badly. it's going to it's going to hit uh the common person very badly. So practically it's very difficult for them to make this happen. But with the decoupling the world is seeing with the bifurcation or the ongoing possible bifurcation of the world order in which the half the world will be pro- US and pro west and half the world will be or some part of the world will be with China, Russia etc. and some nations will be in between. Then when this happens, you need to bring everything all the all the manufacturing, all the supply chains, everything into your with under your umbrella. So the so the world's supply chains, the world's manufacturing chains and everything is splitting into into essentially two camps, right? Uh so when you have the situation, it's going to be a painful process of decoupling and and bifurcation and that sort of thing. So that's what we are seeing. It's going to be a time of turmoil. It's going to be turmoil in the US. The people of the US are going to take financial hits. It's going to be uncomfortable for them. Many people will suffer uh financially and in other ways. But that's just how it goes. It's a cyclical process in the world. Chaos and order. Chaos and order. We had an unreasonably long time of complete not complete but to a large extent order in the world. The so-called western le rules-based world order. But that is a thing of the past now as you can see. So there we have it. Um, Rangers Wolf says, "Trump recently said that I told Tim Cook we're not interested in you building in India. They can take care of themselves despite India's offer to drop US import tariffs." Why the disinterest? This is not disinterest. Trump is upset with India for some reason. I think Trump had never expected that India would hit Pakistan so badly and so hard. And apparently when India conducted those air strikes on the various Pakistani air bases including air bases that that housed F-16s and various other American aircraft it's possible that some American personnel were affected by those air strikes because wherever you have American planes wherever the Americans have F-16s and other planes in Pakistan they have a bunch of babysitters at each air base. You see, uh, there's a bunch of technicians and other people at each air base that houses F-16s, and those people will never take the F6 will never let the F-16s off their eyes, off their site. Okay? They are always there. That's how it works. If you buy American equipment, you never really own it. You're simply leasing it essentially. So, there's a bunch of people at every Pakistan air base that has F-16s or other American planes, and those people are constantly supervising what's happening. And if you hit an air base that has American aircraft, it's possible you may end up hitting American personnel. So that's also something that may have happened and so on. So the Americans you know they have a certain they want every nation to play a certain role as per uh their interests and India was threaten threatening to to uh get off the reservation and and not stay in its lane and we kind of went off reservation and we we broke the lane right so that's why the Americans are upset and that's why Trump is upset and I think Trump is also upset that India is negotiating really hard when it comes to the trade and tariff talks India is negotiating hard. India is is not proving is proving to not be a pushover. So all these things are making Trump unhappy. He is used to people giving him a lot of too much respect. He wants everybody to be super differential to him and when when he doesn't see that when when he feels that people are not sufficiently differential to him he becomes really upset. I think that's what's happening with Netanyahu. You see I think Trump feels that Netanyahu is not giving him sufficient respect and that's why the relationship with with Netanyahu seems to have sed it also one also hears that Trump is is also uh uh finding Elon Musk to be a problem because Elon Musk is more successful than Donald Trump and Elon Musk is way richer than Donald Trump and Trump feels threatened when you have somebody like that in the in the same room as him. So Trump is a very sensitive guy. He's a very egoistic guy. Um and and that's the sort of character and personality he has and so if somebody doesn't play the role he wants them to play, he gets upset. So right now he's upset with India and the well that's his problem, not ours, right? Uh so he he's trying to pressurize his own companies like Apple to not manufacture in India. So what's what's what's it going to be then? Hm. Do does he want them to go back to China or is does he see some other nation on the on the horizon that can manufacture things at the same scale as India or China? I think the only nation that can replace China in the scale at which it manufactures is India. So it makes sense for Apple and other American companies who are looking for alternatives beyond China. It makes sense for these companies to manufacture in India. So I think Trump is just trying to pressurize India. Trump has a track record of being a guy who will say one thing today and say something which is exactly the opposite of that tomorrow. He displays zero consistency and he's proud of it. It's part of his playbook. If you read his book, The Art of the Deal and if you go through all the phone calls and conversations and whatnot he describes in that book, it's it's just like that. You know, it's all about putting pressure on the other guy, pressurizing the other guy. So that's the game he plays. So it's just a passing phase with Trump, right? And and he's a guy who's supremely transactional. He will deal with the devil if need be. If Osama bin Laden was still alive today, he would have made a deal with Osama possibly because until recently the the so-called president of Syria, Mr. Al- Sharah or whatever his name is, Julani, that fellow, he was an FBI wanted terrorist. There's a poster of the FBI out there still out there in in the public domain in which he's wanted and there's a $10 million bounty on his head and yesterday or day before yesterday Trump posed for photographs with that guy with that terrorist with that wanted terrorist. So that's the kind of game the Americans play. That's the kind of guy Trump is. He will make a deal with the devil if it suits his if it suits uh suits him. So that's how it is, right? So that's the kind of president the US has today and uh perhaps is still better than Biden for us. So we'll see. Look, at the end of the day, India is on its own. We are a nation who has no master. We are not like Pakistan which is a mercenary nation. Pakistan always serves foreign masters, doesn't it? It at times it serves multiple foreign masters. China, it serves China, it serves the US, it also serves Turkey, right? So when you are a nation like Pakistan who has many foreign masters um then lots of people will stand with you especially people for whom you serve a certain purpose or especially people for whom you have a certain value as a mercenary nation when it comes to India we don't have any masters so that's why very few people stand with us in in the manner that people stand with Pakistan right but we have way more goodwill in the world than Pakistan does so that's how it goes but that's the thing about Trump you He he will make a deal with the devil uh if it if it suits him today. If it suits him today, tomorrow he'll say it had nothing to do with me. That's the kind of guy Trump is. Uh Duv says what's why is Israel showing affinity towards India despite openly sponsoring cookie separatists on their soil? Israel has not supported cookie terrorism uh openly. Whatever has been done has been done very very covertly and maybe there's a lot of plausible deniability about this. So a former Israeli ambassador was telling me what are you talking about when I had raised the question on on Republic TV with Arnab I had said that you know some of this terrorism that's that's coming into Manipur the cookie terrorism some of the cookies are getting money from Israel because there are cookies who have settled in Israel become citizens by claiming to be Jews the same people who eat pork whose whose favorite food is pork you know so they they have become Jews they have settled in Israel they've they've acquired citizenship and some Some of them are are supporting the cookie terrorism in India. Some of them are even possibly even funding cookie terrorism in India. Right? So I had raised that issue on on Republic TV a few months ago and the former Israeli ambassador was telling me what's the evidence. So he was playing the plausible deniability card. Now it's possible that you know it's possible I would say that the Israeli government may possibly have nothing to do with this. Uh so so it's a complicated situation. they have genuine plausible deniability that you know if somebody is doing it these are private private individuals it has nothing to do with Israel state policy that sort of thing and uh do we have any evidence that it's Israel's state policy to pro to support project K cookie land for Christ we don't have a shred of evidence that it's Israeli state policy to do that but I'm sure the Israeli government can kind of uh have those people tone it down for example recently the Israeli government had invited various Indian so-called influencers to Israel, okay, to to show what's happening visav Gaza and all that in the aftermath of the October uh uh terrorist attack, Hamas terrorist attack on Israel. So uh apparently one hears that they brought a cookie rabbi, cookie ethnicity rabbi to to to put forth the cookie perspective or something which is I would say almost blatant and open interference in India's internal affairs. So, Israel has had this undeniable track record. Um, but overall, if you look at the overall big picture perspective, so when we talking about the cookie for Christ project, project project K and interference in India's internal affairs and soft support for cookie terrorism etc. Well, that we are talking about a subset of of India, right? We're talking about a small part of India's far east. Manipur is a very important state but geographically it's a small region even though it's a very important region it's our gateway to the to the to to Southeast Asia and so on and the last bastion of Hinduism in India's far east and so much more u so it's very valuable to for us but from a big picture perspective manipur is a small small issue many people would say that people who have no understanding right so from a big picture perspective Israel's interests are significantly convergent with India's interests in in a lot of ways not in Armenia in that India, Israel are on opposite sides. So you see the world is complicated but overall Israel has had overall the policy of supporting India and a lot of things and when it comes to things like Pakistan and Turkey and all they probably will will support India even though they are with Turkey when it comes to Azarba very complicated world that we live in but if you understand what goes where then you will understand why it works. All right. Okay. uh general says currently the entire population of Pakistan occupied Kashmir is radicalized. If we take over P in the near future, don't you think it'll be held dealing with guerrilla warfare and human rights groups? I'm sure we have a contingency plan for this right. The Americans have a contingency plan for for Pakistan's nuclear weapons. It's they have a plan of what to do in a worst case scenario where the Pakistani nation breaks up and the nuclear weapons could very quickly rapidly possibly fall in the harm fall into the hands of terrorist groups and start floating around with terrorists. What do you do in this scenario? The Americans have contingency plans for this worst case scenario. So I am sure the government of India also has contingency plans of what to do when in the future when in a few in a in a future date Pakistan occupi occupied Kashmir returns to becoming to becoming part of India. Uh you know so what do you do in the situation because we know that the population is as you rightly say seriously radicalized. Most of them probably want us dead. So what do you do with the population? There must have there must be contingency plans. Now um what we should do about this uh I would rather not tell you in public and uh so I will say that I I think we should leave it to the government of India to deal with this but you're right it's an issue it's an issue that we should take very seriously whenever it happens geopolitical dub says is Trump receiving gifts from Qatar or is receiving bribes from Qatar well gifts bribes potato potato tomato tomato same thing right uh as as as as a as the president of of a country or as the leader of a country, president, prime minister, whatever, king, whatever it is, you need to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest, right? Your personal interests uh should stay separate from your nation's interests. And as the leader of a country, you have to keep your personal interests aside and work towards uh to the the nation's interests, the interests of the nation. And I'm sure mostly Trump does that. But it's also interesting that he has got lots of personal business interests in the Gulf region. His family operates lots of businesses. Uh all his uh close relatives are involved in a variety of businesses and those business interests are front and center in the in in in the Middle East in West Asia in all these countries. And it helps if the president receive if you if if the president feels happy about a country because they've given him a $400 million jet jet aircraft. Right. So yeah, he has received a gift from Qatar from the nation of Qatar uh roughly roughly $400 million uh jet aircraft. And yeah, if that brings goodwill, then maybe it's worth the price. Uh so let's say you give him a gift worth $400 million but in return his family interests $40 billion then it's like a 100 times the the it pays you back a 100 times right. So if if that sort of thing happens even if they interest they they they invest not 40 billion but just 4 billion even then it's a 10x return on investment. even if they invest just 1 billion and you had to spend 400 million for that that's a 2.5x return on investment. So I'm sure there are calculations that go into this and um if you understand how Trump works then you you can use that to your advantage. So that's how it goes in the world. That's how it goes. Um Ankita says do you think the nature of war has changed a lot? Of course, it has changed significantly compared to the 20th century. It has compared significantly compared to the time of the Cargill war 1999 or something. It was, wasn't it? The Cargill war that was a that was like that's that's a whole different era, right? Compared to where we are today in warfighting terms, even the 2019 uh IndiaPakistan clash, it was very brief. But even then the way you fought war today's war fighting methods are very different from that. A lot has changed in just 5 years. Uh for the it was visible for the first time this new way of fighting war. It was visible for the first time during the two 2020 Artasak conflict the Nagoro Karabak latest version of the conflict between Armenia and Azarbaijan in which Azarbaijan used a variety of loitering drones kamikaz drones etc to and they used it very effectively and the world stood up set up and took notice of what was happening then in 2022 Mr. Putin launched the special military operation in Ukraine. And then once again you started seeing so many different technologies that had that had never seen the light of day in in in in a battle space before. But you saw that you had all kinds of drones, loitering drones, kamikazi drones, anti- drone technologies, anti- drone innovations. put a nest of wires and and and stuff on top of a tank and it can you know uh save the tank from the drone to a certain extent at least save some lives and possibly save the vehicle and so on. You saw all kinds of innovations you saw AI came into the into the field, robotics came into the field uh drone warfare came into the field into the field of battle and so much more. So you could see the direction in which uh war fighting was going and I have been saying for quite some time that India needs to ensure it's not left behind and to my utter delight and considerable surprise we have we have you know absorbed all the lessons of of uh the Armenia Abbajan conflict and the Ukraine conflict and we are actually possibly at the forefront of the of uh of how this new way of war is done. So we have used drones to extremely good effect visav Pakistan and we have ensured that no Pakistani drone can can is has been able has been successful in in hitting an Indian target. So we have the offensive as well as defensive capabilities nailed down. Obviously it's going to have to keep on evolving because now the world has seen how India operates in in battle and now the world will learn and they will try and find ways of countering it. So we have it's a cat and mouse game. We have to keep on evolving, keep on learning, keep on seeing that now the world knows that we can do these things. So let's do something else. Let's develop some other capabilities. Let's improve the capabilities and so on. So the nature of war fighting has changed a lot. Um fighter aircraft are increasingly going to be a last resort kind of thing. U in the past what used to happen is that you used to take out the enemy air defenses using fighter aircraft possibly or using missiles then use fighter aircraft for air superiority. air dominance and today it's different. Today you start with drones, you start with missiles, you neutralize all your enemies air defenses and other things using drones and missiles and then when the airspace is sanitized and the enemy is helpless, that's when you use fighter planes to to uh do further strikes. And we didn't see the next the next iteration of warfare when you would have an actual physical infantry advance with tanks or whatever. And what role drones and fighter planes uh and missiles will play in in uh uh you know giving cover to your advancing uh um armed forces, infantry and mechanized forces. So we haven't seen that thus far but I'm sure that we have all that covered as well. So the nature is war of war has changed a lot. We also have other means of fighting war which is the propaganda war which also includes uh uh cyber warfare and I'm I I hear that India is remarkably good at cyber war cyber warfare capabilities also we have never demonstrated that but uh yeah I'm I'm genuinely seriously pleasantly surprised really surprised I'm actually quite shocked at how good uh how well we have uh embraced the changing nature of warfare and we have actually surprised the world with that. Very good to see that. Okay. Aish Gupta says does the US have an alternative nation other than Pakistan or can any other nation drop down to the level of Pakistan? Okay, you asking does the US have other vasal states u in addition to Pakistan? Every single member of NATO is a US vasal state. Every single single member of the European Union is a US vasal state. Now what's a vasal state? You may ask. I use that term a lot. I think I I'm the one person in the world who has repopularized the term vasal state. Now everyone uses that. But I was using it when no one else was using it. And I I have I seemingly have popularized the term vasal state. What does it mean when I say that so and so nation is America's vasal state or China's vasal state? What does it mean? It means so if if you say that Pakistan is America's vasal state, it means that America has taken away some of Pakistan's sovereignty. Now what does that mean? What does sovereignty mean? Or if I say that the UK is America's vasal, it means that UK has lost sovereignty to the US to a large extent to a s to a certain extent. So if if you have a sovereignty score of 1, it means you are fully sovereign. But if you have a sovereignty score of let's say 6, it means you have lost 40% of your sovereignty. If you have a sovereignty score of 02, it means you've lost 80% of your sovereignty. What does it mean to lose sovereignty? What does sovereignty mean is the question now, right? What does sovereignty mean? Sovereignty means you have full control over your nation and everything that happens to it. So what does it what does it mean to lose sovereignty? Consider the NATO nations. When you become a member of NATO, you sign agreements. You sign an alliance treaty which and the effect of that is that you have to hand over control of your military of your armed forces to the NATO central command. Now the NATO central commander the the the overall head German whatever the director or whatever it is maybe a German maybe a Swede maybe a French person maybe a British person but the real power always lies with the US through a variety of means. So if you become a member of NATO, you lose control to a significant extent over your own armed forces and the payoff is that you don't have to spend so much on defense anymore. The Americans will guarantee your defense. Okay, that sort of thing. If you become a member of the European Union, you lose sovereignty in other ways. You lose control over your own economy because you no longer have a currency of your own. you have to use a currency that's controlled by the by the EU, central bank or whatever it is. So you lose control over your economy. Secondly, you lose control over your territorial integrity because you no longer have borders. Your borders are open. You no longer can control who comes in and who comes out, right? So you lose economic sovereignty, you lose territorial sovereignty, you also lose political sovereignty because now you have to accept whatever policies are framed in Brussels. You can no longer decide what policies will be implemented in your nation. Brussels will decide now. So you lose sovereignty. You become a vasal of whoever controls the EU, of whoever controls NATO. In the case of Japan, they are a vas of the US because the US physically occupies them. The US is more than 130 permanent military bases on Japanese soil. So it's under permanent US military occupation. Same goes for South Korea and so on. So and and when it comes to various African nations, you can you can turn them into vasals by simply buying the dictator that's there. Let's say there is a military dictator in some small African nation and the African nation is rich in resources, copper and lithium and whatnot. I want those resources. So what I do is I talk to the guy, the military dictator. I said that you know what I'll send you whatever arms you need. You buy whatever arms you need from me. I'll give you at a discount and I'll guarantee your safety and I'll even give you uh x number of million dollars per year in bribes and I'll treat you with respect in the international stage. All you have to do is open up your nation's resources to me. I'll plunder them and you become my guy. So that's how you prop up dictators all over Africa and you turn these nations into vasal states and then you can plunder the natural national national natural resources and uh you you get the full complete license to do that or whatever other thing you want to exploit from that nation. So that's how you turn nations into vasal states. When it when it comes to Pakistan, Pakistan is useful as a mercenary nation. they u they are willing to serve you as a ter as a terrorist entity for a for a price that's what they did in the 1970s 1980s 1990s all the way until until very recently so the US has lots of alternatives but when it comes to the Indian subcontinent and the conjunction of the Indian subcontinent region with the west Asia region Pakistan is the only nation in that geographical location which is why it is very valuable and indispensable and that's why uh when it comes to keeping India off balance and targeting India the US has no alternative except for Pakistan and if Pakistan disintegrates or ceases to exist then the US will lose a very valuable asset and India will rise significantly because the whole balance of power in the region changes and that's why Pakistan is invaluable can any other nation drop down to the level of Pakistan well I'm sure there are many nations who would love to be as valuable as Pakistan but let's say East Pakistan Bangladesh they're trying to they're trying to play that role but they don't have the wherewithal to do that because uh I don't think I mean if if you train them they also have harbored Pakistani terrorists in the past they also in the past when uh that other other individual woman was in charge uh khalida zia she was very anti-India they used to give refuge to Indian separatists who were either funded by Pakistan or the US or China they would give refuge to those Indian separatists on their soil and they also played such a role but uh because they don't have nuclear weapons and all that they can't rise or drop to the level of Pakistan and so on. All right. Uh okay. Mlebin says the US and China have agreed to a 90-day truce on the tariff war. At the same time, India notifies the World Trade Organization of its intention to retaliate with tariffs on the US. Is the US, China, and Pakistan? Are these three nations joining hands against India? There's the question. See, um, the US and China had this have this ongoing trade war. The US imposed 145% tariffs on the Chinese and the Chinese retaliated by imposing 125% tariffs on the US. But while all this was going on, it looks like these two nations were negotiating through back channels. Right? So now they have agreed all of a sudden to this 90-day truce and they've brought the titles down to whatever percentage 15% 20% 25% whatever it is right so they seem to have worked things out and they were talking to each other right um and uh India seems to be playing tough with the US and Trump is definitely not pleased if you try to arm twist India too much India will obviously respond in some way in a reasonable way that's what India is doing India will possibly if the US if the Americans recalcitrant if they are if they are inflexible and if they're just playing bullying then I suppose they leave us with no choice but to play the same game and maybe it'll hurt India a little bit more than the US or maybe a lot more we will see about that but u you can't just let somebody walk all over you so that's the deal now uh when it comes to Pakistan uh the US and China both have an interest in Pakistan don't they right it's a nation that that's valuable to both nations Pakistan is valuable to China as well the US. Pakistan has in the past rendered services given services to both China and the US and as such it's a valuable nation. So it looks like I think it's a possibility we have to consider that there is a possibility that as part of this deal that the Americans the Chinese have struck this 90-day truce and further negotiations that deal it's possible they have also had this understanding that we need to safe to safeguard Pakistan's existence. We need to ensure that Pakistan keeps on existing because it is valuable to both of us, you know. So, it looks like the Americans and the Chinese see eye to eye when it comes to uh Pakistan and the need for Pakistan to continue existing, right? And it's possible that the Chinese may have told the Americans that if you want uh us to agree to some kind of deal with you, then maybe you need to throw India under the bus. you know it's possible all these things are possibilities it's possible that these things happened behind the scenes so uh yeah that's what I can say it's possible that they are joining hands against us to a certain extent it's it's definitely possible right um uh there's a question that's not over here on the live chat it's by professor Gautam Di Raju a very learned gentleman he's asked a question u can bhat leverage with China against the US with respect to trade matters after all they are adversary countries u and that's a very interesting question that professor diiru has asked and obviously he himself is a very learned man and it's an honor that he has asked this question to me so can India leverage China with respect to the US because with respect to trade and other dimensions because After all, the US and China are adversary nations. Uh it's certainly something we can explore. Like the Americans and the Chinese were fighting each other publicly while having backdoor conversations clearly all these days. Uh it's certainly something we can explore. The Chinese in the past year and a half or so have tried to explore the possibility of some kind of the orromo with India uh because they could see the American onslaught coming towards them. Right. Um and even now if they have some kind of understanding with the US for the time being for the next 90 days and even in the future if they consolidate some kind of agreement with the US the US is still going to go after China they're going to deny them technology they're going to try and hurt China in various ways and so on. So it makes sense that if the Americans are um are supporting Pakistan against India it makes sense for us to explore options with China as well. Now we have to always remember that China is not a friendly country to the to to us. We have to always remember that if the Chinese are given an opportunity they will want India to fail very badly. But as long as you don't give them the give them that opportunity and you deal with them from a position of strength then it's possible to have some kind of understanding with the Chinese and some kind of uh trust but verify level cooperation with the Chinese. The possibility exists for sure, right? So, we will have to approach the Chinese and deal with them from a position of strength. Now, the Chinese will be very surprised at at our performance in that 3-day war with the Pakistanis. They'll be very surprised and actually very upset that we were able to bypass the Chinese radars, destroy the Chinese radars and render them useless. and we were able to uh you know nullify the so-called advantage the Pakistanis had of using long range Chinese missiles and they'll be very concerned about this and they'll be very surprised at the performance of India's multi-layered air defense system and they'll be very concerned about this air defense system also being present in the along the India Tibet border the the undemarcated border so the Chinese will begrudgingly be a little more respectful towards India know they will try and not show it but inside they'll be concerned and the only way you can gain someone's respect if they if is if they fear you to a certain extent and the only way you can get gain China's respect is if they fear you to a certain extent and now they certainly will have a little more fear as as compared to the past about India so you can leverage that you can use that to your advantage and explore the possibility of some kind of issue based cooperation with the Chinese let's say on certain economic uh uh domains and so on. It's something that is uh definitely worth doing. Okay. Um geopolitical dub says hypothetically asking what if US makes Pakistan a NATO member? Well um North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Indian Ocean region that would be a very strange thing but what if the Americans do that? See first of all there are certain conditions a nation has to meet to become a member of NATO. I don't think Pakistan meets those conditions and uh if you want to become a member of NATO you have to pass certain tests and uh you know align with certain guidelines and all that. There's a whole playbook at play that comes into play when a nation applies to become a member of NATO and I don't have the documentation with me right now over here but you have to abide by those conditions and you have to raise your standards to a certain level before you become a member of NATO. I don't think Pakistan is capable of doing that of becoming a member of NATO based on the on the on the on the conditions that currently exist. What the Americans have done to Pakistan is they've made it a major non-NATO ally which is the next best thing. So it doesn't matter what tag you put on a nation as long as the Americans favor Pakistan and and have some use for it, it works fine for the Pakistanis. Uh the Strummer says why are the defense forces not clarifying the status of Rafals? Have we really have we really lost them? How the hell do you care? Why are we so concerned about what the Pakistanis are claiming? H the defense forces, the armed forces have said that you know losses are a part of battle. They have not said we've lost Arafal in 2019. We lost a Mig 21. We lost a helicopter which we we ourselves shot down recently in the fighting against the Houthis. The Americans lost some F18s or whatever. They almost lost a F-35. These things are part of warfare. But Indians are obsessed with these things. If we lost an aircraft here or aircraft there, it means we have lost everything. I just don't get why we are so obsessed with these things. Let's say we lose an aircraft here or there. Have you seen what we did to the Pakistanis? I'm not saying we've lost the Rafal. I'm I just don't get why Indians are obsessed and there are keep on harping on this thing. Move on. We beat the Pakistanis black and blue and in case hypothetically we lost X one of this aircraft or one of that or whatever hypothetically how does it matter for you? I'm I'm this is that nitpicking habit of Indians that is so detrimental to to themselves. Indians want to criticize India. Indians want to find fold with India all the time. The armed forces should not clarify anything and leave people like this hanging because it's not it doesn't matter in case we have hypothetically lost something we will replace that you know what's important for the military the trained personnel are important the amount of time it goes into training one top quality fighter pilot you cannot measure that in with with money it's it's worth billions of dollars. It's worth the 20 Rafal. So I don't know. I have seen zero evidence that any Rafal has come down or or any Rafal or any other fighter plane has been destroyed. In today's day and age of social media where you can't hide a thing, you saw all the coverage of all the all the all the missile strikes and drone strikes in Pakistan. You think the Pakistani military wanted all that to come out? Well, it came out. You can't hide a thing today. So if a Rafal or another some other aircraft fire fighter plane hypothetically was shot down let's say over Pakistani territory or Pakistani occupied territory it would have been all over media didn't happen right but if it had happened in India don't you think it would have come out don't you think people with cell phones would have shot it and put it on social media it's impossible to hide that nothing has happened but Indians will keep on harping about this what the defense process should clarify The prime minister should said that. I'm just tired of this really. Indians are their own worst enemies. Seriously, I just I just don't get it. I just don't get it. Um, okay. Aditya Kumar Shaw says they clarified recent document of operation Sindor clearly states that no Indian assets are lost but Indians will not be will will not be satisfied with this. Some Indians want Indian Indian assets to be lost because Pakistan said that, right? Because Syrian said that because the white man said it, that's why something must have happened. Indians have this incredible inferiority complex. When the white man says something, it has to be true. Well, has the white man been able to show you evidence of India having lost a so and so asset? Have they been able to show you a shred of evidence? When you make a claim without evidence, you are lying. When you make a claim, the onus is on you who are making the claim to produce the evidence. It's not on me to pro to show evidence that proves your claim. To hell with you, Mr. CNN. If you make a claim claim, you produce the evidence. They have produced no evidence. But Indians say that no, the white man said this, right? So, he must be right. So, we are hiding something. This is the loser mentality of Indians. This is the mental colonization. This is the inferiority complex so many Indians have and it and it it infuriates me no end. What can I say? Pranet says how should India brace for the next stage of operation zindur? Is balkcanization of matter of Pakistan a matter of time or are we heading into a long war of attrition both military and psychological? The bulcanization of Pakistan is a matter of time. uh when the time comes even the Americans not even the Americans will be able to stop us from bulcanizing Pakistan I think it's a matter of time maybe 3 months maybe 6 months maybe 3 weeks maybe 3 years at most at most 10 years Pakistan I would say like I said with the pahalgam attack the the the countdown started for Pakistan the clock is ticking it's ticking backwards it's ticking towards zero I'm not sure when zero arrives but it's going to arrive soon what about operation sindu I think operation sundur is pased is paused for now. That's what the prime minister has said that we have paused operation sindur. That's what drashamantri has said Mr. Rajnat Singh we have paused operation sindur the operation is not over. Uh so we will have to keep an going to keep an eye on the behavior of the Pakistanis and if they you know do any more base adventures the operation resumes and uh next time is going to be they're going to be hit even harder. Um uh so we of course we in India need to be very careful. The Pakistanis are a terrorist nation and they have been humiliated despite claiming whatever they're claiming they have been humiliated. Their ar their their air force their personnel will never forget what happened to them. How they were rendered utterly helpless while India while Indian aircraft flew repeated uh sorties over their their their uh runways because the runways were crippled and uh they lost some personnel as well and some personnel apparently from Turkey also have been lost and so on. So I think it's a matter of time that uh Pakistan is dealt with once and for all whether the Americans like it or not. I don't think we are heading into a long war of attrition. A long war of attrition is like the Ukraine conflict. It's a slow war scenario. It's a long war scenario right now. It's just dragging on. We are not going to be drawn into that. Um we have we will have to be careful about potential uh Pakistani misadventures not military but terrorist misadvent misadventures against India. It is possible considering the Pakistani psyche and their track record that they may attempt to launch terror attacks on Indian targets not on the border but inside India. It's possible. So we're going to have to be cognizant of this fact and we're going to have to prepare accordingly in our major cities and so on. And if something happens, it should be the end of Pakistan whether Mr. Trump likes it or not. And I think we are very capable of putting an end to Pakistan in 24 hours after what we have seen. We were we treated them with kid gloves in that 3-day war. We could have hit them with with a 100 times more missiles. It's even possible that the warheads we used in the missiles were not were not very powerful. We could have used much more powerful warheads. I I assure you we have warheads that are way more powerful than what we have used. I'm talking about conventional warheads. I'm not talking about nuclear warheads. We should no civilized person talks about nuclear war unless he's a Pakistani when then you're not civilized. So that's how I see it. Yeah. Okay. Tanay Chandra says, "Will the Armenians be very happy as they have bought the Paka and the Akash air defense systems?" So the Akash system is an air defense system and the Paka is an offensive offensive system. It's a multiarrel uh rocket launcher system that launches those those huge salvos of 100 missiles at the rockets at the same time and it essentially is used to sanitize a certain u square kilometers of territory. Right? So that's what the Paka system does. The Akash surfaceto-air missile defense system. Whoever has bought it must be really really happy because the real superstar was the Akash system and the L70 system and the whole overall integrated Indian air defense system of which Akash is a very important component. So the Akash system has turned into an overnight superstar. It's you can't bypass Akash. Akash will get you right. So whoever has bought Akash which is Armenia of course they will be super happy about this and their arch enemies the Azaraijanis are going to be are going to be worried now are going to be worried the Akash can take you down whether you're a fighter plane whether you're a helicopter or whatever else you are Akash will take you down so yes uh good that the Armenians will be happy about this that their confidence will have risen and I think there's going to be a significant demand now for the Akash system and we can sell it to to friendly nations certainly. Um, okay. Uh, Page Singh says, "Taking into account the fact that Turkey sent its warship to Pakistan. If in another wartime if in another wartime situation they aggressively attack us in the Arabian Sea, will NATO article 5 be enforced if we retaliate? I think we can retaliate and not worry about NATO article 5. NATO article 5 says that an attack on a NATO nation a member state of NATO is to be seen as an attack on the o on the of on every other NATO nation right so are we attacking Turkey the the territory of Turkey if we take out a Turkish warship that's attacking us in the Indian Ocean let's not call it the Arabian Sea I would call it the Sea of Sarah it's not the Arabian Sea it's part of the Indian Ocean so if they launch an attack on India, the Turks. Okay, hypothetically in the Indian western Indian Ocean region, we will wipe it wipe the uh that uh warship down. We'll wipe it out. We'll slice it into two with a bramos. I've shown you in a previous live stream what the bramos does to warships to two ships. It just slices ships into two. So, we will do that to them. And if they if they started the whole thing, how can NATO blame us, right? And we not attacking Turkey. It's not an attack on Turkey. It's an attack on an on a hostile warship which may belong to Turkey. That that's their problem. I don't think the Turks would be stupid enough to do any such thing first of all visavas. They're simply uh doing the playing that old game right words versus actions. By sending a warship to Pakistan, you giving verbal support essentially. It's actions only if the warship is deployed against India in active warfare. And the Turks won't dare do that because we will destroy their warship. They know it. Now everybody will be worried about India's capabilities. We've only shown capabilities in one domain which is the air especially air defense and of course we've shown capabilities when it comes to drones and in taking out Chinese radars and air defense systems. So we have shown a small subset of our capabilities but now the world will be wondering what other capabilities will these Indians have. They'll be really worried now. So if Turkey wants to play with fire, well they are welcome to. I welcome you to play with fire. Right. Uh Shrea says, "Is this the right time to implement CA and NRC by creating a record of all citizens who are legally here and deport the illegal ones and prevent terror outfits and sleeper cells?" I think if we if we can deport all the foreigners who are squatting on Indian terri territory, whether they are Rohingya, whether they are cookies, whether they are Pakistanis, whether they're Bangladesh, we should deport them all. identify each and every one of them and deport them all. That will take away a huge shadow of terror from from from our citizens in our in our in our country. Right? When you have said foreigners living in your territory, exploiting your resources and essentially terrorizing your population and these these people, these foreigners have absolutely no affinity with or allegiance to your nation or your culture or civilization, then they're going to be a problem. And if they have come into India illegally, they should be thrown out. It's as simple as that. It's high time the government of India does this. I think the the war this three-day war with Pakistan is is given them the best uh cause the best excuse or whatever you want to call it to implement this and if the world has a problem with the with with what we are doing then the world can the world be damned it's a matter of our national security our national interest I think it's high time we do it I think I'm seeing some action on that front finally we need to make it happen fast imagine a 100 million Bangladesh is God knows how many tens of thousands of Pakistanis a few I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of cookies how many hundreds of thousands of Rohingyas what the hell are we a nation or are we a joke deport all illegals at the earliest needs to happen um Mr. 80ers says are we going to see some cracks in the Modi Modi Trump relationship you see whenever Mr. Trump tweets about India, Mr. Modi makes it a point to very quickly, very rapidly respond to that tweet with a great amount of warmth. Right? Mr. Modi has always made a point to do do that. And this time when Mr. Trump tweeted about India, Mr. Modi ignored that tweet. When Mr. Modi gave his address to the nation, he did not mention the US. He did not mention Mr. Trump's name. So I think we already seeing it. Is it Mr. Modi's fault? Is it India's fault? I think Mr. Trump has only himself to blame for this. If he thinks he can play this game, then you know what? Nobody will trust him. I he he definitely suffers from a lack of trust. No one trusts him because of his his behavior, his unpredictable behavior, his his vacasillating behavior, right? extremely unreliable person which makes you untrustworthy. Nobody will trust you. Obviously everybody wants to be on his good side. Everybody wants to be differential to him. Everybody wants to be nice to him. Everyone wants to give give him gifts. Some would give him fire what jet jet aircraft and whatnot. But u he's not seen as a reliable person because of the way he operates extremely transactional. So it's entirely their problem. Entirely their problem, entirely his problem. Uh Arjun Bondapadaya says, "How probable is war without the full if squadron strength?" It helps to have the full squadron strength, whatever it is, 32 or 38 squadrons, whatever. I don't know how much we have today, but we seem to have done the best we can considering considering that gap in our capabilities. I would love to have twice the number of fighter planes we have today. But let's say we are currently in a situation where we don't have the number that we want. Then sometimes you have to not sometimes you have to be realistic and say okay I have this deficiency here. How can I best cover it up? So we have we are covering it up by increasing our offensive capabilities in other ways which would typically have been covered using fighter planes. So we have shockingly dangerous missiles. We have shockingly efficient uh drones, offensive drones and so on. So we have kind of you know balanced that out with the other offensive capabilities that we have developed. So, so we should keep we should continue bolstering our missile strength, getting more missiles into the stockpile. We should have a stockpile of tens of thousands of missiles. Actually, we should also have a stockpile of maybe tens of thousands of drones in the meanwhile. Doesn't hurt if we reugment the number of fighter planes that we have over the next five, six years. So, how probable is war? I think if you are dangerous, if you are scary and if you have uh capabilities that that scare your adversaries, then war is less probable, right? But we're talking about a rational actor here. Pakistan is not a rational actor. So you may have war again in the next two weeks. Who knows? It's a possibility. If they try a terrorist attack against India somewhere, then the then war is again guaranteed if they do that. So we will again then hit at terror camps and infrastructure within Pakistan if there's a terrorist strike on India and given Pakistan's track record and Pakistan's psychology psyche and nature I think it's a matter of time before they try something obviously I will very much hope that if they try something we foil that attempt but even the the fact that they're trying something means that they want war so we'll see Shastri says, "How 14 mark S500 intercepts 20 mark nuclear ICBM in midair." The S500 and its capabilities are pretty secretive, pretty classified. The S500 is the next generation of the S400 system. And the S400 is the next generation of the S300 system. There's an S350 also, I believe, and possibly an S200. So it's a next generation kind of augmentation iteration of the system. You know the system keeps evolving gets getting better and when there's a significant improvement they call it the next number. So the X500 the S500 is possibly capable of taking down ballistic missiles possibly and definitely cruise missiles and other aerial threats. That's what one hears but nobody has actually seen it in action. Nobody knows actually what it is capable of. It is rumored that it can it can probably take out ballistic missiles and other things. We don't know how fast its missiles fly. I don't know if it's a Mac 14 missile that one of the missiles that it it has. It's possible the fastest Russian missile that we are aware of is the Circon missile which for a certain probably for the terminal phase has a mark 9 speed which is nine times the speed of sound probably for the terminal phase phase maybe for a 100 seconds or maybe 200 seconds or something like that not sure what the exact number is so it's a it's a partially hypersonic missile it's hypersonic at the end when it's going to hit the target that's the circon missile that's mark 9 do the Russians Mark 14 missile. I'm not sure. Maybe they do, maybe they don't. I don't know. It's classified. Uh ICBMs. Look, a nuclear ICBM is not different from a regular ICBM. An ICBM is ICBM. And the the speed of an ICBM is what you call re-entry speed because it it it follows a parabolic path. Um projectile motion. You'll learn that in in high school in physics. So it follows a present parabolic trajectory. It it rises up, it exits the atmosphere, then re-enters atmosphere and it it hits the target at close to re-entry speed which is around 20 possibly 25 times the speed of sound. Maybe by the time it comes all the way down it speed may reduce to a certain extent depends okay we don't know the exact characteristics unless you are working on the system yourself. So let's say it's mark 20 new ICBM you can take it down if you know if you if you have a track on it of it on the radar or through other other systems and you can see it trajectory you can calculate where it's going to come and what path it's going to take. Uh so 20 times the speed of sound is is I'm sure it can be done uh through if you have good technology. For example, if you're taking out an ASAT, if you have an ASAT system, anti-satellite system, anti-satellite weapon that you use to take out a satellite in Earth's orbit, that weapon, the kill vehicle, the terminal phase of the system needs to be able to hit a satellite that's traveling at about 10 km/s relative to where you launch the missile from. 10 km/s, what's the mark number? So mark 1 is 333 m/s, right? So that's mark 1. 10 * that is 3,330 m/s. That's 3.3 km/s. That's mark 10. Mach 20 is 6,600 m/s. So Mach 10, sorry, Mach 20 is 6.6 km/s. Mach 20. But the ASAT weapon that we have, it can take out a satellite which is 10 kilometers/s. So that's mark 2526. Imagine that. It's possible. As you can see, we we have the technology to take out an object that's that's traveling at essentially mark 2526, give or take. Very possible. Very possible. So technology, if you have it, it's almost like magic. These objects are are are moving faster than speeding bullets, flying bullets. Way faster. And yet you can take them out. There you have it, friends. Uh, fund restored. I like the name fund restored says, "What should India do in manufacturing jet engines? like should we go with R&D and or just spend hefty money to buy tech to manufacture as per the current situation. I think we should take both approaches. Whoever is willing to transfer the full jet engine technology including the turbine blades and so on whatever it costs pay it and buy it and acquire the technology. At the same time, we should continue our indigenous R&D at the gas turbine research establishment and wherever else it may be happening, buy the technology also develop it inhouse. That's what needs to happen. It has to be a twopronged approach. So let's say we get lucky and we are able to let's say buy the technology for let's say $10 billion a huge amount of money. Does it mean that if we now have the technology, we've bought it and we are able to replicate it. Does it mean that we should stop our own research and development process, R&D process? No, we should not stop it. We should continue that as well. And maybe we should transfer some of the learnings from the technology we acquired into that. But don't stop that process. That's what we need to do. Both approaches should continue at the same time simultaneously. That's what India needs to do. Churag says even after becoming a 10 to1 15 trillion economy Pakistan can attack again attack and play the nuclear card. How does this cycle end? How about using anti-satellite to destroy their news propaganda? Okay, first of all, um, yeah, you are right, Churag. Even if we become in the future, when we become a 10 trillion dollar economy, when we become a 15 trillion dollar economy, as long as Pakistan is sitting next door, it's going to be a problem for us. It's going to it's it's it's like having a parasite, a vampire attached to you. It's like having a permanent cancer that keeps on poisoning you, right? As long as they exist next to you, there will always be a problem. So the only way to be break free of this is to break Pakistan into pieces to balconize Pakistan. That's the only way to do it. That's the only way to permanently end this headache. Right? So we have to we need we need to have a new special military operation or something against Pakistan. The objective should be the bulcanization of Pakistan and the denuclearization of Pakistan and it should be done by us. So eventually we're going to have to do it. That's the only way the cycle ends. Uh when it comes to the news propaganda, the propaganda doesn't come from satellites and you can't just randomly start shooting down satellites. Pakistan doesn't even have satellites. I mean they may have one, maybe two, but that's not the propaganda machine. The propaganda machine that supports Pakistan is the Western media. It's CNN. It's whoever else. It's the BBC and whoever else pedals Pakistani propaganda and and uh and augments Pakistani perspectives, narratives, lies. That's the propaganda. You can't these are human beings. These are individuals. These are journalists. These are writers. These are news readaders and so on. You can't use an anti-satellite weapon to target those people. Right? So that's not how it works. The propaganda is is is not coming from satellites. It's definitely not coming from coming from Pakistani satellites. It's the West that is upset. It's the West that wants to make the world believe that Pakistan has done well in this in the three-day 3-day war. And why does the west want the world to believe that Pakistan has done well and India hasn't done so well and Pakistan has been excuse me Pakistan has been at least the equal of India in the war. Why does why does the west want the world to believe this? Tell me it's because India has either Indian weapons atbar home manufactured weapons like the Akash system and whatever else or we have French weapons possibly which is the Haval or we have Russian weapons and if we have succeeded it's by using a mix of these three Indian Russian and French weapons and the US doesn't see France as a with with a great deal of warmth and friendliness. Okay. There there is tension between the US and France, it always it's always there below the surface. So if India uses French, Russian and Indian weapons and they turn out to be superior to Western weapons, American weapons and Chinese weapons, it's a problem for the Americans. Look, they even don't like India Indian weapons being better than Chinese weapons because China is a clear and present threat and the whole world recognizes China as a technological near superpower. But if we have weapons that are better than Chinese weapons, then we have a big problem for the from their perspective, they have a big problem on the horizon. There's a new power that's emerging with the technology with the ability to to to develop technology that is better than western and Chinese technology. right their own want see and and and if the world starts recognizing that then India becomes more confident and the Indians who crave validation from western people they also become confident so let's not most Indians have an inferiority complex most Indians are are mentally colonized most Indians if the white man says that the three Rafals went down or 78 Indian UFOs went down the Indians will start questioning their own own army right so let that happen bring the morale of the country down that's the propaganda war that's being unleashed against India at all times during the Ukraine war during the 3-day India Pakistan war and so on the west will always take the other guy's side right so you can't use anti-satellite weapons to de to destroy that propaganda do you understand you have to counter their fake news narrative with your own true news narrative that's how it works all right um Ina says uh Dr. SJ Shanka said that we informed Pakistan at start of operation Sindur. Isn't it stupid? What we informed Pakistan at the start of operation Synindur? Isn't that stupidity? What's my perspective point of view? Did our foreign policy fail because nobody took a firm stand for us? Look, I don't know what the media is reporting. I I saw some some kind of tweet some time ago and lots of people are now raising this objection and raising this point that why that apparently it looks like apparently the the the tweet and the news snippet is is quoting Dr. J. Shankar as having said that we told Pakistan at the beginning of operation zindu that we are hitting terrorist camps. I don't think India did such thing. Just like Donald Trump said that I have mediated between between India and Pakistan and India and Pakistan have agreed to hold talks and negotiations at at a neutral venue. That's what Donald Trump said. But the truth is he has done no such thing and India and Pakistan have not agreed to hold negotiations at a neutral venue. That's fake news, right? So similarly sometimes you can tell lies if required. It doesn't mean that you actually did that. So please understand the difference between words and actions in diplomacy, in international relations etc. You can use words to your advantage. You can you can use words to create a certain narrative. You can use lies to create a certain narrative. Now India's moto is saty jay which is a really stupid mo mot mo mot mo mot mo mot mo mot mo mot mo mot mo mot mo mot mo mot moto actually because no Indian follows that moto most Indian politicians do the opposite most not all but most right and the world doesn't work on the principle of satyavj you have to lie a lot of the times in the world especially when you are serving your national interest so Trump clearly lied about the claims that he made so why can't we lie sometimes I think it's possible that we are playing with words and possibly uh pushing the boundaries of what is true and what is untrue to make to create a certain narrative. It's possible. So why are we attacking our own foreign minister? We won the conflict, right? I don't do not believe for one second that India telephoned Pakistan and said that you know what in 5 minutes we're going to launch attacks. If we had done that the attacks possibly would have failed. Don't you don't you people have that much understanding that if we had told the Pakistanis even 5 minutes before we launched the attack on the terrorist camps then the Pakistanis would have scrambled their fighter planes and you know done whatever they could and maybe our loitering drones which calmly took the videos of the strikes maybe they would have been shot down. So maybe we are using the good old words versus actions game. Maybe we are putting out f false news, fake news. Maybe we're trying to create a certain narrative for the world's consumption. Let us not get all hyperactive about these things. We know that the Pakistanis have been lying about a lot of things, right? Why can't we lied sometimes? Why why do we have to always speak the truth? Can't we all be a little more mature in the pursuit of the national interest? It is okay to lie if required. Something that is worth fighting for. It is worth lying for. It is worth fighting dirty for. Please develop some more maturity. Right? Please. Words versus actions. We took a certain set of actions and now we are saying some words. The actions are done. Now let's play the game of words. If required, let's mislead the world in the pursuit of our interests. So I I know lots of Indians right now asking, "Oh, Janka did this, Janka did that. We should have done something else." Please grow the hell up, children. What are we third standard kids here? Uh Aris Manticor says, "Pakistanis raised their kids to hate the existence of India." Unfortunately, it's true. While we raise pigs for slaughter who are un unaware of the nefarious intentions of our neighbor, an Indian YouTuber was brainwashed by the ISI recently. Yeah. You know what can I say? Indians Indians are super naive. Indians are super gullible. Indians crave external validation. Indians have an inferiority complex. I think even some Indians even have an inferiority complex with the Pakistan. There are many Indians who think that Pakistanis are more handsome than us. Pakistanis are taller than us. Pakistanis are stronger than us and so on. I just can't get how incredibly mentally colonized Indians are. How much of an incredibly inferiority complex Indians have and such people are so easy to manipulate. Right? of this Indian YouTuber that you're talking about. I'm not sure who it is, but yeah, you will see lots of people falling for these these various kinds of PS whether it's a so-called honey trap or whether it's something else. Lots of Indians fall for these things. And the truth is it's not only Indians who fall for this. Even the other side can be made to fall for it. Okay. Anyway, Duv Durya says, "Recently I saw a video of the air chief, the air force chief of India saying that we are not able to deliver 40 as aircrafts in 8 years and I hope that statement of the of the chief of the air force, the head of the air force, it hopefully gave a kick on the backside of those who are supposed to manufacture those stages aircrafts. Right. I hope so." He was absolutely right. We need to gear up. We need to ramp up our production. We should be we should be manufacturing 40 TES fighter planes in one year, not 40 in 80 years. It's a question of the national security, right? It's it's a question of the nation's interests. So, I think it's high time for whoever manufactures the aircrafts, DRDO, HL, whoever it is to to to to, you know, do what they're supposed to do. Do your job and do it right. Dibbos says, "How come the Sukoy 57 is a fifth generation fighter plane, but it's still 40% the cost of the F-35?" The F3 The F-35 is an overpriced piece of trash. It's an overpriced flying trash can. They have spent incredible amounts of money to produce a substandard aircraft. Now, I don't know how good or bad the SU357 is. Maybe it doesn't have all the great characteristics that the the F-35 has, but the Russians want to waste so much money. They don't have the kind of money the Americans have. So, obviously, they made it in a much better way. Look, the com Let me give you an appropriate comparison. the the the the movie the Hollywood movie Gravity costs cost $100 million to make but we sent a spacecraft to Mars in less than the cost of that one movie about uh it's a science fiction movie about going to space. So that's the kind of money the Americans have compared to what we have. So we can send an actual spacecraft to Mars in less money than it costs to make a Hollywood movie, right? So it's possible. Anything's possible. I'm not sure how good or bad the Suka 57 is, but I'm I'm value for money wise, it's way better, I'm sure, than the F-35. Okay. Uh Savaria S says, "What are the advantages of ballistic missiles over cruise missiles?" Um okay, the rest of it I don't know what it means. What's the advantage of a ballistic missile over a cruise missile? Cruise missiles are like aircraft. It's like cruise missiles are kind of you can think of a cruise missile as being like a pilotless aircraft. There's no human being inside it. It's been given a target. It knows where to go and it's on a suicide mission. It's on a kamicazi mission. So, it's going to go and slam into the target and it's got a warhead which will then explode. That's a cruise missile. So, a cruise missile flies like an aircraft. Okay? It flies at maybe whatever altitude you want it to. maybe 10 km like a cruise like a regular aircraft maybe it's a sea skimming missile or ground hugging missile which means it's maybe flying 50 ft above the ground or if it's flying over the sea maybe it's 20 ft above the sea or something to keep a low profile and evade radar detection but cruise missiles typically fly much slower than ballistic missiles a cruise missile if it's a supersonic one like the bramos it's mark 2.8 8 nearly almost three times the speed of sound. If it's uh the nearby no not the nearby the what is it I think the nearby missile which is a subsonic cruise missile well that would fly slower than the speed of sound. So each missile has a different role and purpose. The advantage of a cruise missile is that it can fly low and uh it can remain undetected if detected. And ballistic missiles they have a completely different flight path. They have a parabolic flight path and they enter at extremely high they they reenter the atmosphere after exit exiting it at extremely high velocities. So most nations don't have the technological means to take out a ballistic missile because it comes in so fast. It reenters so fast. Cruise missiles have a different flight path. Ballistic missiles have a different flight path and they used for different means. The longest range of a cruise missile may be like 3,000 uh I don't know 3,000 km maybe. Typically cruise missiles have a range of maybe for example certain versions of the Brahos have a range of about 300 km. Some versions of the bramos are rumored to have a range of 1500 km. Rumored to. Okay. And the Nirby seems to have a range of 1200 or 1500 km and so on. There may be longer range cruise missiles. So cruise missiles have a certain range beyond which you can't they can't go. Ballistic missiles depending on what you how much fuel and whatever else you put into them can have an intercontinental range. So you can launch a ballistic missile from let's say somewhere in India and you can have it hit Antarctica hypothetically if you want that's way way far away or any other continent that you can imagine. I'll not take names because it's a nasty thing to say but that sort of thing. So ballistic missiles have essentially in almost unlimited range depending on how much fuel etc you place into them and the size of the missile and so on. So that's the difference. Uh ballistic missiles have advantages. Cruise missiles have their own advantages. The Russians have a certain weapon system that they announced in 2019 which is a nuclear fueled nuclear powered cruise missile which is not the same as a cruise missile with a nuclear warhead. This uses nuclear power for propulsion nuclear propulsion. So it's got a nuclear ramjet. The bramos has a ramjet but it's got a chemical ramjet. This Russian weapon system apparently cruise missile has a apparently has a nuclearpowered ramjet ramjet. So it's got essentially unlimited range. It can fly 20 times around the world before hitting its target if it wants to. It can loiter for days possibly before it wants to. So that's a different kind of cruise missile. But that too is a cruise missile. So missiles come in various classes, various capabilities and so on so forth. And depending on what your objectives are, you can use other ballistic missiles or crew missiles or subsonic cruise missiles or supersonic cruise missiles or hypersonic cruise missiles. You can even use MIRV equipped ballistic missiles to to ensure you really strike a target. You can use MRV equipped ballistic missiles, warheads and so on. Lots of things. So it's it's pretty complicated but uh it all depends on what you want to achieve and who the adversary is and what their uh air defense capabilities are like. Adwit says the media never shows any headline that the US lost so and so they had 7 to eight MQ9 Reaper drones, three FA18s and F-16 and they almost lost F-35 by the to the Houthis who are not even professional soldiers. You see the Americans lose equipment all the time. They lose their most advanced drones. They lose FA18 fighter planes. They lose F-16s. They almost they they even lose F-35s once in a while here and there. But nobody makes a human cry about that. But if the Pakistanis claim that the so and so Indian aircraft came down, then Indians start making a human cry about this. Indians they lack a proper perspective on the world that in warfare you're going to have losses of equipment. It's part of the game. It's part of the deal. It's something you have to absorb. It's something you have to accept. If you can't take any loss in in war, then you are not a nation that's serious. That's not a nation that that deserves success. And we are a nation that deserves success. But the population a significant population percentage of the population has these ideas that if we lose one aircraft then no matter it doesn't matter if we hit 20 Pakistani air bases we lost one aircraft which means we we the loser losers of the war that's the kind of attitude Indians have Indians are so easy to mentally manipulate by the west so that's something that is a huge deficiency in India Indians lack self-confidence Indians have an inferiority complex and it is not the fault of the Indians that they are like this. It's the education system that's done this to them. The education system has never inculcated any sense of pride or self-confidence in the people of India. That's why it's so easy to mislead and manip and manipulate Indians. So, Adwit is completely right. See how much equipment the Americans have lost in the last few months. But no one speaks about that, right? I will I will take no more questions about the alleged Rafal thing. Um Raf says, "What about the nuclear warheads that went missing from us?" I can assure you none of our nuclear warheads are missing. I don't know what you've heard of and where you heard heard it from, but I can assure you that none of our nuclear warheads are missing. Right. Um, okay. Aramana says after India destroyed the Chinese air defense system, now the quality of Chinese air defense has been exposed to the world. Will China is China going to do some mischievous acts against us? I mean, they can try if they want to. What can they do? Uh, it's not our fault that their air defense systems and radars are substandard. It's not our fault, right? If they had done the job they were supposed to do, then maybe we would have we would have had a tougher tougher time in the three-day war against Pakistan. So, we had no ill intentions towards Pakistan, towards China. It's China's own fault that their systems did not work. Right? So they if they are upset they need to introspect. Apparently they had sold their best air defense systems to the Pakistanis and see what happened. I think they should be very worried if they had any plans of going to war with India or or trying to test India's capabilities. Uh so it's it's entirely their fault whatever's happened right and if they want to do something mischievous against us well they can try and apparently it looks like our technology is is superior to theirs so they can try. Yeah, they're welcome to, I would say. Uh, right now the Scrummer 1989 says, "Instead of humans, can we use robots on the warfronts? Are our organizations taking any steps towards making this a possibility?" uh considering what we have seen during the 3-day special military operation against Pakistan operation zindur I think it's quite possible that we have organizations that are doing all kinds of stuff but away from the the public eye it's possible that we are doing stuff that we are uh taking steps in various directions that involve robotics and AI and such systems it's very possible we have the best minds in the world. No question about it. Right? So, it's certainly possible. It's certainly going to happen in the future. It's going to be increasingly the case that we're going to have more and more robotic systems and AI enabled systems in the battlefield. And eventually maybe in 10 years maybe maybe before that maybe later eventually you may have wars that are fought entirely between robotic armies it's possible be going in that direction. So right now if you see the advances in robotics uh you have robots that can now stack shelves in in commercial establishments. For example, if you have a warehouse like let's say an Amazon warehouse or something, then robots can stack the shelves and transport one bundle from another and one package from another another one place to another and so on. Robots can do that. Robots are increasingly able to do things that humans can do. And very soon you're going to have warehouses that are entirely staffed by robots, not a single human being because robots typically they don't make mistakes. Humans get tired and they they can lose concentration or have lapses of concentration or if you're in a bad mood you will you you can make more mistakes and so on. Robots don't have that issue. Right? So very soon we're going to have warehouses and and other things establishments like that that are entirely operated by robots. Similarly the same thing will happen in in in the battlefield. You're going to have robot soldiers. You're going to have robot dogs. You're going to have robotic drones. You're going to have AI enabled systems. It's all going to happen. We are going in that direction and I'm pretty sure after what I've seen the in the 3-day military operation against Pakistan that we are taking this extremely seriously we as in India. So yeah I'm now pretty confident let's not be all confident but yeah I think we we're going on the right in the right direction in the right direction. Now Shri Ramachandraan Namaha says how is India using the Anderman and Nikobar islands to make it a naval power and air force base. Um well what are we doing? I think we have we are constructing a big port a trans shshipment facility in the Adabar and Nikkob Islands. That's one thing we're doing. We have probably if I mean anybody can see this. We haven't opened the map today. It's been 1 hour 35 minutes. I haven't opened the map. What's going on these days? Let's take a look at what's available in the public domain. So I am only showing what's what anybody can see. Okay? I'm not showing any secrets. Anybody can see this. So So that's why therefore it is fine to show what I'm showing. This is not a secret. Uh let's look at for example the little Anderman. What do we have here? the little Anderman Islands. I don't see too much action activity happening here. Typically, you want to see something that's visible from a distance. So, not much happening here. Little Andaman. What do we have here? This is South Sentinel Island. Uh, that's not the one. Now, we have this is Indonesia now. So, we have gone too far south. Indonesia is what? Indonesia is about one less than 150 km from India. neighboring nation. Now let's look at a large and man or whatever you want to call it. What do we have going on here? So let us see. Let us see. I'm sure this uh I'm sure we have air force etc capabilities here somewhere here. I can see an aircraft airport over here. This is obviously an international airport, Vir Sawker International Airport. And uh it's possible it may have some air force aircraft also, which is okay. Which is okay. Uh what else? Um Sithur and so on. I've heard of something called Campbell Bay, right? One second. I don't know why it is foreign names. Campbell Bay and the Wandabar Islands. Zoomed in right away. Where is this? Okay, fine. It's over here. So, I think I went too far north. I missed Campbell Bay. So, we have an airport here as well. Uh, is this an international airport? Is it a domestic airport? What's the distance? What's the length of the runway? 1.26 km. Not a very big runway, excuse me. And so on. This is a nice bay that we have. Uh I'm sure it will make a very good naval base if you want to and so on. So we have some capabilities over here in the Anderman and islands. I think we have not really done enough to leverage the incredible geographical location that these islands uh represent. Um but I'm sure that we are doing something or the other to uh leverage its position. The Anderman and Nikoma Islands can serve as an unsinkable aircraft carrier. You can have air force bases there for sure. You can have naval bases there. You can even have submarine bases there. It It's not a bad idea to have maybe 100 200 fighter planes stationed over there. Maybe 100, maybe a few submarines, 10 20 submarines. Of course, we only have 16 or so submarines, so we need to do something about that. But yeah, it's it's a it's a tremendously important tremendously strategic uh location, geographical location in the middle of the eastern Indian Ocean, the so-called Bay of Bengal. Right? So I think India is doing something about it. I think India should do a lot more about that. A lot more needs to be done and can be done. Um okay Navin Kubar says why did the Chinese air defense system fail so miserably in this Indopak war is was there a problem with this with the quality of the system or was there a issue with the skills of the Pakistanis operating it I can't say I can't say for sure uh you can only tell if you were there and you you saw what was what was being done with the system I would not want to blame the Pakistani skills on this. I'm sure the Pakistani military has reasonably competent people. I know we we all know they are terrorists. They have this hatred towards India and they have this love for terrorism. We know that. But I think the Pakistani military is reasonably competent and I would not imagine that they would have unskilled people. I'm sure they have reasonably skilled people who operate whatever they they operate, right? Um, and that's why I don't I would not blame this on the skills of the Pakistanis operating the Chinese air defense system. I would blame this on the on on the Chinese technology. I think the Chinese technology is substandard. That's what it looks like. That's what I think has happened. And that's a big problem for for China. They're going to be very worried now. If they thought that there would have been some kind of u some kind of uh advantage that they have visav India and maybe that advantage will give them the opportunity to maybe indulge in a war with India. Yeah. Hypothetically along the India Tibet border undemared border or something. Now they'll be worried about it. Now they will not consider the possibility of a war even if they have so-called stealth aircraft or semi- stealth aircraft like like the J20 or whatever. Uh the J20 is rumored to be reasonably well stealthy from the front, but its backside apparently is not stealthy at all or or it's it's got minimal stealth issues or whatever. So I don't think the Chinese will be happy about what's happened now. And uh considering the fact that our air defenses are so good, the Akash system and the the fact that their air defenses are terrible and the radars don't work, they're going to be worried now. And there's now you see that gives us a position of strength comparatively. Of course they still are a very powerful nation much more powerful than us. We cannot become overconfident but yep it's a it's a interesting development for sure. Chiag says uh there was so much of a delta between 2019 and 2025 operation Synindur. Is it mainly because of economic growth? Does it have any other factor? It's an interesting question. Shira asks us. Let's compare the 2019 Balakot event with the 2025 operation Sindur event. 2019 we launched an air strike deep inside Pakistan in the Kyber Pakuna province I think it was that province Balakort and there was a terrorist headquarters or or or hideout or whatever it was over there. So we launched an air strike. We used spice bombs. We hit the terror center and apparently a bunch of terrorists died. But but we produced no evidence. We did not have drones at the time. Apparently as far as I know. So we were not able to send a drone to Pakistan to to fly over Balakot and film the strikes and show that you know we actually did that and we actually hid the place. We produced no such evidence in Balakot. That's number one. Number two, you can say reason with a reasonable amount of truth that at least that that we were kind of out outmaneuvered from an air force perspective because one of our fighter planes went into Pakistani airspace or Pakistani occupied airspace and was shot down. We shot down an F-16 but we were able to provide no evidence of that. And our fighter plane was shot down over Pakistani occupied territory and one of our pilots was captured by Pakistan. Right? And so that's number two. We used MIG 21s. We had a pilot who was captured then there to return him. And thirdly, we shot down one of our own helicopters. Right? These are the things that happened in 2019. Now look at 2025. See the incredible difference between 29 2019 in 2025. 25 and 20 20 2019 night and day difference. We did not use Mig 21s. I don't know which fighter planes we used but we did not use Mig 21s. We used drones to incredibly great effect. We used missiles of various kinds. I don't know which missiles but the Pakistanis had no answer to the missiles. We wiped out their air defenses. Um we used drones of various kinds. They tried to hit us over and over and over again. In one night they launched more than 500 drones at various Indian cities all the way from Lei in the north northern part of India all the way to Sil Creek and Katch in the in the southern part of the India Pakistan border they could not hit a single Indian city they could not hit a single Indian air base they were able to hit civilian areas because you can't defend everything they were able to hit Punch and Rajori with their shelling and artillery fire or whatever it was right but beyond that they could not hit a single high value Indian military installation They tried launching a ballistic missile or long long range missile at Delhi. There also was brought down. I mean the the difference between 2019 and 2025 is a night and day difference. And then and then in a matter of 30 less than 30 minutes, we hit 11 Pakistani air bases. We hit them where it hurts the most. We were able to hit Kirana Hills where they are hiding nuclear warheads. We were able to hit Saroda. We were able to score direct hits on Nurh Khan air base. We hit them in the heart of Rahul, Pindi, Islamabad, everywhere else. Pakistan, the Pakistanis had no answer. Night and day difference, incredible difference. If you compare 2019 with 20 25, 2019 almost looks like a failure. It was not. But comparatively what we achieved in 25, you can't compare 2019 with it. 2019 also was a success but not the kind of success we have seen in 2025. Why did we have the success? Because first of all we learned the lessons of 2019. We had certain deficiencies in 2019. We have rectified all the deficiencies. We are now using cuttingedge fighter planes. Apparently we definitely I'm sure did not use Mig21 this time. We have uh embraced 21st century warfare drone warfare. We also have anti- drone systems, anti-missile and other things systems, incredible air defense. So we have used a lot of indigenous systems. The Harop drone may be of Israeli design but we manufacture it in India. The Akash system is of Indian design and manufactured in India. And the L70 gun we have enhanced and augmented it and turned it turned it into a tremendously uh potent air defense weapon. And we have other systems as well. So because of our own R&D because of because we have trusted our own engineers and scientists and technicians because we have inducted our own systems that's why that's one reason why we have succeeded uh we have embraced AI possibly we have embraced robotics we've embraced drone warfare and all of this happens why how has all of this happened because obviously of economic growth the more the larger your economy is the more you can spend on the military and u that's one. Number two, leadership. You may have a great economy, but if your leadership isn't isn't good, then the that the military will not get what it needs. So leadership is very important. So I'm sure a lot of the credit has to go to Prime Minister Mr. Modi, Narendra Modi. Um imagine if you had AK Anthony as the defense minister today, would we have dealt with Pakistan this way? Think about it. So yeah, these are the reasons why there's such a huge delta as you say between 2019 and 2025. Um, all right. Knowledge seeker one says, "Was Trump scared that he was going to lose the trade war because China would sell weapons and get out of a bad financial situation?" Trump trying to is Trump trying to pressure India into a trade deal now? How can Trump lose a trade war? Because China will sell weapons. To whom will they sell weapons to get out of the bad financial situation? They would need maybe a trillion dollars of weapon sales to sales. To whom will they sell that much weaponry to Pakistan? Do you think Pakistan has any money to give to China? Uh that's not how it works, my friends. Uh is Trump trying to pressure India to trade deal into a trade deal now? of of course he's trying to pressure India into trade deal. He wants India to have 0% tariffs on the on the United States which means the Americans can flood the Indian market with their goods. That's what he wants. And if we don't agree to a 0% trade deal, then they will impose tariffs on us. Well, let's see how it goes. If he is going to be unreasonable, let it be. Right. Right. Samat asks a very pertinent question. Should India increase defense spending? Now I think India needs to definitely increase defense spending. I don't know what percentage of our GDP goes into into the defense budget. Maybe it's 2%, maybe it's 2.5%. I'm not sure. Maybe it's less than 2%. I'm not really sure. I haven't seen the latest figures. uh but a significant percentage of the defense budget goes into simply paying salaries and pensions of uh current armed forces personnel and retired armed forces personnel. So how much of the defense budget actually goes into maintaining weapons and buying new weapon systems? Not a lot. I think India should double its defense budget for the next 10 years. Get serious. The world is now pretty nasty place. Wars erupting everywhere. You got China on one side, Pakistan on on the other side. You got East Pakistan, West Pakistan on two on the east and west of India. To the northern part of India, you have this huge undemarcated border with Chinese occupied Tibet. Then you have various projects like project K, Cookie Land for Christ to create a new artificial Christian nation cookie land out of parts of Manipur, Misoram, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Myanmar has been destabilized by the Biden Biden regime. The cookie land for Christ project K was a Biden regime creation. Right? We have so much so many threats. It is time I think India should double its defense budget for maybe 10 years. India needs to arm itself to the teeth really. Considering the neighborhood we living in, considering the kind of the the kind of neighbors the gods have gifted us today. I don't blame the gods for it. But whatever it is, you know, we need to take our defense much more seriously. Excuse me. Ragunat says, "Is next war over Industry coming soon?" Do you think? Yes. So the the Pakistanis have claimed that the Indust treaty abrogation is like an act of war. My question to the Pakistanis are is okay, let's say it's an act of war. What can you do about it? What are you going to do about it? You have hit us over and over again for decades with terrorism and we choose not to do a thing about it. Now we said enough is enough. Water and blood cannot flow together. So we're going to abrogate the industry until you guys prove demonstrate to the world and to us. Forget about the world to you demonstrate to us that you have actually shut down your terror factories and dismantled all your terror infrastructure and eliminated all your terrorists. Until you give us incontrovertible proof of all of this, we not going to honor the Industry team. As as simple as that. Now, if you have a problem with that, do your worst. Do what you can. you do a terror strike against India, we will take it as an act of war and we're going to treat you as war criminals and operation Synindhur will will look like just a trailer of what's really going to come. So the question really is is Pakistan in a position to go to war with India. What are their capabilities? They are in no position to go to war with India. The worst thing they can do is to strike at India through asymmetric warfare which means terror strikes. That is something that we would take very very seriously. And if there is a terror strike anywhere in India, the Pakistanis must pay for it very badly. Very badly. Uh okay. Tina Yadav says Trump trumpet Trumpet Trump asked Tim Cook to not manufacture in India. Why is he in why is he so insecure all of a sudden? and IAEA denied the nuclear leak. So I discussed what Trump said some time ago. Uh he is upset that India has uh hit his pet terrorist nation so hard. Trump seems to have a great fodness for terrorists. He recently met with Al Jolani, a terrorist with a $10 million bounty on his head from the FBI. Uh so he seems to be completely okay with professional head choppers. Golani was a professional head chopper just a few years ago. Um so Trump is okay with that. The Americans have a track record of being very comfortable with terrorists and human rights abusers. Of course they they sponsored these people, funded and financed these people. So it's fine. So Trump is unhappy that we have hit Pakistan so badly. And he's unhappy that we are negotiating hard when it comes to the trade and tariff deal. Right? We are not allowing the Americans to arm twist us and push us over. It's not working. So Trump is very unhappy. It's not only Pakistan, it's also the trade thing. He wants India to have zero a zero tariff policy when it comes to American goods. That is uh unreasonable, right? So it's not going well and that's why he's unhappy. So that's that's the reason why he is doing all this and he's you know heaping praise on Pakistan these days. Pakistanis are a fantastic people and Pakistan makes wonderful things. What wonderful things is what what what wonderful things does Pakistan make. The only wonder only high quality thing the Pakistanis make is terrorists. So I don't know now IAEA dire nuclear leak. I don't know about that. Um I'm I've not heard the news of the international atomic whatever agency what they may or may not have said about Pakistan and the possible nuclear leak I don't know and if they say something we don't have to trust them it's not like if somebody says something they are telling the truth all the time right all these agencies are um are tools in the hands of the west to be used for various purposes When the WH says, what's his name? Dr. Tedros, do you think if he says something you should trust him? What was that thing called? O Micron. Oh Micron. I mean, where is the Corona virus today? It was such a big deal, right? They shut down the entire world for the Corona virus. That's how dangerous it apparently was. Where is it today? They said it it it came from I don't know what it was a natural thing. By now I think it's pretty well established that the corona virus was a bioweapon. So these people they have been lying. They have a habit of lying and they will use lies to mislead people. So maybe there's a nuclear leak in Pakistan. But to to cover it up they are lying once again. It's that's also a possibility we have to consider. So my point my perspective is that I don't trust any of these people. I know for a fact that they use fake news and propaganda to mislead the world. They've done this over and over again. They've been doing it for decades and there's no reason for us to believe them. Okay. Um Anul says, "How good is the Indian army's Kali weapon? TV channel Network 18, which is the umbrella corporation for CNN News and News8 is owned by Reliance. Why is the government not using Motavi for information warfare? Okay, there are like three different questions. I am not aware of this Kali weapon. I've heard rumors of it for the past for more than 20 years. Um it's some kind of allegedly some kind of directed energy weapon. I'm sure we have directed energy weapons also called lasers also uh lasers, measors, microwave weapons, whatever you want to call them, directed energy weapons. I think we we re our uh one of our research organizations recently tested a very powerful directed energy weapon probably more powerful than what the Americans have publicly announced that they have. So is this the Kali weapon that people have been talking about? I'm not sure. So when it comes to directed energy weapons, I think we probably have a pretty good research and development uh set of projects that may be ongoing. So yeah, when you're saying Kali weapon, you you mean directed energy weapon or or laser weapon. I think we are pretty good on that front. I'm not sure if we have actually uh deployed it with our armed forces. I'm not sure if that's the case, but I'm pretty sure that we are in the process of doing the R&D, the development of such weapons and uh at an appropriate time they will be inducted into the armed forces whenever it is appropriate, whenever it is well tested. So it'll happen. So I'm pretty confident we are on good ground when it comes to directed energy weapons. So the advantage of a directed energy weapon. Let's understand what that is. Let's say you have incoming missiles. H so we saw the Pakistanis launched hundreds of drones and god knows how many missiles at us at more than 20 Indian cities more than more than 25 Indian cities. And we defended these our cities and our people and our military installations from these Pakistani missiles and drones and whatnot. We defended using a multi-layered multi- u multi-layered air defense system which had the L70 gun which had the pora system which had the Akash system possibly the barak system and also the S400 system right so when you want to bring down an incoming drone you have to shoot something at it the L70 gun will shoot some kind of shell at the incoming drone Right? And it's very accurate. So it hits. Now there, let's say there's a missile coming in. So you use something else to shoot down the missile. But instead of using projectiles like shells or missiles or whatever, what if you use energy? Just energy. So that's a directed energy weapon. energy in the form of light, photons, laser, uh light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. That's laser. So essentially you have extremely focused an extremely focused light beam completely coherent and it contains a huge amount of energy that can take out anything from a from any distance that you want. uh not any distance but yeah you you get what I mean so it's much more effective it's even more accurate than anything we may currently have but it consumes a lot of energy that's why it's very difficult to miniaturaturize such systems and that's the game uh so that's a directed energy weapon or laser weapon and I think we are doing good on that front now about the propaganda thing I'm sure the government can do better than what it's doing right now for Um, geopolitical dubet says Elon Musk today is enjoying the privileges, but after but what after the Trump regime? Don't you think the Democrats will do everything possible to hunt him down? Maybe by the time he'll be on Mars. Who knows? See, Trump uh sorry, uh Musk is the world's richest man today, as far as I know. uh a net worth of more than $400 billion. Um and he is very central in in some ways to uh the promotion of America's geopolitical interest interests especially in the dimension in the domain of space in the domain of terrestrial surveillance through satellite networks and so on and interference in in in the internal affairs of nations through Twitter through through X and also by spying on nations via satellites and by beaming satellite internet where nations may not want internet to be there and so on. He's integral to the US geopolitical interests and it makes no sense for Democrats if they come to power in the future to go after Elon Musk because he is integral to the interests of their nation which is their interests. Uh so I don't think it's going to go it's going to play out in that ma in that manner. When it comes to his relationship with Trump I don't think it'll last that long. You know, Trump is a very egoistic person, right? We know that. Very vain person, very self-centered person, kind of a narcissist, very egoistic, self-centered. It's all about me, me first, me first, and so on. That's that's the sort of guy Trump is. And and you can and and and we know that Elon Musk is richer than Trump. Elon Musk is more successful than Trump. Elon Musk in the long run may end up being more powerful than Trump. And Trump can't stand that. So I don't think this relationship will last very long. I think Elon Musk has already been asked to vacate the office he had in the White House and go back to where he was. And I think he's kind of stepping back from his political activities. So that was bound to happen, right? And in the long run, I don't think Democrats will do every possible thing to hunt him down. He's he's just too important for the nation. Vikram Suman Vikrram Vikrant Panda says can India intercept a nuclear missile if it is shot down over our land over our land how is radiation risk handled India I think most likely can hand intercept a nuclear missile it's possible I mean the Pakistanis launched a long range missile at Delhi we know that it was brought down over Hana they launched a long range missile possibly that Fata or whatever they call it with a range of 400 km which is no longer a short range missile. We brought it down. Now there's no difference between a regular missile and a nuclear missile. It's the same missile but if you put a nuclear warhead inside it then it's a nuclear missile. So the propulsion system is the same. The missile is the same. The only thing that's that changes is instead of a conventional chemical warhead you put a nuclear warhead. That's the only difference. The warhead, the warhead is the only difference. The missile is the same thing. So if you can intercept the missile that they launched at Delhi, then you can intercept the nuclear missiles. I I'm not sure they tried ballistic missiles. I don't think it was a ballistic missile that was brought down over Hana. It was long range missile, the Fataya or whatever the hell they call it. So we definitely can intercept that. We can intercept all the things that they threw at us during the course of the three-day war. We also have the Pritwi air defense system which is designed to take out ballistic missiles incoming ballistic missiles. So the pritu air defense system has a two twopronged approach. It has two interceptor missiles. The first interceptor missile it takes uh it it intercepts the incoming ballistic missile outside of the atmosphere that is more than 100 kilometers from the surface of the earth. it takes out the incoming ballistic missile at an altitude of more than 100 km. Now in case for whatever reason that missile fails to intercept the incoming ballistic missile and the sec second missile is launched which then intercepts the incoming missile at an altitude of about 60 50 40 km above the earth's surface. So it's two missiles that are launched. If the first one doesn't work the second one will do its job and uh it's pretty clear that India's missiles are extremely accurate. We even have the ASAT system which can take out incoming ballistic missiles, right? It can take out objects that are traveling at more than mark 25. So India I I think we need not be worried about India's capabilities u of of defending the country against ballistic missiles or incoming threats of various kinds. I think I'm I'm I'm actually shocked at how surprised at how good at how good our air defense system is. So yeah, I think India can certainly India I think already has the capability to capabilities to intercept incoming ballistic missiles, nuclear missiles, whatever you want to call them. Now if a missile is shot down over our territory, how is the radiation risk handled? So you have to understand let's say you have a plutonium warhead. There are two kinds of nuclear warheads. A nuclear warhead is the actual bomb okay which is uh put inside in the front fairing of a missile. So the nuclear warhead the bomb if it's a if if if the facile material used in that is plutonium then it will the the plutonium will be about 5 kilos maybe. I'm giving you a very rough ballpark figure. I'm not giving you exact numbers. Roughly 5 kilos, maybe 10 kilos at most. If it's uranium, it could be 20, 30 kilos, maybe 100 kilos. So, it makes sense to use plutonium because it it has Yeah, it's better to in handling and all that. So, let's say you have a plutonium warhead maybe 10 kilos of plutonium. You don't understand that plutonium is not a powder. Plutonium is a metal. it's a metal. If it's not plutonium and it's uranium, then once again, uranium is not a powder, it's a metal. So, if you destroy a warhead, you take it down, then the warhead may not explode, it'll just break. Or maybe it's designed that if it's taken down, it'll explode in the air, then it's okay. It explodes like 50 km above the air. Or maybe it explodes uh outside of the atmosphere. Doesn't make much of a difference to us. There have been so many atmospheric nuclear tests in the past. so many atmospheric nuclear tests it makes it it did not make any difference much of a difference to the world. So if it explodes in the air, let's say, no big deal. But if it fails to explode and comes down on the earth, then you have to hunt for a few pieces of uranium or plutonium. That's it. It doesn't cause a tremendous amount of contamination or fallout, nuclear fallout, radioactive fallout. Radioactive fallout happens when a nuclear reactor uh malfunctions and and uh suffers meltdown maybe explosive meltdown like what happened in Chernobyl what happened in Fukushma but when it comes to nuclear warheads malfunctioning or or being destroyed or exploding you won't have that sort of scenario so we need not be worried about this too much okay Um Prit Pritam Gurong says the Indian Air Force have also said that they have used UAVs that mimic jets under radar signature dummy jets to engage bait and fooled Chinese air defense systems. Good job. I I I I am very pleased to hear this. I approve of this. What else can I say? Absolutely good. Absolutely brilliant. Outstanding. Um All right. Um okay being chilling bling chilling says how chi no has China have China and the US agreed to not let a third power grow also why don't we see internal India infra roads grow despite economic growth or will it start eventually like how it was with China I think the US and China have some kind of understanding okay we are adversaries we are nearpeer competitors China is like not as entirely a peer of the But yeah, you could consider these to be to be the most consequential nations today. I am pretty sure the US and Chinese have an understanding. Let's let's compete with each other, but let's not allow a third power to emerge and grow. So I think the US and the Chinese I think they see very much eye to eye when it comes to India. Neither wants India to grow. The US is happy to use India if possible for them as a pawn against China but not at the cost of having India grow and becoming more powerful. They would not like to see that and you can see you can see their approach when it came to India almost destroying Pakistan, you know. So yeah, I think they have an understanding about India. Let's not let's not tolerate India growing. Let's keep it let's cut India down to size if possible and prevent it from growing. uh I think they have the agreement that understanding now why don't we see uh internal growth infrastructure in India and so on despite economic growth I think we are seeing that um I know that we would like to see it in cities but I think what we are seeing is the construction of tremendous quantities of highways railways airports all of that is happening so that's what see when it comes to the construction construction and deployment of infrastructure uh the central government doesn't have that much role that much of a role to play except in building highways, uh, railways, air airports and so on. That's what the central government does. When it comes to, uh, improving the living standards in cities, all that comes under state governments. And some in some states, you will see better living standards than other states. I mean, some states uh have vastly better living standards than the states that are economically bigger than them. I'll not take names because it'll upset people. But yeah, you go to some states living standards are way better than other states which apparently have a bigger GDP than the state where they than when where stuff is better. So I think it all of that is a it comes under state state governments and it's for the state governments to answer their citizens as to why things aren't good compared to that state or their state right uh yeah that that's an issue in India for sure that's an issue things can be so much better uh Tina Yadav says have you seen the meme center of gravity I I'm hearing a lot of people making fun of this meme but I haven't seen it myself so maybe after this is over I'll go to Twitter or somewhere and look up center of gravity ity. I haven't seen that. I I get the feeling it's something very funny. Uh okay. Dunca says if plutonium and uranium are metals, which they are, which they are. If you don't believe me, let me um demonstrate to you what plutonium and uranium look like, then I'll answer your question. So, let's go to our good old friend Google. Google plutonium. Plutonium. What does plutonium look like? Right? That's the question. What's it look like? See, this is plutonium. As you can see, it's a metal. Here, plutonium is behaving differently. Here's plutonium. And so on. So, plutonium is a metal. All right. This is what plutonium looks like. This is what plutonium looks like. It's a metal. What about uranium? It's another another metal. There you have it. This is the ore but this is the actual purified uranium. Here you have uranium ore, uranium yellow cake which is processed ore, uranium hexof hexaflloride gas, dioxide which is like dark. Then you have fuel pellets and so on and so forth. That's uranium. So, so uh hopefully it's clear that both uranium and plutonium are metals. All right. Now the question you asked I think it's a good question. Why don't we use it to create structures, construction machines, etc.? Yeah, because it is radioactive. Because it's radioactive. You are exposed. If you are exposed to it for more than a few seconds, you are pretty much guaranteed to have DNA damage. And DNA damage, what is it called? It's called cancer. So, you don't want to be anywhere near plutonium or uranium without having a lead, a lead shield between you and the metal. So that's the reason why we do not want uranium plutonium anywhere uh to be used in any kind of construction. Secondly, plutonium is a shockingly powerful poison. I don't want to tell you how poisonous plutonium is and how it can be misused. It is one of the most potent poisons you can imagine. So you can't have plutonium anywhere near you know human habitations or or where human beings are. Okay. Um what what else do we have? Apurva says do you think India diplomatically lost? No reaction by authorities on I'm not taking any more Rafal questions. India has not lost diplomatically. The Pakistanis will lie. The west will lie. We haven't lost diplomatically and I'm not taking any more Rafal questions. Rajor Shrigon says some Indian YouTubers and influencers are now under the radar of suspicion for spying for Pakistan. If true, how can they help apart from providing pics and videos and of assets of concern? I am not sure. Let's say you are a defense YouTuber and you have access to the Indian defense establishment to some extent. Maybe you could do something. I'm not sure. Okay. The main thing that YouTubers who or influencers who are compromised, the main thing they can do is create the wrong narrative, the wrong perception and maybe create proakistan narratives and push proakistan narratives. That's the main thing you can do. But there's no law against that, right? Because India has a freedom of speech and all that nonsense. And that's why many big YouTubers and all these individuals have a what you could call an antinational approach. Um yeah so I don't think you see you cannot spy for a country unless you have access to to sensitive places and and classified information. If you don't have access to sensitive places and classified information you can't spy but you can certainly push a propaganda narrative that is pro Pakistan. That's the kind of thing you can do. So many of these influencers YouTubers do that. We know that very well. So that's how it goes. Uh, okay. With that question, I'm going to come to the end of today's live stream. We have again crossed 2 hours 15 minutes. So, I'm going to end it over here. Looks like the war is on a pause right now. The borders are no longer hot. But let's see how long that continues. But as as far as Pakistan keeps on existing, we're going to be a nation that's under threat because Pakistan is a terrorist nation. And the only way the threat will end is if we once and for once and for all comprehensively defeat Pakistan and balkcanize it. I have nothing against the people of Pakistan but the fact is that most people most Pakistani people want us dead. So sorry but not sorry. So hopefully this happens soon. But the day the pahelam attack happened the clock started ticking backwards of Pakistan. Hopefully soon. All right, end of today's live stream. Thank you so much for your questions and I will see you very soon in the next next live stream. Keep asking questions, keep raising your standards and I'll see you very soon. Take care. Bye-bye.