[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello everybody. Good day, good evening everybody. Welcome to the Ask Show. I hope you're all doing great. Today we are doing episode 241. And today uh we're going to discuss my least favorite topic. We're going to dedicate most of this ask a budget session to the temporary nation uh by by public demand because all the questions have been about Pakistan and assoc associated topics. So we're going to discuss that. But before we do that before I take the questions that I've chosen from the comments, I'm going to see who all is there on the live stream. I can see crazy brain Akshit Ravi Prasad chat BSP Abijit Supreme Lord Amrit Singh Konoser of the game anti-motion clips Bhuan Bam Mr. Jam Himmanu Sharma Vidang Mishra Akash Ba Surendra Gupta Random Skull Hello Martian Nisar Patel Shubhham Toth Oscar Madison Manuk Krishna Chav Chirai Tan Chandra Baba Ahijit Chava Duv Hardikumar Geopolitical Dub from Indorik Anand Chandak the medical Singh harsh Kapoor MK Noisan Rashbir Jind Sedart Illuminati Creek good to see you Mr. 88ers, Kuml, Action, uh, Ipsa, Tushar, Nagar, Adita Raj, Dwari, Feminist, Slayer, Hello GK, Durkheiser, Gamer, Babu, Aro, Viju, Vinit, Sanjetti, Akash, Moria, Akshit, Vinit, Singal, Kapalin, Pushkar, Ray, Vidi, Manar 54, Topok, Salute, uh, Karan, Nalawad, Jes, Anand, Anand, Chandak, Shivaray, Djamat, Pranay, Paul from Kolkata, uh, Nutan, Roshan, Anu, Kia Kiadi the Chad Xenomorphosis Akshai Narval Sager G Radhika Dvas Sumana Go and so many other people Maklabin Tanay Chandra Chakraarti Goautami Gamer Babu Nachika Jaman and everybody else Gi Mishra Amisha Mishra Bravo Williams thank you all from be for being on the live on the live stream all right let's take some questions where do we begin I think yeah so we're going to discuss our neighbor today and and the things they do. So what are the things they do? Let's see. All right. What's question number one? It's by Kish. A terrific or terrible event happened in Tahalgam. Deliberately key killing men and Hindus. Was it for drama? Modi had to short shortcut his Saudi visit and return to India. Visas to Pakistanis have been cancelled. People have been called back from Pakistan. Indas and Jalam water packs have been cancelled. Military training and so on. PM Modi spoke in English for a minute straight during his speech in Bihar and he said that we're going to chase them to the ends of the world meaning that borders don't matter. Okay. Pakistan is getting geared up all during JD Vance's India visit. Isn't this a slap at India's face that such an event happened during such a high-profile visit? Are we gearing up for a war or a surgical strike? US and China and cold war. Pakistan's army stretch along Iran, Afghanistan, internal issues in Baljasthan. Isn't this the best opportunity to take back PK like 75 different questions in one comment? Uh thank you so much for being a fan. I really appreciate that. So um yeah, this terrorist attack, this massacre happened in Pahelgam just uh earlier this week uh and it's it's a heinous, ghastly, barbaric, monstrous incident that no civilized society can tolerate. Right. and Pakistan have shown what they're made of. Uh so yes, this happened and then Mr. Modi who was who was on a visit to to the to to Saudi Arabia had to return mid trip other cabinet ministers wherever they were in the world whatever trips they had to return. Um this happened during the visit the first visit of vice president of the US JD Vance to India. It yeah so it's it's is it a coincidence that it happened during his visit? uh and there's this entire cold war going on, the trade and tariff war between the US and China and so much more so much to unpack in this in this one uh incident this absolutely horrific unacceptable barbaric inhuman massacre of innocent Indians, innocent Hindus, right? So is it is it a coincidence that this happened during JD Vance's visit? You know Pakistan has this uh they have this uh habit they have this pattern that they've exhibited of of uh linking incidents with various events event incident linking this happened during a long time ago during Prime Minister Vaj's visit to Lahore the Cargill thing happened at the time and other things the the parliament attack happened during something more import something equally important so on the Pakistanis always linked these things so why are they doing this so Um first of all it's a signal it's a signal to the US that you know we matter. The US is investing more and more capital political capital other capital in its relationship with India. The relationship like I have said a few months ago is gaining momentum. It's going from strength to strength. The India US relationship. It is quite possible that the Trumpreneur is going to see the pinnacle of India US ties. It's it's quite possible. Okay. So the US is investing so much capital of various kinds in India and uh the Pakistanis have chosen to remind the US that you know you can invest whatever you want in India but uh you will need us to manage the Kashm Kashmir thing. We can always mess Kashmir up. It's it's it's a reminder to the US. It's a reminder that you know we are the managers of this this particular corner. we can always mess it up and you got to pay attention to us which means you got to pay you you got to you know um pay your dues possibly more bribes more whatever so it's a reminder to the US and uh it raises Pakistan's importance in the eyes of the world uh first of all they can claim plausible deniability everybody was is going to point fingers at them and then if India does something then they can claim victimhood it's a it's a it's an ancient it's a very old tried and true tactic isn't it. So there is that uh that's that's another thing that the Pakistanis have most likely wanted to do to to bring uh the eyes of the world on on on this thing. So uh this is uh so and and the other thing they want to do is to internationalize the Kashmir matter. There is no Kashmir issue. You know there is no Kashmir issue in the world. The issue that we have in the world is a Pakistan issue. The issue is Pakistan. The issue is not Kashmir. But Pakistan wants to keep on harping about the Kashmir issue and they want to ind internationalize this matter by forcing Kashmir back onto the front page headlines in the world and and forcing Kashmir onto the front page of Donald Trump's uh daily uh intelligence briefing that he gets you know top top secret intelligence briefing that he gets a dosier he gets every morning. Kashmir is going to figure on that now. So they want to dilute India's claim that the dispute is that this matter is settled. India is saying that Kashmir is is a settled matter. Uh there's no dispute and they they want to raise this you know. Uh so that's the thing. Now the Indust Valley Industry has been abrogated or or whatever put into obeyance whatever technology whatever technical term you want to use about that but that's what's happened right. Uh now the real question is uh does any evidence point to a third power right? Uh is it only Pakistan? Is there somebody behind Pakistan? Uh what what's the question? Are we gearing up for a war or a surgical tri strike? US, China, Baloistan. Yeah. All of this is interconnected. We don't quite have any evidence that any other power may be involved in this matter. But yeah, uh what are the other questions? PM Modi has said that we're going to chase them to the ends of the world. Yeah, good. Uh the all of the world's leaders, major leaders have uh unequivocally voiced their support to to India. Uh uh the US has done that, President Trump of the US did that. Uh various other world leaders did that. Even the foreign minister of Iran did that. Interesting. The Taliban has um has uh voiced support has expressed support towards India. Uh the the director of the national intelligence of the U Miss Gabbard even said that Hindus were targeted. She herself is a Hindu which helps and so on. Uh yes. So uh this is kind of an inflection point. U things will never be the same for Pakistan again. I can assure you of that. something has changed in the world order that Pakistan doesn't seem to have realized and uh whether they have walked wittingly or unwittingly into this thing. Uh things are never going to be the same for Pakistan. Their star is now on the decline. Now what happens going forward is is going to remain in the hands of Prime Minister Modi. Mr. Modi gets to decide what happens next as the as the leader of of of uh the nation of India and I am not privy to what what could happen. Um all the cards are on the table. We could uh take there are lots of there are various measures that we have uh at our disposal. Um we can we obviously have the Indus waters leverage now the the three rivers that were given away to Pakistan we can start leveraging the water there in a variety of ways uh we can strangulate Pakistan slowly drop by drop we can do that and there's the option of surgical strikes there's the option of a of a pulse pause war a brief short sharp war there this there's many options that we have. Um, yeah. So, this is what's happened. What are the other questions you've asked over here? We're going to take lots of questions about this. Uh, is this a slap at India's face? It's it's a stupid thing to do. You know, it doesn't hurt. I know 26 people died. These are each death is a tragedy in its own. It's it's a tragedy for each family and every every loved one who who these dead people leave behind. It's it's a horrific tragedy. Yes. So that that that stands indeed. But overall as a nation we are 1.4 billion people. Does this hurt us? They maybe they they wish to hurt us in certain ways. Maybe they want to portray India as a nation that uh is is not a safe destination for uh for investment and so on. But it doesn't really work that way. Uh so I think it's it's a disastrously stupid move by Pakistan and it's going to haunt them for the rest of their existence however long or short it may be because Pakistan is an artificial temporary nation and the temporary status just got heightened now. It's gone up several notches for sure. Pray Paul always asks great questions. In the current volatile geopolitical backdrop, is there any doubt left that the Pakistan army orchestrated this attack? Why strike now right when the US vice president is visiting India? Coincidence or deliberate signaling? Is the objective only to dispute disrupt Kashmir's rise or could there be the involvement of foreign power with any clear indicators given the Pakistan army's deep understanding of the likely repercussions? What could be the drive what could be driving them to risk such escalation? Is this part of a bigger trap to provoke India into rushing into a quick uh military reaction? Um and do you believe that such a smooth coordinated attack could happen without some form of local support? These are very interesting questions. So first of all let's take the question of whether uh it's the Pakistan army that orchestrated this attack or maybe like they say it is a homegrown thing or whatever. Look if you look at the operational fingerprints of what happened they point in one direction unmistak unmistakably towards Rahal Pindi Pakistan. the Pakistanis will keep on denying it. Okay. Uh some new organization, terror organization, TRA for something uh seems to have taken credit for what happened. Look, this whatever this organization is, it's not some kind of local autonomous terrorist cell or whatever. It is a disposable alias of of leashar a whatever that thing is, right? and Lashkar a whatever le is an extension of the ISI. Okay. And these various disposable aliases that these people use a new organization exists for 3 months here and 3 months there and 6 months here and 6 months there. These are used you know that's a very old tactic they they they've been using in the 1990s there was something called Ansar or something. Every every time they come up with a new name which is nothing but a disposable alias. It's a disposable mask that the LT wears and the LED itself is a mask of the ISI. Okay. So, uh it's clear uh and and then and the ISI they you uses these disposable masks to launder these terror attacks and and and claim that they are indigenous. Okay. But we know that there's there's I mean you know Indian intelligence, US intelligence, everyone knows that there's clear connections of funding networks that connect the ISI with the L with all these all these various the all these organizations u there are various so-called charities in Lahore and whatnot that that do the the dirty work the funding the the funneling of money and whatnot and so on you know so um there's no question that uh all the operational u fingerprints point in the direction of the ISI. Now like I said some time ago by the the what's the objective? They want to internationalize the Kashmir matter. They want to claim that Kashmir is not settled. It is still a dispute and so on. And no matter what India does by abrogating article 370, by ending article 370 and normalizing the situation, it still doesn't matter. Pakashir is still a dispute. They want to internationalize the matter. That's number one. Secondly, they want to send a message to Washington like I said that you know Pakistan matters and Pakistan is is the entity that will uh manage this this region and no matter how much you invest in India there's always going to be a liability in Kashmir and Pakistan is needed to manage it uh that sort of thing. Um so that's the kind of message they are sending to the world to the US and so on. Now the question once again that's being asked is whether there is any uh external factor is there any outside hand in this is there a third power fourth power perhaps involved in this so look uh there's no conclusive evidence that we have that any other power is involved beyond Pakistan conclusive evidence doesn't exist but where does the incentive lie you know the incentive structure it aligns it doesn't align with the US geopolitical interest. I'll tell you that. Okay. The incentive for for what happened here, it aligns very neatly with Beijing Beijing's interests. So at at the time that this terror attack happened, there was a there was a concurrent at the same time there was a a military exercise that was going on in Pakistan occupied Kashmir with with the involvement of Pakistani forces and Chinese forces. Okay. Military exercise and uh and we know that Pakistan we know that China is facing the US pressure and India and the US are cooperating in the field of semiconductors and whatn not and this was recently announced during JD Vance's trip to to India right so so it it really helps uh China if if things don't keep going wrong in India this this terror attacks and what not so the incentive is there but there is no clear evidence and u and let's say there are tensions in the Kashmir region there's a flare up of violence maybe there's a uh there are surgical strikes maybe there is a short sharp war or whatever so if that happens you're going to have all the a large number of Indian forces pinned to the western front of India right you if in in in case that happens that indirectly eases pressure on the LAC line of actual control where you have a huge buildup of armed forces on both sides India and China in recent times past year or so India and China have been slowly bringing the tension down the tensions down but if China feel that you know India is aligning with the US and it's there's no point uh uh being nice with India then they could do such things uh so if so if there's a flare up on the western border of on India's western border then it it it eases the pressure on the LAC with Tibet the line of actual control with with Tibet and there there are connections between China and Pakistan you know um there is this uh they have been constructing fiber optic links fiber links between Pakistan occupied Kashmir and Singinjang part of China. So you can see that there are cross connections between the the the the PLA and the ISI. So there are these circumstantial pieces of evidence but there is no clear uh unambiguous evidence that points in a third powers direction. Right now the question that's also been being asked is why does Pakistan do such things? Why what what is it that drives Pakistan to risk this sort of explanation to this sort of escalation? Right? So look there are domestic factors first of all the Pakistani economy is is constantly collapsing. Uh the IMF bailout is still is is is not happening. It's it is under negotiation and uh there are civilian protests that happen. There's the Balojasthan issue. um the army's domestic aura has been eroded so they need some kind of external factor to to get the people to rally around the army again right makes sense right and and and the Pakistan army it obviously calculates that their nuclear shield gives them uh protection against India and it will also this nuclear shield and the nuclear matter will also ensure that you know great powers like the US will immediately step in and mediate and prevent India from taking things beyond a surgical level or a symbolic level like Bala court etc. Yeah. Um and by demonstrating that uh that Pakistan by demonstrating that they can you know disrupt tourism and destabilize Kashmir at will uh they probably want to get some concessions from India. Uh but they've done the opposite. Indust treaty is gone and so on. Now what uh Prrenai asks is that is is this uh is this a trap? Is this part of a bigger trap to provoke India into something stupid? Yeah, it could be. It could be uh India will have to calibrate and calculate whatever response it takes. Some some response will happen. Some response has already happened. We've expelled a significant amount of number of uh Pakistani diplomats or military attaches or whatever and we've brought our our people back as well from our embassy there and the industry has been abrogated whatever put in obeyance etc. But there could be more coming up. There could be more coming up. You know, if India doesn't plan things properly and just gets angry and and acts in anger, you know, doesn't incursion a ground incursion of Pakistan or maybe tries to take Poke back, then it will give Pakistan grounds to to to play the victim, you know, uh and and that then they will obviously give this will also give China the opportunity to to give diplomatic shielding to Pakistan. So it so Pakistan gets to posture as a as a besieged victim you know um so India is going to have to calculate things properly and and do do it the right way. Now the last question that PR asks is that could this have happened without local support? Yeah, could this have happened without local support? Pakistan I don't think I have to show anyone the map in in this matter. We know we all know the map between India and Pakistan the border region. Pakistan is a long border with India. Most of it is not disputed or or or or you know held Indian territory not held by Pakistan most of it. Right. We have a long border in Rajasthan. We we've got a long border in Gujarat. Yes. So how come there's no terrorism in Rajasthan or Gujarat? Because there's no local support. People will say there's desert and all that. These, you know, these people live in deserts. They can deal with deserts. Okay? These are desert people. Um there's no local support in Rajasthan or Gujarat. Look what happened in Pahelam. This massacre it to to make it happen. You know what the terrorists needed? They needed advanced reconnaissance of the flow of tourists, tourists flows. They needed to have a clear dayby-day granular understanding of tourist flows. What day, how many tourists come? When did the tourism start, tourist season start, where do they come from? Which which uh operators bring tourists to what spots? What if if someday the weather is bad, what happens? And so on so forth. So you need advanced reconnaissance of tourist flows. You need covert safe houses in the area around Pahelgam and you need u the facility of extent of instantaneous exfiltration immediately get the get the terrorists out so that they cannot be captured. So you need granular situational awareness and this is not possible without what they call OGWs. What's an OGW? It's an overground worker. You see in in this field of terrorism or whatever you want to call it there are two kinds of operators. There is overground workers and there is underground workers. Underground workers are the guys who are hidden and they come out only with the AK-47s or whatever. Okay. Who are the overground workers? The overground workers are your local transportation people. They are your hotel people. Hello sir, is everything fine today sir? Do you need something sir? The hotel folks. So you have people who work in hotels, people who uh let's say the hotel networks uh you have transport unions, you have your taxi drivers, uh you the tour operator network, all that stuff. This is you if you are a terrorist and you want to you know uh target tourists who come into Kashmir you need overground workers in these networks. Okay. So it's a given that this was there and you know after the pelgam attack happened uh our security agencies have already rounded up more than a dozen such uh facilitators or overground workers uh who have been you know uh playing this role. So there is this uh infiltration of of the overground uh you know of all these of of all these uh networks by the ISIL you know combination and that's how they have been so successful in Kashmir. So you know uh Kashmir uh after the the removal of article 370 I mean what has changed in Kashmir after that? Yeah tourism has started booming again. This is what happens when you go and spend your money in Kashmir. This is what you get in in recompense for that. Yeah. You think everything has changed? Things don't change until you change things at a very fundamental level. You to start with changing the education system and the schooling system and all that. But that the government will not do. Right? Societies change slowly. Just because something a few cosmetic changes were done doesn't mean the whole society will change. They are the same people. to change society you have to change it at a very fundamental level which is why I keep harping on about the education system and other things. So um that's not happened and Kashmir the population of Kashmir is the same right. So this is what you get uh by by giving them tourism revenue. So look uh bottom line this is an ISIR operation very calibrated ISI operation. It is timed to to coincide with uh the strategic momentum in India US ties. It is time to coincide with the visit of JD vans to India. It is testing it is it is a test it is designed to test India. It is designed to test India's escalation discipline and so on. Um and India's response must punish the perpetrators without giving Pakistan the international limelight they want. Understand that. So that's what India has to do. And there are lots of ways of strangulating Pakistan. Gray zone strangulation, economic strangulation, water strangulation, so much that India can leverage. India is going to have to do it judiciously, carefully. uh the international opinion is with India. There's no question about that. Uh so use that judiciously and let's start the clock ticking on the temporary nation. This is the inflection point. This is no longer the same India that we had in 2019 where did they did whatever else. This is a different India and this time Pakistan must be made to pay. Okay. Poor the planet says the recent pahelgam attack in Kashmir seems far from random. It can be a calculated move by China executed through Pakistan to destabilize India at a critical time. With the US imposing heavy tariffs on Chinese goods, many global companies have started shifting their supply chains to India threatening China's economic dominance. To counter this shift, China could be using its close ally Pakistan to create international unrest, internal unrest in India, especially in sensitive regions like Kashmir. By doing so, China may China's goal may be to project India as unstable and unsafe for foreign investment, thereby slowing its rising momentum as a global manufacturing hub. This isn't just terrorism. It's economic warfare design disguised as a regional conflict. Now this is a really um international interesting um point that you raise here. Uh what's the deal? So look like it's so it's clear that look China does benefit if if things go wrong in Kashmir. China um right now what's happening is that the world is seeking alternatives to China. You have marqu uh manufacturers like Apple who are increasingly shifting production to India. You know I don't care what the media says it's happening more and more of the production that was happening in China is now being moved to India and China needs China it's great for China if India is gets portrayed as an unsafe destination right now. What is it that takes uh if you if you are a foreign manufacturer and if you're wondering whether you should come to India and manufacture India, what does it take to convince you? First of all, you know, the business environment should be good. The government should give you good treatment. You should get all the facilities you need. You need to have a good stable labor force uh and so on. All that is there in India. Mostly it's there in India. The thing the things that keep people away make them wonder whether they should not come is if you have constant terrorism and you know unsafe environment and if if it's very hard to have uh contracts enforced and things like that. So uh the uh manufacturing that Apple is doing is happening in southern India if I'm not mistaken and what happens in Kashmir is kind of usually by by if you if you're a foreign investor you don't connect what's happening in Kashmir to what's happening in the rest of India because everyone knows that Kashmir is right next to the terror terror factory that's Pakistan and Kashmir has historically been targeted by Pakistan. So if if there are terror attacks that's happening in other parts of India that's a red flag. If it's happening in Kashmir then then foreign investors don't really uh uh get uh don't see it as a red flag. Okay. Now understand this u so if India is projected as an unsafe destination it helps China for sure. So there is definitely strategic convergence of interests here. But understand it's not a hierarchical convergence. It's a strategic uh convergence. It's it's it's just the Yeah. So it's not hierarchical. The whatever has happened has been probably done by the ISI and the LE and whatnot. Beijing does benefit from this but I don't think there is any clear sign that they are involved. they can they will definitely give u their diplomatic backing to Pakistan the their diplomatic shielding to Pakistan but you know Beijing one thing if you look at their track record you will understand they do not outsource sectarian terrorism see how does Beijing generally like to operate Beijing is a bully we know that right Beijing is a bully how do they operate visav their neighbors except for Russia all other nations are are smaller than them, right? So they are the big bully in the region except for when it comes to the relationship with Russia. How do they do they treat their other neighbors? First of all, they indulge in salami slicing, slicing away territory. Every single neighbor neighboring country, they do this to them. They have been doing this to everyone and we we know it very very well. They've deliberately not they've deliberately not uh demarcated the border. they choose to keep the border issue open India Tibet border so that they can keep salami slicing wherever the opportunity may or may not present itself right so one thing they do is salami slicing the other thing they do is various other kinds of bullying you know whether it is the South China Sea kind of thing island building or whatever that's sort of bullying they do and uh the one thing they don't do is outsource sectarian terrorism because that tarnishes their image and they they have been at pains to to present a spotless image to the world diplomatically, internationally, etc. that we we uh have an unimpeach an un unimpeachable track record and uh our rise is a peaceful rise and so on. And if they were to indulge in things like these, you know, get involved in Pakistani terrorism against India, it can come back to bite them because they they have a significant investment in in Central Asia, even Pakistan, the belt and road initiative. the in Pakistan it's called the CPEC the China Pakistan economic corridor and they have been facing um um attacks along that corridor from Balojasthan freedom fighters and and others and if they start funding Pakistani terrorism or getting involved in that directly then it can come back to bite them very badly so I don't think China will be directly involved in this they certainly their their interests will certainly be served by what happened but u I think uh their their presence or or their participation in this could be in in limited to giving diplomatic backing and diplomatic shielding to Pakistan once this goes to the UN and other things. Beyond that, I don't think uh China will directly get involved in this and there is no evidence of that whatsoever. Okay. Okay. This is an important question. Kish and Brianka Shikhar Biswas did they just admit it? We have been doing this dirty work for the US and the west for three decades. Did Pakistan just admit that they backed terrorism for the US and UK? What happens now? Miganga says what are the broad broader implications of the Pakistan's defense min of Pakistan's defense minister admitting on live interview with sky news that Pakistan has been carrying out the dirty work for western powers like the US and the UK in the Indian subcontinent pres particularly in the con context of regional stability sovereignty balance of power etc. What he admitted is that Pakistan is a proxy for the west in carrying out terror attack against India and we have been doing this dirty word work for more than three decades. That's what he said. Viewers of the Ask a Bajit show will know I have been saying this for a very long time that the US funded and financed Pakistani terrorism in India for decades. Right? It it they started in 1979 essentially and I was saying this when it was not fashionable to say it. Today the Pakistani defense minister corroborates what I have been saying. Everyone knew this. Everyone in who knows things knew it but nobody would say it. Well now the defense minister of Pakistan say it on this live interview. It's there. You can see the clip anytime you want. it will never go away from social media. Right? So he said this. So this is so why did he say it first of all is the question. Right? Why why why did he uh make this admission? Why did you make the admission that Pakistan has been uh uh so so look first of all we know that since the 1980s the west has treated Pakistan's support for terrorism as an open secret okay if if if you know how things work you will know that it it's been an open secret especially uh at higher levels that everyone knew that Pakistan is a is a proxy for the US and the UK and the west and in the 19 this all happened because in the cold war India was not in the side of the west not on the side of the west India was on the side of the USSR and that's why India had to be contained and India had to be put in its place and one of the ways to do it is by using Pakistan as a terror factory and terrorize India starts with Punjab then in Kashmir right and then rest of India also terror attacks all all over the place so the US funded finance this now um the west ignored this. They publicly ignored this. Privately they knew it but they publicly ignored this. As long as Islamabad uh gave those statements you know those those platitudes counterterror platitudes oh we believe we are against terrorism and we are doing this zerbe a or some some god knows what operation they had done at some point in time and so on. uh all that. So this guy uh Huaja Af I think his name is he said this on camera we have been doing this dirty work this takes the mass off the mask off this thing you know so um there's the end this is the end of deniability Pakistan can no longer deny the west can no longer deny what's been happening okay so Pakistan's legitimacy is gone Pakistan you know what they used to claim they used to claim that they were the leaders of the Islamic world against unjust imperialist designs of the west. Now it turns out that according to their own defense minister Pakistan has been operating for decades as an imperialist as an imperial subcontractor as a mercenary for the imperialists. So their standing is gone now. Okay, their standing is gone in in the Islamic world in whatever world they were positioning themselves. And when it comes to when it comes to the US, when it comes to Washington, when it comes to London, they now have to make a decision. They have to choose between uh whether they want to um see they will have to either distance themselves from Pakistan, which will now make Pakistan once again go into the arms of China, or they will have to own up to what they've done and give Pakistan some kind of uh security or something. Um so that that's kind of where we are. So this guy has slipped up perhaps uh deliberately perhaps not. Maybe there's an election coming up and he wants to you know whatever is going wrong in Pakistan. Blame it on the west blame it on the masters. Maybe it's a sign that the west has ditched Pakistan and Pakistan is looking for a new master. Please understand this. Okay. Maybe it is a sign of that. I'm I'm telling you from the beginning of this episode, right? Something has changed in the world. you can sense it at at a certain level. So something has changed somewhere and this statement by the Pakistan defense minister perhaps is a is a very strong indication that something has changed and Pakistan is seeking a new master now and and if you want a new master you have to disown the past master. So the best way to do it is to say it on live TV, you know, and and put all the blame on them for everything that went wrong. So I think now Pakistan China convergence could happen. Um and this is going to be difficult for Pakistan. They will have to now rely on Beijing in if that is the case for aid for their handouts because the IMF, the World Bank, things will be difficult for them. Uh so look it's an open it's always been an open secret for people in the no not for the common people but it's always been an open secret for people who who understood how things worked in the world. Uh so Pakistan has been exposed they they have confessed that they they are a mercenary state. They've been doing this dirty work and uh yeah so that's where we are. uh sovereignty the question the question Brianka raises is that of sovereignty stability etc balance of power it's all fine balance of power it'll change somewhat if the west has decided to ditch Pakistan which seems to be the case uh then yes China Pakistan convergence happens which means the India India China they don't rapo etc where does it go is the question are we going to see more flareups on the lac now we have to be you know we're going to have to keep these things in mind. But when it comes to sovereignty, Pakistan is a mercenary state. Mercenary state, it's a contract. It's a contractor. It's it's a terrorism contractor, security subcontractor, whatever you want to say. It's not a sovereign state. It's never been a sovereign state. Okay? And the Pakistan army doesn't defend national honor. The Pakistan army works for whoever pays them the most. Okay? So all of that is is now completely exposed and I'm I'm telling you something this is an inflection point. Whatever the the events that happened this week uh they represent an inflection point in the history of Pakistan. It's the clock is now ticking on Pakistan. I don't know how long it will take whether it's it is 3 months or 3 years or 15 years but it's ticking now and it's a countdown that's begun. Okay. It's not ticking forward it's ticking backwards. It's a countdown. It'll it'll it's it's counting down to zero now for Pakistan. Okay. Pranay says, "Could you explain what exactly the Indust treaty is and why it's been so crucial to Pakistan's survival all these years? How did previous Indian governments allow a situation where nearly 80% of the river waters were given away to Pakistan while India was left with only 20 about 20% Isn't it high time we fix these historic blunders? With India now moving to scrap or fundamentally alter the treaty. What could be the long-term implications for Pakistan's agricultural economy, internal stability? Do you see this is a far more devastating and permanent tool of pressure compared to short-term military actions? That's a great question. Look, look, my friends, listen. Pay attention. A missile strike hurts, right? A missile strike hurts. It causes pain. It causes damage. The damage happens once. Boom. Right? Let's say you send 20 missiles. Let's say you say send a 100 missiles. It's going to cause a certain quantum of damage and pain. And then time erases that. You squeeze water slowly, gradually, drip by drip, drop by drop, 1%, 2%, 3%, 7%, 10%. That is not visible. There is no damage that's visible. There's no pain that's visible, but it is an incredible squeeze or a nation that depends on the up river waters. That is a far greater pressure point, leverage point, pain point, whatever you want to call it, than missile strikes in military action. You can bring a nation to its knees by doing this. So now with that said, what's the industry? It is a treaty that was signed sometime in 1960, I believe, under the opices of the World Bank. uh and at that time our our prime minister was Mr. Nehu, Mr. Javaharal Nehu. So uh we have six rivers in the STAindu region which is strange because it's STAU seven rivers but there are six rivers in there because one river left it left the Sarasati left so we have six rivers in this region the Sapasindu region uh in Punjab Panchaba yeah that sort of thing right so we have two nations one temporary one permanent and we have six rivers so in 1960 this treaty was uh signed between India Pakistan the World Bank engineered this treaty. Mr. Nehu accepted it. Uh so India got exclusive or near exclusive use of three smaller rivers the eastern rivers the Ravi the bayas and the satlajush and Pakistan was given complete unrestricted water of the three western rivers the indust the sindu river the jalam and the chinab and India is given the the right to tap into the western rivers for non-conumptive purposes if if you want to use it for hydro, electricity or flood control or whatever that sort of thing and and if you do that you have to share all the technical data with the Pakistanis in advance so that they know exactly what's happening and um and then there are dispute resolving mechanisms and and whatnot and this treaty has no expiry date and it has survived uh how many wars I don't know one 65 71 uh what else the the cargle war the three wars so it survived three wars and the treaty has never has stood until now but now India has ended it. India suspended the treaty. Uh so that's the Indust treaty. It gave 80% of the waters uh of of of the indust of of of these rivers to Pakistan comp. It must be the most lopsided one-sided treaty in the history of human of of of humanity. Not even a defeated power accepts a treaty like this. such a one-sided treaty. So yes and you know I have a video on this channel about the Indust treaty about from 22 2022 or 23 I think about a couple of years ago in which I've spoken about this and the steps India has been taking and I've been saying that India needs to uh revisit this treaty and you know fix this historic blunder. So the Pakistanis by doing the Pulwama the Pahelgam massacre have well finally it's I think it's the straw that broke the camel's back and that's it. It's the end of an era. Um so what are the going to be the long-term implications of Pakistan's agriculture economy internal stability? Now India is going to control what happens. We may not have complete access to complete control over all the waters because the western rivers uh they they uh flow in the Himalayas and the mountains and it's very hard to dam them but we have various run of the run of the river projects and all that's going on. It's going to give us enough control to you know to ramp up the amount of water we can retain in India and divert elsewhere. And many of these projects that we are undertaking, they will come to fruition in the next five, six, seven years maximum. So you're going to see increasing pressure on Pakistan. Increasing amounts of water will be diverted by India now. And there's nothing the Pakistanis can do about this. They can go to court, international court, blah blah blah. Do whatever you want. I don't care anymore. Yes, of course. You know some people will say and they are right to say this that it gives the China the historical precedent for doing something similar to us because they control some of our up river upstream uh you know some of the upstream regions of our rivers like the brahaputra the Ganga etc. um especially the brahmaputra is important but you know it's okay we we'll deal with it if if it comes to that and when it comes to the brahmaputra 80% of the waters of the brahmaputra the the the river gets you know gets those waters from within India itself from Arunachal and other places only 20% comes from Tibet so it's not going to be a huge issue we can we'll have to find ways to deal with that if the if the Chinese take if the Chinese go down that that road uh But Pakistan Pakistan is going to face serious trouble now because it's its agriculture is dependent on this water. Most of its agriculture is dependent on the water that comes from these three rivers and it's it's a very poor country. It's dependent on agriculture. I don't know how much of its GDP comes from agriculture but at least about 30 40% of its workforce is employed in the agriculture sector. And uh yeah it it could be really bad times for Pakistan. and and they deserve it. I mean, how long can a nation like India just keep enduring this nonsense, terrorism? There's going to be a time when we're going to give it back. So, I think more than a war, this could be the the thing that squeezes Pakistan and really brings it to its knees. Okay. The Rajat Dalal says India's ability to restrict water to Pakistan is constrained by natural hydraological cycles, infrastructure gaps and treaty design rules. The vast majority of the India systems water will continue to flow to Pakistan due to natural natural geography and treaty limitations but with seasonal variations. Almost all Indians do not understand and they believe that IWT suspension has stopped the water from going to Pakistan. What's my opinion on the IWT suspension? Naval blockade from southern Pakistan and building dam on indis are two solid options that I see. Mr. 88 says that India suspended the IWT in Indis water treaty. What's the essence of suspending the treaty since we have no storage dams on the on the western rivers and building dams? It takes time. It'll take at least 10 years. So how will this affect Pakistan? Right? So the question is why suspend a treaty when there are no big dams on these rivers? These big dams don't exist yet. So please understand one thing. This is not a plumbing switch that you know we're going to switch switch it off and the water water dries out. It's not that. It's not a plumbing switch. This is a legal this is a legal switch. The legal offramp. So the suspension. So first of all you have to understand that no nation is is required to keep on abiding to a treaty that is not in its favor or that that that severely uh is is is is loaded against it. There are so many historical precedents of nations walking away unilaterally from a treaty. Donald Trump walked away from the Iran nuclear deal. The JWST uh JW uh forget I I JCPOA joint comprehensive plan of action. not the JWS, James Webb, what am I doing? So, Donald Trump walked away from it from the Iran nuclear deal unilaterally despite the treaty being signed according to international law. The Chinese had an agreement, a treaty with with the UK about about uh Hong Kong, the status of Hong Kong, one nation, two systems. They walked away from it. They said, "We no longer recognize that unilaterally." So if a treaty victimizes you or or you know if it is unfair to you, you have the right to walk away from it. So India is walking away from the treaty. That's it. There are there is historical precedent for that. That's number one. Please understand that. So now once you say publicly and and you announce that you are walking away from a treaty, the treaty is suspended or whatever technical term you want you want to use, then you can start doing things, taking actions. As long as the treaty in is in force, you're not allowed to build dams, right? You're not allowed to build dams. So the suspension of the treaty has removed India's own self-binding obligations. Okay? All those things uh you know disclose in advance whatever whatever plans you have and you need neutral experts to arbitrate everything and how much water you can store in in in in of the western rivers. there's a there's a cap to it beyond which India cannot cannot store more water and so on. So from now on from this point on India can approve projects without having to wait for Pakistani objections or anything or World Bank mediation. No more need to worry about Pakistani objections or World Bank mediation. So what you have had for the 60 for the past 64 years is that the Pakistanis had an entitlement. They were entitled to the Indust. Now India has turned it into a revocable privilege. If we choose then you can have it. If we don't if we choose not to give it to you then you don't get it. We decide. So now it's a privilege. It's not no longer an entitlement for Pakistan. Now what leverage does India have? We have no huge dams right? We have something called runoff river projects. So we don't have storage dams but uh we are operating multiple uh projects we are and we are currently building and in the process of finishing about a dozen run of the river projects uh hydropower plants like Kushin Ganga like Dul Hasti like Ratlay like Pakal pal Dul uh Sabal Court and so on so forth okay I don't remember so all the names these run-of-the- river schemes have ponds attached to them which is like a daily or weekly balancing pond. So if you coordinate the gate operations of all these of multiple runoff the river projects reservoirs in tandem at the same time you can pause you can withhold very large quantities of water you can do that during Pakistan's agricultural season so that will that will cause havoc downstream and you can do this actually without violating any international humanitarian norms or whatever. So and and if you want to do fast track fast track storage of water, it's no longer going to take India 10 years to do that. So there are multiple uh western river projects that are currently under construction like the ones I named and most of these see one of them I think it is Takalul it it becomes operational next year I think and there is Ratlay that becomes operational in 2028 and Sabal court in 29 and these will add a huge capacity of lives of live storage of water and and there is uh there are other projects that are going to become operational in the in the early 2030s. So in the next 7 8 years we're going to have storage capacity of several billion cubic meters of water in the region. So do you understand it's not just talk anymore. It's not just talk anymore. We actually can squeeze the Pakistanis without crossing the what they call the kinetic threshold. You see you can do air strikes which is like you do it once and then the world says stop and you have to stop it. Aer strikes you do it once and stop. Water leverage is continuous. It is immune to diplomatic pressure and diplomatic vetos. It is invisible. Okay. So uh that's that's huge. And and we can we can you know throttle the flow of water incrementally. So it gives us gives us a graduated response ladder that will short that will stop short of humanitarian catastrophe but it keeps Pakistan under constant pressure and you can apply it at will. You understand? So it's not about turning off the tap tomorrow morning. it this this suspension of the industry has unlocked a huge toolkit that is going to grow more painful for Pakistan every agricultural season even before the first mega dam is finished. So this is slow burn leverage that we have and it's it's going to be compounded by financial and diplomatic costs that India can impose on Pakistan. So we can achieve what military actions sporadic military actions whether it is air strikes like Bala code or it is the surgical strikes that that is just symbolic. This leverage that we now get is going to force behavioral change on Pakistan. Painful behavioral change on Pakistan while we keep our growth trajectory intact. Do you understand? That's the implication of the abrogation suspension abing whatever it is of the industry. It's huge. It's it's genuine leverage we get. This is an inflection point in the history of Pakistan. Whatever amount of time it is the Pakistanis have left for the country. This is where it changes. This is where it all all changes. Pran Paul says, "Considering Trump's track record of channeling arms and aid to Pakistan, Israel and Egypt, how likely is it that the US would adopt a double-faced stance if a full-scale IndiaPakistan war breaks out? Could Washington again under the garb of restraint try to diplomatically pressure India especially amid global economic fragility and shaping uh shifting alliances? Is there a real danger that the US would once again prop up Pakistan either directly or indirectly? Or are they now merely in it to sell weapons to both sides and profit of instability despite Pakistan's strategic irrelevance and internal collapse? Do you foresee any surprise alignments forming around it? How might how might China exploit the situation? Would it remain calculatedly neutral or would it seize the chaos to challenge India on a second front? Look, okay, let's consider the scenarios you are uh uh painting for us. It's a good exercise in in the thought experiment. So, let's say Washington wants to sell weapons to both sides. Let's say India and Pakistan go to war. H and Washington says, "Oh yeah, let's let's uh grab the opportunity to sell weapons to both sides." What money does Pakistan have? Do they have the capacity to absorb US weapons? Do they have money to pay the Americans? They are going to the World Bank and the IMF with begging balls, right? Where's the money? What's the point of selling anything to Pakistan? And what what does the US get out of it? The US at this point at this juncture in history finds itself in a situation where they have to invest in India invest political capital invest technological capital other other and other kinds of capital in India because of the situation with China we have reached a bigger inflection point a couple of weeks ago when the tariff war started the US imposed 145% tariffs on on China the Chinese retaliated by 125% tariffs tariffs which means the system is gone. There's no more trade between between the US and China. Supply chains are fragmenting. The world is bifurcating and the US needs India on its side. It's part of the of the of the broader Indopacific strategy. They need nations like India on its side, Australia, Japan who are its vasals anyway etc. But India is is a major lynchpin in the strategy. And if India goes on the on the other side, then it's a big problem for the US and Pakistan. Now, how much value does Pakistan have? It looks like the West has decided to once again ditch Pakistan. And Pakistan seems to be once again fishing for a new daddy, for a new master, which is why it looks like the they they admitted publicly that they have been doing the West's dirty work for for three, four decades, right? Um so the question you have to ask yourself is what does the west what does the US gain by diplomatically pressuring India or or or or taking the side of Pakistan or propagate Pakistan it's only going to if they do that it's going to hurt India and it's going to benefit China do you think the west wants to do anything that benefits China today that's the question let's say okay let's say there's a war that breaks up between India and Pakistan and the US sells arms to both sides Let's say Pakistan has no money to to buy arms. US gives arms to Pakistan. So then Pakistan and India are able to fight on a reasonably even ke and the war drags on and India becomes a very undesirable market for for manufacturing. So nobody wants to invest in India. Then all the manufacturers who are trying to move off China where will they go? They will they go to Vietnam? Does Vietnam have the capacity the large scale massive capacity to absorb that amount of manufacturing capability? No. the only nation that can do it is India. So the US would be shooting itself in its own foot by taking the side of Pakistan in this. Um so you see from its from the perspective of its own self-interest the US is is is not in a position where it will support Pakistan if there's a war that breaks out with India between India and Pakistan. Mr. 88ers says Donald Trump said that the Kashmir issue that the Kashmir issue is over 1,500 years old but we all know that 1500 years ago Kashmir was an integral part of Barat and the issue is barely 75 years old due to the birth of West Pakistan. What why is he making such a narrative? What's your take? Look you to understand Donald Trump has a certain style of speaking. He likes to look he is not speaking for the benefit of the international audience. He's speaking on the for the for the benefit of his voters for his domestic audience. Now if you go to the US and you live among the Americans for some time and if you're not in Washington DC Maryland wherever then you will see that most Americans have no idea of what the outside world is like. They have no interest in the outside world. They don't know what the outside world is like. They don't know where is Cyprus. They don't know where is uh where is Kashmir. They don't know where is Kystan. They have no idea where is Papa Newu Guinea. They don't they don't care where is Papa Newu Guinea or Kashmir. And they have no idea when when which conflict started. So Donald Trump likes to exaggerate things for hyperbolic effect. So what is he really trying to say? So what he's really trying to say is that this is a conflict that's been going on forever and we are not responsible for it. We didn't start it. We are not part of it. Let let the two sides decide. That's the message he's trying to send to his audience, to his public, to his voters. He's telling his voters, look, this is not an American issue. This has nothing to do with us. We should stay out of it. That's a forever country. That's what he's trying to say. I don't know if he's aware of the history of the conflict or whatever. Maybe he is, maybe he's not. But he has a certain style of speaking. You don't have to you you should not take it at face value. He's trying to send a deeper message that the US needs to stay out of this. This is a different matter. It's a matter u that that the US should not be involved in. That's what he's saying. And maybe maybe he's trying to make a reference to events that started about 1500 years ago. Perhaps. Perhaps. Okay. I don't know. Uh and maybe it's it's it's a good idea for for Indians to educate the world about the history of of this entire matter that it all begins in 1948. It all begins in 1947. It begins before that with with the uh with certain Indian politicians agreeing to the formation of Pakistan undemocratically without asking without taking the consent of the people of India. and giving up Indian territory uh without consulting India that's completely undemocratic. Yes. And then this artificial temporary nation is formed and then with the aet with with the involvement of the UK they grab parts of Jammu and Kashmir illegally and then Mr. Neu decides to stop the Indian army from retaking whatever the Pakistan has taken and that's why we have PK and that's the birth of the issue. The issue is not Kashmir the issue is Pakistan. Pakistan is an illegitimate nation. It was created undemocratically. It is land that is stolen from us. It is our ancestral land that has been stolen from us and we're going to retake it whenever it whenever we do. Maybe we will get to see it. Maybe our descendants will get to see it. But it's going to return to us. That's our ancestral land. So that's the deal. There is no Kashmir issue. There's a Pakistan issue and the Tik Tok has started now for Pakistan. The clock is ticking backwards now. It's a countdown. The countdown has started. So Donald Trump is saying this is a matter that the US needs to stay out of. That's what that's the message he's trying to sell to his audience. That's that's it. Okay. Dins says if India enters a war with Pakistan, Bangladesh would likely join sides with Pakistan. Can India afford to fight a two-front war again? Is taking P the final solution to this or not? If Pakistan balconizes, can we ensure that they do denuclearize too? Okay, lots of questions. Let's address the two-front war issue question in this matter. Uh not all of the questions. Look, this idea of a two-front war, it's something that we have discussed many times and it's something that Indian defense experts and and the armed forces brass and all they discuss all the time. It's something that is very much at the forefront of our mind. But the two-front war issue that we discuss is not Pakistan and Bangladesh. It's Pakistan and China. Pakistan and Bangladesh going to war with India is not a two-front war. It's a joke. A two-front war is when Pakistan and China simultaneously go to war with India. That's the two-front war scenario that we take very seriously. Pakistan and Bangladesh together going to war. War against India is not something to course that's a serious matter but that's not a two friend war that is there is a Disney cartoon okay listen if Bangladesh tries to go to war with India oh my god look it makes no sense for them to do that if they do it it'll be the end of that that temporary nation also because see Bangladesh too is a temporary nation it's an artificial nation carved out of our territory can and and look I don't think if Pakistan goes to war with India Bangladesh is likely to join they will be obliterated and flattened and and sent back into the Bay of Bengal if they do that they they they stand no chance absolutely no chance it'll be a great thing for India if Bangladesh decides to go to war with India because we get the chance to cut two chickens necks we get to uh widen the siliguri corridor significantly by by at least 100 kilometers and we get to retake Chhattagam, Chitagong etc. and connect our far east with the way of Bengal. So it's great if the Bangladesh want to do that please please be be my guest please be be your guests please go ahead. Stephen says don't you think that uh Mr. Modi has said Mr. Bhin in the past recently that it's not the time of war. It's not the decade of war. So he will not take any steps in the any warlike steps in the in in response to this pahalgam attack otherwise that statement will look like hypocrisy. Okay, look, let's say that it is let's say that we do all the calculations, you know, the costbenefit analysis on all that and we decide that it makes sense to go to war with Pakistan uh in in the aftermath of this massacre that they perpetrated on our citizens. So, do you think that if it is the right thing for the nation then the prime minister should worry about his own self-image that I will look like a hypocrite? What is important? What is what is the duty of the prime minister or or the leader of a nation to serve the nation's interest and it doesn't matter what he what it makes him look like whether if it looks makes him look like a liar or a hypocrite doesn't matter the nation's interest is paramount so even if he has said to Mr. Putin that this is not the time for war and if he decides that now is the time for war with Pakistan he can very clearly say that we desire peace but you have left us with no option by by doing this Pakistan has a track record if you look at the statistics if you look at the data if you have been tracking the patterns okay Pakistan has a pattern of one major terrorist attack against India every 18 or so months since 2015 2016. So they have been doing this regularly. So Mr. Modi can say look this is not the time for war. We desire peace but you are forcing this on us. You keep on unleashing terror attacks on us and we have to stop this. That's the only way we will have peace. You know to to achieve peace you have what is it? Um nonviolence ainsa all that you know. uh a hinsa permodharma right that nonviolence is is the greatest uh state of being and all that. So if you really desire peace and if you really wish nonviolence to be the norm then you have to destroy the violent people don't you? So understand that it doesn't matter what has been said. If someone constantly attacks you going to destroy them. So if the time is now according to calculations that I'm not aware of to go to war with Pakistan then it doesn't matter what Mr. Modi said to Mr. Put them we were attacked. We didn't start this but we're going to end it. We can say that. So we can say that listen it's not the time for war but we have been left with no no choice. They started this so we will end it. So it doesn't matter if it looks like hypocrisy. And look if if you start acting hypocritically as a nation in geopolitics it means your time is finally coming. Only the powerful get to act like hypocrites. Look at the west the biggest hypocrites of all. And are they ashamed of being hypocrites? No, they wear it on the sleeve. So I think it's time for India to embrace a little bit of hypocrisy. Okay, that's that that's when you know that the nation is finally uh arriving on the global geopolitical stage. Pray Paul. Okay, lots of questions from Pray. You've often emphasized that India needs 20 years of uninterrupted growth without getting dragged into major conflicts in light of escalating provocations. How should India strategically balance its economic aspirations with national security? And if a limited war with Pakistan becomes unavoidable, should our doctrine aim to end it decisively within minutes without escalating to nuclear options? Okay, that's good questions. Yes, I have said this. I have emphasized this multiple times. I I say I make it a point to say this over and over again. India needs at least 20 years of uninterrupted growth without getting dragged embroiled in any major conflict. Look, why do I say this? Today is 2025. This is this is the year 2025. Let's say we're talking about 20 years. 2045 is the time horizon we're talking about. Today, India's per capita GDP is $2,500 roughly. roughly $2,500. For us to be um reasonably welloff nation, we will need a per capita GDP which is reaching the $10,000 mark. Okay, that's when your people can live a comfortable life. So we want a per capita GDP of 10,000. We have currently per capita GDP of 2.5,000 1/4. We need to make it four times what it is today. That will require us to have about 7% plus growth compounded growth every year. 7 plus% okay minimum 7% ideally more than that. And we'll also need about 2% of our GDP to be invested through FDI etc every year and so on. So it's going to need a multiplicity of factors for us to reach uh to to start touching the $10,000 mark in the next 20 years. We need that. So let's say that's our target. For that you need a very peaceful conducive environment in the country so that you know foreign investors like to come there and you come here and the environment is good and there's no war and there's no terrorism. So you you need that. So we don't want to be embroiled in any major conflict. But let's say someone forces the conflict on us like Pakistan keeps doing. In that case what do we do? Let's say a limited war with Pakistan becomes unavoidable like Prana is saying what should we do? How should we approach that war? Let me tell you what that war should be like. First of all, it should be a subnuclear war. The you know should not trip any nuclear red lines. So how do you do that? And secondly, how long should the war last? And what should be the objectives? It should be what I would call a pulse pause war. Pulse pause. It should be a war in which to inflict a military and political defeat on Pakistan in 72 72 hours maximum. So it's not a blitzkrieg kind of uh strategy that you use. Blitzkrieg means you deep penetrate deep into someone's territory. No, this is going to be a shallow advance. So maybe 30 40 maximum 50 km you advance and you grab the territory and then you unilaterally announce a pause to hostilities. So you your armed forces need to be ready for it. Obviously you know your tank divisions and whatever you know you need to take substantial territory not too much shallow advances 30 40 50 km maximum hold onto the territory and then announce a pause unilaterally and you need to degrade their air air their air capabilities air force and all that means you can crater their runways take out a few planes don't attack any of the major infrastructure don't destroy their military high command or something don't don't attack you know the critical installations and keep it below the nuclear red lines but in inflict a devastating u you know blow that is a clear and and and unmistakable defeat for Pakistan politically and militarily and then unilaterally announce a stop a pause that's a pulse pause so the war should be over in 72 hours maximum that's what needs to happen and it should not be a little little surgical strike or a one you know one air strike in the middle of the night no it should be visible ible it should be unmistakable that India has inflicted a disastrous defeat without breaching the nuclear red lines and don't think that Pakistan is a crazy and then start they'll start lobbing nuclear weapons they want to stay alive their generals are still in Pakistan right it's not like they're operating out of London or or or or Dubai they are in Pakistan so they don't want to lose their lives and the family's lives and all that so uh the point is it's definitely possible to have a war, quick, short, sharp war with a significant uh visible victory and have it end in 72 hours. And you know this is no longer 2019. In 2019 when we did the Balakur air strike, we did not have the Rafal. You know technology really matters. Uh we had those MiGes and all and we have you know the Pakistanis had F-16s. Today, India's 26 Rafals can take out a 100 F-16s from standoff distances without the the F-16s even coming close to being dangerous to the Rafals. That's the kind of capability the Rafal have. They can take out a 100 F-16s from a very long distance and the F-16s don't even have the range to to engage the Rafals. That's the u that's what you get when you have a 4.5 generation fighter plane. So yeah, the advantage is with us right now and it is for our leadership to decide if now is the time for a war with Pakistan or whether we just want to strangulate them slowly drop by drop by various means. Um but if war becomes unavoidable it should be a very rapid decisive victory 72 hours maximum pulse and pause. Techwise says is this the right time to use the opportunity to dismantle Pakistan in front of the west as prominent leaders have said that they will support India no matter what actions we take. Uh they have not said that they will support India no matter what actions we take. They have said that they stand with India and they support India and all that. India is the victim of a major terrorist strike. Our citizens have been massacred 26 of us and every civilized country has uh expressed its support towards India. They they have not said that they will support India no matter what happens. Maybe some of the indications could be could be in that direction but you can't take it for granted. So then the question arises is this the time to dismantle Pakistan? The shest way to dismantle Pakistan is to look uh look you know the temptation obviously rises that we want to turn Pakistan into another Gaza. Every Indian I mean we have absorbed so many terror strikes. We have been bled slice by slice, cut by cut for decades by the Pakistanis. Every Indian yearns for revenge and I'm sure for most Indians nothing will please them more than to turn Pakistan into another Gaza and then invite Donald Trump to build hotels there. Yeah, I'm I'm pretty sure most Indians would feel that way. Most maybe 75% 70% Indians will feel that way perhaps. I'm just guessing a random number. Uh so but we have to look at the bigger picture. What is it that we truly need as a nation? We need a win. Sure. And we would love to have some revenge for everything that's been done to us. But what's bigger for us? You know, bigger than revenge is victory. Sometimes victory itself is revenge. But we need to win. Simply getting revenge is not enough for us. We have to win. What? What is winning? Winning means Pakistan no longer exists. And if we can achieve that without without sending a single missile, isn't that better? The biggest, you know, the you know, yeah, I know that it's Unsunzu who said this, the best victory is a victory in which no one even knows that there was a fight or there was a struggle. The best general is is that general who secures victory without anyone ever knowing that there was a war somewhere. So I think that's the best way to win. Instead of going to war there are so many other levers that we have the industry now we can starve them of water slowly squeeze them gradually drop by drop every year the pressure will increase every year the pressure will increase 26 a new dam becomes operational 28 another dam becomes operational we already have many run of the river dams by 20 mid by by the early 2030s larger dams will become operational we already building these projects every year the pressure will mount on Pakistan okay And if the pressure mounts, if the water starts drying out, if the water flow starts drying out, that agriculture suffers, that people will start rising up against the army that this is because the of the actions of the army and the ISA are that we are in this this position. It's not India's fault. We have to make sure that they understand this. Then maybe there will be an internal revolution in Pakistan. We and you know Pakistan is a nation that is artificially held together by the army. The Balois don't want to be part of Pakistan. The people of Kyber Pakun who don't want to be part of Pakistan. The people of Sinduh don't want to be part of part part of Pakistan. There are so many people who don't want to be part of Pakistan. Give them the opportunity to get out of Pakistan and become independent. So I think the process starts now. This is the right way to do it. Yeah, of course if if the need is there to to uh launch a few strikes in Pakistan or whatever, if if it's important that we do this, if the calculations fit, then we should do it. But dismantling will take a little bit more time in my opinion. Uh, and I hope I'm wrong. Okay, I hope I'm wrong. I hope it happens faster. Praar Gupta says, "Please don't ignore this question. I've been asking from February. There was a news article in February that the terrorist that terrorist organizations like JM uh, Lashkar, L etc have invited many Hamas leaders in some anti-India event organized in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. There were also reports of some big game was being discussed between these groups and now a brutal terror attack unfolded in Kashmir and L back to TRF took the responsibility. Do you see any connection in these events? Were those reports warning signs for us which our intelligence agencies ignored? Were these attacks ISIS and Hamas backed? Uh look, I have no idea whether the Hamas and ISIS were behind this. How can I know if I don't have access to the intelligence reports and and to what actually happened? And I'm not supposed to have any access to those intelligence reports. Obviously not, right? So I don't know. But look, if Hamas and ISIS and all were invited, then there could be linkages. So there is circumstantial evidence that there are connections for sure. So all terror groups, they are both of the same feather. Not all terror groups but these terror groups Hamas and uh what ISIS and JM le ISI Pakistan army they're all birds of the same feather and they'll flock together then there must be some kind of connections possibly between them I can only speculate I can't say for sure if that is the case so a terror attack happened in Kashmir and TRF took responsibility um yeah so I can only speculate is my question is my answer there is definitely the possibility there is a connection but uh I don't have the information that could you know that could prove it or disprove it okay this question so this question is asked I get this question every day on the in the comments every single day the past 3 years or whatever every day I get this question is this the right time to take P back will the US support this move know that knowing that China might attack on the other side. Will India do something like this? How far will India possibly go to take revenge? Revenge revenge. Is there a possibility for India to reclaim PK now? Says uh Ain Nandan Singh. Abinand Singh. Is there a possibility for India to reclaim P now especially after the Bahalgam attack? If India does reclaim it, will Pakistan try and threaten nukes? Uh Moak Mandal says, "Is this not the golden opportunity for taking back P after the PAL gamma attack and is India sufficient to block the indust?" I already discussed that. Okay. Is this the time to take P back now? Uh probably not. Let it come, let it fall into our lap on its own. That's what I would say. Uh there definitely is great amount of anger in India. There's a great desire and thirst for revenge right now and for Pakistan to be taught a lesson. So maybe the government may or may not decide to to take some military action. If we take it, we will take it in a calibrated manner. I don't think we'll take back P. Maybe some part some portion of P may may be taken back perhaps. Possibly in the next few days possibly who knows it's possible. Uh but I think P all of it may not be the time perhaps now. Uh will the US support this move? The US will try and stay neutral and say that you know please don't fight and all that. uh but if they have decided to throw Pakistan under the bus, they'll be okay with it perhaps. So it depends on so many on a variety of parameters that are not quite clear to us. They're not available. The the values of the parameters are not not clear in the public domain. If you are high up in the government in the defense ministry or maybe in the RN RNAW or in the PMO, then you will know what the exact value of each parameter is and then you will know whether we going to be taking this action or that action. But sitting here I can only say that you know this is likely or that's likely. So I think there are multiple scenarios. Scenario one is that we simply apply the leverage of the industry and raise on economic actions etc on Pakistan to squeeze Pakistan and we diplomatically isolate them. They no longer have the backing of the US. They have openly claimed that the US and the UK and the west have been paying them for dirty work. So now they are no longer on good terms with the west. So they their only backers will be what? Pakistan will be China now. Right? So we can diplomatically isolate Pakistan. We can make it really hard for Pakistan to get you know loans from the IMF and World Bank. We can squeeze them in the FATF. We can squeeze them in so many different different ways. Only only China will will come to help them now. Right? So it looks like there's there is a clear bifurcation of the world order right here. India is going on one side and Pakistan and China are going another side. So now I'll not bring in the Russia factor in this at this bar at this point in time. So my point is we have lots of leverage over Pakistan. Let's just or maybe if it if it if the situation is like China may get get involved in Pakistan soon then maybe it makes sense to to take some military action now. So lots of things need to be considered. I think it is the scenario one is that we don't take any action. we apply all kinds of other leverage in Pakistan that is a more likely scenario maybe 70% likelihood maybe uh 15% likelihood is a short sharp war okay and maybe 15% likelihood is we take back P that's the kind of probability that I see okay this is by Harshawan after Prime Minister Modi met President Trump in February several major events occurred in India. First of all, president's rule was imposed in Manipur and the situation is now under control. You think it's under control? Kind of there are it's not quite under control. Manipur is still occupied by foreigners. More than half of Manipur is is under foreign occupation. It's not under control. Yeah, right now there's no major violence happening. That's the only thing. But uh the foreigners are still squatting on Indian territory in Manipur. Okay. So project K cookie land for Christ is still it's still go ongoing. Okay. President's rule was imposed in Manipur. Secondly, there have been frequent visits by US government officials to India. Okay. The Indian government has agreed to give greater access to American products. Well, when Trump goes ballastic and nuclear with the tariffs, you got to give them access. Uh next, the the US Treasury Secretary announced that India is the first country to sign a trade agreement with the US. That's going to happen most likely soon. Soon. It's it's ongoing right now. Uh negotiations, talks. Uh six, the Indian government imposed tariffs on Chinese steel. Well, they were dumping cheap steel on us. So, we had to impose tariffs. Yeah, sure. The seventh, the US government has expressed support for India's actions against Pakistan and terrorists. Well, they had to because they want India on their side. Next, there are also rumors that is in that America and Israel supplied precision strike bombs after the Bahalgam attack. Okay, I don't discuss rumors. I have no idea. So my assessment says hushwartan the Indian government has agreed to President Trump's demands while securing India's sovereignty and gaining greater access to the US market. What are my views? Uh my views is that India is playing is is doing the tightroppe walk act and India is doing the right thing. Look, when you have a nation like the US, the most powerful entity that exists in the world today, the most powerful nation ever, you you've got to, you know, you've got to give them the right amount of respect and you've got to do what is right. What is right for yourself means that sometimes you have to make concessions to the US and you have to give them what they want. So if they don't if they want if they say that you are imposing too many tariffs on US goods then we're going to have to give you cut the tariffs down and give them more access to our market. But we can do that in a way that gives us also more access to their market. So that's why we have a round of talks that's happening. So it's going to be hopefully a win-win. Okay. You want Indian tariffs to go down? Sure. What can you do for us? We will bring them down. What will you do do for us? So that's that's a win-win kind of situation. Uh so look I have said this right that during President Trump's uh presidency India US relations will be at their highest peak most likely. I think that's that's pretty much on its way. Uh does it mean that India loses some part of its sovereignty? I don't think India quite loses too much sovereignty. Uh there's some give and take obviously in in terms of you know access to the markets and all those things. uh the US will want India on its side in certain things like when it comes to actions against China and so on which means that the India China sector the frontier the border the LAC may again turn hot it's a possibility it's a possibility we have to be careful about that it means that China and Pakistan once again become a deal an item that's also a possibility that's that's more of a likelihood now looks like that's that's all happening in real time right now uh so a lot of things are happening I told I've been saying this for for quite some time. This is going to be a tremendously uh active geopolitical season. Things that the kind of geopolitical change you're seeing in a week today is typically something that happens in a decade historically. So a complete realignment of the global world world order. I think that u look there's always a danger a fear that we may end up becoming a US. I don't think that's quite the case. Um India is still mostly a sovereign nation. Manipur raises some question marks because we still have foreigners mill I don't know how many lakhs of them sitting on Manipur territory Indian territory that's a problem um so we're going to have to deal with these things one by one but uh the Manipur is a geopolitical issue the Biden administration started this hopefully the Trump administration ends that uh so we'll have to see so I think you know India US relations uh relations are on a great trajectory uh Mr. Modi is is a very good leader, a very capable leader and uh he is the right person to deal with someone like Mr. Trump. They understand each other very well and I think Mr. Modi will be able to successfully safeguard our interests. That that's what I would say and one certainly hopes that is the case. Okay, this question any motion clips says please take this question I've been asking for the last month. It'll be weird to tell but I have a gut feeling that the world is heading towards World War II. I think let's think a hypothetical situation. World War II is going India is battling with Pakistan, China, India internal civil war bursts out. What can a person do in this time? Let's imagine discuss etc. Uh if you feel okay you want to add viruses in the mix. Uh my childhood my gut feeling has never been wrong even for covid. I started using mask sanitizer 6 months before. Well, well, well. You have a six sense. My whole family was COVID positive. I was the only one not infected. You know, I still don't know if I ever got COVID or not. So many you lockdowns and what the micron micron variant and whatnot. Where is CO today? Where is COVID today? The whole world was shut down for that virus. Where is it today? How come it doesn't exist anymore? What a joke. It was boweapon. Anyhow, is the world going towards World War II? The world is going towards a cold war and we don't want a World War II. I hope your gut feeling is wrong. I don't see it going towards World War II. World War II means nuclear war between the major powers and that's the that's the end of the world. Um what we witnessing is a is is a new cold war. So the entire world is being split into two camps. I don't think there's a third camp to be seen very much. Is there a global south camp? I don't think so. Um the two camps are the US and the western le camp and the China and Russia camp in India I think has probably made a choice somewhere. I had said this I don't know how many episodes ago or 20 30 maybe 20 episodes ago or roughly that once Trump comes to power he's going to ask India to make a choice. You're either with us or you're against us. I think India has made the choice which is why I'm telling you that something has changed somewhere in the world. I can sense it. There is no evidence whatsoever of anything having changed but I can it's it's a gut feel like I'm saying something has changed. I think India and the US are on the same side now. Uh I don't know what it means for India Russia. Probably there will be some kind of allowance for India Russia as well. uh because Russia because Russia and the US have al also have their own allowance. It's a very complicated situation but overall the world is bifurcating. It's splitting into two camps. It's a cold war situation all all over again. Supply chains are fragmenting. Everything is fragmenting and it's a bifurcation of the gold global world order and it's this is called a cold war. So we're going to have two parallel systems, two parallel economic blocks and two parallel geopolitical blocks. and India seems to be on the western side now. So that's where we are going. I certainly hope that there is no World War II situation. That's that's the end of the world. We don't want that. Okay. Questions about scramjets. Anonymous scientist says DRDO has successfully completed 1,000 plus seconds ground test of an active cooled scramjet combustion engine which is a gigantic achievement. No other countries achieved this. What do you think about this? Pray says uh D was just successfully tested an active cooled scramjet engine for 1,3 seconds if I remember correctly. A breakthrough being hailed as a major step towards operational hypersonic cruise missiles. How significant is this achievement for India's strategic deterrence and technological edge? What does this breakthrough mean for India's position in the global military technology race? Especially considering claims that even that even the US and China have not achieved yet this level of sustained scramjet performance. Ashish says DRDO tested 1000 scramjet engine. Sir Khan of Russia has a 120 second scramjet phase. What are the implications? Okay, pretty interesting stuff happening in the world and this time we're talking about India. So, DRDO has something called the DRDL. It's a laboratory in I think it's in Hyderabad. Okay. So, this lab they ran an actively cooled subscale combuster, a subscale engine for 1,3 seconds. And the air flow was Mach 5 Mach 6 which is five or six times the speed of sound. Okay. And I think this was tested in Hyderabad. So until now the US uh their longest publicly acknowledged hypersonic run was about u five five six minutes. I think about 300 something seconds. Okay. Uh DARPA. Yeah. DARPA does this does this stuff. And China has claimed that it has done ground tests about 600 seconds or something 400 to 600 seconds. But uh that's a claim that they've made. Nobody has verified that. Obviously even the US claim is also a claim. We nobody has seen that and so on. And um it is estimated that the zircon the zirkcon uh scramjet engine has has it could it could go up to 300 seconds or 400 seconds most likely. So what India has achieved by crossing the 1,000 second milestone is that see first of all we are using something called regenerative cooling. So you know this this engine the scramjet engine it uses some kind of fuel. It's going to be a hydrocarbon based fuel like petrol kerosene or some kind of exotic hydrocarbon compound or something. So when you use regenerative cooling it means that the fuel itself absorbs the heat before injection. So it is not just a fuel it is also a coolant. Can you imagine that it is not merely a a fuel which will burn. It is also a coolant. I remember um I remember reading as a kid the the Americans have this aircraft called the SR71 Blackbird. It's retired now, but it had an exotic fuel. The SR71 uh Blackbird. It used a fuel that would burn only at incredibly high temperatures. You you you ignite a matchick and you dump it in the fuel, it will not burn. Huh. But it'll burn at extremely high temperatures. So I think India is using something like that that that sort of fuel for the regenerative cooling. It absorbs heat. It acts as a coolant and it is also the fuel in the combustion chamber. Right? And most likely India is using some kind of alloy or ceramic material inside the combustion engine, the liner that can survive about, I don't know, 1,800 or 2,000° C temperatures, huge temperatures. And you will also need some kind of real-time combustion control algorithms to keep the fllaying the flame anchored in pointing in the right direction despite pressure oscillations and whatnot at this incredibly high uh mark number five or six. So it's an incredible achievement. 1,00 seconds plus means that now we we have an engine that can be hypersonic for 1500 km. The tiron is hypersonic in the end stage, the last 300 seconds or 120 seconds, whatever it is. We have an engine that when taken to the larger scale, when made into a full scale thing, it can propel a cruise missile completely completely hypersonically for 1500 or so kilometers from launch to impact. It's consistently hypersonic. It's not supersonic and then then in the last phase it is hypersonic. It's hypersonic throughout. That's incredible. Okay. So that's fantastic. Now we have to understand one thing. Important thing is that the Ciron flies. The Ciron missile flies. Okay. What we have is a subscale test in the ground ground test. Now we're going to be testing this. We have a hypersonic uh demonstrator test that is scheduled for next year 2026 in which we will most likely test this uh this uh engine this combuster probably a full scale version. So right now we have a scaled down version of that. Let's say the combuster is supposed to be hypothetically let's say 1 m long. Maybe we have something that is about uh 30 cm or 40 cm long. So it's a small scale model of the thing. So we have solved the physics problem. Now we able to solve the engineering problem. Understand? So I think it's amazing. It's awesome. It means that India is developing technology that very few nations have and probably a first in its class technology. I don't think so. It's possible the Americans may have secretly tested a 10,00 second engine or something but well nobody has publicly announced it. So so I would say great job DRDO. DRDO gets a lot of flak for a lot of things but outstanding job and let's test this on on the on the demonstrator vehicle next year and hopefully by the end of this decade we can have actual hypersonic missiles that can fly 1500 km fully hypersonic based on this technology. So I think India is now so India has transitioned leapfrogged essentially overnight from a non-contender in the hypersonic race to a frontr runner in the hypersonic race. Overnight we have gone from a non-contender to a frontr runner in the hypersonic race. Amazing achievement and I would like to congratulate and thank the scientists and engineers for their work. Tja Ready says, "In an era of delobalization and supply chain securityization, should India align with western technoindustrial coalitions like the chips act and IPF even at the cost of alienating the global south where it seeks leadership. The global south needs leadership. The global south seeks leadership should India align with the chips act and the uh India Pacific, Indoacific, whatever it is etc. which is led by the west. I say India should participate in these things on India's terms. If you want to be a leader, you have to set the agenda, not withdraw from participation. Do you understand? If you withdraw from participation, there goes your chance at leadership. It's over. You can't be a leader if you don't participate. You have to not merely participate but you have to participate in setting the agenda. So India should participate in all these initiatives, coalitions, whatever you want to call call them. And India should represent the global south in these and like we did in the G20, we set the agenda in the 2023 session, the year cycle of G20, we set much of the agenda, right? So India has demonstrated that we have the diplomatic heft and and depth to set agendas at the at the highest level. So India should certainly participate in the chips act and IPF and whatever other opportunities we get and participate in a meaningful way, participate in a way that aligns with our interests, contribute something positive to the world to the world and puts us in a position when where we are where we are setting the agenda in cooperation with others. You don't have to be the only one setting the agenda. Obviously not. bigger powers than you but you should participate in the agenda setting process. So I think India should do that for sure. That's how you uh genuinely become a leader not by withdrawing and and being aloof. Okay, let's take some uh non-geeopolitics questions. Nutan Roshan says how did how was Mustafa Kimal Ataturk able to become such a great leader? How was he able to develop a nation with radical mentality into a modern nation from a military n officer to a great leader? How did he get that power and how is a leader truly capable of bringing out the full potential of his people and lead them towards development? Okay, look at I can give you a tour lecture. I can give you a oneweek seminar also. He's I mean he's one of a kind. Okay, he was one of a kind. Um to compress that long story and make it short, what can I say? How can I how can I approach that? See, Ataturk was born in Salonica, Taloniki in in present day Greece. It was then called Salonica. It was part of the Ottoman Empire. And he was born to a Turkish father in an Albanian origin mother. Father's name, I forget, Ali perhaps. Mother's name was Zubeda. Yeah. Okay. And so on. And he his father died or something. And his mother remarried and he was Mustafa came Mustafa was called he was very rebellious. He was sent to an army school and he was sent to many very many various schools. He was always expelled but he went to the army school and there he found his discipline and all that and he was great at math and all that all those things you know artillery calculations and all stuff was good at that and he participated in various uh military conflicts and all and he distinguished himself eventually he was the man standing against Winston Churchill in Galipoli uh the dinels and he's the guy who saved Turkey from from the invasion fleet of Winston Churchill it was 1950 15 the Galipoli campaign which was a disaster and a humiliation for Winston Churchill and for the west and for the ANZACS Indians also unfortunately had to participate in that and so he was hailed as a national hero which he was and he participated in other various other uh theaters of war as well eventually uh so he he was a distinguished general in 1920 20 or wherever it was, he uh after the the defeat of of of the uh German le coalition in the in the first world war, Turkey was partitioned and chopped into pieces and uh and then there was a civil war in Turkey, the national war for indep Turkish war for independence on which Mustafa Alad fought against the entire western coalition and the Ottoman Empire and he defeated them all and he and he drove the Greeks out of Turkey and there was the burning of isbna. So long story long story but he he was able to win. The essence of leadership is service and the second thing is non-negotiable is winning. A leader must win. A leader must deliver. You cannot be a failure. So he had those qualities and he was a military leader and if you are a military leader you have the might of the armed forces behind you and all political power flows out of the barrel of a gun as Mao said. So he was able to eventually become the leader of Turkey, the dictator of Turkey. Um and look, he was not a saint. Let me tell you that much. You you leave his you read his life history, you'll know that he was not a saint. But he was a great leader. So you don't need to have the best personal qualities to be a great leader for your people. Was Ashoke a great person, a great human being? Probably not. But he was one of our greatest emperors and I thank him for his service. Similarly, Mustafa Kimalad was not a great person, was not a great human being. He had his flaws. Okay, let's let's put it that way. But he was great for his country and he had a great vision for his country. You know what he used to say? Uh, you know, he didn't say this, but he despi you know what's what's strange about this? It still makes sense. He despised the average Turkish person for their sloth, for their lethargy, for their low standards. But he had an unshakable belief in the greatness of greatness of the Turkish nation. You see the contradiction there? He could not stand the average Turkish person, but he had an unshakable belief in the greatness of his Turkish nation and so on. So that's the thing about Mr. Fakim at one of the all-time greats and he the the changes he he he forced on his country and the society were incredible. It was an orthodox Muslim nation and he turned them he he during his lifetime he turned it into a secular nation a European nation. He forced them to reject the Arabic script and to use the Roman script with certain changes and so on. The changes he brought into Turkey to Turkish society were incredible and deep rooting deep rooted. And I can't imagine how he was able to do it. You know, women could no longer wear the wheel, the whale, the borca or whatever it's called, you know, that thing. And the the public holiday would no longer be on Friday. It would be on on on Sundays. And you know he I think he also mandated that Turkish mosques could no longer say Allah Akbar. They had to say Tanrian. And he he purged the Turkish language of all the Arabic and Persian loan words by by replacing those words with Mongolian words because the Turkish language is similar to the Mongolian language. They shown you the Huns and the Turks and the Mongols same origins. So he replaced all the Arabic and Persian loan words with with Mongolian loan words and so on. So the guy he had this force of character, right? So yeah, one man changed the whole nation. Incredible guy. Okay. Uh I don't know what this name is, but let's uh read the question. I'm from Germany. Can you explain why there's IQ differences between ethnicities? For example, 110 to 115 for Ashkanazi Jews, 105 to 110 for HanchChinese, 102 to 104 for white or ethnic Europeans, less than 100 for brown people, and less than 90 for blacks. We'll be pleased if you reply. Look, IQ depends on a lot of factors. Okay, first so let's do a thought experiment. Let's say there's a there are let's say there are twins born in the democrat democratic republic of the Congo disaster zone in Africa. Let's say there are twin twins born there. Two let's say two boys twin boys. You take one boy and and that boy gets lucky and gets to live in the US in a foster family and the other kid sadly remains in Congo and they both grow up. So by by the time both are 20, so by when when both the kids reach 20, they're twins, same genetics, same everything, but one grew up in the US, one grew up in Congo, then at the age of 20, let's say you do an IQ test, I promise you they're going to show a significant difference in their IQs. Okay? So IQ depends on lot of factors. Even if you have the same genetics, if you if if the upbringing is significantly different, you're going to have a huge difference in IQ. Your nutrition matters. The kind of nutrition you got and the kind of nutrition your brain got, that affects IQ. The kind of nurture you got as a kid, as a as during your growing up phase, nature, nurture, that sort of thing, that matters. Uh but yes, I'm sure there is a race component as well. I'm sure there is. Right. Um so and and there are there are people very intelligent people who say that IQ is what a pseudoscientific swindle. I think Nasam Nicholas Talb one of one of a very a very intelligent person he says that uh look IQ tests it's they are designed in a certain way. You I've taken an IQ test only once in my life. That was more than I don't know what more than 20 years ago. And I'm pretty sure that if I take the test again today, I'll have a different score. So a lot of things matter. Let's say let's do another experiment. We we have twins once again. Okay. Two twins who are born let's say in Ireland and one twin gets to live in the US. One stays in Ireland. One becomes an athlete or tries to be an athlete. The other becomes a sedentary drunken person. Well, I can assure you that if you take an IQ test of the two twins, the person who is abusing alcohol will have a much lower IQ. the same applies to drugs and whatnot. So, a lot of factors um affect IQ. Is there really um a race thing in it? I'm I'm sure there must be some kind of genetic factor in this. Um so my question is when these people take these IQ tests and and they determine that this race has this range of IQ, where do do they do it? You know most IQ tests are in English and if you are from another country half the time you may not understand it very well if English is not your first language. Do they have IQ test in Swahili? Do they have IQ tests in Bantau? Do they have IQ tests in various other African languages? I'm not sure they do. So there's that factor also that may contribute to a lower IQ test. Uh and you know if you are not mathematically inclined you may not do well in IQ tests. in in IQ test you have to recognize patterns and there is a mathematical component a logical component to it and so on so I don't think IQ is the best measure of a person's ability and intelligence first of all uh so that can explain why there are differences so people who have gone through a certain kind of education the western education system they'll find it much easier to take an IQ test they'll find the questions more familiar than someone from Africa who has never been in a school or someone from Africa Africa who speaks a certain African language was forced to study in a French medium school and then is to take a IQ test in English. So you have to understand that there are lots of factors that go into the results of the IQ tests that can make these that can really skew the scores. And there's also a genetic angle to the amount of intelligence a person has. If you take two people any two people there's going to be difference in their intelligence level. Some people are just born more intelligent. Some people are just born less intelligent. Is there an ethnic thing in it? There could be. Look, I don't know for sure. It's it's possible. But you know, yeah, it is said that black black people have low IQ and brown people also have some supposedly low IQ. Look at the countries where the black people live today. Okay. When like you saying, blacks less than 94 blacks. These countries are wartorrn. They're impoverished. They've got abysmal living standards because of the because of what happened in the last 150 200 days colonization, right? They they have abysmal living standards. Most of the kids who grow up there are malnourished. They they don't get a proper education. And when you grow up in that environment, you're not going to have the best performance in IQ tests. Um, so I think there's a I think there's a lot of factors like these that that skew the results of IQ tests and make it look like some ethnicities, some some some uh some what do we say? Yeah. Some some racial groups have higher IQ and some have lower IQ. Let's take an why don't we just take IQ tests do an experiment in which we do the IQ I IQ testing for people who live in a very high incarnation only let's say the US is a good example it's a very multi-thnic multicultural society uh mostly white but uh many black people many brown people Mexicans and Indians and and Chinese people as well Ashkanazin Jews there why don't you do an experiment in which you do IQ tests across let's say you take 10 let's say you take 10 people from each ethnic group Ashkan 10 10 ashkan as a Jews 10 Africanamean people 10 native American origin people 10 Indian-Americans Indian as in Indian dot not feather 10 Chinese Americans 10 10 Vietnamese Americans 10 Mexicanameans 10 white Americans and then give them the same IQ test people who are born and brought up in the US I think you may see a very set of results there. So it has you know I am pretty sure these the these IQ tests were not done under uniform circumstances and yet I am pretty sure there is some kind of genetic component that affects the results of IQ tests. So yeah that that may be a controversial thing to thing to say but it's possible that certain ethnicities may be on average more intelligent than other ethnicities. It's it's possible. It is possible. Okay. Yeah. The feminist hunter says, "How do you interpret Cleopatra's decision?" This is old geopolitics. This is ancient geopolitics 2000 years ago. How do you interpret Cleopatra's decision to side with Mark Anthony against Octavian? Was it a strategic miscalculation or a desperate move to preserve Egypt's sovereignty? Look, um, most historians will say that Cleopatra made a huge blunder and she was stupid or whatever, but she was, you know, she had two options. Uh, become a complete puppet of the Roman Empire or retain some autonomy. What Octavian would have was was proposing, what Octaven was saying that you will be the regional governor kind of thing of of Egypt and your succession is not guaranteed. your children may or may not become you know kings of of uh of Egypt. So Cleopatra had a son Cesarian. She was a son he was a son of of Julius Caesar right and and she wanted her son to be the successor the next king of Egypt. Octaven would have given her no such u you know choice as would not have given uh that concession to her but Mark Anthony was willing to give that. So, so you know um Rome was expanding and Egypt was this fertile strip of land in the desert in in that part of uh of the world that part of the world as you know is a desert region but you have the Nile and Egypt produced a lot of grain so the Roman army needed that that's why Egypt was valuable and that's why the Egyptian crown was valuable uh and Mark Anthony and Octavian were at loggerheads there was a civil war kind of situation there used to be a triumpvirate then they fought And Mark Anthony was willing to uh give her the assurance that her son would be the next king of Egypt. And that would have given Egypt more sovereignty as opposed to the deal that Octavian was giving. Octaven would have turned Egypt into another Judea. Judea was I mean you need to read history to understand the the context but Juda who was a king Herod I think at the time absolutely under the boots of the Roman Empire. uh what Marandani was was proposing what he was telling her was that he would give her more prestige more respect and more a more greater degree of sovereignty than what Mark than what Octaven who would later become Augustus would give. But the thing is that Mark Anthony at this stage I think his mental balance was not quite right. He was not making good choices, good decisions. A few years ago he was he was one of the greatest generals of all. That's why it was so closely associated with Julius Caesar. Uh but C Caesar gets assassinated and his adoptive son who is his grand nephew I think Octavian he becomes the uh the legal heir of of uh Julius Caesar and he inherits his legion the loyalty of his legions and all that and then eventually you have the civil war thing and eventually Mark Anthony dies. he has to commit suicide and Cleopatra um she also takes the route of the ASP ASP ASP. Uh yeah. So look, she she made a choice, a strategic choice. It was a gamble. It was a high-risk choice. The the and at the time it looked like Mark Anthony was was winning. But eventually octave. So you know, you got to make a choice in life. Some sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. And sometimes in in geopolitics when you lose, you lose it all. So that's what happened with Cleopatra. Okay, let's take some questions from the live chat, shall we? Okay, let let me take for the next few minutes questions from the live chat. Um, okay. Dave Rod says, "This is the niche niche question. Why did Naven Patnayak meet the pope during his vis visit to Italy for WFP in 22? Was there something some message beyond the pleasantries?" I have absolutely no idea. I'm sorry. I I I don't know. Look, I don't know what people's motivations are. etc. I I don't know. Sorry. Um let us see. Okay. Shri Ramach Andrea Namaha says, "What about no first use nuclear policy? Will it be changed?" I think we can keep it at no first use. It doesn't mean we will not use it first. Uh um we can keep some strategic ambiguity. I think China has a no first use policy. we have a no I don't know I maybe we can revisit that depending on how things go when it comes to our nuclear nuclear policy uh the the real concern for us is not Pakistan the real concern is always China right so it all depends on the relationship with China not with Pakistan some incident with Pakistan will not make us change our nuclear policy it's always going to be focused on on the bigger threat which is China um make but says if you have to take an IQ test you're doubting your IQ and exposes your IQ. Sir, I am a very stupid low IQ person. That's why I took a low IQ. That's why I took an IQ test. All right, sir. What can I say? Maybe you're curious as to what is my intelligence level on a certain scale. But it's okay. You can believe and you can see the world the way you like. Um okay. Um let's see some more questions. Shri Ramachandra again says Hinduism is about dismantling a dharma. That is true. Yes. Yes. Okay. Now lots of Okay. Let's see some more questions. Tanachundra says Pakistan new sugar daddy in making but India is permanent daddy. Okay sir. Um Chirai says in the worst case scenario if war were to happen between India and temporary nation what would be the red lines for India and for the temporary relation? For the temporary nation. For the temporary nation, we're talking about nuclear red lines here. Uh for us, you don't use nukes, we'll not use nukes. That's the deal. For them, it's it's about an existential thing. So if they feel that Pakistan will no longer exist, then they may use nukes. So as long as we don't take too much territory, we make shallow gains and we don't destroy their nuclear installations and all that or their draal pindi headquarters or the army the home of the army general chief of staff or whatever that that's the red line. So as long as we don't do that they are okay. Um okay Amisha says one of the solutions to Kashmir is to change the demography of Kashmir. Settle the Hindu population there. Give them protection. Kashmir will change. Do you agree? Look what have the Chinese done in Tibet? They've changed the demography of Tibet. The Tibet native Tibetan people are now a minority in in Tibet itself. Lassa is now the capital of Tibet is now a Han majority place. Learn from your enemies. One of the solutions is to change the demography. It's your country. You can do whatever you want. You can people can settle wherever they want. So after the abrogation of article 370, how many Hindus have moved into Kashmir? Hindus have been going to Kashmir for tourism to give them the tourism revenues. But how many of the of the Kashmir pundits have been allowed to to resettle in Kashmir? Nobody has been allowed. But Hindus are okay. Ah, very good. Let's go Kashmir tourism. This is what happens. So uh I agree with you. You know what you should do? We should settle people with a military background in Kashmir. There are lots of people who would love to settle in Kashmir. People with a military background, young younger people, not not not people in the 60s and 70s. Settle them in Kashmir. Give them arms licenses and and you know you can do it that way. There are all kinds of good creative solid solutions and what Amisha is proposing is an excellent solution. Yes, it should happen. Why are we being nice forever? First of all, why have the the Kashmiri pundits not been given the freedom to resettle in Kashmir? They're still feeling not safe. No, they're still feeling unsafe. That's why they're not going back, right? They can go back only if they feel that their lives are secure. So, the government is not able to do that thus far. Now, things need to change. So I agree with Amisha and she's making a very uh valid uh proposal here. Okay. Um Priyanka Kumari says, "Why can't we change the education system fast, especially history in high school?" Yeah, I don't know why. I used to get really frustrated with this, but now I'm like, "Okay, it's okay. I would do it. The first thing I would do was would be to change the education system. I know it's not easy. It takes time. You have to do it step by step. It's called phased deployment. Phased deployment. You to deploy any change in phases. It will take you minimum 20 years to change the education system. But you have to start at somewhere. You start at the lowest level. You start with nursery first year, then junior kg, then senior kg, then start at one and take it all the way for 20 years. change it phase by phase and you need to have a very clear idea of what change you're making. We can do it. It's everything is possible but maybe it's maybe it's possible but too difficult. I don't know. Um says how can we pause or restrict the patrol access of Pakistan? Look we don't control patrol access. Um we control water access. So we're going to test that. We're going to we're going to control that. Uh Mr. Atiator says, "Recently a team of European scientists observed quantum rain phenomenon. Can you please explain how it's different from normal rain and what breakthroughs can be achieved with this? I have no idea. I've not seen it. I've not seen the piece of news. Quantum rain?" I'll have to look it up. I'm not sure. Okay. I haven't seen the news. If I were to guess what does it mean? I don't know. Does it mean that they've observed raindrops shattering at the quantum level in some way? Raindrops are held together by surface tension. That's why water is usually ra you know globular in nature when it's falling when it falls the atmosphere pressure makes it flatter then it falls and shatters and there's a whole complex interplay of various navier stokes equations and equations that uh surface tension involvement whatnot and do you is there are you able to observe that the quantum level I'm not quite sure okay so I I I don't know what it is once I see it then I'll be able to comment on that what do Think about Augustus and his political maneuvers. He was a genius. That's why he became the first emperor of the Roman Empire. He said that I'm going to achieve what they prevented my great uncle, my grand uncle from achieving. His grand uncle was obviously Julius Caesar who adopted Octavian as his legal heir as his as his adoptive son. So they were related related by blood and Caesar adopted him officially as his adoptive son. That's why uh Augustus got the political legitimacy and uh he was he was obviously great. Augustus Octaven became Augustus. All right. All right. All right. What's my height? How does it matter? Okay. Okay. Bobby. Bobby. Good to see Bobby after a long time. uh Mongol takes back inner East Turkiststan. Okay. Mongolia takes back inner Mongolia. East Turkiststan separates and Tibet becomes independent. Then there will be peace in that region. You know, you could you could argue that there's there is already peace there. There's no war happening there. There's no terrorism happening there. There is peace there. You know, back in the day, I don't remember who it was that said this about the Roman Empire, but someone said that the Romans, they create a wasteland and then they call it peace. It's called pacification. So, you know, it depends on your on your definition of peace. Uh you can have peace through strength and by force and by hgemony. You can impose peace by hedgemony by by by subjugating a conquered population. You can do that. There will be peace in in a technical sense, but it will be injustice. So we want peace and justice together. For that I would say Tibet well yeah. Yeah. So I I know what you mean. Yes. Okay. What next? We'll take one one or two more questions. Um, Surendra Gupta says, "Update on next America, understanding America episode." Yeah, the next one is edited. It's ready. It's coming out this Thursday. And there's another podcast coming out this Tuesday, so you can look forward to it this time, and I apologize for the delay uh in the in the understanding America series, but it's it's coming back on track now. Uh, okay. Sankalpa says, "Have you watched Chava?" I haven't seen it. Sorry, I haven't seen it thus far. No time to watch movies and things. I would love to. I'd love to watch two movies a week in a theater, but no time. Which branch in physics is easiest and vice versa. Look, if you know if you're good at math, every branch of physics is easy. I mean, that's that's my worldview. It may be different from for others. The key to being good at physics is to being really good at math because math is the language of physics. You want to solve any physics problem, you do you have to be good at math. So yeah, you got to do all those books. You have to do differential equations. You do linear algebra. You got to do topology in some cases. Then you've got to do FIA transforms and matrices and yeah, you've got to do all that. So, Marry Bose is the way to go or you can we got some more books here and there. It's been a while. So, yeah, if you're good at math, you can do any branch of physics is easy for me. I'm always drawn to the difficult parts, the challenging parts. So, okay. Uh Amisha says Indian media is so insensitive. They are making studios of war room so bad. Okay. I have no idea. I don't watch Indian media. This past week, I was inv I was I was requested multiple times to appear on those 9:00 p.m. uh shouting debates. Uh I did not. So yeah, look, war is a war is hot. War sells, right? And and in the Indian public, they love shouting, they love debates, they love words. Indians are so fond of arguing and discussing things to the infinite level. So that's why you know the TV studios these these new studios they make war rooms huge maps on the wall and the anchor will hold a stick and point at the map and there will be three four army generals retired guys who will be saying war and so on it it's fun if if you are into entertainment but what's how does it educate the public I'm not quite sure okay Bobby says Canada has an election coming up what do you think about each of the candidates I've not really looked into the candidates I'm sorry I I don't Maybe Canada is not that important for me. It makes no difference for me who comes to power. M is there a good candidate out there because who who is there and uh Carney Carney some guy called Carney Tudau is gone. I think they're all much of more of the same. They're all like it's like the the the merrygoround in the UK. One leader comes and another come, another one goes and then there's another one after a few months and it makes no difference whatsoever. None of them are leaders. They're just suits. They're simply suits. I think the same applies to Canada. So I I don't really know. Maybe I should pay a little bit of attention. Maybe next next week, next weekend, I'll I'll do a bit of homework and check out all these candidates who they are and maybe I can give you a better better a better answer to the to this question. And with that, I think Okay. Um, does sir like video games? Um, I don't get to play video games. I I you know, I once had a PlayStation. I had a PlayStation 2 when it was brand new, you know, hot hot thing. I bought it for like $450 or something. And I used to play some games. Um, a car crashing game or something and so on. I I've played some video games once in once in a while, but I don't really get the time to play it. Um, yeah. So, I'm not a big user or connoisseur of video games. Okay, with that we end today's episode. Thank you so much everybody for all the questions. I really enjoyed this. For a change, we've discussed the temporary nation and yep, thank you so much for your questions and apologies those of you whose questions I could not take. And next weekend we continue this. So until then take care. Uh please keep learning, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards. And I will see you next weekend. Thank you so much. Bye-bye.