Heat. Heat. Wow. [Music] Heat. Heat. Heat. [Music] Good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the Ask a Bidget show. Today we are doing episode 268. It's been a long journey but here we are and a even longer way to go and today I'm going to be taking questions that you all have asked in the comments. Okay, we're reverting to that original format and we're going to do more of that going forward. So I'm going to take questions from the from the comments and then if there is some time I'll I may take a few questions at the end from the live chat. So let's see who all is there on the live chat with us. I can see Shiva Sai Dave Davik Shrian Mr. Jam Jikshit Ha Sundar Samarati Kumar Kanesh Mandicor Amisha Mishra Mr. Saxa, Supratim, Dutta, uh, Shivasai, Sam the Gamer, Latangi, Suresh, Chat, DSP, Anonymous Scientist, Bonjour, Mos, uh, Rana G, Shiva Sai, uh, who else do we have? nationalist uh yati 24 purusham pradan geopolitical dub from indor mira that's a good name sfc kumar kesh kahul dunak yati 24 unknown wamshi kale chiak patel bashishta prrenal from kolkata yatinda chiak pateli abi abhishek shvastav uh who else do we have ajinka pawar shashank sharma Om Vidant Jadav and so many other people maven is there Jam Mr. Mcloven and everybody else. So uh let's get going with the questions. I won't be able to greet you all but let's start with the questions that we have. So what's question number one? Okay, question number one is by multiple people and it's it's even more people who have asked this question. Space Striker Retesh Sharma Shar Kharki. We should we should ignore words and focus on actions. The Indian government is loud in words against Pakistan but their actions like allowing Pakistani YouTube channels sent out a different message. Is the government really nationalistic? Why has the Indian government unbanned Pakistani YouTube channels and Insta accounts? What's the rationale behind this move? Yesterday the Indian government unblocked all Pakistani propagandist accounts in YouTube and Instagram. And today they are making a childish claim that accounts got unplugged because of some technical glitch. Why does this government fear too much in taking decisions etc. And even if very important for the Indian interests when it comes to actions versus words I think uh operation synindur was actions those missiles raining down on Pakistani air bases and uh military sites was actions. The loitering drones the har drones going down on Pakistani military installations was actions. So let's not say that the government is only words and no actions. Let's that's not the case at all. Okay. Now when it comes to this matter about the YouTube channels and possibly Instagram accounts, I heard myself that yesterday some Pakistani channels that had been banned were unbanned for a while. I'm not sure about the Instagram accounts. So let's take a look at what's what the situation is. U we are aware of a whole bunch of Pakistani YouTube channel. I think many Pakistani YouTube channels were very popular in India because of the cricket content. For example, Inzam, right? Inam, the former cricket captain. In Zamam, Inamama. Okay, Inzam uh YouTube. So, what's the situation with Mr. Inam? It says it's unavailable now. So, let's uh keep an eye on that, right? So, let's try and understand scenarios. Scenarios. Always look at scenarios. Let's not jump to conclusions. In case you watch my geost strategy series, you will understand that you have to look at the world from the perspective of scenarios. What's the most likely explanation? What's a less likely explanation? What's a very highly unlikely explanation? And so on. So let's understand, let's explore some scenarios. Okay. uh the government had banned a bunch of Pakistani accounts, YouTube accounts, Twitter accounts, possibly Instagram accounts. I'm not sure of that. Okay. And it's because they spread misinformation. For example, that that fellow Aidi right Shahid Fredi, he is a virulently anti-India guy. He I know that in the past several Indian cricketers like Mr. Harbajan Singh, Mr. Ibra Singh etc have gone out of their way to support him and so on. But that's the deal with cricketers and sports people. They don't understand the national interest possibly but yes people like Afidi etc have been banned were banned now one hears that yesterday or day before or whenever it was a number of these YouTube channels became visible in India and now if you look it looks like they are banned again. So then the question is what happened? We clearly had banned these channels these accounts. The question is in what manner were they banned? I mean what was the methodology of implementing the bans? One way of implementing a ban is that the government can issue a directive an order to Indian internet providers to block certain well channels and so on. Usually it's at the platform level but you can I suppose also do it at the at the channel level. So in case some uh internet providers in India may have uh perhaps you know undone that that could explain it but maybe not the case. Maybe this was done at the platform level. So in that case what happens is that the government of India goes and approaches let's say platform X, platform Y, platform Zed, YouTube, Twitter, Instagram and tells them that we are ordering you to block these accounts in India. These should not be available in India and the reasons are national security. You don't get to ask us what the reasons are. You will simply comply with our directives and then YouTube goes ahead and blocks Afredi and Inam and whoever else. Okay? And uh Twitter does the same thing and Instagram also does the same thing. In that case, if that is the case, then the action is taken at the level of the platform which is either YouTube or Instagram or Twitter or whoever else. Okay. Now, in case something happened yesterday and some accounts became available again. Now then we have for example I just showed you right I searched for for Inam on YouTube right over here and YouTube is giving us a message that this content is available in this unavailable in the country because of government orders and so on so forth right so it means that YouTube has implemented the ban within India because of the government of India and what the government of India has directed them to do. So YouTube is responsible for doing this. So in case some accounts were unbanned yesterday, maybe YouTube maybe whoever whoever else then I can think of two scenarios maybe three. Scenario one is that YouTube or Twitter or whoever they decided to unban these accounts for reasons best known to them in the absence of any Indian government directive to unban them. That's one possibility. That's one scenario. Well, that well it's their platform. They can do whatever they like, right? That's one possibility we have to think of. Another possibility this is these are all hypothetical possibilities and scenarios. I'm not saying this happened or that happened. I'm giving you scenarios, plausible scenarios, hypothetical plausible scenarios. So scenario A is that the platforms maybe independently maybe under the directions of their government or maybe something else for whatever reason the platforms decided to unblock certain accounts. That's one scenario. Second scenario is maybe somebody from India itself directed the platforms to unblock the accounts. That's also a plausible scenario. Maybe somebody who works for the government of India and who's who's in charge of inter interacting interfacing with these platforms. Maybe somebody from that team perhaps one person perhaps hypothetically hypothetically may have done that. That's another scenario to think of and then maybe maybe hypothetically when there was a backlash from the from the viewers in India then the then somebody at a higher level in the government may have realized what's happened and they may have reinforced and and re-implemented this. So there are multiple scenarios. I can think of even more scenarios. The point is something happened and action was taken I think reasonably fast and then these uh channels Pakistani uh accounts and channels have been as far as I know blocked again in India. So whatever happened the government of India needs to look into it. I suppose they would be aware whether it is the platforms taking action on their own. Maybe somebody from the government of India hypothetically may have quietly told the platforms that you know go ahead and open it up again possibly hypothetically or maybe something else. So whatever the cause is then look into it and address address the root cause. If it is some hypothetically rogue employee hypothetically some some person at at some level in the government of India who went and told the the platforms that you can we you're okay to allow this to to be available in India again then that hypothetical employee or bureaucrat needs to needs to be well possibly disciplined or whatever maybe it's something else maybe it's something else we don't know what it is my point is let's not jump to conclusions and start blaming the government of India. Okay, there could be lots of reasons why this happened. At the end of the day, please remember these are foreign platforms. These are not really under our control. They will comply with the government of India directives as long as you keep on giving the directives. But if uh you take your eyes off the ball, then you may get clean bold or you may get stumped. So you got to always keep the eyes on the ball. And these things will happen as long as you're not in control of the thing, right? So if if it's a foreign platform, you don't really control it. Uh so that's that's uh the way I see it. Uh I would not say that the government of India has unblocked it. Okay. Whatever had happened, the unblocking was done at at the level of the platforms, not at the level of the government of India. The government of India doesn't control the platforms. The government of India doesn't uh put on, you know, control the onoff switch. So somewhere something happened and uh it was noticed reasonably fast and the bans have been re-implemented which is good to see and I'm sure that the government of India will have understood what happened what went wrong. They would have looked into it. I'm sure that's not a twoe investigation with a with a with a committee. I'm sure it it can be done pretty fast and appropriate action should be taken if if at whatever level it needs to be taken. I am not saying that it was this cause or that cause or cause A or scenario B or scenario C or whatever whatever it is needs to be addressed. That is how I see it. Let's not jump to conclusions. Let's not start blaming the government when you don't control the platform. This is what happens. So my point is we need to have our own indigenous platforms. Well, that's a whole different story, isn't it? My offense. Okay, question two. Question two is about F-35 uh the the F-35 saga. So we have a F-35, a UK, a British F-35 which is currently parked in in what tuan wherever it is parked and it's been there for like 3 weeks now and uh it appears that it's not in a flyable condition anymore and it's going to have to be potentially dismantled and shipped to the UK and the UK will obviously uh foot the bill of the parking charges and whatever other charges are So the question is what was so we have two questions one by Premar one by Anikit. Uh Premar says, "Is it not possible to get the stealth material of F-35 as it is in rain and with sample of the ground around it? We can get what material is used to coat the thing." And Aniket says, "What was this British F-35 doing near the Indian coastline? Are conspiracy theories true? I'm not sure what these are. Or is it a bad or was it just a bad weather malfunction?" Let's address an question first. uh what was this uh aircraft doing near the Indian coastline? So we had I I believe we held some uh joint exercises, naval exercises between the Indian military and the UK military, Indian Navy, UK military uh UK Navy, two navies worked together for a bit for a joint exercise or something and that's why we had this uh uh British aircraft carrier of the Indian coastline in international waters of course and that's why this uh F-35 was flying around because it was part it was it was based on that aircraft carrier. which was in the vicinity and maybe it was doing training sorties or whatever. Okay. Uh so it was flying and it there was obviously heavy weather. Right now it's the rainy season in the subcontinent. So you have very heavy weather, lots of rain and uh they say that the F-35 attempted multiple u times to land on the aircraft carrier did not work out and it was running short of fuel. So it had to make an emergency landing in in the Indian airport, Indian air base. Uh, and ever since then, it's been parked over there. So, the question then arises that once it landed, why couldn't it just be refueled and sent on its way? Go back. Go back. Right. But for some reason, it's not gone back. And I don't I'm not sure what the stories are, but now the now the news, what I hear in the news is that it's not in a flyable condition. It's there's something wrong with it. It's malfunctioning or something. You can't fly it. that's going to have to be apparently dismantled and shipped to the UK and obviously the UK will pay the bill for all of that. Uh so that's what one hears and of course there have been conspiracy theories about uh maybe it's a spy aircraft and they've got lots of sensors inside the aircraft hidden inside to spy on the Indian uh on the in the Indian military capabilities in that airport that air base. Uh I'm I'm not sure what what is true, what is not. I'm um you know in the absence of sufficient information all you can do is speculate and speculation can lead you in all kinds of directions including into what you call conspiracy theory directions. I don't know. Uh it's possible that you it could have had some spying spying devices sensors of some kind kinds etc. It's the possibility exists but I'm not sure really sure what the thing is. I am not here to sensationalize the issue and say that you know and all that nonsense right we don't know it's a possibility that we have to take seriously but it may not be the only possibility like I said multiple scenarios one can you know imagine for what happened here as well so the thing is that this exists here and it's it's under uh under under heavy security I suppose one CRPF officer with uh automatic rifle standing near it that's what you and so on. So that's how I say it. Uh I'm sure the government knows better. I'm sure the government of India knows exactly what was being done there. Okay? Whether it was really a malfunction or whether it was on a spying mission or whatever else. I'm not even sure what happened to the pilot. Uh the pilot obviously was he repatriated? Was it sent back to the aircraft carrier? Was he sent put on a plane and sent back to London? What happened? I'm not really sure. But obviously the pilot is not here after 3 weeks. So something so the government of India is fully aware of what's going on. I'm pretty sure now about the stealth material. Uh so it I what I hear is that the the F-35 it has a stealth coating, a special coating of a special material and you've got to repaint it after every mission. That's what one hears. Okay. So when you're doing training missions, you don't need to repaint every time it lands on the aircraft carrier. But when you're on an actual combat mission and you go and do your thing and whatever else you're supposed to do and you return, then it has to be repainted all over again. It has to be given a new coating of this stealth material. That's what I hear. And that's one of the reasons why the flying costs are so high. And the downtime between missions is also so long, like 50 hours at least for the time it takes to to paint the thing and for the paint to dry and all that. So it looks like uh it has a very special stealth coating now. The the aircraft has been here for 3 weeks roughly give or take and it's been raining. So is it possible that the rain could have dissolved or some of the the coating material or some of it could be found in the puddles around the airport around the aircraft? I think it's possible. So does it mean that we should just go and collect the the puddle water the rain water and uh do a proper chemical analysis of that whatever analysis and find out what material they're using. It's something that certainly can be done. It's the thing something we should possibly do take take it seriously pos perhaps. Uh but we also have to consider the possibility that this was an aircraft on a training mission. It must have done lots of training sorties and maybe the stealth coating wasn't present on it cuz they want look I think if if there's a there's a chance that the aircraft will end up in India with the stealth coating and the Indians will find out what the stealth coating is I think then given that possibility they would actually have preferred to ditch the aircraft in the in the water in the ocean and let it let it sink because it's a very very uh secret secret material, right? It's it's not something they would want their uh you know nonallies to get get their hands on. Uh so I would say certainly we should go and sample the puddle water and see if we can find some traces of some special substance. If we find it, fantastic. I I am not opposed to that at all. I actually would welcome it. But I would say that you know it's it's more likely that uh the aircraft was not coated with the material since it was on training. So it is not on combat missions. It's only on combat missions that you coat it with that special substance. On on training missions you you typically don't do that. There's no need for for that. Um that's how I see it. Uh it was on a training mission and so on. And and do remember that the Indian government, Indian military, whoever it was, they put out a tweet saying that it was the aircraft was detected and and and something other something or the other. So they made it a point to they very pointedly tweeted that we detected the aircraft. It would indicate that maybe the aircraft was not in stealth mode at the time. It was not coated with it special substance and maybe some other it was also it it also had missiles and bombs or whatnot attached to the wings which obviously increases the radar cross-section and so on. So you know that's that's how I see it. Um they can certainly try and and sample the puddle water the rain water and see if they can find something but most likely they will not find something. Okay but no harm trying definitely. Ajit ja creator says what's your take on the F-35 India deal as Trump is reportedly forcing India to buy it. Really? Trump is forcing us to buy it. Yeah. Really? I don't think we're going to buy that piece of um that aircraft. Uh what what's what's the term I used in the past? Flying trash can. The F-35 is a terrible aircraft. But that's not the reason we should not buy it. See, what's my take on the F-35? My F-35 deal. There is no F-35 deal. I don't think India will be purchasing the F-35 no matter what happens. especially after Trump's behavior towards India uh his his championing of Pakistan his his great love for Pakistan newfound love for Pakistan uh his interference in India Pakistan bilateral issues his uh interference in operation zindur after all that he has done uh there's the price that he's going to have to pay for this and one thing is for sure we will not be purchasing the F-35 if India ends up purchasing the F-35 it it means that we are on our way to vasalhood it means that we have given in to the Americans. I I don't think it's going to happen. But my the question really is is is that why am I opposed to the F-35 deal? It's not like I have some some some kind of animosity towards country X or country Y. I have nothing personal against the US. It's a wonderful nation and greatest nation in the world, most powerful nation, etc. No question. Then why do I oppose India potentially purchasing the F-35? Well, I oppose that on on the issue of sovereignty. Then you will ask but we bought the Rafal, we bought the Sukoy, we bought the make whatever. Where is what about sovereignty? Well, you need to grow up a little and understand what I mean by sovereignty. See, when you buy something, let's say I purchase a pen, a pen, okay? I purchase a pen. So when once I purchase it, this becomes mine, right? It it is supposed to become my instrument. And I'm supposed to be able to do whatever I want with it. I can write, I can sketch, I can draw, I can uh whatever. Yeah, it's it's entirely up to me what I use this for. Now, the the deal with the F-35 or any US platform is that if you purchase the goddamn thing, it's not really yours. And it has liabilities. It comes with liabilities. First of all, you don't get the full version. you get an export version which is a stripped down dumped down version of the aircraft. Secondly, the Americans will decide how it'll be used. So every day before you you take it out for a spin in the skies, you essentially have to get an OTP from the Americans. Okay? Essentially like that. And and to get the OTP, you have to first give them your flight path and your flight plan and all that. So once they go through your flight plan and what you're planning to do, then they will say, "Okay, it's fine." And you they give you the OTP. Then you enter the OTP and the aircraft powers on. Then you can only do what you're allowed to do. Okay? And then the aircraft may have builtin kill switches. Now, is it something is it some some imaginary concept I've pulled out of my backside? A kill switch? Is it is it so? Ask the Australians whether they believe in kill switches or not. There are many experts you know very respected experts in India who are saying that this this kill ski kill switch business is nonsense. What is the skill switch nonsense? Kill switch garbage. It's a figment of some idiots's imagination. They say h ask the Australians what happened to the the the aircraft they purchased from the US in the 1980s. They purchased a bunch of I think F-15s or whatever it was, okay, in the 1980s. And once they purchased and they acquired, they got they took delivery of the aircraft. The Australians, remember Australia is one of the five eyes nations. It is one of America's closest vasals. The Americans the Australians take delivery of these aircraft in the 1980s. They take them for a spin and they say, "Okay, let's see what these what these beasts are capable of." So they do some uh mock drills in which they uh designate some targets and they the pilots will then tell the aircraft okay lock onto this target and take it out. So the moment they try to do that the aircraft's target acquisition system simply ignored the pilot's directives. It refused to lock on to targets that were not preapproved by the Americans. And this happened over and over again. The aircraft were useless. The aircraft were useless. The Australians could not use them for what whatever purposes they intended them from for and it was all overridden. The pilots directives were all overridden by the software in the aircraft. And it was not until the 21st century, the first or second decade of the 21st century that the Australians were able to crack that software. So for 30 years, the aircraft were useless for the Australians. Okay, that's just one example of a kill switch. What you call a kill switch? Kill switch means you you can prevent the aircraft from taking X action or Y action. In the extremist cases, it may even refuse to power on. Obviously, the OTP also comes into effect over there, right? And uh and then there could be back doors and first of all you to to fly the F-35 you have to sign all kinds of agreements that open up your airwaves to the Americans to make your uh your electronics communications compatible to compatible with American whatever standards and all. So that again you know you lose you lose some sovereignty there. Then if you acquire a whole bunch of aircraft $110 million a piece and you can't use them for what you want to use them for and maybe they're also you know siphoning off your electronics communications and relaying them somewhere. What what happens to your sovereignty? There's no sovereignty. You become a basal like this. U and and there's so much more. They could have back doors that would transmit all your data, all your all your classified secret information back to the Pentagon. So much more. This is not science fiction. This is routine. This is routine. Okay. So, if you acquire this aircraft, you essentially hand over your sovereignty on a platter to the Americans, your military sovereignty. Uh and and it's at the end of the day, it's just not just that not good. It's not a good aircraft at all. Uh I would say look, if Trump wants to sell aircraft to India, we would we should ask for the F-22. We want the F-22, not the F-35. Let's see what Trump has to say. You want us to buy American aircraft? Sure. All right, sir. We want the F-22. Now, let's see what Mr. Trump has to say. He's going to throw a tantrum. No, F22 blah blah blah. It's not the best aircraft in the world. F-35 is the one on offer and so on. So, my point is F-35, we should not acquire it no matter what Trump says, how many tantrums he throws and so on. Pranay Paul says, "How has the Dalai Lama's reincarnation decision rattled China? What's the core reason behind Beijing's visible irritation this time?" Oh my goodness, Beijing is irritated. I am so sad. Okay, before we go into the matter, let us let me remind you all that I have been very clear and very consistent about my stand when it comes to the Dalai Lama's his holiness, the Dalai Lama's reincarnation. And in case because memories are short, let me just put this on the record one more time. I did it yesterday. I'm doing it again today. Take a look at this. He needs to announce his plans for his reincarnation because the Chinese plan to hijack the office of the Dalai Lama and appoint their own Dalai Lama. So if his holiness the Dalai Lama announces that he will not be reincarnated in Tibet, he will be reincarnated reincarnated either in India or somewhere else then the Chinese claim to the legitimacy of their appointee as the Dalai Lama will evaporate. His holiness the Dalai Lama is now at the stage where he needs to decide about his succession. Who's going to be the next Dalai Lama? Will he reincarnate in Chinese occupied Tibet or will he reincarnate in the diaspora outside of Tibet? So this is the succession the Chinese are worried about because they want to appoint their own Dalai Lama and if the current Dalai Lama says that that is illegitimate then the Chinese attempt to hijack the institution of the Dalai Lama will fail. The 11th Panchchan Lama they hijack that institution. So once he passes on the Chinese government will hijack that process and they will appoint a CCP Dalai Lama a Chinese Communist Party sanctioned Dalai Lama. It is something that is important from multiple perspectives including a geopolitical perspective. The Dalai Lama needs to announce I mean he needs to make his intentions clear whether he does intend to be reincarnated or not. Eventually whenever the India China issue will be resolved the root cause is Tibet the Chinese the illegal illegitimate brutal Chinese occupation of Tibet. I think it is high time for his holiness the the Dalai Lama to uh declare what is the succession going to be like. The Dalai Lama successor has to be non-Chinese. Ideally what his holiness should do is he should make a clear unambiguous declaration of how the success the issue of the succession should be handled. So there we have it. So it's clear that I have been extremely consistent on this and I have I have uh been suggesting recommending that this decision be taken and that is exactly what's happened. So what I've been saying for the for more than four years it has finally happened now on the eve of the Dalai Lama his holiness the Dalai Lama's 90th birthday. So it's excellent. And now the question is what Prane is asking how has this decision about his reincarnation how has it rattled China? What's the core reason behind Beijing's visible irritation this time? You haven't seen the irritation yet. They're just starting off. Are they going to throw a lot of tantrums? The the Chinese which is fine. U how does it matter what is Mr. Xinping's mood at this moment or tomorrow morning? That is their problem. That's not our problem. Uh now the question is about the reincarnation thing. So what is it first of all? what is the matter of the Dalai Lama of the Dalai Lama's reincarnation and what does that have to do with geopolitics and India China relations. So if you want to understand in detail you should watch yesterday's episode of geost strategy in which I've gone into this in great detail but overall the the see Tibet is is under illegal Chinese occupation the Chinese annex next Tibet in the 1950s after invading it with the help of Shri the magnificent Shri Neuji uh and and they have devastated Tibet they they have tried to conduct an demic cultural and ethnic genocide of of the Tibetans and so on. uh now the reincarnation issue is that the Chinese would like to appoint the next Dalai Lama. So the next Dalai Lama if if everything goes according to China will be a member of the Chinese Communist Party a party that doesn't belong belong believe in God in religion in spirituality they want to appoint the next Dalai Lama it's a tradition that goes back five six centuries and they want to decide who the next Dalai Lama will be so that they can take over control of the entire spiritual world of the Buddhists the Dalai Lama is the highest ranking spiritual leader of all Buddhists, right? And the the Chinese would want would like to own that. And if this matter of the reincarnation and the appointment of the next Dalai Lama happens outside of Chinese control, then it indicates very clearly to the to the entire world that this matter is beyond China's control. And this matter which is central to Tibetan culture is not in China's control which raises questions about the legitimacy of China's occupation of Tibet. So this matter essentially reopens the Tibet issue. This matter once again uh ends up categorizing Tibet as a disputed area, a disputed territory and that's why this has rattled China. So um in case you don't know the Dalai Lama reincarnates okay uh according to our culture dharmic culture we believe in reincarnation Tibetan culture is Dharmic culture it is also our culture okay it's also an extension of our culture so the Dalai Lama reinc once the Dal Dalai Lama passes away and leaves his body uh he reincarnates in the form of a of a of a young child a boy And that child will show certain signs and characteristics that have that have that are wellnown. And Tibetan ladas go across the country across Tibet looking for a child that has those characteristics. And once they find the child, they bring the child to Lassa to Potala Palace and um train the child to become the next Dalai Lama. And the child is obviously the reincarnation. So the child will possibly remember some of it. and so on. That's that's the uh the tradition. Now, Patala Palace is under Chinese Communist Party occupation. So, it can't happen in Patala Palace. So, now it'll happen in Dhamshala. The next Dalai Lama, the 15th, the current Dalai Lama is the 14th Dalai Lama. He whenever he chooses, he's going to be 90 years old soon. So, whenever he chooses, I I hope he lives the longest life. Maybe 100 110 years as long as humanly humanly possible. But whenever it is time for him as per his choice, he will leave his body and reincarnate reincarnate. And now he has decreed that he is not going to be the reincarnation will process the reincarnation process and and and identification process of the next Dalai Lama will proceed as per tradition and without any external interference which means it will happen outside of Chinese occupied Tibet. Which means it will most likely Which means that most likely the next Dalai Lama will be chosen from a newborn child from within the Tibetan diaspora in most likely India. Which means that Dham Salah will be the center of Tibetan Buddhism. It will not be under Chinese control and it will raise enormous questions about the legitimacy of China's illegal occupation of Tibet. And that's why this is a disaster for China. Right? That's that's what explains the tantrums China is throwing and is going to throw even more. And what does this signal? It signals that the government of India has taken a taken a decision now that there's no possibility of any any any raosimo any any whatever with China and the Chinese it means that the government of India has realized that the Chinese have a decision that they're going to throw all their weight behind Pakistan and so on and they're going to be openly hostile to India. So now it looks like that's that's the realization that's happened in India and his holiness as a consequence has made his announcement. He could have made it before earlier later whenever but I think it was decided at some point in time that he would make the announcement uh around his 90th birthday. So he has made the announcement. So what were the choices that he had? One one indication he had given a few years ago is was that maybe he would not reincarnate at all. they would simply attain nirvana. A person of his uh of his stature I suppose they have the option of simply uh walking away from the cycle of uh birth and death rebirth and just attain Nirvana and move on. So the Dalai Lama institution will then would possibly then have either ended or possibly become an elected office. But now he has made it very clear that he will reincarnate and the reincarnation process will happen outside of Chinese control and so on. So that is why China is so upset because they would like to control everything when it comes to Tibet. And the central central thing about Tibet is the institution of the Dalai Lama the most revered figure in Buddhism and that now is going to all happen from Dham Shala. So that will from a Chinese materialistic perspective okay from their perspective it will give India tremendous legitimacy across the Buddhist world. we are already the the center of Hinduism. I mean anywhere in the world where you have Hindus if they want to go to a pilgrimage they come to India right uh when it comes to Buddhism the pilgrimage places are obviously Bodhaya where where uh Bhagwan Buddha attained Nirvana it's Lumbini which is Nepal and it is also Lassa because that's where the highest authority uh spiritual authority of of Buddhism used to reside so now it's all going to be India and from China's materialistic perspective g you that sort of perspective narrow perspective it will give India a tremendous amount of soft power over all the Buddhist countries it will make India the leader of not just the Hindu world but also the Buddhist world essentially the entire dharmic world and that's something China doesn't want and also it it raises big questions about the legitimacy of China's illegal occupation of Tibet so all of these factors are what have rattled China it doesn't look like they were expecting this would happen but here it is it's happened and uh yeah There's going to be a long set of repercussions of this. Uh and if you want to understand what those are, watch yesterday's uh episode of geost strategy in which I have gone into this in great detail. Uh two more questions about his holiness the the Dai Lama and the whole matter. Is India t taking an aggressive position against China in the context of Tibet? Is this a good idea especially when we should be keeping our heads down and avoiding conflicts? And as per your prediction, India, China relations will go downhill after the the Dalai Lama episode. But will it be in India's interest as this is happening when India US relations are also in bad shape? Look, look at China's actions over the past few days and weeks and months. Have they been friendly towards India? They have not been friendly towards India. They've been hostile actions. There were Chinese troops in Pakistan when um the terrorist attack in Pahelgam happened right in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Not Pakistan but Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Imagine China sending troops to Pakistan occupied Kashmir our territory which is illegally held by Pakistan temporarily. Is that a friendly act? No, it's not a friendly act. It's a hostile act. So they were there the Pak the Chinese troops in P when the terrorist attack happened. The Chinese troops were also there when operation synindur happened the three-day war between India and Pakistan. The Chinese have supplied weapons systems etc. Good or bad doesn't matter but they have supplied weapons and whatn not to to Pakistan. They are saying that they will supply F what J35s to to Pakistan right uh they are taking the the side of Pakistan in every matter. U they are imposing sanctions on India. They've uh banned the export of rare earth magnets and other materials to India. They have blocked the exports of uh specialized fertilizers to India. They are imposing economic sanctions on India. Do you think these are all friendly actions? They are already taking hostile actions. The Chinese have made the decision that they will not be friends with India for some time. They were making you know nice nice sounds that you know we need to have a gapimo we need to have a dant let's withdraw some troops here and there that sort of thing but it's clear that they are not serious so the government of India has understood the Chinese are not serious so it makes no difference what happens here the Chinese have already made the choice so so it's fine so what we have done is the right choice and it's something I have been saying for the longest time and So look, it's like this. How long do you keep appeasing the enemy? Just by unilaterally showing good behavior, does it mean that the enemy will also show better behavior? Because we are being humble and nice and we are going out of our way to keep our head down and so on. No, they will keep on doing what they want to do. So at least we are sending a signal to China that we are also serious. We too can play the game. And now we're going to be more proactive after this step has been taken. I assure you we're going to be much more proactive towards China. It is what it is. You have to deal with the the adversary in in a various in a variety of ways and this is uh the most appropriate way in my opinion when it comes to China. What we have done is this. We have reopened the Tibet issue. We have essentially stated that Tibet is a disputed territory. Tibet, China's occupation of Tibet is not legitimate. Do you know how the Chinese started making claims over over Arunachal Pradesh? Initially they were not claiming Arunachal. It's in 2003 when the then Indian prime minister explicitly recognized China's sovereignty over Tibet. That's when when the Chinese got that that India no longer disputes Tibet's status. That's when they started making claims in Arunachal. I think it was in 2006 that the then Chinese ambassador to India said that the whole of Arunachal Pradesh is Chinese territory because it is apparently allegedly South Tibet and because you yourselves have recognized Tibet as part of China that's why Arunachal should be also part of China. That was their logic their rationale. So by opening reopening Tibet and and and signaling that we consider Tibet disputed territory we are putting them on the back foot which means that we're telling them you want to play this game we can play a bigger game because Tibet is a much bigger ter territory and what happens the matter that is the at the core of of the Tibetan ethos the matter of the Dalai Lama that is not in your under your control and that tells the world that you don't have sovereignty over Tibet you're hold over Tibet is illegit Tibet because the the Tibetan diaspora doesn't uh recognize your you know your your the the doesn't recognize that you have a legitimate claim over Tibet. You are holding it illegally and that's why they are doing the entire process of the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama and the selection and the and the identification of the next Dalai Lama outside of China. So I think it is the right thing to do. I know that we have all kinds of uh challenges that we face. Uh India US relations aren't also great right now. Not because of us but because of Mr. Trump. But it doesn't mean that we should give up and and not fight. So here we are. We are fighting and that's the right thing. uh the Chinese involvement in Pakistani defense operation during operation synindur has everything to do in the current development of his holiness Dalai Lama's decision divine intervention also I think it's it's one thing that uh obviously made it very clear to India that China is not serious about uh better relations with India since last year sometime since the middle of 2024 the Chinese have been indicating that they are interested in better relations with India. We are feeling the heat from the US and the US is shutting down their markets for us. Then where do we export? We need the Indian market then because that's the only big market left and that's why we need better relations with you. So let's be friends and let's pull back some troops from the border regions and uh do some confidence building measures and blah blah blah. So there was all talk talk talk word on the other hand they were they were supporting Pakistan all the time and that became very clear during operation sindur. So obviously the the the uh whatever happened during operation sindur and the Chinese position at the time and the Chinese position and and uh actions ever since they have gone a long way towards uh indicating to us that the Chinese have never been serious about wanting better relations with India. So since you don't want better relations with us, well then why don't you go to hell all the way. So yeah, that's where we stand. Rakkesh Mistri says, "I'm from Bangladesh, watching your videos since 2023." Well, thank you so much for watching. I hope you're well in Bangladesh uh and so on. Yeah, thank you so much. Thank you so much, sir. Uh you said US and India, US and China talks eye to eye. They see eye to eye. uh when it comes to India, India's growth and everything to do with India, my questions are first of all, is it possible that China and India see eye to eye against American conspiracy? And secondly, Russia, is it possible that uh Russia and India could cooperate together against Chinese aggression? Okay. So yes, the Chinese and the Americans do see eye to eye on two things. They see essentially one thing which and the second thing is an extension of the first thing. Uh the they see eye to eye when it comes to India. Neither China nor the US wants India to become a much larger economy. Neither of these nations wants to see India as a 10 trillion 15 trillion 20 trillion economy. They don't want that because if India grows to a $10 trillion economy, it will only happen if India becomes a manufacturing tower and it will only happen if other nations, their companies pull out of China and move into India and and essentially transfer their manufacturing base from China to India. That would be a disaster for China clearly. So it's terrible for China. It's actually an existential threat for China, you see. So China doesn't want India to grow and the US also doesn't want India to grow too much because then India could be could potentially become the next China and India may not have some of the problems that China has and so on. India has other problems, China has other problems but some we may have learned from the Chinese mistakes and so much more. So the US also doesn't want India to become a 10 trillion 15 trillion etc economy. So both nations see eye to eye on that matter. Because of that both nations the US and China also see eye to eye on Pakistan. Pakistan obviously east and west Pakistan both are US vasals. Both have underwent undergone regime change operations. US US mediated regime change operations. Pakistan 2022 Imran Khan's ouster and the and whoever else came into power was a US wasal. And in East Pakistan Bangladesh uh you had the regime change operation which ousted Shri Kasina who was pro India. And now you have a very anti-India regime there which is a military regime and the puppet is this fellow called Yunus Muhammad Yunus Nobel prize winner right and yet despite being US vasals both east and west Pakistan are also cooperating with China Muhammad you know went to Beijing and he was lecturing the the Chinese over there that Bangladesh can cut off India's far east northeast and make it a landlocked place which is why you should invest in Bangladesh and we are very good for you and Pakistan also has been uh courting the Chinese and the Chinese are also courting Pakistan. So you can see that the US is okay with East and West Pakistan having uh dealings with China despite the US regarding China as their principal adversary. So it's clear that the US and and China see eye to eye when it comes to India and they see eye to eye when it comes to East and West Pakistan to a significant extent. Now let's let's take your questions. Uh is it possible that China and India see I2I against American conspiracy? Well, there's no US conspiracy. The US deal is that they want to keep on ruling the world. They are the world's sole superpower. They are an imperial power. It's it's an empire and it's something that threatens China. Obviously, the Chinese see that as a threat. Uh the Chinese want to retake Taiwan. The Americans are so powerful that China can't even take an island which is in its own backyard. Um, and the US doesn't want India to grow also. So maybe India and China could work together. Well, it doesn't work because China is a spoiler. Essentially, what you're asking me is about Russia, India, China, RAIC. And if you see one of my previous geost strategy episodes, I will I've shown I've demonstrated that China is a spoiler. China is a spoiler when it comes to RAIC. China is a spoiler when it comes to bricks. It is because of China that bricks is not viable beyond it is merely a symbolic organization and it has some economic value but a apart from that it's not a a viable strategic block and neither is ra which has so much potential because China is a spoiler. China is not just a nation that attempts to keep on bullying India. It also keeps on attempting to bully Russia in case you're not aware. all they they they have consistently in the past decade or so treated Russia like a junior partner. Um one of the blatant glaring examples is China's ctographic uh uh aggression towards Russia putting out maps that show Russian territory as Chinese and putting uh putting out maps that uh give Chinese place names to Russian places like Vladivosto and and so on. The Chinese are playing the same game with Russia the that they're playing with India. They're claiming Russian territory and they are looking for ways and means to claim more Russian territory and they will operationalize this whenever they see they feel that the time is right and that whenever they feel that Russia is in a weak weak position. So India and China can't see eye to eye they it's not possible because the Chinese approach the Chinese attitude and because of China's spoiler role the Chinese end up bolstering American primacy over the world. It's the last thing they want to do. But they are so short-sighted and their attitude is so poor that through their behavior towards India and Russia, they end up bolstering American primacy over the world over and over again. That is what is going to lead to the downfall of China whenever it happens. Okay? Their attitude they have they will have nobody else but themselves to blame. And it's clear to us now and it's also clear to Russia that China cannot be trusted. See, Russia right now is in a position where it has to rely on China to to a very large extent and Russia is genuinely in in danger of becoming a a junior partner at least to China if not an outright vasal. Mr. Putin won't allow that to happen as far as I understand but that's a clear and present danger for Russia right uh so Russia and India they have a lot in common they have a common adversary China they also have nothing uh that no no friction points no pain points because you know because of the way things are so clearly it's very likely that in the long run Russia and India will cooperate will work with each other when it comes to countering Chinese aggression, possibly containing China as far as possible. Look, Russia has sold the S400 system to China, but they also sold it to India. I assure you, the Chinese were very unhappy when the Russians sold the S400 to India, but it's fine. The Russians were okay with the Chinese displeasure. when it comes to the Brahmos missile system which is Indo-Russian uh so whenever we sell the Brahmos system to another country we need to take the Russians on board and the Russians have a veto in this I assure you of that so if you want to sell it to nation X but Russia doesn't like nation X they can say no and we cannot sell it we have that understanding with Russia so we have sold the Brahmo system to Chinese adversaries okay Russia was okay with that China obviously is displeased with that but it is what it is. So Russia has been okay with that. So we are actually indeed seeing eye to eye when it comes to cooperating against Chinese aggression and Russia Russia would like nothing more than India rising, India growing, India becoming 10 trillion dollar economy. That way they will have to rely on China less. So Russia and India can work together. India and China won't be able to work together because of the Chinese attitude. Very poor attitude, self-defeating attitude. But one thing both Russia and India understand is you cannot trust China. The Chinese are not trustworthy. They'll stab you in the back at the first early the earliest available opportunity. Vashta says, "Wouldn't continuous slow war with Ukraine decrease the military weapons stockpiles that Russia has? Isn't that a problem for Russia if there's a future war with NATO?" On the other I mean to the contrary to the contrary um see it's clear that Russia has adopted this slow war strategy when it comes to Ukraine they have adopted willingly adopted this frozen conflict methodology when it comes to Ukraine. Is Russia not capable of overrunning Ukraine in a week's time? It certainly is. Russia if it wants can flatten Ukraine flatten Ukraine tomorrow. They have the firepower to do that but they have chosen not to do that. If you remember in early 2022 the the war the special military operation began in I think February 22nd of February 2022. Um and very soon you had columns of Russian vehicles and troops that had reached the outskirts of Kiev. Okay. and then they they withdrew from there. So some decision was made at some level uh to withdraw and and not take Kiev immediately. And ever since the the Russians have been fighting the slow war, you've had multiple seasons of of Rasputita that have come and gone and right now also it's not Rasputa which is the mud season. Right now it is it is summer summertime which means the ground is hard. So they can make a move if they want but they are choosing not to. So then the question arises, why have the Russians adopted this slow war strategy, a frozen conflict approach? Why will that not deplete their ammunition stockpiles? Will it not deplete their weapons stockpiles? Well, no, it won't. Ever since the war started, the Russia activated Russia activated its uh industrial base and Russia now the Russia's industrial base is now churning out weapons after weapons, huge quantities of weapons and arms and ammunition and whatnot. They have huge stockpiles and the stockpiles are increasing in size and I've seen some western assessments which say that Russia is in very capable of sustaining the war effort based on the current stockpiles until 26 or 27. And obviously they're going to produce more they're going to stock they're going to produce more weapons and what not. So then the question of so Russia so this continuous slow war is not decreasing the stock piles it's increasing the stock piles of Russia because Russia has consciously consciously decided to ramp up the production of of weapons. So Russia is fine. Russia is in in a great position. So the question is then then the question is what on earth is Russia doing? Why the slow war strategy whilst while while bolstering your stockpiles and all that? It's because of the NATO threat. So, Russia seems to have decided that we will not take over Ukraine because that will probably bring us directly into conflict with NATO. Once we take over Ukraine, we are on the border with NATO nations. Ukraine borders certain NATO nations. Okay, Poland is an example. Uh so if you take over Ukraine, you are straight away borderto border with NATO nations which which significantly escalates chances of conflict and miscalculation. So let's not do that. Let this war go on. Let NATO get bogged down in this. Uh they don't have supplies. They don't have the mil the industrial uh base in Europe. The Americans are having to send their supplies. Let them deplete everything. And we also don't want to show all our capabilities to NATO. We don't want to throw our air force into the mix. Let it go on as long as it needs to. Let NATO get bogged down. Let the US get bogged down. Um if they want to fight till the last Ukrainian, let them fight till the last Ukrainian exists. That's what they are doing. Russia is also worried about a confrontation with NATO and it wants to be as prepared as possible in case that scenario happens. So don't fight u NATO directly. Let the war go on as long as it needs to go on doesn't matter. Keep on stockpiling you know ramping up the production of your weapons stock create huge stockpiles of whatever is needed especially missiles and everything else that's needed and in the future if there's a war with NATO we are well prepared. That is the Russian u thinking as far as I can see. Okay. Anikit says, "Is it safe to export our best defense technologies like Brahmos to countries like Indonesia and Malaysia because they are highly compromised nations by China? Plus, these are Muslim countries." And there's a news report that says India offered longrange missile to Greece. Gree Greece. Greece. What's Greece? Greece. Greece which is a NATO country. Okay. Uh first of all, let's not look at everything from a religious perspective. Uh I'm not sure about Malaysia but Indonesia and India have great relations um despite whatever religious angle may exist. Okay. Let's not look at everything from a religious perspective. Let's not do that. Now when it comes to exporting our defense equipment and technology technologies to other countries uh you typically don't export the full version. You export what's called an export version. So when it comes to for example the US, let's say they want to sell you the F-16, they will sell you an export version which is a dumbed down version of what they use. If they sell you, if they offer you the F-35, they will offer you a F-35 that is at least 50% less capable than what the one they use. If the Chinese sell the J whatever to Pakistan, they will sell a stupid version of the J something to Pakistan. they will not sell the full version of the J whatever fighter plane to Pakistan and so on. So you never sell the full technology to another country. You ensure that certain things are left out. Okay? It it it still may be a great weapon but you don't sell the full capabilities. You you keep something out. That's what you do. It's it's it's standard practice. It's called an export version of the system. So if you are selling the bramos to so and so country, it will be an export version of the bramos. I I'll leave it at that and you will not sell it to countries that in any way are are going to be compromised in some way against you. So if we have sold it to the Philippines, let's say, we have thought very carefully about it. We have thought about every single possibility, potential uh pitfall, every angle and then we sold it to the Philippines, to Vietnam, to whoever. um um in the in the future to whoever else you have to you have to do your due diligence very well that let's say I sell this weapon system even an export version to so and so country will it fall in the wrong hands will they send it to China or the US right and will these nations then get get a deeper understanding of our secrets our secret the secrets of our technologies you have to think about it very carefully and you have to have safeguards even when it comes to export versions of of the of the technologies. So for example, the Americans have F-16s in Pakistan, but they have technicians in Pakistan who never let the F-16s out of their sight. Okay? So that's how they ensure that it's not used for uh that that nothing happens to the to the to the weapon system. That's what they do. I I have heard a rumor that India has uh offered Greece with um a long range missile which is fine. Greece is a NATO country. Now why Greece is indeed a NATO nation but it's also a nation that is threatened by another NATO nation. Do you understand? Okay, we haven't opened the map yet. It's been 1 hour. Well, let me open the map and show you what the deal is. See, let's go to Greece. I will not walk you through it. Let's straight go to Greece. Here is Greece. It's a nation with a whole bunch of islands all the way everywhere. And to the east of Greece, it is you have it its mortal enemy, Turkey. Turkey. Turkey. So Turkey sits on Greek territory. Turkey occupies Greek territory. Historical Greek territory. Uh a thousand years ago, everything that is Turkey today used to be Greek. This was all historically Greek territory and Turkey threatens Greece even now they would like to destroy Greece and they keep threatening Greece that in the middle of the night will be you know we'll walk into your country so Greece is threatened by Turkey its number one threat its existential threat is Turkey and both are NATO nations and the US seems to be okay with the situation so Greece obviously has to look for other allies so we had an alliance with Greece 2,300 something years ago and we have we seem to be uh kind of renewing that. Uh so obviously we will have some kind of proper due diligence that is done when it comes to Greece that if if in case we sell so and so weapons system will it end up in American hands or somewhere else we have to think about that very clearly and uh once we are clear about what will or will not happen we can go ahead and make the actual offer. So you can rest assured that first of all we will not sell the full version we'll sell an export version which will still be good enough and secondly we will do our due diligence before selling a weapon system to anybody and then there's a failsafe thing that even if for whatever reason it it ends up in Chinese hands or American hands or whoever hands you they will not get the entire full understanding of our technology. Uh so all all that will be there. Yeah. Okay. Mudra Makuana says, "Thanks for all the free knowledge." Well, you're very welcome. Uh, do you think putting all the do you think putting all the geopolitical analysis and forecasting in public on public forums uh like like what I do here, could that potentially that that forecasting and all that information that I put out, could it potentially be seen by our rivals and enemies? And what's the probability of them actually getting ideas from the analysis? That's a very good question you ask. So I I do this very detailed forecasting, don't I? On my geost strategy series and I look at what's happened the past week or so, the let's say the 10 most important developments. Then I look at soft signals. Then I I I also then do some forecasting. I mean the most important forecasts for the next 3 months or 6 months or whatever and those are pretty in-depth forecasts. I look at multiple scenarios. I give probability percentages and I give historical precedents. It's pretty detailed anal analysis isn't it? Isn't it? The question is is that information too sensitive to put out in the public domain? May is it possible that our enemies will see that and get ideas from it. So we just took a question about exporting weapons right Brahmos other missiles and so on to other other countries and I said that you never export the full version you export a stripped down dumbed down version called an export version right you don't give the whole thing you give a version a slightly lower version for export similarly the analysis that I and uh the scenarios I put out. Do you think it's the full analysis and the full detailed scenarios? No, it's an it's an export version. It's an export version that I put out in the public domain. The real thing is is not put out in public. And what I put out in public I is it's very clear from my perspective that you know if you if you are a government if you are in government if you're in charge of geopolitical forecasting and strategic analysis in government then then it's not difficult for you to come up with the same scenarios. So I don't put out anything that's sensitive. I don't put out anything that's really like yeah sensitive. Essentially I I the analysis I put out out there in the public domain are export versions of the analysis. They're not really stupid or dumbed down versions but simplified versions. For example, I generally put out three scenarios. One with probability around 70 to 80% sometimes 90%, one with a 30-ish% probability and one with a 5 10% probability. Right? But generally you have multiple scenarios like you can have five six scenarios for something. I usually put out three sometimes four but you can have seven eight scenarios and you have to take all of them scenar them very seriously and you can do very detailed analysis about each scenario you can g do game theoretic analysis for each scenario you can do network analysis you can do so much more I don't put any of that out do I so uh rest assured I'm not putting out any sensitive information in the public domain analysis is well it's it's at best an academic exercise that what I'm doing what I'm putting out um the real analysis is is that I do it is super super sensitive and very very highly valuable. It would cost you millions of dollars if you were to purchase it possibly. I'm just saying. Okay. Okay. Uh Prrenai Paul says, "Are there any signals um you can spot that indicate that Operation Synindu Round two could happen soon. Apart from Pakistan doing something stupid again, what else hypothetically could trigger the next phase in your assessment? Uh what could trigger next phase of operation Synindhur? Look once again um export version right. So look what could trigger operation zindur a Pakistani terror attack somewhere uh or or continuous Pakistani attempts to infiltrate terrorists into India across the LOC or the international border or whatever. Um beyond that I don't see what could trigger uh operation synindur round two. Um we have made it very clear our doctrine is is completely different now. Any terror attack in India will be regarded as an act of war by Pakistan. So that only is what I see as something that could potentially trigger operation zindur part 2. either a terror attack somewhere in India a proper like one hopes it never happens but you know a large scale terror attack like what happened what happened in Pahelgam that's an example of uh of something that could trigger uh round two of operation Sindur or Pakistani attempts to continuously attempt to infiltrate terrorists across the border or LOC these two things could trigger operation Zindur some version of it part Beyond that, I'm not really sure what. Could I think of something else right now? I can't. So, Inferno says, um, where China, um, where China has failed to make a profitable investment with Pakistan, Trump is going into business with Pakistan. Is this wishful thinking? Does this question Trump's credibility as a businessman? It does not Trump uh, it does not question Mr. Trump's credibility as a businessman. He is uh his objective is to make massive profits. Um so his see his objective is different from that of China. China's investment in Pakistan was a strategic investment. Okay. Trump's investment is a is exploitative. It's different. They have different objectives. China's investment in Pakistan was the China Pakistan economic uh corridor CPEC right it was the Pakistani leg of the chi Chinese barri belt and road initiative one belt and road initiative right one road to rule them all one belt to bind them that sort of thing so the CPC was the Pakistani branch of that and the objective from China's perspective was to create infrastructure in Pakistan that would uh bolster Chinese uh that that would uh that would be strategically sound and and profitable for China not from the money perspective but from an infrastructure perspective. So ports, roads and so on and that would give China more inroads in the region and also chi give China warm water ports in the western Indian Ocean, the so-called Arabian Sea and and so on. That's what China intended. The entire belt and road initiative is an infrastructure building initiative and that's what they're doing in Pakistan through the CPC and it doesn't hasn't really worked out for a variety of reasons but uh so that's what has happened with visavi China's China has pushed in has has sunk a lot of money into Pakistan for building infrastructure for their own for their own benefit infrastructure. Now Trump is not building infrastructure in Pakistan. Trump has no no interest in building infrastructure in Pakistan. Trump wants to exploit Pakistan's national natural resources. What natural resources? Oil and gas most likely in Baluchasthan etc. and also rare earth uh minerals rare earth elements. So cumulatively if you take all the oil and gas that Pakistan has to offer plus whatever rare earths and so on and other things Pakistan has to offer plus if you add in the cryptocurrency scene and all that these are things that Trump is investing in then it the total amount speculatively fig whatever is said to be in the in the in the realm of about $50 trillion. You know the untapped resources that you have all of that put together. So Trump wants to exploit that. He wants to set up companies in Pakist set up operations in Pakistan that will drill and pull out the oil and gas and enrich him and also rare earths and enrich Trump. So China is not seeking to enrich person X or person Y. They want to build infrastructure that will help them advance their hegemony, you know, eventual hedgemony over the world. Trump has no such interest. He's not trying to advance American interests over here. He is trying to enrich himself. It's a personal thing for him. He is the president of the US, but he is at the same time enriching himself. Amass trying to amass wealth and extract wealth out of nations like Pakistan. Now, India has way more to offer in terms of natural resources. But India is not up for sale. Pakistan is up for sale. That's why Trump is so interested in Pakistan. So it's a from from his perspective, it's a sound investment. It may actually end up paying a paying dividends for him. So it does not bring into question Trump's credibility as a business person. It does not. Krishna Krishna of the of the Surinabis Netherlands says, "What's the connection between the Korgan hypothesis and the Arian invasion/migration/ whatever else theory?" Good question. uh the kuran hypothesis uh it was propounded by Maria Gimbotas or what that's the name I suppose of the person and what does the kuran hypothesis say it says that uh see in in Eurasia there's this region called the pontic caspian step and the kuran hypothesis says that beginning around 4,000 BC or no not 4,000 BC 4,000 years before today around that time there was an expansion of the Korgan people the Kuran culture out of the Pontic Caspian step and this expansion of the these culture and the people associated with it it accounts for the spread of the Indo-Uropean languages worldwide across Eurasia that's the Kuran hypothesis now let's address the question of what is the spontic caspian step uh let us quickly take take a look at Google and we'll search for on tick caspian step. What is this thing? I will not go to the Wikipedia image this time page this time. Uh okay here. Oh I suppose we should then. Okay as always please remember that Wikipedia is not a reliable source of information but we will just for the sake of uh brevity we'll look into this. This colored region the purple light purple region is the Pontic Caspian step. You can see much of that is the north Caucasus region and it covers part of Ukraine part of central Asia as well. Okay. Um it's it's uh between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea and north of that that region is called the Pontic Caspian step or the Pontic step or whatever you want to call it. So according to the kuran hypothesis the this culture spread out from this region and expanded in all directions and that accounts for the spread of the Indo-Uropean languages and that also is the originator of the so-called Arian invasion of India. Now if you want to ask ask what is the Kuran culture they had these mounts burial mounts called korgans. Korgans what are korgans? Let's take a look at a kan. So I don't know which which language is it Russian? Is it something Turkish? But these mounds, these big burial mounds in which royalty was buried or aristocracy was buried. These mounds were called kuras. So this culture that was based out of this region, they had this practice, this tradition of of burying their their prominent people in these mounds called gorgans. So that's the Gorgan hypothesis that the people who have this tradition of burying in Gorgans, they spread out of the pontic kaspin step about 4,000 years ago, four 4 and a half thousand years ago or whatever it is and they were the the the original people who spoke and maybe a protoindo-uropean language and from there it all spread spread out and maybe people like me we are descendants of those invaders people like me evil north Indians evil aran invaders right people like me so That's the the connection between the Korggan hypothesis and the Arian migration invasion theory. The question is I would like to once again raise this question. What proof do you have that these people spoke in Induropean language? And what proof do you have that this spread the spread of this culture and these people uh led to the spread of the Indo-Uropean languages? Have you found an example of of an inscription in an indo indo-uropean language associated with the Kuran culture? just one give me one example there's no such thing so they are pulling these ideas out of well thin air I suppose right Shri Ramachandra Maha says how will India counter the ctographic distortion of Indian maps so Indians are a very emotional people and anytime you have somebody putting up a map of some part of the world for example our Israeli friends they love putting out maps and they make it a point to put out maps that of India maps of the world or the region in which India is depicted as being without Kashmir and without Arunach Pradesh. Israel has this long-standing tendency of doing this. I once took the trouble to point this out of pointing this out to the Israeli uh ambassador and he actually had the map pulled down and he apologized. But then it start it continues. So the point is what do you do about this? Well, my dear friends, the only way to counter any ctographic distortion of maps is by putting facts on the ground. The fact is that P is under Pakistani occupation. Then why will the rest of the world not show it as part of Pakistan? Tell me why Akai Chin is under Chinese occupation. Then why will the west will the rest of the world not show it as part of China? The only way to counter all these is by putting facts by changing the facts on the ground. Until that happens, let's not complain and cry and moan about things. It is what it is. These territories deal with it are not under our control. They're not. But we insist that we should show the maps in a certain way. And we are right to insist that because these territories were taken illegally from us. But the fact is that they are not with us right now. So the only way to counter all of this is to change the facts on the ground. That's it. And I think it's it's time we we start showing putting up maps showing Tibet as a disputed territory. It's high time we do that. Okay. Vashisha says India declared a critical mineral mission in the August of 2024 but we still face problems in 25 China mineral sanctions that's right what does it represent we just take decisions but we don't take action or time was too short for results it seems Indian government potential threat could not take effective measures okay first of all let's take a look at what is this uh critical mineral mission I think it's called the national critical minerals mission if I'm not mistaken let me Just see if I am right. Critical minerals mission. Yes, National Critical Mineral Mission. That's right. So, yes, my memory does serve me right. Now, let's take a look at this uh uh this overview. The National Critical Minerals Mission is a flagship initiative launched by the Indian government to ensure a secure and sustainable supply of critical minerals for India's etc etc etc. The mission aims to establish a robust framework for self-reliance blah blah blah encouraging domestic exploration, mining, processing, recycling as well as facilitating Indian partners, international partnerships. Uh what are the specifics of all this? Strengthening all stages of critical minerals value chain exploration etc etc. Encourages Indian companies to acquire assets abroad. Uh key initiatives exploration geological survey of India is undertaking ext these are the action levels. The Geological Survey of India is undertaking extensive exploration projects to identify and assess critical mineral resources. Well, that's something that is happening. We have identified a list of 30 critical minerals uh with 24 including some some schedule or something. Uh we know what these things are blah blah blah. So the only action I'm saying right now is that the geological survey of India is undertaking extensive exploration projects to identify and assess the critical mineral resources that we have. So action is being taken. We are in the initial phase of the national critical mineral mission. I mean if we had started this in 2014 for example, we would be in a very different position today. But you know what? Better late than never. We have woken up 10 years into the Modi government, right? 2024. So it's in 2024 that the government woke up. Oh wow, these minerals are critical. If we rely on others for these minerals, then they may deprive of us of these things and we may be in big trouble. So let's make a list of the critical minerals. So we have now identified 30 critical minerals. Now we have told the geo geological survey of India go out there spread out and uh undertake extensive projects exploration projects to identify what reserves we have what resources we have and assess the quantities and all that. So that's what's happening right now. So this is the initial phase of this uh mission. Once we identify where we have minerals and what reser resources we have, what reserves we have, then we'll start start maybe exploiting them uh digging them up, pulling them out of the ground. That's one thing you do. Then you have to purify it, clean it up and make it um transform it into something that can be used by industry that's another thing. So maybe this this whole process takes 10 years. So we started this mission in August 24. It's been less than a year and now we are facing problems because of China. So in India it looks like we wake up only when there's a fire under our backside right. So anyway I would like to thank China for lighting the fire. So at least in the next 10 years we'll become hopefully self-sufficient. Uh I would have love for loved for this to happen 10 years ago. If it had happened if this initiative had been taken 10 years ago by now we would have been most likely to a large extent self-sufficient. But it is what it is. This is India right? In India everything happens in this manner unless there's a critical emergency no action is taken. So now that China has two fifth generation fighter planes now the government of India will wake up and we will now now take things on mission mode like they say mission mode. It is the way it is. Okay. India is a very complicated country huge bureaucracy and whatn not and there are lots of constraints but uh at least we have the mission now and we are working on it. So I suppose by 2035 we will be self-sufficient. I hope so. Okay. All right. Geopolitical Dubai says um why doesn't Elon Musk want to manufacture in India? Is it because of Trump's pressure or the Chinese don't want him to do so? Uh I don't think that's a there's a Trump factor in this because Elon Musk has been around from before Trump before his fallout before his divorce with Mr. Trump during Pride Month. Okay. So, I don't think there's a Trump factor in this. He has been reluctant to invest in India for a very long time. What could be the reasons for it? He has a giga factory or something in China. He's got a big operation in China. And of course, there's a China factor. The Chinese will give him both the carrot and the stick. They will give him inducements. Then, you know what? We'll allow you to set up more operations in China. And you know how efficiently things are in China. Why do you need to go to India? And secondly, so that's the inducement part that we will give you more better stuff. You can you can have more operations in China and you will make more profits. Gone, isn't it? So that's the inducement part. That's a carrot part. Now the stick part also the Chinese the Chinese will signal to Elon Musk that look you have all these investments in China. You have these factories etc in China. But if you open up something in India as well, well, things will become difficult for you in China and you will not be able to make so many profit, so much profits and you know how things are in India. Things don't really work the way they work in China and so on. So that's one reason the China factor. Secondly, it's much harder to do to start something in India compared to doing compared to starting it in China. Ease of doing business, red tape, bureaucracy, hurdles, so on. So because of these reasons Elon Musk I suppose is uh has been reluctant to manufacture in India and now I suppose he's uh going to double down on manufacturing in the US possibly let's see so that's the reason in the way I see it why Elon Musk has uh stayed away from India Shri Ramachandra Maha says the question is what is the alternative to the straight of hormones when it comes to India's trade So please understand this my friends. Uh the straight of hormones is not relevant to us from a trading perspective. It has nothing to do with our trade. We don't use the straight of hormones for trading. It's vital for energy reasons. Let's go to the map so that we understand what the deal is. Let's open up the map. So first of all for those who may not be aware where is the straight of Hormos it's to the west the western sea of Sarashtra and this is the straight of Hormos okay which connects the Persian Gulf with the Gulf of Oman and the Gulf of Oman opens up into the Indian western Indian Ocean okay so the straight of Hormos is this choke point over here uh and it's about I don't know 50-ish kilometersish wide 64. It depends on what what how you measure the thing. Yeah. 56 here and so on. It's pretty it's it's a pretty narrow choke point. And why is it important for India? Why is it important for the rest of the world? Because a very significant percentage of the world's energy in terms of fossil fuels which is oil and gas. it all of that flows out from the Persian Gulf which is this region through the straight of Hormos into the Indian Ocean and from the Indian Ocean it goes wherever else. So as we know Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, UAE etc. are major major producers of oil and exporters of oil and all of that export comes through super tankers and tankers which pass through the straight of Hormuz and about I don't know 40% 50% of our energy the energy we use comes from the Persian Gulf through the state of Hormos. So that is the deal. That's why the state of hormones is so important for India. It has nothing to do with trade. It has all to do with energy. Energy, fossil fuels, oil and gas. So if for whatever reason the state of Hormos gets blockaded. Okay? Then the energy stops flowing and the global oil prices energy prices shoot up which means everything the prices of everything shoots up 50% 100% God knows what it will lead to a global crisis. It will lead to a glob global recession. If the straight of hormones is blockaded for any period of time, any reasonable any any lengthy period of time. So that is the deal with the straight of hormones. It is all about energy. It has nothing to do with uh trade and there is no alternative to it. You see that's the problem. I mean there's no immediate alternative to it. If you want to bypass the trade of Hormos then you have to build pipelines. Now how do you build pipelines from Iraq through Saudi Arabia and so it's it's monumental task which is why there's essentially no alternative to the straight of anime Paul says while India's GDP is growing much of the wealth seems concentrated among the elite what are the most effective measures we must take to meaningfully raise GDP per capita to improve the quality of life for the average Indian so the way to meaningfully okay so first of all we have to address this uh what is it elite elite this is a term the west loves to use and our people read the English-speaking media from the west and we absorb these terms subconsciously elite India's elite are evil because they have all the wealth and they are depriving the poor Indians from wealth see I'll tell you what happened what what the deal is um in India there's a lack of opportunity right for progress for for the common person lack of opportunities. The only opportunities in India exist in the big cities, metropolitan cities. If you are in it, you have to go to Bangaluru. You have to go to Hyderabad, right? If you are in the finance sector, you have to go to Mumbai. If you are in some other sectors, you have to go to Ahmedabad or Delhi or Chennai or is there any other big city that you can think of? I suppose Kolkata right and so on. It's only a number of cities where all the opportunities exist. So if you are a young person with big dreams and all and you want to do something big in life, you have no choice but to migrate to one of these cities and start from scratch and the people who are left behind in the other cities other parts of India they don't get opportunities of becoming wealthy unless they well very few opportunities. So the people who live in the big cities, even all of those people, let's say you have 20 million people in city X, I assure you those 20 million are not super rich. It's only the 1% of the 1% who really know how to make money and who will become rich. But imagine that we have the same opportunities that you have in the big cities all across India. Well, then you will have so many more people who become rich in India because there are lots of intelligent, capable people who for whatever reason are not able to come to a big city. So the the problem is that the opportunities are not being created by the states by many of the states. I will not name any state but so many states don't create the opportunities. Why aren't there 10 tire one cities in each state of India? I don't understand why. Right. And that's that's a problem that's always been around. I remember during 2014 during the 2014 general election campaign, Prime Minister Modi had said uh he was then the candidate for being the prime minister. He was still the chief minister of Gujarat at the time. He had said why don't we make a 100 new cities across India where you have all the opportunities that you get in a big city and the cities will be built from scratch welld designed with all the amenities all the facilities that you have in any any worldass city create a 100 cities like this all across India and then see how India India's economy takes off it was a fantastic idea but once he becomes prime minister he realizes that this is you know it's easier to say this than do it there's a whole governance machinery that will come and stand in your way and states will not be willing in in in some cases maybe many cases to do such things. Then what do you do? So then that became the smart cities thing. Then you will we'll take 100 existing cities and turn them into smart cities and then I don't know what happened to it. That's how dreams die in India because the system doesn't want things to change. The system wants things to stay the same. It will it will take a monumental superhuman leader to change things in India. So what needs to be done? What needs to be done is very simple. Every state should create 10 tire one cities. Take 10 towns and transform them into tier one cities with all the facilities with all the opportunities that will in attract investors and attract the best talent from within the state. then the whole country will flower and bloom with opportunity. But no, we we don't want that in India, right? So who's stopping us? It is our system that's stopping us. It's not the Indian people who are stopping India from developing. The Indian people are are trapped. They're victims. It's the system that prevents India from taking off. India can take off like anything. You have no idea how much potential there is in India. There's no country with the potential that India has. But so so I I gave you the solution. That's the solution. Every state must make the decision. Within 5 years we will have five we'll have 10 tire one cities in our state. We'll do whatever it takes. We'll do whatever it takes. We we'll ask the state central government for for money to do this. Whatever it takes. There is enough money in India. Imagine forget about five years. Imagine in 10 years each state has 10 world-class cities with all the opportunities that you need. Then you will no longer have this divide of wealth and elites and all that nonsense. Everybody will get opportunities. So once in in let's say in 10 years you have 10 cities like this then you in the next 10 years you extend the same facilities and you extend the same development and opportunities to tire two cities. Take two take 10 tire to citizen each state and you give the same thing to them then in 10 10 20 30 years the whole country is transformed there's no none of this nonsense of you know uh inequality and all that nonsense it's it's possible but it it will not work in the current system you need a different kind of system in India for this to happen all right I've given you the solution okay uh fit boy fit boys I um well thank you so much I'm sorry namaste and thank you so much for raising my standards yeah well you you're very welcome very welcome does India come under western sphere of influence yes it does yes it does what language am I speaking which what what language am I comfortable in what kind of clothes am I wearing and so on all these books behind me what language are they written in all these books behind me all these books here all the books over here which you can't see all the books in my other rooms what language are they written this written written in English. Uh if you want to if you want to uh go for a job interview, what language do you need to speak? If you speak with a very Indian accent, will you get a good job in India? You will not get a good job in India if you speak like this. You have to speak in a very sophisticated manner in a very foreign manner to get a job. And if you can just speak English with a certain extent h accent half 70% of your job is done of getting a job offer and so on. Our constitution the so-called democracy that we have the calendar the way our society is structured everything is western western in nature. Yes we are we are completely colonized even now. So yes India does come under the western sphere of influence. It does it's just a fact. Just a fact in case people don't don't see it. I mean when you are in the forest you don't see the forest because only the only thing you see is trees right? Where is the forest? Where's the forest? I only see trees. That's the situation for most Indians. So deeply conditioned they don't see the real situation. Uh Dhanush has a very long question. How do we address the problem of severe Indian inferiority complex? I knew it was there but never knew the scale of it until I was speaking with my dad. He was strongly claiming that India lost the recent conflict with Pakistan because the western media said that India did not win because the western media did not say that India won and no amount of evidence and convincing could change him. It was so frustrating to see him defend his point of view. It's a clear case and this is very concerning because when the nation does good, foreign influence can reduce our morale and this should be addressed. I think younger generations are doing a little better. But we need to do something to change the older generations. Uh I I I I can I I commiserate with you. I can sense your frustration when others are are they are showing this this attitude. You don't care. But when your own relatives, your own parents, you see it there. Well, it's very frustrating. Of course, I understand. Uh the question is what do we need to do? What's the question? How do we address this problem of severe inferiority complex? See, I'll tell you a very straightfor I'll be very blunt with you. There's nothing you can do that will change the mindset of your of the older people. Once most people once they reach a certain age, they can't change. I think that age is around 40 years. Once you reach around 40 years, the average person is incapable of changing whatever they've learned and absorbed in the first 40 years of of their life. That is going to determine their attitude and approach towards everything going forward. And nothing you do, no matter how you how much you convince, no matter how much evidence and everything you put in front of them, won't make a difference to them. They have already decided what they've decided and that's it. So my po what I would say very bluntly to you is don't waste your time trying to change somebody's mind. Even if it's your dad, it is what it is. So then then the question is how do we address this problem of the severe Indian inferiority complex regular viewers of my channel will know what I'll say? We have to change the education system. The education system, what does it tell us? West is best. Foreign languages are better than Indian languages. See, you don't even have to say west is best. When you say that English is a superior language to your mother tongue because you cannot speak your mother tongue tongue in school. You can only speak English and the better you speak English the better you are. That itself incul you know it it it it um indirectly creates a sense of inferiority in your mind because then you start associating everything that associated with English as superior. So when somebody from the BBC with their British accent says that India was unable to win, you're going to believe that person despite whatever other data may be in front of you because this inferiority complex has been has been drilled into you since the time you were 3 years old. Right? So the education system has to be changed. The language of instruction has to be changed. It has to be the mother tongue and the civilizational language should be Hindi. English should be um should be made not compulsory. If someone wants to learn English, it's their it's their personal problem and personal choice. But English should not be uh taught in schools. Go to Thailand. Go to Japan. Do they teach English? They don't teach English. Go to China. Do they teach English in school? Go to Germany. Go to France. Do they speak Do they teach English? No. Quantum mechanics. the theory without which this communication would not happen. What language was quantum mechanics developed in? It was developed in German and French not in English and so on. So I can give you so many examples. My point is you have to change all of these things. The only way you will we will address the problem of the severe Indian infinity complex is by drastically totally overholding and reforming the education system. Someday hopefully it happens. It's not happening anytime soon. Okay, I have come to the end of the questions that I selected. had selected 20 questions. Those are done. Let's see if we have some uh maybe I can take some questions from the live chat for a bit. For a bit best books to study geopolitics, please inform. There are no books for geopolitics. You can't study geopolitics from books. I read three books from geopolitics each 500 pages long and that's it. Now I know what geopolitics is. It doesn't work like that. There are no textbooks on geopolitics. Go to your favorite online retailer, Amazon, Flipkart, whatever it is, and go to the book section, search for geopolitics. You won't find a textbook on geopolitics. You won't find that, right? There isn't any. Maybe I have to write one. So, there are no books for studying geopolitics. How do I understand geopolitics? Because I've spent my entire life studying history. My primary focus was science, obviously, physics, mathematics. But in my free time, I would read more because I'm a goddamn nerd, right? So, I would read more when I would get like two hours a day for maybe doing some sports. I loved sports of course but apart from that I would do I would read so I read a lot of world history lot of world history and that's how I I because this the patterns and regularities that you observe in world history they are being played out today in the form of geopolitics today's history um what is history today for us used to be geopolitics back in the day okay let's take maybe a few more questions uh Um let's see what questions do we have. Anonymous scientist says why did Richard Nixon hate India and Indians? Why was JFK pro India? Let's take Nixon first. The Pakistanis helped him a lot. Nixon was very interested in in in China in having a mo they taunted with China and Pakistan served as a mediator for that. So Pakistan was very useful for for the US and India was very intrigent and India's prime minister for the longest time was was Mr. Neu who had this habit of lecturing the world from a position of great moral superiority when he was not from the rest of the world's perspective perhaps that morally superior and so on. So it's a very annoying attitude to have and approach to have for the rest of the world. So maybe that's one of the reasons why uh Nixon and and his best pal Kissinger did not have any great affection or love or regard for India. That's one of the reasons JFK was pro India. JFK was um it was in the beginning of the of the cold war a time when India had not really made it stand very clearly and maybe at the time the US felt and JFK felt that you know there's still a chance that maybe we can have India on our side that's why he made various offers to India offers of a permanent uh uh seat on the UN security council I think the Americans did it before JFK of course but uh the JFK offered India uh nuclear weapons technology which India revolved and so on So all right um let's take some more questions. Uh Sri Ramachandra Anamaha says what are the benefits of of experimenting in microgravity. So let's say you want to send uh human beings to Mars. Uh it takes about 8 n 10 months to reach Mars which is a long period of time. Uh and let's say you have to for example in the future someday send a mission of astronauts to the asteroid belt maybe to extract minerals from the asteroids asteroid u um what do they call it uh asteroid exploitation farming whatever it is um resource extraction. So you have to keep the human body under in essentially zero gravity for months or years at a time. So we have to understand what the effects of that are on the human body and on various substances. For example, you want to carry food food materials maybe plants or whatever into space and keep that u in in in microgravity for for years at a time. What's going to be the effect of that? So what we doing is we we're planning for the long term. In the future we want to have long space missions. Maybe we'll send a mission to let's say Europa. Let's say we may send a mission to Jupiter for example, do a few orbits of Jupiter and come back. Whatever you can imagine. So that these missions take years and you're going to be in microgravity for the longest time. So what's the effect of that in the human body? What's the effect of that on your materials? What's the effect of that on your food stuffs? Um and so on. So that's why you want to experiment under controlled conditions. uh so that you know what will happen when conditions are not that much under under your control. So that's why you place uh astronauts you put astronauts in orbit maybe in in the international space station or whatever keep them for 6 months keep them for one year. The Russians the Soviets had the the longest records which probably still stand of uh humans in orbit. So then you get to see what what are the effects of that on on people. So that's why we do it. That's the that's the benefit so that we understand how the human body behaves and performs and what are the stresses that the human go body um is is faced with uh under such circumstances and situations. That's why we do it. Uh um okay. Let's see what else. We got a lot of questions here. We'll take a few more for today. Uh, Nutan Roshan says, "Recent Matura Batpuri ASI site shows shows civilizational continuity for 3,500 to 1,000 BC with some young. What are my views on it? Will it show AMT as Arian just a joke theory? So, it simply bolsters what we already know. It it corroborates what we already know. Um we know that see when it comes to the uh so-called Harapan phase of our history harapan phase industal phase phase of our history we have cultural continuity that goes back 9 and a half thousand years the same cultural elements you see today you see those cultural elements even 9,000 years ago so the this what you are telling me over here I've not seen it yet this p piece of news but once again it shows the same thing that our culture is continuous us our culture hasn't had a discontinuity somewhere. If there was an Arian invasion or migration, you would see a discontinuity in culture that before this migration happened, you had one kind of culture and then suddenly you see a new kind of culture in the archae archaeological record. But that's not the case. You see the same culture all the way to 9,500 years before today, even even before that, I suppose. So yeah, no surprise. I haven't seen this piece of news, but there's no surprise. And this corroborates what I have been saying and what many other people uh historians like BBR and so on have been saying for the longest time. So fantastic. I will check it out. Thank you for bringing this. Thank you for the for your attention to this matter. I'll pay attention to it. Um okay. Mavin says, "Why didn't Biden stop India from buying Russian oil and selling to Europe? It was obvious that it would help India. Biden regime seems better than Trump." Well, if you Yeah, that's that's that's a point I've made a few times, including in probably the Indian interest, one of the recent episodes. If you look at the Biden regime's attitude and approach towards India and the Trump regime's attitude and approach towards India since January this year, it's very different. Overall, Biden the Biden regime's approach towards India was kind of better for India than what the Trump's approach what Trump's approach has been. Of course, Biden started the Biden regime. It's so the beginning of project K cookie land for Christ the Manipur crisis which was all which is all mediated by external forces right there is that uh but beyond that be beyond that one thing and the attempt to interfere in India's elections beyond that u like you say Biden did not stop India from buying Russian oil um and even Trump thus far hasn't stopped it but I they are now making very big threats. So Trump uh right now there's some some kind of bill in the US uh Congress I believe that could potentially impose 500% tariffs on India because we are buying Russian oil. So that's a very different approach. Why didn't Biden stop India? Um because look they wanted India's cooperation on a multiple on on a multiplicity of issues especially when it comes to China and they knew that if India buys oil from Russia it's not going to be a national security threat for the US. So they tolerated it as long as India cooperated on other things. That's the kind of tradeoff there was. So they wanted India's cooperation when it comes to China when it comes to the Indopacific region when it comes to the Quad and various other things. as long as you we were we were willing to give us give them that they were I suppose willing to look the other way when we were buying uh Russian oil and not participating in US sanctions but Trump seems to have a maximalist approach which uh I think is not going to go very well for us go very well with us it's going to create more rifts between India and the US um okay let's Uh yeah, I'm not aware of Kilad, so I won't answer that question because I have already addressed the F-35 question. What is this S IIA? Why are Indians not allowed in by some South Koreans and Israelis? Restaurants which are in India. Is the government aware of that? The owners are Korean and Israeli and these restaurants are in India, but Indians are not allowed there. Well, that's unacceptable. I am not aware of this. If it is the the case, then this should be looked into very seriously and strict action should be taken. If this is the if this is indeed true. So, South Korean restaurant owners who have restaurants in India are not allowing Indians inside. Really? And Israeli restaurant owners whose restaurants are in India are not allowing Indians in those Israeli restaurants in India. Well, that's unacceptable if that is true. So I don't know if why it is so but unacceptable if it is true. Okay. Separ Krishna Giri says is India planning for a space station? India has a plan for a space station sometime in the 2030s. The first step is to put human beings in space in into earth orbit low earth orbit. So there's the Gagyan project. I don't know when it starts. We haven't even done the test flight yet. Unmanned test flight. I suppose we would have we should have at least a couple of unmanned test flights. We've had some issues with the rockets recently. So I think uh I'm not sure what's going on. Uh ever since SpaceX became a big thing, ISRO has gone to sleep. I'm not blaming the ISRO engineers and scientists and leadership for this. It's the government, right? Because see Space X has reusable rockets which means their their cost is very less. Cost per kilo is very less. Now for launching something into space it's much less than what ISRO can quote. So ISRO for the longest time had this USB unique selling point that we are the cheapest launch provider in the world. Our launches are the cheapest. If you have 10 kilos it will cost only this much. Others are charging that much. NASA will charge you that much but we are only charging this much. But now SpaceX has come and they're charging that much only now because their technology is so efficient. So now ISRO when was the last time ISRO launched a rock satellite for somebody else outside of India. I'm not sure. So ISRO seems to have gone into dormcancy mode. I don't know how many launches we're doing every year. Maybe four or five. I I don't know. And if you do very few launches then you're going to have problems because you're not doing it over and over again. So you may have problems that creep up and then rockets rocket launches fail after that and so on. Uh so uh we we have plans on paper for a space station. I don't know. I don't think the government is really taking space seriously right now at this point in time. Maybe there are bigger bigger things to worry about. But hey, we have different departments and and ministries, right? So you can work at work work on several things at the same time. Uh but yeah, that's where we are right now. Uh okay, maybe one or two questions more. Um let us see let us see what do we have anonymous scientist says is nuclear fishision energy better than solar energy how far are we from harnessing fusion energy fusion we are very far away I'm not sure uh look we have various fusion projects outside of India one is the Chinese artificial sun system uh which I believe is a tokamak based system to tokamak is to th toidal machine in which you have plasma that is kept at very high temperatures and it's it's confined through magnetic confinement that's that's called a tokamak it's it's a Russian word the tokamak was was invented by the by the Soviets in the 20th century the Chinese have taken that and that that concept and they are working on that for fusion I'm not sure if they have achieved sufficient fusion yet or not but yeah there's work in progress there are other other such experiments also going on but fusion is still in the future maybe 10 years in the future so possibly fish is right here uh I'm not sure if it's better than solar energy solar energy is free so we can put up solar farms in deserts and it can give you essentially unlimitless amounts of energy uh but that is constrained by weather and in in in in uh in deserts you have dust and uh sand that can cover the soil panels. So that has to be addressed. Sometimes the soil is is shifty. So that's another problem because you want the panels to be at a certain angle and maybe shift their angle uh throughout the day depending on the position of the sun and so on so forth. Uh so there are there are those constraints with solar energy and fish energy is is like well super clean as long as you do it properly and as long as you have file material it's it's limitless amounts of energy that you can generate if you have sufficient nuclear reactors. It's essentially just steam engines at the end of the day. The nuclear reactor gives you the heat which then powers the steam engine. That's essentially what nuclear fishision energy is when it comes to electricity generation. So these are all good alternatives. uh fish energy is is very clean and it's very reliable. Solar and wind and thermal and hydro and all they depend on external factors. Um so the thing that you can rely on the best I suppose is uh uh fish energy nuclear energy but you would need large numbers of reactors for that and why can't you have it fusion there's still some time to go for that maybe a decade perhaps okay let's take one last question this is the last question for the day spade has asked this question what's your take on Ilon creating America party when the deep state allow it has he created that he's been talking about that he's been very upset with this big beautiful bill of Mr. Trump. He's been uh criticizing it for the for the longest time and that's one of the reasons why he had this has this that's why he's had this fallout this breakup this divorce with Mr. Trump um and he's been saying that you know if this bill is passed he will create this party America party or something. Has he created it? I'm not sure. I've not looked into it. I don't look at news from an or perspective. So I don't know if he creates it maybe well it may be dangerous for him to do that. If it becomes a real viable alternative to the existing establishment then it'll be it would be dangerous for it. So for for him uh yeah so we'll see about that. All right, with this brings us to the end of today's session. So, thank you so much for all the questions. It was fun. Uh I think um taking questions from comments I think it's the best way forward. It ensures that there is quality in the ask a widget show. When I simply take questions from the live chat, uh there's no guarantee of the quality. When I take questions for even from the super chat, there's no guarantee of the quality. So, I think going forward most of the times I will do I will take questions from the comments in future episodes. Tomorrow I'm going to do a session in which the live chats in which the super chats will be turned on. So let's see how it goes. One more time I'll try it and then for next week we'll take a call. Next week some some things will change and you will see how it goes. So thank you so much everybody for your questions and I will see you in tomorrow's live stream. Hopefully you all attend it. I look forward to seeing you there. Thank you very much. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards and I'll see you tomorrow. Bye-bye.