Heat. Heat. N. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello everybody. Good evening, good day wherever you are. I hope you're all doing great and welcome back to the Ask a Bijit Show. Today we are doing episode 240. So I'm going to be taking questions only from the live chat today. Uh no questions selected from the comments. It's going to be all live all interactive. And before we take the questions let's see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Mr. Unknown I can say PM Tjas B Ain Raja Akash Kumar Mr. Unknown again. Random skull. Ah, Sadhart, Surrender, Gupta, Anand Pay, Mangabonia, Mayangri, Tiwari, Adridge, Deesh, Kumar, Rahul, Dunak, Vidiar, Sar Priti, Krishna Raunad from the Surinamese Netherlands. Shri Ramchandra Anamaha Shubam Bardaj Geopolitical Dubai from Indor Dilling Peggu Raj Lalit Sabir Kachu Kapalin Manu Krishna Mr. 88ers, Kalik. So, Kofil Ludini Nayush um from Bangladesh. Aryan Takur, Pranal from Kolkata, really now Deosman Das Das Gupta, Oscar Madison, two idiot NRIs, Goofy Cat, Kish Gupta, May Manik Sarcar, Adita Raj Singh, Ratur, Alks, Shri Anol. Who else? Who else do we have? I can see Ankit Mahapatra Abin of Mishra Shubankar Nagi Mupti Sudaran Deva Sarin Dara Samboy Chakraati Britam Sharma Prexen Sparkling Note Lotus Raika Humbli Shivam Shirokar and lots and lots of other people. Feminist slayer Raj Indulkar Rahul Raawanchi Praar Gupta Anonymous Raini Deep Rushi Rushi God Hershel Clash with Pushkar Mommy of Diu Savary Set Ragavir Solanki Ubar Men Hoy Jagdish Mali Arpit Raju Rajput Vamshi Khal and everybody else all right greetings to all of you. Thank you so much for being on the live chat on this live stream. Thank you so much for your viewership and let's get going with the questions. Uh okay, what questions do we have? Let's see. Shri Ramachandra Namaha says, "What is India doing to influence to increase its influence in Africa?" Um it's an interesting question. Africa is a gigantic place. It's the largest continent. If we disregard Eurasia as a whole, what are we doing? I think u the government may not be prioritizing Africa the way Africa should be prioritized but we have a lot of peopleto-people ties going back centuries maybe thousands of years Indians have uh been living in eastern Africa for I don't know how many centuries mainly Indians from the western western part of India mainly mainly gujaratis uh and some other Indians as well uh Tanzania Kenya etc all these places uh Uh so there is that of course and we u we have some military kind of ties with some countries. U we we obviously have a very special place called Mauritius. Okay let's go to the map since we are discussing Africa. Uh let us go to the map and let's put it on the screen so that we can have the right context. So here's uh here is the map on our screen. Oh no thank you. So uh we have historical ties with uh the eastern part of Africa especially Tanzania, Kenya. Historically it would even have been Somalia, Ethiopia all the way to Egypt etc. But you know Tanzania, Kenya etc. Even Mosambique I suppose we have lots of Indians living there. Uh when it comes to Mauritius, we have a special relationship because uh the majority of the people of Mauritius are of Indian origin. They are culturally and ethnically still very Indian. Lots of Indian origin people in reunion which is a part of France and with Moraicius we have u military kind of uh we we have u there's a military dimension to the relationship as well. Uh when it comes to the island of Agalea, Agalega Agalea uh yeah here we have it. Okay. Vans and is north Agalea and south Agelga is not that important from our perspective. So we operate a military and air force base etc in Agalea. As you can see it's a reasonably well ordered established place. I'm not showing you anything that's classified. It's all public you know open source information anyone can see this and yeah so we our government operates this this is ven we have agala shiva mandonder over here and so on so yeah this is an air base let's say and uh military base you could say that is jointly operated by India and maicius uh we had something like that in with se shells as well but did not quite work out I think it was somewhere here It was called Azumpsion. Yeah. Did not quite work out because certain other nations, certain other powers interfered. Uh but yeah, so we have a lot of ancient ties with the region. Our government is taking some initiatives in uh in connecting us with Africa. I'm sure we can do a lot more is what I would actually say. And Africa is important from a variety of perspectives. I know it's not the richest continent, it's the poorest continent. We know that and uh but it's it's important from various perspectives like if you have good ties with the African countries then you know the you can expect their support in the United Nations when it comes to voting and so on. All these things matter in the world. So I think India should actually uh take Africa a lot more seriously than than we currently are taking it. Uh yeah so that's what I can tell you. Uh ah says if someone tells you he has time traveled from the future to the present from the future to the present okay uh how will you verify if he is speaking the truth there's no actual real way of verifying if the person is speaking the truth but if the person is you can ask some questions you know if if the person has been able to travel through try time it means that he or she is coming from uh a period of time where Our understanding of physics and applied physics is extraordinarily more advanced than what it is today. Because if you're able to, you know, uh manage that travel through time, it means your understanding of physics and your in your uh control of physics is incredible. So you could ask questions about let's say some some open problems that haven't been solved today. You know, how do you reconcile quantum mechanics in gravity for example? That's one question you could ask them. Or what is the physics of time travel? We understand it theoretically Einstein Rosen bridges bridges and stuff but how did you manage it and what's the basic principles behind it? That's some questions you could ask and uh you could I suppose there is no guaranteed way of knowing whether the person is telling the truth. But you could ask them to predict something for example that's going to happen in the next uh 2 weeks or 3 months you know a reasonably short period of time. make some predictions and let's see if those come true and so on. So you could uh have some kind of a questionnaire uh for a person who claims to have traveled from the past and based on that perhaps you could get some indication of whether they are telling the truth or not. Okay. Um let's see more questions. Uh geopolitical dub says will China bow to the sole superpower? China does not intend to bow to the United States. Uh Xiinping has this great dream, the dream of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. Excuse me. And the dream is that China will become an equal of the United States by around 2050. Now, right now, China is not an equal of the US by no means. Uh but technologically, they are catching up. And uh so if if the great dream is for China to be an equal of the US and eventually surpass the US, replace and displace the US as the great as the only great power in the world, then you will not uh bow to the great super the sole superpower. So China is not bowing to the superpower right now. There's this complete uh allout trade war, tariff war that's that's brewing right now between China and the United States. And the US has unleashed this trade war, tariff war. Uh President Donald Trump has unleashed it. And China is not u you know taking a step back. They have unleashed or retaliatory tariffs on the US. If the US has placed 140% of whatever the tariffs are, the Chinese have responded by putting 125% tariffs on the US most items, which means that the two nations are essentially decoupling and the trade between them is essentially frozen or dead. So witness we are witnessing a bifurcation a decoupling of the world order. On the one hand you will have nations like the US and all its allies all it's its flock so to say. On the other hand you will have nations like China and Russia and Iran and North Korea and whoever else would like wants to be part of that alliance or access or whatever you want to call it. So, China is positioning itself as a leader of that group. Uh, and China is not going to bow to the sole superpower. So, uh, look, the US wants to curtail China's rise. They want to curtail China's growth. And they have lots of justifications for why they have unleashed this tariff war against China. Lots of justifications. Some of them are true. Some of them, you could say, uh, whatever. uh but um so they have these justifications and they don't want China to rise further. So how does a nation rise? Through its economy if your economy grows you have more money to spend on other things like military and so on. So they don't want the economy of China to grow so much and by cutting off China's access to the US market, to European markets, other markets. uh they want to curtail China's rise and they also want to deny China sensitive technologies like you know Nvidia chips the high-end Nvidia chips and various various other technologies well the Chinese have already acquired whatever they wanted to acquire you know and they are not so far behind when it comes to cutting edge chip manufacturing they have apparently developed their own photo lithography machines and they are not very far behind so it's kind of it's kind of a case of of uh closing in the barn doors after the horses have bolted or something like that. Um, and the real fear is that the Chinese are technologically almost at the same level as the US now. They have really caught up and they've really really put in the hard yards. They've really invested trillions of dollars in into their education system and into their technological high-tech sector and all of that is paying fruit now. So even though China may not have the kind of military might that the US has today, the Chinese don't have hundreds of extr territorial military bases and so on. They don't have any of that. They don't have the power projection capabilities of the US. They don't have the nuclear arsenal that the US has. They have a fraction of that. But technologically they are almost neck-to- neck with the US. And the great arms race that we are living in right now is the AI arms race, artificial intelligence. Now most of us don't see we we must be wonder most people will be wondering what what's the big deal about AI artificial intelligence but well it's not supposed to be seen and visible it'll slowly take away your jobs and all that that's a different story uh but the AI race is going to be the most consequential race uh of our time maybe in the entire history of humanity and whoever cracks that that breaches that level the ASI level is going to be the winner and uh you know so that's the arms race and the Chinese are definitely up there with the US. Uh the US has various uh public AI systems like uh Anthropic and uh Open AI and uh whatever else, Google's Gemini and so on. The Chinese have their DeepSeek R1 and and Manus and whatnot. But there's a deeper arms race that's going on behind the scenes, behind closed doors, a secret arms race where the real AI systems are being unleashed privately by the militaries and the governments. And that's the real arms race. And those military AI capabilities will be like a thousand times what what you can see in your chat GPD or whatever like way orders of magnitude greater. And that's the arms race and that's what the Americans fear. So they want to deny China the cutting edge GPUs, Nvidia chips and whatever else they can deny the Chinese and they want to constrain the economy. But the Chinese are going to u they're not going to give up. This is going to be a fight to the finish essentially. So China will not bow to the superpower. I assure you of that. Ramach Krishna Paranh says why is India not doing anything to control control and deport the Bangladeshes and Rohingya's illegal immigrants? There are reports claiming West Bengal government providing land etc etc etc reports allegedly. Well look why is the government of India not doing this? I don't think I'm the right person to answer that question. I think the only entity that can answer that question is the government of India. You know in 2014 I don't know which minister had reported this. It's on the record. In 2014, it was reported officially that there were about roughly 5 crore illegal immigrants in India, which is 50 million. That's larger than the population of most countries. That's 2014. Today is 2025. I would guess the population would have doubled. Doubled. So let's say we have hypothetically a 100 million illegal immigrants in India. Can you imagine the strain on our resources and and the hardship that our people face just because of this additional 100 million people? So it's it's it's an enormous problem and it's something that we are just disregarding and sweeping under the carpet. And these immigrants they will multiply, they will procreate, they will have children who will be who will grow up in India, who will be born in India, grow up in India and they will consider themselves Indian. And the longer we wait to solve the problem, the the the deeper it gets entrenched. It's something we've seen in Manipur. It's something we have seen or we are seeing all across India. Rohingya's brought in from god knows what places in the 2010s or whenever even perhaps been even before that and settled in every part of India. Why is the government not doing anything about this? I am not quite sure why. Uh beats me but I think the government should do something about this. I mean it's a national security threat. It's a major national security threat and no self-respecting nation should uh allow this to happen. And it it raises questions about whether we are genuinely sovereign. You know a sovereign nation would not tolerate this. Are we really sovereign? Is it all just slogan slogan slogan in India? I don't know about that. So I don't have answers to your question. I myself am seeking the answer. Why is the government not doing anything about this? Right. Kapalin says, "Is the sun white? The sun, our star, is it white?" I mean, if you study physics, if you open a physics textbook, I think from I think from I don't know uh from the primary school level, I think if you have a good textbook, you'll be taught that the sun is a white star. It emits white light. And that goes completely against everything we understand of of the world, right? I mean we have been seeing sunlight since the time we were born all of us. And what do we think of sunlight? Golden color right? In the morning it's nice and golden soft and golden. In the afternoon it's harsh and golden and yellow yellowish light yellowish. In in the evening it's again that golden hour and then it becomes reddish as the sun starts sinking under the horizon and then it disappears. That's always shades of yellow and and and red and orange. Yellow, red, orange, mainly yellow, right? That's how we see sunlight. So, are these physics textbooks lying is the question. Well, the truth is, my dear friends, that the sun is a white star. It emits perfectly white light. But we see it as yellow and and shades of whatever else, orange and red. Why is that? It's because of our atmosphere. Our atmosphere filters the light. There is something called rale scattering. R A L E I G H. Raleigh scattering. Look it up. It's a phenomenon in in well optical physics, let's say, atmospheric physics. It it's a physics phenomenon. Okay? And in which wavelengths of light are scattered in different ways. So, if you look at the sky, let me show you something quite I'm not sure if it's going to work, if I'm going to be right or not, but let's look at the color wheel and let's see if yellow and blue are on the opposite ends of the color wheel. Let's do it together. I I have a hunch, I've not done this before, that yellow and red are on the opposite ends of the color wheel. So, let's go to color wheel. Yellow and blue images. Okay, yellow and blue are kind of kind of on opposite ends of the color wheel. Kind of not exactly. Blue and orange are on opposite ends of the color wheel. So what happens is that uh the the to to make it very simple without going into the actual physics what happens is that the atmosphere we we have this planet and the planet has an atmosphere that's why we have wind and all that. So we can breathe. The atmosphere absorbs certain wavelengths of light and scatters certain wavelengths of light. So uh it absorbs blue. That's why the sky looks blue. It's not actually blue but the atmosphere retains that blue in it. Okay. The very simple way of explaining it. It absorbs the blue and scatters the yellow. That's why the white suddenly looks like it has been turned it has been split into two colors. The blue stays in the sky and the sunlight that we see appears yellow. Even water appears to be bluish. Right? Uh so so that's what happens because of scattering of light through a process called rale scattering. All right? But the sun actually if you go out of the atmosphere go into earth orbit you will see that the sun is emitting white light just pure white light but the atmosphere and the processes that happen in the atmosphere make it look like it is like the light is yellow. Right. Good question. Now, let's take some other questions. Um, what did I just see? Okay, Sora Kumar says, "Could there be a link between the South American deity Vira Kocha, uh, believed to have come from across the oceans to civilize ancient peoples and the figure of Virochana, Bali's analitor, Viracha was an Inca Emperor. The Inca Empire in the 16th century was at the time the world's largest empire. Um let's uh let us go through uh the map and try and figure out where all this is. Okay. So, we're going to go to uh the Americas and it was here Peru, Bolivia, this entire region. um and also Ecuador etc. that you had that's where you had the Inca Empire and there were great emperors and it was the largest empire of its time around the 16th century until the point where the Spaniard the Spanish concistadors destroyed it and one of the Inca emperors his name was Viracha Viracha um I think he was the father of Pakuti strange name right Viracha Pakuti I think Vira Kocha was the father of patchakouti. Let's let's Google it together. Uh because I don't quite remember the exact um yeah so let's do this. Vraa and [Music] Pakuti Viracha Pakuti. So this guy Pakuti was the was the great essentially the founder of the great empire. Who was his predecessor? Yeah Vira Kocha. There we have it. Virucha was the father of Pakuti. That's right. So this is a king of the Inca Empire. But I think there is a mythical figure as well as well called Vira Kucha. And the question lots of Indians ask or or wonder about is that is was there some kind of connection between Viraa and Vrochina because the names sound kindly vaguely kind of vaguely uh similar. Well, as far as I know, I have seen no evidence of uh there being a connection, which doesn't mean there is no connection. The absence of evidence is not the evidence of absence. Like I have said a few years ago, the point is I don't know of any clinching evidence or even circumstantial evidence that connects the two beyond the vague similarity of the two names. Okay? Uh but there have been people who have written about this. For example, let's Google this gentleman. Okay. Um uh let us Google a name together. Let's go to Google and let's write Bikhu Chaman Lal. Bikhu Chaman Lal. So this gentleman Bhu Chaman Lal he wrote a book called Hindu America. Now a I personally have never had the time to read this book to peruse this book. I hear it's a fascinating book and uh he wrote this I don't know about a century or so ago if I'm if I'm not mistaken uh when was it written let me see does it have a date okay 1941 and apparently he looks like he was a great fan of Mr. Gandhi which is okay and so on. Uh but the question is what does he write in the book? So Hindu imprints on America, children of the sun, Indra and Ganesha in America, Hindu legends in America, the glorious Mayers, the great Aztecs from India to America, Buddhism in America, when India ruled the waves and so on. So if you are interested, I would say that maybe you could check out this book, Hindu America by Viku Manl. It's available online. It's available I think for download. um for free. So check it out. I personally haven't read it, but it I hear it's a it's a rather intriguing book. I'm not sure how much of the evidence is presented or whether the evidence is is is rigorous or not quite rigorous, but it's an interesting book. That's what I hear. So check it out. But uh as far as this question is concerned, I personally have uh no evidence that connects the two. I'm not aware of any uh hard evidence clinching evidence that connects Vira Kocha with Virro Chana. Okay. Vikramadur says, "You often highlight American strength, US strength, but as a historian, don't empires fall. Why not consider India and bricks as future poles? Isn't US dominance also subject to decline over time? All empires fall? Every single empire that we know of in history has fallen. No question about it. The last great empire that fell was the British Empire. But did it really fall? It didn't quite fall. It simply trans it it transformed into something else. It transformed into the US Empire. And the US empire, I would say, is at its pinnacle. It's never been as powerful as it is today. So empires absolutely do fall. There's no question about it. It doesn't mean it's going to fall next week. Just because all empires fall doesn't mean that now the US empire will fall next week. There are cycles. History is cyclical like they say. So if you look at u the average u duration of an empire it's roughly 250 or 300 years. 250 to 300 years. If you look at Indian history we've had various imperial cycles ourselves. If you look at Chinese history, there have been imperial cycles and so on. So if you look at the Morian Empire, it was about what 250 300 years. If you look at the Kushan Empire, it was again 250 or 300 years. The the Gupta Empire was about 200 250 years and so on. That's how it goes generally. Now some empires last longer. The Roman Empire, Eastern Roman Empire lasted much much longer uh than the Western Roman Empire and and so on. So it depends on so many factors. You can't do a simplistic game theoretical calculation of of how long an empire will last. I'm not sure even if you can set up a game like that because games are usually competitive or whatever games. But my my point is um empires do fall but there's no indication that the the US empire is uh is showing signs of falling. It's actually showing signs of rising. There are issues uh when it comes to uh morality and ethics and all that which every empire has. There are issues of societal decay and decline. Uh that is visible kind of but the military strength and overall hard power is incredible. It's never been higher. Uh why not consider India and BRICS as future polls? Well, one can certainly consider even Sri Lanka as a potential future poll 100 years down the line. India obviously is a much more powerful and much more viable potential future pool. Sure. But if you look at India's structural the way India is structured and the kind of strengths and weaknesses India has, India doesn't show signs or symptoms of of becoming a future power. India doesn't show that. India has too many systematic systemic and structural inefficiencies, deficiencies and problems. Uh one example is that India simply is not agile enough. India doesn't make decisions fast enough and implement those decisions fast enough. You pass a law then you you to go through 78 different Supreme Court cases and then you take back some of the laws and you to maybe roll it back and then again try it after 3 years and then maybe there's incremental progress but a lot has changed. Come on, is this the way you rule an empire? So, you know, too much inefficiency in India which has historically since 1947 relegated India to to and also ran status and bricks I do not consider bricks to be a future pole. An empire has only one center of power. You can't have an empire by coalition. Yes, you the the the Aztecs had a tripartite, you know, trilateral confederation kind of thing, but they also had just one pole in the center and the other twos were the other two wereas. There are many examples like that. So, if bricks becomes a a genuine pole in the future, it's going to be ruled by just one entity either China or or Russia. The others will be right. So you can consider anybody as a future poll. But is it genuinely capable of being a future pole? Does India have the hard-headedness and ruthlessness of the US? I mean does does India have that? Does India have any leader that that can take India in that direction? Someone like Chandra Gupta Moria, someone like Chanaka, someone like Rajendra Chola or or somebody like like Samodra Gupta? We don't have any of those leaders today. the system is such that it doesn't produce leaders of that caliber or quality. So um that's why India is not taken seriously as as a future superpower. Uh I I hope that assessment is wrong and something will change but you will need a drastic drastic drastic incredibly drastic change a mind-boggling change in India for something like that to happen. The entire system will have to be overturned. No more constitution, no more democracy. Only then you become a superpower. Um so yes in the US dominance is subject to decline over time. Yes. So maybe the US will last another 150 years only only 150 years more and maybe then some other power will come up or maybe it will last another 50 years. We don't know. We haven't seen the future. Maybe the Chinese will de develop ASI before the Americans and then they will rule the world for a thousand years and the Americans will be left behind. So that could happen in the next two weeks also. You never know. But from whatever science, indications and data points are available in the public domain. I don't see uh any sign of US of the US empire falling anytime soon. Things may be happening behind closed doors that we are not aware of. That could change the entire scenario in 2 weeks. But from what was visible in public, the US is here to stay for a long time. And India doesn't even take this is doesn't even it's not playing the game seriously. It's not playing the game to win. Maybe in a 100 years India may be a superpower. It's possible everybody wants to be wishpower but no one wants to do the hard work. So yeah. Well, anonymous scientist says a recent house white house statement claimed that they are capable of manipulating space and time. What do they what do they mean by this? I think it was I think I saw it somewhere on X yesterday or something a statement an unofficial statement by one of the officials I don't remember who it was in which there's this one sentence that says that we are capable of manipulating space and time. So, should we take that literally that they have technology that can meddle with the space-time continuum? Does it mean they're capable of time travel? Does it mean that they're capable of creating wormholes and traversible wormholes? What does what does it mean by by that? Or maybe they just mean that we have I don't maybe it's a maybe the the speaker was taking poetic license. Maybe he was saying that we have the fastest missiles in the world, hypersonics. So it's almost like we are uh manipulating space and time. I'm not sure what what the what what that statement meant. You can either take it completely literally which would be mind-boggling or maybe the person was taking poetic license. Two scenarios I can present to you. I don't know which one is correct. So, okay. Nefron says, "Is that Japanese history is more oldest than Okay. Is Japanese history older than Indian history?" Well, uh, look, Japan's, uh, imperial history goes back about 2 and a half or 3,000 years roughly. Uh, maybe slightly more than 3,000 years. uh and they have these um foundation myths, you know, creation myths. Uh I forget the name of the two individuals, Inagami, Inagami, something like that. So, it goes back about 3,000 or maybe 3 and a half thousand years or so. Uh that's that's about how old Japanese history is. And obviously if you do archaeological research and all you'll find science of human habitation and reasonably well organized human habitation that will go back more than th,000 years for sure in Japan. No question about it. You'll find that. Now what about Indian history? Well, we have signs of habitation in India that go back I don't know how many thousands of years and u the oldest archaeological site that we know of that goes back to the Sarasodi Synindu times is Birana which is about 9 and a half thousand years. uh and and it was constantly inhabited from 9 and a half thousand years at least onwards. So clearly Indian history is older and uh there's so much more that need that that remains to be excavated and and researched from the archaeological perspective. So when it comes to Asia, it's pretty clear that India is the oldest continuously existing civilization, the oldest civilization that we know of and definitely the oldest culture and civilization in in Asia. Perhaps the world per perhaps the world. I'm sure that there were civilizations that were older maybe 20,000 30,000 years old civilizations which may have existed but we haven't found evidence of that. So the possibility exists but we haven't found the evidence of that. Uh so that's what I can tell you. You can do your own research. Whatever I said you can corroborate for yourself. How old is Birana from carbon dating dating perspective? How long was from what time period onwards was birana continuously inhabited? Uh what is the oldest um depiction of a super supernova in the archaeological records about 6,000 years ago and so on. All that is India. So clearly um our history is the oldest when it comes to at least Asia if not the whole world. Um Aman Pit Singh says why do geopolitical experts from your circle my circle? Who's my circle? Okay. Why do geopolitical experts from your circle offer differing views on geopolitics? Uh despite having the same ideology is it makes it extremely difficult from the viewers's perspective about whom to believe. Well, that is a problem the viewer will always have. Now, look, I don't know who my circle is. I don't think I'm part of a circle as far as I know. I am uh yeah, I don't work with other analysts or or or observers or or whatever. Okay. Um now let's let's understand one thing when it comes to geopolitical analysis geostrategic analysis you don't base your analysis on ideology. If you have an analyst who is basing his or her uh observations and analysis on ideology that person cannot be taken seriously. Your analysis has to be based only on actual hard facts on what's happening in the world from confirmed sources and then an analytical model which may be something you've learned from somebody somewhere. Maybe you've learned that model from somewhere from a from historical perspectives or maybe you have a geoeconomic model or whatever. But you need to have your own analytical model through which you analyze what's happening and then you form conclusions. So it has to be a logical process. Maybe you should employ what they call the scientific method in this. And uh there are people who do that and there are people who don't do that. Uh there are people who are intuitive geopolitical analysts and they go by gut feel. Then there are people who do it on the basis of rigorous study and research. Uh so everybody is going to interpret events and what's happening in the world differently and that's why they will offer different views. So that is to be expected not no two opinions will be exactly the same. But if somebody is basing their their uh views on ideology instead of actual hard facts and logic then that person cannot be taken seriously because that's not how we do geopolitical anal analysis. Now from the viewer's perspective who to the question the conundrum is who do you believe and who do you not take seriously? That's always going to be a question for the viewer. So to understand to to figure out for yourself as a viewer whom to believe and whom not to believe you first of all need to educate yourself a little bit about geopolitics as to how geopolitical analysis is done and then you have to try and figure out that this person so and so Mr. X or Miss Y whatever analysis they are doing what is the mental framework analytical framework they use to to come to their conclusions in some cases maybe that analytical network um framework isn't spelt out maybe it's not transparent in which case you will not be able to figure out what they're doing and how they're coming to the conclusions And there are lots of people like that. Um, for example, in my case, I I base my analysis on on hard data, u on hard power. That's that's one of the components of of the framework. Uh, what is each nation's hard power score? Now, I haven't put it out in the public domain yet, but I have my own rankings of every nation in terms of hard power. And the US scores 91 or something. Uh, Russia is Russia is 50 something, 53 or something. China is 17 or 18 and India is 4.9 and France is 4.2 or something. So that's the top five in terms of just hard power based on public source data GDP and military spending and population and and area and and power projection and nuclear strength and uh energy self-sufficiency and various other factors. you take all those factors and you have to create a an equation, a formula that that spits out a hard power score for each nation. So that kind of tells you exactly where each nation stands in relation to the other. So that's one component of my analy analyt analytical framework. And then I also look at uh history. I mean you cannot understand a nation and its the conflicts it is uh embroiled in and what its interests are without understanding the nation's history and understanding the nation's geography, understanding its economic uh condition and so many other things. So you have to take all of these things into perspective in order to have an informed view of what's happening and you need that that is part of what you call an analytical framework and if an analyst doesn't have that or if they're just doing just winging it then you can't take it seriously. Um yeah so if you can figure out that you have let's say you have five geopolitical observers analysts who you watch and if you can figure out for each of those what their frameworks are then you can judge for yourself which is better or which is not and it should not be a popularity contest that the person who is the most handsome the person who speaks the best the person who who has the most jo in talking I'm going to watch that person he can't do it like that okay so Yeah. All right. Mhm. Savaria S says, "Is Cuba irrelevant in geopolitics?" That's a rather good question, rather pertinent question. Which nations are relevant and which nations are not quite relevant in geopolitics? And that's a that's a question you have to ask yourself. And uh you know you can't base the answer to that question on um you know on on sentimental things and all that you need to have a really good huristic as to uh which nations matter and on what are you going to base whether whether a nation matters or not. So there is a question that you have to ask yourself when it comes to geopolitical events. Which events are consequential? Which events are impactful and which events are not so impactful? And that kind of gives you a heristic as to which nations are relevant. For example, look what's the geopolitical impact of of something. So you could you know you could create a geopolitical impact score for an event. Every event that happens in the world has some kind of geopolitical impact. Some of it is localized, some of it is global. So let's say we create a geopolitical impact score of any event and the score is from 1 to 10. One is the lowest impact, 10 is the highest impact. So what kind of event would you give a geopolitical impact score of 10? I would say a nuclear war has impact 10 out of 10. An alien invasion has impact 10 out of 10. or uh a hypothetical global pandemic which kills half of a population like the black death in in medieval Europe that has a geopolitical impact which is 10 out of 10 most impactful. What is something that is very minor you know minimal wider implications which is the lowest geopolitical impact impact one out of 10. It is like local election results, your municipal election results or some minor policy announcement in your country or or some student protests in some college or university that has an impact of one out of 10 the minimal possible impact. So that's kind of how you you would create a heristic score for geopolitical impact. And then you have to ask yourself if something happens in Cuba where does it fall on the scale of 1 to 10. So let's say uh the president of Cuba makes a policy announcement a new policy is going to be implemented in the country. Uh what's the impact score? It's going to be closer to one than to 10, right? Or if there's an election and some new person is elected in Cuba, what's going to be the global repercussions repercussions of that? it's going to be almost minimal almost nothing. So once again the impact geopolitical impact will be closer to one than to 10. So from that perspective if you look at Cuba it is kind of unfortunately irrelevant in geopolitics. Just being very realistic pragmatic practical here nothing sentimental about it. You have to analyze geopolitics in this matter. So Cuba unfortunately maybe for good for worse it's not quite relevant in geopolitics. Amisha says, "Can humans ever leave the Milky Way galaxy?" Well, you know, before you learn before you learn to run, you to learn to walk. Before you learn to walk, you learn to stand. So, you first as a baby learn how to stand. Then you learn how to start toddling on two two feet. Then after a while you're a little confident and then you start you know running a little bit. So you you you progress from standing to walking to jogging to running and sprinting and then you can start flying and then you can going start going supersonic then hypersonic then you can have escape velocity which means you can go into earth orbit and that's where we are and maybe you can break out of earth orbit and go to go to the moon. We've kind of done that and soon enough we'll break out of Earth orbit and go to Mars. So that's the limit of what we can achieve today. And that's why Amisha asks this question. Can humans ever leave the Milky Way galaxy? Um look, there is no law of physics that says that we can't. So it's perfectly fine within the laws of physics. It doesn't break the laws of physics. So we can theoretically leave the Milky Way galaxy. But now what does it take to do that? Um first of all we'll need to develop the kind of technology that will allow us to break free of uh of the sun's gravity. So there is a certain escape velocity for the sun as well for the solar gravitational potential. We'll have to break free of that and then we'll have to go to the nearest star first. The nearest star system is the alpha proxima centtory system. That's about 4 point something light years from here. And uh if we travel at at the speed of the fastest rocket chemical rock that rocket that we have it would take I don't know tens of thousands of years most likely. But there are certain technologies that are almost available to us. uh light sail technology for example those techn such a technology could enable us theoretically to travel at about 30% of the speed of light which means that we could reach Proxima Centuri in 30 40 or so years um it's possible we are almost there that technology may be about a decade away uh you can use a very highowered lasers to shine light on light sailed light sail equipped spacecraft as light as possible those spacecraft should be and radiation pressure will will impel those spacecraft forward in the direction of Proxima Centtory and it could quickly uh accelerate them to about 30% or so of light speed in which case you could reach the star system in about 30 or 40 years. uh but initially we're going to have to send nano spacecraft to Proxima Centuri and then once we get the signal from there and what not then maybe in the next 30 40 50 years we can uh perhaps think of sending humans. So that's just the next star system four roughly four light years away. Our galaxy the Milky Way is about a 100,000 or so light years in diameter. is a gigantic thing and it's just a tiny speck of dust in the global in the in the in the sphere of in in the scale of things of the universe, you know. Um, so in order to leave the Milky Way galaxy, we would have to break free of the gravitational pull of the super massive black hole at the center of the galaxy. And I'm not sure what the escape velocity of that is, but I'm sure we can quickly calculate it if you want to. Um, but what technology would we need for that? because that would take um that that process of leaving the galaxy and going to let's say the nearest neighboring galaxy large galaxy Andromeda that process may take a million years because that's the kind of distance we're talking about you know so u in a million years humans would have evolved into something else so my point is it is all possible it is all perfectly acceptable It isn't within the realm of the laws of physics. It doesn't break anything. But the only realistic way of traveling outside of the galaxy of of our galaxy and let's say going to a neighboring galaxy, the only realistic way of doing that in one human lifetime would probably involve creating a traversible wormhole. that two the kind of wormhole which you know where it exists where the other end is which uh is theoretically kind of okay uh there are solutions of the Einstein equations of general relativity that do allow for this it's called an Einstein Rosen bridge a wormhole but those wormholes they want to their neck wants to snap shut and the only way you can keep the keep the neck of the wormhole open is by having something really exotic in there something like negative negative mass negative mass or maybe a cosmic string which is a defect topological defect in the fabric of space time itself which is a completely hypothetical theoretical thing. We've never observed that but it may exist. So yeah it's it's far out there. It's all in the realm of science fiction. It doesn't quite break the laws of physics but we have never seen those objects or technologies ever. So it may be possible but right now it's it's in the realm of science fiction completely. But who knows with the advent of artificial super intelligence we may be able to create traversible wormholes in the next 5 years. Who knows? Who knows? We'll see. Okay. Um let's um Shrea Shetty says, "Why does the logo on KT Paris space suit bear no resemblance to a rocket yet when viewed upside down strongly resembles a goat head?" Goat's head or is it Satan's? Well, I haven't I I'm I'm not aware of that. Katy Perry is the singer. Yeah, I know of her. She went into space for 10 minutes. I know about that as well that she had quite a bumpy splashdown on Earth. I saw that as well, but I didn't see what what she was wearing and what logo was that. I have no idea. So, I can't speculate. Sorry. Um, Unar Kulkarnney says, "Is it really the time for India to join hands with China and trust it again after facing many betrayals?" There is no trust in geopolitics, my friends. And there are no betrayals in geopolitics. You can only be betrayed if you are stupid, foolish and gullible. And India has kind of been like that. stupid, foolish, gullible, naive foreign policy for the most of the time after 1947. That's what we've had. So Indians feel that oh we have been betrayed by China. China acted the way any logical rational power would behave. Okay, nature abhors a vacuum and in geopolitics power abhors a vacuum and power is a force that pushes outwards. So if you have two nations border to border and one has more power than the other that that power will push outwards and it will grab territory. That's just like a law of nature. Okay. So if we became weak and if we did not pay attention to Tibet, if we did not pay attention to Oxai Chin, we were busy doing god knows what and we did not even know the Chinese were constructing highways, it's not China's fault. It's our fault that we were not geopolitically ambitious enough to safeguard Tibet, Tibet's independence and so on. So I don't blame China. I don't consider them to have backstabbed us or betrayed us. You should question your leaders for betraying you. It is they it is their their actions, their neglect, their policies that led to India losing territory and losing a war. Even that war could have been won if we had not neglected the armed forces and the air force and so on. It's not China's fault. I don't blame China one bit there. the the Chinese leadership was looking out for the Chinese national interest. Why couldn't our leadership look out for the Indian national interest? That's my question. Now, when it comes to China, I trust China to prioritize its national interest. So, if you want to deal with China, you should know exactly what China's perception of its national interest is. And if you know what China's perception of its national interest is, you will know what their red lines are and you will know what their priorities are and then if you can find ways of working with them such that their some of their priorities match your priorities then you'll work with them and it'll be a constructive relationship and that's how you do it but you never trust somebody you never trust anyone ever you always keep double-checking everything they do that's how it works in geopolitics there are no friends in geopolitic politics. There are no enemies in geopolitics. There is no trust in geopolitics. There's no betrayal in geopolitics. So please understand these things. These are the basics. These are the ABCs of geopolitics. Um the problem with India in the education system is that we are not taught any of these things. So we grow up completely naive. But you will see the same principles at play in domestic politics. And Indians are great at domestic politics. But they simply don't realize that the same principles apply at the global level as well in a different kind of context. But the same things apply in domestic politics in your municipal politics or state level politics. You will see the same betrayals, the same backstabbing, the same lack of amoral uh relationships, the same lack of friendships, lack of trust, same thing all over again. You'll see. Of course, there will be some cultural context to it which will kind of cloud your eyes, but you know that's how it works. So my point is India should be open to working with everybody and India should ensure that it doesn't give anybody the opportunity to to take advantage of us. That's it. That's all right. Um okay. Naga head hunter says greetings from Nagaland. Greetings. Uh recently uh Isa Chishi son of lake Isak Chishi Swoo joined hands with ousted NCIM leaders in Burma. Will the US interfere like in the case of Kokilad? Um okay that's an interesting question. I'm not aware of what's happening there in in Nagaland is at least uh all the news has been about Manipur and the disaster that's unfolding in Manipur and lots of Naga people are also facing the brunt of the of the invaders of the illegal invaders the cookies um so so Isato Chishi son of late uh Isakishi Chishi Su joined hands with the with ousted NCM leaders in Burma. Ah okay that's interesting um will the okay so I'm not aware of the context over there uh but yes some NSN IM and NSNK leaders would be in Burma I suppose who would want to fight against the government of India and that sort of thing some kind of the context is there will the US interfere like they are interfering currently in the case of Kiran look you give them the opportunity they will interfere you give them an inch they will take a mile the Americans. So I hope the government of India is keeping an eye I'm pretty sure they are now at least keeping an eye on the entire far east of India not just in Manipur in Mizoram but also the entire border with Burma north to south and uh the Americans would love to interfere all over the place. So we will have to be careful and I'm glad and I'm thankful that you are raising this question and bringing this to the notice of whoever is watching and I hope the government of India does the right thing and and takes care of the interests of the natives of the citizens and doesn't allow any more interference by foreigners. That's what I would say. All right. Okay. Chira Asti says, "Did India's shift from an expansionist power to a more neutral stance begin after Ashoka's renunciation of conquest and did this contribute to India's eventual decline in global influence?" What do I think? Okay. So, Ashoke was the great uh unifier of India. It all started with his grandpa Chundra Gupta Moria and then you had Binduar and then you had Ashok and Ashoke expanded the empire to its greatest extent. Um and uh yeah he unified India and the whole subcontinent. He fought this great war against Kolinga. Kolinga was defeated. It was very bloody and then his he stopped fighting because well there was nobody else to fight. He had no aspirations to go and conquer uh let's say Bahalik or or Persia or Greece. He said the subcontinent is enough. No. So now let's be peaceful. I've conquered everything. No more fighting. And then uh yeah you could say he renounced conquest because he had conquered the whole subcontinent. Now did this contribute to India's decline in global influence? That's an interesting question and let me tell you why it didn't it's not the case. So Ashok stopped conquering. Fine. Okay. And after that the decline of the empire starts the Moria Empire. And the last emperor is who was it? I forget. Sarati was it? It was one of those guys. And then um the last emperor was was so um let's say not very capable that uh his sapati Pisha Shunga had to assassinate him in order to stabilize the the the subcontinent. So then the Shunga Empire starts and then you have other empires. But did India stop expanding or did India's emperors just renounce expansionist expansionism after Ashoke? Not quite the case. For example, we had probably the greatest emperor of all Kaneshka who who had two capitals. One was Matura and one was Purushpur which is now called Pishar. And he conquered an empire that stretched from the shores of the Aral Sea to the shores of the Caspian Sea. It incorporated it encompassed the whole of present day so-called Shinjang of China. There was a gigantic empire that he conquered Kaneshka. He fought a lot of foreigners. So uh you do see some expansionism right there don't you quite a bit of expansionism a significant quite bit of expansionism uh then you have um someone like so so that's the Kushans then you have other Kushan emperors Vasu deva who again who kicked out the Chinese from central Asia the Chinese are once again trying to trying to make their way into central Asia and Vasuva the Kushan emperor emperor kicked them out of central Asia so once again you have expansionism there then you have Um when you have the Gupta Empire, who was it? Was it Kumar Gupta? Was it Chandra Gupta? One of those two. He conquered Bahalik. Bahalik is present day Balk north of Afghanistan, that area. Um Afghanistan was historically Gandhar, but he went beyond that. Okay. So he conquered lands beyond the subcontinent. So once again there's expansionism there. Um you had uh what's his name? Samudra Gupta, right? the great conqueror whose entire career as emperor was one extended military campaign. So there is there is expansionism there. So there is the Gupta expansionism. Then you have the Kota Empire. [Music] Um what's his name? Kota Empire. Who was the king? Kota emperor Lal Lalita Lalita Lala whose capital was Shinagar he conquered large parts of central Asia great conqueror Lalita Muktapided so once again you have a conqueror an expansionist then you have the Cholas uh Raj Rajar Raj Chola conquered much of the subcontinent shore and Then he while he was still alive he abdicated his kingdom gave it to his son Rajendra Chola and Rajendra Chola conquered Southeast Asia all the way to the Philippines. Is that not expansionism? So you know we are taught that after Ashoke we became all pacifist and all soft and all all that. It's complete lie. We've had so many such I've just given you a few few examples. I'm sure there are more. Okay. So the point is it's not the case what most of us believe that after ashok renounced violence and they renounced conquest, India became a second rate world power and nobody after no other king or emperor dared to conquer beyond India after that and we declined in global influence. No, it's not quite the case. It's much more complicated than than that simplistic uh worldview. Okay, let's see what else we have. Okay, Malik says, "Why are there no advanced unmanned underwater submarines like we have in drones? If India takes the lead in this, then it can change naval warfare as it can be cheap and very lethal if loaded with explosives." That's a great point. And you do have underwater unmanned submersibles and submarines. You do have that. Uh it's almost like underwater drones. There are nations that are developing those technologies. Uh let's let's try and Google it. Okay. What what does Google tell us? Let's find out. Um underwater drones. So check it out. These are your your your toys. Okay. Under unmanned underwater under underwater vehicles. So you had this history from the 1950s onward 60s7s something happened in 2016. Chinese warship seized an underwater drone on in the process of being retrieved to the US Navy. So you have that okay various gliders manta ray kind of thing applications in the militaries. Say the US Navy began using UVs, underwater and whatever vehicles in the 1990s to detect and disable underwater underwater mines. The Chinese use it for data collection and reconnaissance and so much more. The navies of multiple countries including US, UK, France, India, Russia, China are currently creating uncrrewed vehicles to be used in oceanic warfare and so on. So this has been going on for quite a long time. um you know these underwater unmanned vehicles, drones, whatever you want to call them. And they have all kinds of military applications. Uh they can unleash explosives. They can they can launch torpedoes. They can lay mines. They can destroy mines. They can destroy ships. They can be used for reconnaissance. They can be used for espionage. They can be used for for cutting underwater cables, internet cables. They can be used for all kinds of purposes. And that technology has been under development from the 1960s onwards, 50s, 60s onwards. and all self-respecting maritime nations, military um self-respecting navies have u such vehicles. So yeah, your your idea is absolutely 100% correct and it is something that uh has been worked on for quite some time and you're absolutely right. It can be very cheap and it can be super lethal if uh used in the right way militarily. Indeed. Um Shri Ramachandra Nama says, "Do snakes really save photos of humans in their eyes?" Okay, now I have no idea where that comes from. Snakes are uh reptiles and reptiles have those slit eyes, you know, slit eyes and they I'm not sure if they view the world in color or black and white, but I have no evidence of them saving photos of humans in their eyes. I mean, how will they save a photo? They would need some kind of drive, right? Hard drive. U look, I'm I'm being a little funny here, but no. Uh there is no evidence of of any such activity. Their brains are pretty tiny and uh yeah the short answer is they do not take photos of humans in their eyes. Okay. Arnav Javan says if we get a political leadership like China and we work 10 times harder, how many years or decades will it take us to reach the level of present day China? 20 years. 20 not 10. 10 is too little. See the Chinese they started their hard work in the 19 late 1970s. It took them about about a decade to figure things out. It's in the 1990s. It's in late 80s and 1990s that that they put in place all the programs the technological programs and the most important thing was they re was they re revamped their entire education system to make it technolog technologycentric and forwardlooking. By revamping their education system, they ensured that they had the right talent going into the universities. They made all the universities research centric, research oriented and they made the universities feeder systems that would feed all the technological research institutes, R&D institutes with the brightest minds. They created this whole system from the bottom up and they invested trillions of dollars into this thing. single-minded long-term focus they had in the 1980s and 1990s that by 2050 we'll be number one. That's the kind of long-term objective they had and they kept the policy going year after year, decade after decade and today we are seeing the effects of that of something that started in the 1980s. So let's say it starts in 1985 today it's 2025 that's 40 years took them 40 years. So if we get the same sort of political leadership, high quality leadership and if we work 10 times harder, it'll take us at least 20 years more. At least 20 years more. Yeah. See, you see the magnitude of the challenge in front of India. And the the the truth is we don't have anything like them. We have a a system that's 100 times worse and uh etc. Okay. Um Vun Prajapati says was the Roman Empire the epitome of in humankind in terms of the prosperity of citizens military literature as we seen see the romanization of that era in movies and media movies and media are so powerful they'll make you think the Roman Empire was the greatest pinnacle of everything in humankind the greatest prosperity of citizens military literature etc. not quite the case. It's all propaganda. Look, the Roman Empire was great. It was not a civilization. It was an empire. It was an empire. There's a huge difference between civilization and empire. I'll go into the definition of civilization all over again, but it's not the same thing. There was prosperity, but there was, look, in Rome, you had slaves. Lots of slaves. Lots of people were slaves. Um and in a system where you have slavery, you don't you can't quite say that there was proper prosperity there. If 10 20% of the population is enslaved and your your your entire economy is based on plunder and conquest of other lands, then a small number of people will be prosperous and everybody else will be kind of under the boots of the empire. And yes, they did impose pax roana, Roman laws, Roman Roman language, Latin all that over the place. and they called it civilization but it was not quite the same thing and lots of people complained during the time that the Romans they create a wasteland and then they call it peace which means they destroy everything and then they say that we have pacified everything it's not quite the case okay so it was not the epitome of prosperity in human history military sure they had a tremendous military and uh they conquered pretty pretty decent amount of territory um literature. What literature did the Romans produce? A little bit of literature. They copied most of the Greek literature. Look, the Romans didn't care much about culture and all, but they did uh like culture and appreciate to a certain extent. So, whichever land they conquered, they would take the literature from there and they would take the gods from them. They would worship those gods and and say the literature is ours now. That's what they would do. Okay? So they appropriated all Greek literature. They appropriated all Greek gods which were kind of already Roman gods. Zeus Peter became Jupiter become became Jupiter. Zeus Petro was the Petro or Diopro who nobody in India remembers today. Different story. So look propaganda says that wrote the Roman Empire was the epitome and the pinnacle of humankind now but it's not quite the same. Not quite true. Not quite true. Nothing against Rome. was wonderful time I'm sure. But um Kapalen says, "Is the universe finite or infinite? Will we see a book tour video?" Book tour video. I'm so lazy. I don't make a book tour video. I've got books all around me. I'll I'll do it one of these days. Okay. Is the universe finite or infinite? We don't have the answer to the question because there is something called the observable universe. Okay. There is an observable horizon of the universe and that is about the diameter of that it's like the universe the observable universe is a perfect sphere and we are the center of the sphere okay and the diameter of the observable universe is what 95 billion light years that's the diameter of the observable universe and the universe is expanding so every single Today some portions of of the universe go beyond the observable horizon. They expand out of our reach. We'll never see them again ever. So there is a universe beyond the observable horizon for sure. But how big is that? We have absolutely no idea because there's no way of knowing. We have zero data out there of what's out there. So we can't say maybe it's infinite. Maybe it's finite. Maybe it's like 10 times bigger than what we have what we can see. Maybe it's a million times bigger than what we can see. I don't know. There's no way of answering it in the absence of data. So that question is out there. Sparkling lotus says except goal. Well, as long as aik and obelik are there, you cannot take gold, right? Who else was there? Um the names were really funny. dogmatics. Dogmatics and I forget the names, but yeah, good fun names. Um, okay, let's see some other questions. Okay, Manu Krishna says, "I love my nation as my own mother, but I'm in a deep state of heartbreak because of the country's current situation and what she has endured. I can't even eat or sleep properly. Please help. See yeah India isn't in the best state situation state of existence right now uh we are definitely in a better state of existence than maybe we were in the 1600s definitely slightly better than that uh and we are definitely in a better position than Gandhar was in let's say 1000 AD So you know there are times history occurs in cycles. There are good times and there are bad times like the le ziplood say. But there's no point sitting and crying. Absolutely no point doing that. What you can do is do your best to contribute in whatever way is possible to your motherland. Right? So if you are sad that the situation is terrible and there are things that you can't control, yeah there are things beyond every person has a set of things he or she can control, small set of things and everything else is beyond their control. So what you can do as a person is take whatever is within your control and try and create something positive with that and if you have the wherewithal then try and make more things within your control and try and be a positive influence on all all of that and if everybody starts doing that then you know the situation turns around. So I would recommend don't be all heartbroken. Sleep well, eat well and do something constructive. Do something positive with your existence, with your life. And if and and inspire more people to do that. And if everyone contributes whatever they can in their own small or big way and if everybody works hard like that works together towards a common purpose towards a common objective of of improving the condition of our country then things will change. So the problem is that most Indians don't even see everybody else as part of the same team. That's the biggest problem in India. We simply don't see that we are one people, one nation. We have one purpose because nobody identifies, nobody defines, none of our leaders defines what is the purpose of India? What is the big objective of India? What is our mission? Does any leader today tell you that this so and so is India's mission? By 2040 we have to achieve this. By 2050 we have to achieve this. I have heard slogans and all that stuff but you have to be a nations that's that's laser focused on a certain purpose. What's the nation's motto slogan? If you look at the the people in the country they are living out the opposite mo mottoy right. So India needs to have India needs to have a mission, a purpose, a a time frame, purpose, mission with deadlines. And everybody needs to feel like they are all part of a mission. They have to all work together. We are all a team. You meet a stranger somewhere, you should know, even though you not don't know the person, you should feel like, yeah, we are even though we are strangers, we never met, but we are all part of the same team. We are working in the same direction. that is missing in the country. So let's all find some purpose for ourselves and for our country and all work towards that in our own way. So one person can be an artist, one person can be a scientist, one person can be an engineer, one can be a teacher, one can be a bureaucrat, let's say. So you're all working in very different domains. But if you're all trying your best to improve the situation of your country, you're all working in the same direction. That's what needs to happen. So there's no point sitting and crying and being all heartbroken and not sleeping and not eating. Get up, stand up, and and and do something about it. Um, okay. What else do we have? What other questions? IMG says, "Can aliens manipulate our satellite images to give false information about their universe? This can help alien civilization to hide from other civilizations. Well, if I was an alien, I would love to do such things. You know, if I was an alien, I was I was if I was the leader of an alien civilization, I would tell my minions, go out there everywhere, wherever there are humans or other planets, you go and meddle with the satellites, give them false information, and make them think they're allowed in the universe. Completely fool them. Look, I don't know the answer to your question, but if aliens exist, maybe they can do it. Do aliens exist? We have no evidence of that. Can aliens exist? Certainly, it's possible. It's quite possible that aliens may exist, that you may have other life forms in other parts of the universe, in other parts of the galaxy, maybe in our solar system as well. Who knows? We don't know. It's possible. Um, so hypothetically, theoretically, it's possible and so on. Yeah. Okay. Xmus Zeus says, "Let's have a math podcast for fun." I wonder how many people will watch that ma math podcast. I don't mind having a math podcast. I love math. I love complicated math. I love advanced math. But uh I think if I make such a podcast, the viewership will be very low. After one year, it'll have like 3,000 views. Most people don't want to see math. They don't like math. I think it it most people are scared of math, right? And so on. So yeah, I I don't mind it really. Find me a good mathematician. I'll do a podcast. I love doing podcast on things I enjoy, even if nobody cares, even if nobody wants to watch. So yeah, find me a good mathematician. I'll do a math podcast. Uh, right. What next? What next? Um okay Sergeant Skylin says do you think India can replace China in the export of rare rare earth materials? How much do we have sufficient quantities of these rare earth minerals? I think China it accounts for the export of 90% of the global supply of rare earths. And uh I hear that India had discovered reasonable deposits of these things but I'm not sure. I think look what I think is that India is a gigantic place. I don't think so. I know that India is a gigantic subcontinent. Tremendous amount of natural resources are just lying underground. I'm sure we have sufficient quantities of everything. Whether it's rare earths, whether it's uranium, whether it's oil and gas. I I think we have not even started looking. It's just like the archaeology situation. We have more than 2,000 undiscovered unexplored archaeological sites on the on the dry river banks of just one ancient river, the Saraspati. Just on the on the river river banks of just one ancient river, we have more than 2,000 untouched archaeological sites. Similarly, all across the length and breadth of India, I'm pretty sure there's more than enough mineral wealth to completely make India self-sufficient. Whether it's oil, whether it's gas, whether it is whatever else, rare earths, I don't think we have even begun to look properly. Uh but yeah, there's no point of having potential unless you use the potential. uh so unless we go out and we prospect we discover things we will never know what we have so theoretically I'm sure we can do it but are we looking for it have we made the discoveries I'm not quite sure I remember a couple of years ago we dis it came in the news we have discovered the world's second largest or something deposits of lithium in two three places one was in Jammu Kashmir so that was like at least a year ago what action has been taken to extract the lithium. What has been done? I am not sure anything has been done. So that's the kind of country India India is that we simply don't take action. If action is taken, there's a whole lengthy procedure tender you have to do tenders and there's a procedure you have to do and there's L1 and L2 and God knows it takes decades to to move a single piece of paper somewhere in India. So if India stays like that, remains like that, then we will never replace China. But if we do the right thing, then we can replace China. So okay, what other questions? Sonu Barav says, "Please call Mr. Barav for a math podcast." Well, I would love to. Yeah, let me try and reach out to him. It'll be fun. Yeah, I would love to. Great, great recommendation. Let's try and let me try and see if I can can reach out to Mangul Fields medal winner. Amazing guy. Okay. Shubam Ramola says, "Every year thousands of high netw worth individuals migrate out of India and how does it affect affect our economy in the long run? Why isn't the government doing anything to halt it? So why do net high netw worth individuals migrate out of India? You to ask yourself that question first of all. Why do wealthy Indians feel the need to leave India? There must be something in India that makes them want to leave India. Right? Well, you know, if you if you are a high net worth person, HNI, high netw worth individual, then you you will be running a business or you'll have a large amount of money and you will have to pay taxes on that and the taxes will be very high and then the the point is if you are spending so much money paying so many taxes then what do you get in exchange in return for that? Do you get a high quality of life? Do we get do we get the facilities we would get in a first world country? You don't get any of that. Let's say you're running a business. Let's say you you have 10,000 crores in your bank account and you want to run a business. Well, running a business is so difficult in India compared to running a business elsewhere. And it's so frustrating and it's so painful that eventually you say, "Okay, I'll I'm just going to give up give up. I'll go somewhere else and I'll take my business elsewhere." The system is like that. Nobody hates the country. Nobody hates the culture. Nobody hates the people. the system, the parasitical system that is leeching the the the lifeblood of the country. That is the problem. And to to fix that, we need deep reforms. And when when will those reforms happen? We don't know. Um so yeah, it's it's an issue. See, high netw worth individuals leave the country. uh the brightest minds leave the country and go abroad. Who is developing all the AIS in the US? A lot of Indians are there. A lot of Indians are at the forefront of the development of artificial intelligence systems, LLM and whatnot in the United States. Much of it is being done by Indians. The same Indians who were once here and they chose to leave the country because the country doesn't treat them the way they should be treated. The country doesn't uh value merit. The country doesn't value talent. The country seeks to destroy talent. The education system hunts down and destroys talent and it rewards mediocrity. Who wants to live in such a system? And you should see some sign of reform at some point in time. What reform has happened? So people leave the country for these reasons and you can't blame them for that. Some of them end up bitter and some of them end up hating their country. Some of some of them understand that the country is not at fault. It's the system. It's the people who run the system who are at fault. Those people are the they will ensure the system never changes because they benefit from the system. So how does it affect the economy in the long run? Obviously it affects the economy. Um if those people those high net worth net worth individuals were to remain in India set up businesses run them successfully then it would be great for the economy. It would make the economy boom. If talented people were to remain in India and use their talent in the service of the nation it would be great for the country. So all those all those people going out of the country it's it's a net loss for India. It's a huge loss. It's an ongoing huge loss year after year for India and something has to be done to arrest this. Since I was a little kid, I have been hearing about brain drain. Well, what has any leader ever done about brain drain to to stop the brain drain in this country? It's very simple. You have to create a system that's meritocratic. You should not victimize talented people. But that's what happens in this country. So the country suffers as a result. And uh yeah. Okay. Uh anonymous scientist says, "Do you like the Beatles? Then which Beatles song is your favorite?" I've never been a great fan of the Beatles. I never quite got what's the big deal about the Beatles. Um they did have some good songs. What? Norwegian Wood is good. Norwegian Wood. I'm sure there are other other good songs as well, but uh yeah, I I never found them really very interesting. There were other bands that were that were definitely much more interesting for me. Naven Kumar says, "Being a happy idiot is better than becoming a miserable genius." Do you agree? Maybe you're right. But I guess you don't get a choice in this matter, right? If you are an idiot, let's say hypothetically, let's say hypothetically if I'm an idiot, then it's not my choice to be an idiot or not. I think it happens because you are born with a certain IQ bandwidth that the maximum IQ you will ever have in your life is this much and the lowest you will ever have is hopefully limited to some level and you will operate in that in that in that range. I think it's genetic it's what not whatever. So if you are born with a certain set of genes which gives you a certain range of IQ in which you can operate and let's say that IQ range is 80 to 100 for example I don't know what is the idiot level IQ right what is it 80 is it 70 let's say it's 70 to 80 for example hypothetically then I think you may be classified as what they call an idiot so it's not a choice that you have you you're dealt a certain set of cards in your life and you're going to live with that. So, if you're an idiot and if you're happy, well, good for you, bro. That's what I'll say. And is it is it is it true that geniuses are miserable? Well, once again, it's a choice to be happy or to be miserable. If you're a genius, you'll understand the world much better than other people. And the deeper the more you understand the world, the more you see all the nasty things that the world is filled with. And you see a lot of the truth about a lot of people. Yeah. All that you see. And uh it it can make you cynical. It can make you somewhat miserable at times. But at the end of the day, it's your choice. Do you want to be happy? Do you want to miserable? I'm sure there are happy geniuses too out there. I think you know the the real measure of how intelligent you are and how gen how much of a genius you are. Look, if you are a genius, you should be able to get what you want, right? Are you able to get what you want? If you are a genius, if if let's say a person is a genius, but he or she has not got acquired what they want in life, then how can you call them a genius? Just having high intelligence doesn't make you genius. Doesn't make you a genius. You should be able to uh use that intelligence to achieve whatever outcomes you want in life. And I think that's what you would call a what you would categorize as a real genius. Yeah. We we hear all these stories of the tormented geniuses, you know, the great authors. Vincent Van Go the greatest poet of the greatest painter of all time but he was never recognized as such during his lifetime and he he died penniless poor and sad tormented u so yeah he had that incredible talent and that was not his fault but I would say if you're a real genius all round genius you should be able to achieve what you want in life and then you will not be miserable um so what is better. I think what is best is to be a happy genius. I think that's I'm sure that's that's much better than being a happy idiot. But I'm sure being a happy is also great. A life of bliss. Life of life of complete ignorance and complete bliss. Everything is fine. Everything is fun. Everybody is my friend. Everyone's good. I mean that's also a nice life I would say. So yeah, it depends. It depends on the person. All right. [Music] Um, okay. Yes. Parik says, "I just came to know about the battle of Dwire. Being a Rajasthan, I was shocked that I never knew about it. Could you please tell us something about it? Why were we never taught this?" Well, I am shocked. I don't know about this. I don't know what this is. Battle of the Wire. I'm I'm I myself have not read about this. So, I can't tell you anything about it, but I will try and look it up. I'll not do the research right now because then I'll be quiet. I'll be reading. But, okay. Interesting. Let me just quickly Google that and and just figure out what that is. Battle of the W. Let's see. Okay, let's let's do that. Battle of Diwir. So this was between Diwir between okay a significant conflict in the ongoing Rajput Mogul conflict 1606. It pitted the force of Amar Singh of Bir against the Mgul army led by Janir uh etc etc. It resulted in a victory for Amar Singh marking a crucial moment in the resistance against Mgul expansion. Okay that's interesting. I am not aware of it and um okay I'll I'll check it out. I'm not aware of it. Thank you for bringing this to my notice and our notice. Vikram Geopolitical says when thinking about polymaths the name of Raindra Nath Tagore doesn't come to our mind. He was also a great polymath. What are your views about him? I don't know much about Ravindraat Tagore. I'm I haven't read any of his works. I haven't read about his life life story etc. I know that he was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature for uh a book or or or or or a work called Gangjali. I know that he was a poet and a writer and the the the the originator of what they call Rabindra Sangeit and to be a polymath you have to be a top quality exponent in multiple fields. So for example they give the name of Leonardo da Vinci. Leonardo da Vinci was a great pointer painter a great uh sculptor. He was an inventor you could say a scientist. He was an anatomist. So he was a top quality practitioner of of anatomy of of uh let's say engineering or invention of of uh painting of of sculpture. So that's a true polymath. Someone who is great at multiple fields. Do we have other examples of polymaths? Let let's let's try and figure it out. The person who is genuinely good at so many multiple things. Let's see. Polymaths. Who were polymaths? M A T math. So give me some names. Leonardi Aristotle. Uh Isaac Newton, Rabbindra Tagore, poet, writer, social reformer, philosopher, playwright, artist. Okay, good. Hipatia of Alexandria and so on and so on. Okay. So, yeah, look, I I'm not really very familiar with the works and life of Rabida Tagore, so I can't really comment much about it, but uh yeah, it's good to know that he was a polymath and yeah, great that we have one of one of our people in that list. Um Romesh Ay says India should hold ATP, WTA Masters 10,000 or at least a 500 event. What are your thoughts? I think we should hold all kinds of events in the sporting world in India. We should have our own grand slam in tennis or at least something as good as a grand slam. We should have Why don't we popularize the sport of rugby in India? We are good at kabadi. Kabadi is a very physical game. It's a contact sport. All you have to do is add some running into it and you have rugby with a weird shaped ball. Players who are good at kobi will naturally be good at rugby. Why can't we popularize something like rugby? You know, you need some of that in life, especially if you're a male. Little bit of jousting. So, I would love to have rugby in India. Why don't we have a rugby premier league in India? Why don't we have a basketball league in India? Multiple basketball. Why don't we have a hockey league like the IPL in India? Hockey is supposedly our national sport. Why don't we have that? I just don't get it why we don't have these things. Um why don't we have a volleyball league like that in India? We there are so many sports out there. We can popularize all the sports. We can create whole economic ecosystems around these sports. We could be a major global sporting power just if a few people would would invest in these leagues you know create these leagues. You can't expect the government to do all these things. I know government also sometimes comes in the way with their sporting sports associations and all that. politicians are part of that and all but yeah I completely agree with you we should have all these events in India and it's it's I think it's a low lowhanging fruit you can create a whole economic infrastructure and ecosystem around these things because if you have a sport that is popular then you will have lots of athletes which means you need lots of coaches you will need lots of support staff lots of medical personnel you will need um infrastructure as in stadiums and training facilities and you know a whole economic ecosystem can be constructed around any any particular sport and if you have like like 20 sports that are popular in the in that manner imagine today I mean when the IPL happens Indians forget everything and the whole nation stops because Indians don't have any other avenue of entertainment beyond cricket why not make other sports more popular and you know sports sporting success brings n the nation together. It's only when you achieve great success uh in sports or or in other fields that the nation comes together. Nothing unifies a nation like success in the international domain and sports is a great place to to have this. It's a great substitute for war. Sports is a substitute for warfare. So you know we should we should do these things. We should we should have that. If I had a few billion dollars, I would certainly do invest in all these things. Uh Mr. 88 says, "Why is Japan offering its E5 and E3 Shinkansen trains for free? Those are older models." Okay, so listen, when you set up a new track, you need a couple of tester trains, trains to test out the track and do some some routine work. So the the trains that will actually run on these tracks will be the E8 or E10 or whatever the the series is. But they are offering a couple of these trains for free just for the testing purpose. I think when Taiwan set up its Shinkansen line, the Japanese gave at least one train to the Taiwanese also for free like that. So it's just u it's a nice gesture and we certainly appreciate that. Geopolitical Dubai says was Kishor Kumar a genius singer and did you listen to him? I think he was probably my favorite male singer uh in Hindi songs. I mean yeah probably but of course you should be sure you should know I mean genius I mean he had a great voice and he was a great actor too actually and for some reason he stopped acting after after that movie the comedy movie with Saira Banu and u sur what's the name of that movie let's let's Posen was it Posen uh let's see kishure Kumar Pu son I think it was yeah it was the last movie in which he acted. He was an absolute genius at comedy and other stuff also and he was a great singer and uh but you should know that you know what is that song om shantiom right kishor kishor kumar om shantiom so this song om shantiom okay I'm sure everyone is aware of Yes. Well, let me tell you what's the original song. Original song. Mary Omar, no javano, etc., etc. What is the original song? Om Shanti Om uh West Indies I'm not able to I can't remember the the copied song, right? Bollywood song copied Om Shanti Om copied from okay let's [Music] um so there was this guy I forget his name he was from the West Indies Lord Shorty Shorty I don't know why Google won't find it okay Lord Shorty it's the same song infringement of copyright so there was a song by a Trinidadian soa artist Lord Shorty which Kush and Kushar Kumar went to the Caribbean. He met this guy Lord Shorty and Lord Shorty played that song for him and then we finds out that next year Kushar Kumar has released that song in a Bollywood movie. So that's the kind of thing Mr. Kusher Kumar did which is sad to see because I was a big fan of him but you know yep it is what it is. Yes. Ouch. Okay. Uh yeah, enough enough controversy for one day. Let's let's not get into let's not into get into AR Rahman and all that. Uh Priyang Shu says, "Could you please share your email ID? I'm working on Indo-Pacific region. I'm willing to interact with you. Could you give Listen, I don't know why people find it so hard to contact me. Has anybody ever bothered to look at the description of my videos? My email ID is there. Why don't people take a little bit of initiative and do a little bit of searching? Look in the description of this video. My email is there. Shouldn't be that hard to find to to re to reach out to me. Sam says, "Is intelligence genetic or developed?" I think there is that's a question of nature and nurture. Right? Look, I believe from a little bit of understanding and experience, more than a little bit, I would say that there are two components to intelligence. One is inherited. There's an inherited component and then there is an a developed component. So some people are just born more intelligent and some people are just born less intelligent. You can't deny that. And if you are born with a certain which means that everybody who when they are born they their genetic encoding is such that you will be able to operate within a certain range of intelligence lower range and upper range. So maybe someone has a lower range of 100 IQ. Okay, I'm just giving a hypothetical range. So someone's lower range will be 100 IQ and maybe upper range will be 125 for example. That's decent IQ. So if that person is completely lazy and doesn't bother to study and doesn't bother to hone their intelligence, they'll operate at level 100. But if they really study and they really develop their mind and exercise their mind and sharpen their intellect, then they'll be able to operate at 125. But they won't be able to go beyond 125 because that's the limitations of of that's the genetic limitations that that's the limitation encoded in their genetics. So yes, some of it is genetic and some of it is developed. So you are dealt a certain set of genetic cards and you it means that you're capable of of a range of things and if you really work hard on it then you can operate at the upper upper end upper end of the range of your intelligence. So it's both it's genetic as well as developed. So if a person has that range of 100 to 125, they will never be able to operate I believe at 140 or 150, right? But yeah, you may be able to operate at 80 if you if you want if you Yeah, that that that's possible I suppose. Um Nad Rooney says, "Can you know Japan? Can you speak a Japanese? I been started learning Japan a help. I don't want you motivation. Okay, listen. I don't know how to speak Japanese. Uh Japanese, I'm sure is a wonderful language. It's a wonderful culture. One of my favorite nations, cultures in Asia, but I don't speak Japanese. I've never tried to learn Japanese. I may know a few words here and there. I know a few words here and there of almost every language. A couple of words here and there. Uh, but it doesn't mean I know the language. So, yeah, I don't know Japanese, but uh, yeah, I'm I'm glad that you're learning Japanese and all the best for that. Romeshay says, "How different is Swiss German from traditional German?" I don't really really know. I lived in Switzerland for a while as a kid, but the the language I was familiar with was French. I lived in the Swiss, the western part of Switzerland, and that's where you speak French. And I can tell you the difference differences between Swiss French and French French, but I don't quite know the difference between Swiss German and traditional German. Um, yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm not I'm not quite sure what the differences are. there are some subtle differences but in French when it comes to French um so for example um yeah in for example in French for the word 80 in in France they say tis which means 7010 okay but in Switzerland they say kathma which means 420s so 20* 4 so they say kathma in in Switzerland in in in France they say sept so 70 so 88 would be septant dwit in in France but kthit in in in Switzerland so there's a difference subtle difference between Swiss French and French French but I'm not quite sure what the difference between Swiss German and traditional German is but there is some there are some small subtle differences but I never learned German I think there was one year in which I had to learn like some basic German in in class but uh it never took root in me. I think I I understood more general ger German later on. I learned I got to understand a bit more German later on because I discovered the the similarities between German and English because English is a Germanic language. Uh yeah, but I I don't quite know. All right. Okay. Josh Gon says, "Do you think India can move out of democracy which we know is a facade only leading to a five-year tunnel vision of leaders to stay in power? If yes, how the how can that happen? I have absolutely no idea how you can transition out of a democracy. And especially in India where you have a great der of highquality leaders, if India transitions into a dictatorship, you may have even worse leaders becoming dictators. Okay. So yeah you know theoretically if you look back at history all our kings and emperors were from today's perspective dictators obviously right um Nepo kids you could say because they were the sons of of previous kings and so on that's how it is to work in dynasties so technically from today's worldview perspective kings and emperors were dictators but they operated in a different way they operated within the confines of dharma and they were not quite dictators they had councils of ministers would advise them and people could actually censor kings, censure kings and kings could even be thrown out of power by citizens if they did not well abide by dharma and so on. So we had checks and balances of our own kind of of our civilizational variety back in the day. Today you don't have any of that. So if today you end up having a dictatorship in India, it may it may end up being like a like an African country dicty dictatorship. Uh and I'd rather not want that. So I don't know. It's a very difficult way forward for India. The system that we are laboring under is terrible. It's it's eminently unsuitable for India. It's not going to take India forward in the right direction. It's going to you know relegate India in the realm of mediocrity for for as long as it lasts. But how do you come out of this? I'm not quite sure. You would need an exceptionally uh strong leader of incredible fortitude to be able to single-handedly turn the system around, take the bull by the horns and change the whole system. Um very hard to see that happening but it can happen. It's happened in the past. I mean lots of examples. An example I could give which is not which may not be very appropriate but I can think of the example of Mustafa Kimal Taturatur in Turkey who did almost the impossible. He turned an ancient Islamic country into a modern secular dictatorship of kinds you know into a modern nation. Um, so it may be possible, but you would need a person of incredible fortitude to be able to do that. Do we have anything anyone like that on the horizon today? I'm not quite sure. Uh, Moonlight Sonata says, uh, can you please tell us why the US doesn't want to sell the F22 Raptor even after having the kill switch, but it's willing to sell the successor F-35. The F22 Raptor, I don't think they'll sell to anyone. Have they exported it to anybody at all? The F-22 is the best aircraft. Let me Google this. Okay, let me see if the F-22 has been exported. Has the F22 been been exported? There we have it. The jet fighter so advanced that US law bans it from being exported. Like I said, it's the most advanced fighter they have. It it is way better than the F-35. The F-35 it's like a fine it's like a flying coke can. Okay. The F-35 the F-22 is a beast of an aircraft. It's the best aircraft they have. And yeah, they won't export it. It is so advanced and it's so capable that you can't give it in in anyone's hands. You can't even give it to your own allies. That's how good the aircraft is. Even even if there's a kill switch, you don't just don't you see you don't want people to have that thing in their hands. Whether it's a kill switch or a back door or whatever they they put in there doesn't matter. So yeah, I think they've they've built this F-35 for multiple purposes. One could be moneyaundering perhaps, one could be to enrich the military-industrial complex and the people who run that and also they've made multiple variants. Some of them are to be exported. Some of some of them are designed to be exported. Amisha says what's cooking between Pakistan and Bangladesh. Look, when you have two vasals of the big boss, they'll talk to each other. So, East Pakistan, West Pakistan are both nations that have had a regime change operation done upon them by the United States. In Pakistan, it happened in 2022 when Imran Khan was ousted. He was pro-China. He was ousted and whoever came to power, whoever was put in that seat is now I think it's Sharif, right? Shabbaz Sharif. He is a pro- US uh person and Pakistan is now a pro- US regime. It's a US Vasal. And same thing happened to Bangladesh. Shikhasina who was pro- India let's say she was ousted and uh whatever regime is in power there is is pro- US today so the two are both minions of the United States so they will coordinate together and recently the Pakistani foreign minister or whatever that person is she visited Bangladesh and she met with the puppet guy Yunus Muhammad Yunus and they will try and cook something together obviously to with with an eye on India. Uh not quite sure what it will be. Uh but there could be military cooperation between the between the two nations. Uh Muhammadus has been trying to bring China into the mix. Um not quite sure the Americans will like that very much because uh you know China is enemy number one for them. So yeah, something is cooking and we over here we're going to have to be really careful. So we now have the same old two-front situation. East Pakistan, West Pakistan. Okay. Uh Sabaria says, "Who exactly are Caucasians?" Well, let's go to the map and I'll tell you who really are the Kauazians. Okay. Um let's go to the map and here we are. So this is the map. The Caucasian people are the people who are the natives and inhabitants of the Caucasus region. What is the Caucasus region? Okay, start from where we are. India, we know where India is. Go westwards. Go westwards. You cross the artificial temporary nation. You you cross Gandhar. You cross Persia. uh you come into Mesopotamia from Mesopotamia from Baghdad you go northwards north north you cross Armenia Azarbaijan and that's the Caucasus region the region between the black sea and the Caspian sea that is the Caucasus region and the people who live in the Caucasus region are the Caucasian people and this was historically considered to be the the artificial dividing line between Europe and Asia uh the Caucasus region the Caucasus mountains right so you have regions like um countries and regions like Armenia, Georgia, uh Dagistan, Cheschna, etc. In the Caucasus region, uh the people of the Caucasus region are ethnically Indo-Iranian or Iranic origin. people they they're called. You have languages like the Oetian language and the Iran language that are spoken here that are related to ancient Skyian and that's the Caucasus region and that's the Caucasus people and um today uh Caucasian is used as the name of a race the white race. So the white people are called Kauasian people because some somebody in the 19th century or somewhere believed that the white race originated from the Kauasus region. So that's that's a pseudoscientific completely wrong term. But the real Caucasian people are the people who live in that region the Kauasus region the Kavkas Kavkas region. Um Chiraavasi says do you think despite not born not being born in India was Kaneshka the great more Indian in spirit than many Indians today? Kanesha was born in India. his ancestors came from. Okay, let's go to the map. So once again we open the map and let's talk about a certain period of history. So if you go let's say you are in the far east of India let's say you're in Manipur. Okay Manipur let's go straight north of Manipur just straight north. So you cross Arunachal Pradesh, you cross Tibet, you keep going north, you keep going north, you keep grow going north and where do you reach? You reach Mongolia. Just go straight north of Manipur, you will reach eventually Mongolia. So this region, the Mongolia region about 2 and a half thousand years ago. In this region, there used to be a tribal confederation who lived here. They were called by the Chinese. The Chinese they called them the Shyu, the Shyu tribe. They were the ancestors of the Huns and the Mongols. The Houns eventually became the Turks. Kind of. Okay, just making it oversimplifying it, but that's kind of what happened. The Huns eventually became the Turks. So over here you had the Shau or the Hunik people who originated somewhere around this region, today's Mongolia region. And west of that region you had the whole of the central Asian uh grasslands and you had Tibet and present day East Turkiststan Shinjang all that. Now in north of Nepal, north of India in this region which is present day Tibet and present day Shing Jang, you had a people who were probably the descendants of the Tushara people of the Mahabharat, the Tokaran people and they were called they were a confederation of multiple tribes. One of the tribes was called the Kushan tribe. So when the huns when the shau they expanded westwards from present day Mongolia region they caused the Kushans and the other tribes of the region to flee westwards. So these tribes they fled westwards and the schithians who were living north of India they to flee into India to escape from the Kusans. So you had an akitian invasion of India during the Indo- Greek era and a couple of centuries later the Kushans followed them into India. The Kushads also invaded India. So Kaneshka's ancestors were part of the confederation that invaded India. Now who were the Kushans originally? They were Indo-Ier Indo-Uropean people. They were essentially of Indian origin, but they had been living outside of India for several centuries or maybe several thousand years. Um and and you know if you look at if you look at the Tarim basin mummies who are found in that region the ancestral homeland of the Kushans they look like Europeans. They are like 6 and 1/2 ft tall. Some of them some of them have have red hair. Some of them have blonde hair and their skin is whitish or something but their genetics is R1 A1A mostly which is Indian. So it's weird. And they used to worship Indian gods. Um and there are cities in that region which are under the sands now. cities that were discovered by Orurelstein, the great explorer, Hungarian British explorer, cities like Dandan, Oilik and whatnot where you still find uh you know representation of representations of Indian gods and all that. So the Kushans eventually entered India and they were genetically culturally quite similar to us and they took over large parts of India and the invaders were Kaneshka's ancestors but Kaneshka was most likely born somewhere in northern India. His ancestors were you could say invaders or immigrants. So he was a third, second, third, fourth generation immigrant or whatever you want to call him. But if you look at Keshka's actions, he was more Indian than any other any other leader of today. I'll tell you that he was definitely more more Indian than than Ashoke. Sorry, not Ashoke. What? Akbar Kaneshka did more than any other Indian emperor to spread Indian culture far and wide beyond India. He he spread India's territories, expanded India's territories in all directions. He took care of the Indian national interest, cultural interest, civilizational interest like nobody before or after. And he spread India's he was the guy who who spread Indian culture and civilization eastwards. It eventually ended up reaching Japan, South Korea all the way through China. Kaneshka is the guy who started this and he patronized every Indian god. If you look at his coinage, 5% of his coinage has the Buddha. 95% of the coinage has all the other gods and goddesses. Lots of Shiva, lots of coins with Lord Shiva on them, Nandi on them, some with Aurora Mazda on them. He worshiped every god who was a truly Indian guy. So Kaneshka was Kaneshka the great one of our greatest emperors of all time. Certainly one of my favorite emperors. I wish we had someone like him today. Kaneshka the great. Okay. Okay. Let's uh what does Vidhi have to say? Does genetics and nervous system engineering does it have anything to do with language? Do you think Sanskrit will be more helpful to the students while learn with learning disabilities instead of English? Interesting question. some languages are better for the nervous system for the brain apparently than other languages. Uh so I'm not sure about I mean I don't think anybody has done any research about what would be the effect of learning Sanskrit on somebody who has a learning disability. I don't think anybody has done that sort of research scientific research in a proper uh scientific manner. I'm not sure anyone has done that. What I know is that there is something called a sanskrit effect. So let me let's Google that together. And that is scientific research. Um the Sanskrit effect. So it's a theory proposed by neuroscientist James Hartzel saying that suggesting that memorizing and reciting Sanskrit mantras enhances brain regions associated with cognitive function particularly memory and language. Studies have shown that professionally qualified Sanskrit pundits exhibit increased gray matter density and cortical thickness in key brain regions compared to control groups. This suggests that the rigorous memorization and recitation practice associated with Sanskrit mantras may lead to measurable changes in brain structure and function. Sanskrit effect scientific American uh and so on so forth. So I think that I'm not sure where it is. There's a lot of this blog post and all that they define but I there are at least I'm sure that there is some published research on this like peer-reviewed research on the Sanskrit effect. So yes now does it mean that if you memorize any any language large quantities of text in any language will it have the same effect on your brain? I don't know. No one's tried to compare do a comparative study of memorizing copious amounts of Sanskrit mantras versus let's say memorizing something in Latin similar quantity of whatever in Latin I'm not sure anybody has done that so I can't you know I can't comment on that but I think Sanskrit is and there is something it's also said that you know u chanting Sanskrit or or listening to Sanskrit create has a kind of meditative effect on the mind calms you down and and brings your anxiety levels down and all that just by either chanting something in Sanskrit whether you understand or not just the the pattern of the sounds is such that it calms you down or just listen to somebody doing that that will calm you down and it it'll create a meditative kind of effect in your mind so there seems to be something about about Sanskrit that's different from other languages I wish Indian scientists Indian researchers would take this up but it's other people are doing it James Hardzel our scientists, our academics, our researchers have no interest in doing any of these things and that is so sad to see. So it looks like there is something special about the Sanskrit language and I would be happy if somebody would try it out um and and try and see whether Sanskrit will have a positive effect on students who have learning disabilities at least it cannot harm them. So why don't you do a structured experiment and and see if if there is some positive effect of that. It'll be great if somebody does that sort of experiment you know but yeah or it looks like Sanskrit there is something special about this one language Sanskrit. Okay Anant is asking a question what is this China looks like a fan of Donald Trump are you Anand? Okay. So the question is Tibet USA vasal if China didn't capture it. China China I think what he's asking is that if China did not capture Tibet would Tibet have become an American vasal? Well it's a hypothetical question. U if China did not capture Tibet well in what under what conditions would we have a world in which China did not capture Tibet? That would happen only if India was strong enough to defend Tibet and safeguard Tibet's sovereignty. So if India was strong enough to prevent China from capturing Tibet because if India wasn't strong enough, China was going to capture it. I assure you of that. So Tibet remains independent hypothetically only if India is able to safeguard its sovereignty. That's the only situation in which China can't capture Tibet because Tibet had no standing army. They were all Buddhist monks and all. Hm. They had a very tiny self-defense force which was not really um capable of of of defending the country. So the only situation the only uh scenario in which Tibet remains independent is if India guarantees Tibet's security and safety and prevents China from capturing it. So if that scenario is true then Tibet can't become a US because India will ensure it doesn't happen. All right. Manuk Krishna says, "If one becomes an IAS officer, how can one gain power to the highest echelons without partaking in elections and becoming a slave to the politicians?" I have no idea. Uh, look, as an IS officer, you have great amount of power over small people. So if you're a district collector, district magistrate or whatever, you have a tremendous amount of power on all the poor all the powerless people, all the citizens who live in the district. You have complete power over them, excuse me. But you have to take orders from the politicians who are above you. So as an I is officer you are always taking orders from somebody and the higher you rise you take orders from more and more powerful politicians. That's how it works. So how can one gain power to the highest echelons without partaking in elections and becoming a slave to the politicians? Um I'm not quite sure. I'm sure there is a game that you play and if you play it well then you can become more powerful than most politicians. It's possible. I'm sure. I think to understand how it works I think you would watch. Yes, Minister, yes, Prime Minister in which they've kind of satized how all that works. You know, the officers, the bureaucrats are always really the ones in power and the politicians, they come and go. It's kind of like that. But I'm not quite sure how it happens in how it works in real life. I'm sure it's possible to a certain extent, possibly, hypothetically. Okay. Om. Beher says, "Why did Yugoslavia disintegrate just 10 years after Tito's death? Was it due to a power vacuum or external interference since the EU formed around the time? What can India learn from it?" Okay. The this nation Yugoslavia was a great experiment. It was kind of a successful socialist experiment for a change kind of. Okay. Why did it disintegrate? It disintegrated because the USSR collapsed and disintegrated itself. So the USSR disintegrates and the USSR was the guaranteer of security of Yugoslavia and because that protection was gone the Americans said now we can play God now this is the uniolar moment there's no competition for us there's no power who can oppose us so let's play God and let's break up Yugoslavia and that's what they did so it's yeah external interference because of an absence of protective power over Yugoslavia which was the USSR. Um yeah. So what can India learn from this? India can learn that you know power is all that matters. Strength is all that matters. The greatest weakness in geopolitics geopolitics the greatest sin in geopolitics is weakness. If you are weak you're committing a sin. That's what India can learn. Karthik Mali says, "Do you think Hinduism will vanish after a few centuries as the people don't have much knowledge about their own religion and the conversion record is going on and how Hinduism has shrunk, shrunk, etc. It's possible if we are not careful. It could happen. You know, most of us we don't know much about our own culture, our own religion compared to what our grandparents knew. We know very little. We care very little because the education system is such that it just pulls us away. It doesn't teach us anything about our culture. We don't learn anything about our ancestors, about our history, who we are, where we came from, what our ancestors did, what fights did, what what struggles they faced, what their culture is, how much they fought to safeguard their culture, the religion and keep it alive. And what is our religion? What is our culture? What are the components? Why should should it be important to us? We are taught nothing at all. And our parents generally are too busy working. So they don't get to teach us anything. So we are just completely you know dassinated cut off from our roots and this happens increasingly generation after generation and eventually people Indians in most Indians will have absolutely no connection to their culture and you see that in big cities today. So it's possible that in a few centur maybe in a few decades Hinduism will essentially cease to exist. It's possible if we are not careful but I hope it doesn't happen. We have survived 10,000 years more or less. So hopefully we survive another 10,000 years. So let's be optimistic but let's be careful is what I would say. Okay. Sid says do you think Indian civilization is older than the Australian civilization? Does Australia have a civilization? Australia had the aboriginal people but they never had an advanced civilization. What's a civilization? It's an advanced society that has that is a net exporter of culture and so many other characteristics. Australia was cannot be classified the the the society of the native people of Australia. I don't know what it was like before the invaders came in the the British came in and destroyed everything. It doesn't look like they were very advanced. So I don't know if it qualifies to be a civilization. in case it was a civilization. We don't know when it it it emerged for the first time. Um, so I don't know. I don't know. Our civilization is let's say 10,000 years old perhaps. Okay. Maybe long maybe older but roughly 10,000 years old. Uh, did the native Australians also have something that old? We don't know. We have found no evidence of that. It's possible, but we don't know. So, can't really say. H okay Raz says our patent laws are a few are decades old. Don't you think they need urgent reform? I think everything in this country needs urgent reform. I have not looked at the patent laws so I don't know how it is like but I'm pretty sure it's all it all dates back to the 19th century or 18th century. I have no idea. So I'm sure everything needs urgent reform. Uh Raji says this is the last question for today. What's your opinion on working for the UN? Is it a good domain to explore jobs for youth with a few with a few years of corporate experience? I think working for the UN is great. You get a lot of exposure, very little work, and if you are smart, you can really have a great life. See, the UN has a huge budget and it does nothing. the UN does nothing but it will send you to different places and it'll give you a lot of exposure and you will get in touch with very very famous and important people and uh if you if you play the game well you could become very important person you can get get a lot of exposure you'll get a good salary as well these huge budgets they do nothing with it and most of the budget is spent on the expenditure and and salaries and travel and hotel hotels and flights for their top brass So, you know, it's it's not a bad thing to get into. You may become who knows the next UN Secretary General in 20 30 years if you play your cards right. So, I'm I'm half joking here, but I think it's it's a good thing to get into. You know, you could So, is it a good domain to explore jobs for youth with a few years of corporate experience? I think it's certainly an interesting thing to explore and it it it will look good on your CV as well. So, yeah, go for it. All right, with that, we are at the end of today's show. two over 16 minutes plus. So, thank you so much for all your questions. It was fun discussing all this and we'll continue this next weekend. All right, next weekend I'll take questions from the comments. Until then, take care, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards, and I will see you very soon in a week's time. Take care. Bye-bye.