Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome Welcome back to the Ask Abijit Show. Today we are doing episode 325. I hope you're all doing great. There's a lot that's happening in the world. I'm sure there's a lot to discuss. I'm sure there's a lot of questions you all have. So, so before we get into the questions, let's see who all is there in the live chat with us tonight. Precious talks, Anish 24, Bascar Bandit, Har Banana Higard. Okay. Um Har Banana Higard is here from Jarkand. Good to see you, sir. Good to see you geopolitical dub. Good evening as always from Indor. Um Sachin GK Sachin GK General Subutai. General Subhutai is here. Adwani Shri Dabv is here from Odisha. Good to see you sir. Nabad Das Shri D once again from Pune. Abupar Utkash Shukla. Nirvana Shanks Kuni Chiva sir Konicha good to see you. Uh Swami Maklebin is also here with us. Uh Abishek Shukla live animals for for laugh is here from Mumbai. Uh soldier boy is also here. Meow meow indeed. User U7V8V. Abuai Singh Jay Jamudep. Abisheka live from Kpur. Uh Manhattan says there are earthquakes in Iran. I think we're going to have to look at it. Swami Jin is here from Jaipur. John M. Funk is here. Manhattan is also talking about earthquake in in Iran. Amish, good evening ma'am. Uh user 7. Yes, Anish Bharat Ram Ram G. Ram Maklav Jay Bajang Bali. Uh Swami, do I like Frank Sinatra songs? I not bad. Yeah, some of them are great. I'm sure. Uh Manhattan Animals for laugh 6552. Chandu Shkr7733 is here from Peshawar, India. Peshawar, India. Good evening uh General Subutai once again. Are you seeing pranam sarji? Pranam sarg uh Shubhham Ja. Hello Manish Shakaru. Namaste G. Namaste ma'amashish Samal. Hello. Uh who else do we have? Ganesh Desh Pande. Rahul Rahul is here. Hello Rahul G. Uh what else do we have? Who else do we have? We have Utkar Shukla once again. Mac 4 J1U Amit Pande good evening Mohit Takar hello Vijay Vagila good evening Ganesh Desh Pandai Ritik Pawar um Ashish Nahit Nahabhai Nahabhai Nahabhai Guru okay namaste uh uh who else we have user U7 V8V from Kerala good evening good evening and everybody else good evening so uh let us get going with the questions. First of all, there's this uh talk about uh earthquakes in Iran. Are we are we So, Manhattan says there are many earthquakes in Iran. Do they have nukes? I haven't seen these reports, but let us let us now quickly get to the bottom of this if we can in a in a couple of minutes. Uh Iran earthquake. Do we have any Iran? Sorry, not Iran. Iran. Do we have multiple earthquakes? Um 99 earthquakes in Iran in just one week. Okay, that's what Infforts is saying. And there are YouTube uh videos about 99 earthquakes in one week. Uh do we have USGS? What does USGS have to say about this? Let's see. Um this is 2026 123. That's a couple of days ago. And yeah, not not a lot here. Do we have a list of earthquakes in Iran? Wikipedia as always is not necessarily a good source of information, but let's see. Um, it's going all the way to 9 2000 BC or something. Okay, nothing much here. Once again, um, what does this have to say? Earthquake. USGS.gov. Once again, the same thing. Okay, so I'm not sure where this story is coming from. In shorts, I'm not sure how reliable it is. Hindustan Times is a reasonably reliable, I suppose, piece of uh source of information, I suppose. Uh surge of seismic activity in Iran. Just a paragraph or something. Okay, that's not a lot. So I I'm not sure how reliable these claims are. Not sure. But uh I'll keep an eye on this. I'll keep an eye on this. Okay. So then let us go and take the first super chat. We have Basar Bandit. Pyth indeed sir. Uh yes I'm good. How I hope you're doing great too. Uh so the Chinese Communist Party has just arrested Jang Yushia uh CDS equivalent in Indian army chief of defense services chief of defense staff kind of. Yeah equivalent. So how does a power fight and find replacements if they keep sacking lieutenant generals and major generals? So it looks like this is part of uh the power struggle. Looks like, you know, there's indications, there's speculation that maybe there was some kind of coup attempt in Beijing, right? That's the speculation that's making the rounds in social media, etc. Right now, not just in social media, but also among well-informed people, think tanks and analysts and so on. Looks like there could have been a coup attempt against Xiinping probably done by looks like Shangu Yusa and he has been u arrested removed and uh strong condemnation has been put out um uh in Chinese official communications u of Jang Joshua and uh yeah looks like a purge has happened and uh in the past several months plenty of Chinese high-ranking general etc. have been um you know removed from uh service, arrested. So looks like Xiinping is is ensuring that no one in the PLA so-called PLA people's liberation army uh is allowed to stay in power. Anyone who who could potentially be opposed to him u and this looks like the latest in that. So um a lot of people have been purged. A lot of highranking generals and commanders have been purged out of the uh people's liberation army under the orders of Shri X Shiinping right so what happens when you remove such high ranking officers what happens I mean how do you replace them right I mean Jang Yua Yusa is one of the final last people left in the PA who had actual combat exper experience the 1979 Vietnam war. Let's quickly Google this guy, Jang Yushua. Okay, Jang Yu Shia. So, what does Wikipedia have to say about him? He was 75 years old and he um did he Yeah. So, he did he took part in the Sino Vietnamese war of 1979, right? And also battle of Laoshan between Yeah. All that. So he was one of the last remaining uh top commanders in the PLA who had actually seen military combat. China hasn't fought a war since the 1979 war against Vietnam which China lost which China initiated and China was beaten back right. China got a bloody nose in that. So China lost that and after that China hasn't fought any actual conflict any actual war and this guy was one of the last you know high top ranking people who had served in it. So now you have the entire PLA uh top carder, top top brass, uh if you see them, they haven't really seen combat. They haven't really seen warfare. So they're essentially they may be experienced in terms of seniority and and so on, promotions and all, but they haven't seen warfare. They haven't seen combat. So that's what we have. So what happens when you sack people like these? How do you replace them? Well, you replace them with a bunch of people. There's always a large pool of officers who come below them right in the rank in the rank hierarchy. So you can always promote somebody who is loyal to Xiinping and who has reasonably good uh a good reasonably good track record um in the PLA. I mean obviously track record when we're talking about track record here we're not talking about uh combat track record because there's no combat track record uh since 1979. But you know people who have done the right things and u dedicated disciplined obedient loyal to the Chinese communist party loyal to Xiinping thought all that. So you you know you raise people like those and what it gives you is a p top brass that is well inexperienced in combat but that's what you have. So looks like there's a lot of uh stuff happening behind the scenes in Beijing in China. It looks like Xiinping is uh consolidating his his position and fighting off any potential challengers and looks like there could have been some kind of attempted coup which is why this guy was rapidly you know suddenly removed and a very rapid condemnation was put out in Chinese official government communicate right so that's what's going on in China maybe it's good news for Taiwan you know uh basket bandit says is Singapore a Chinese vasal or a US vasal allegedly. Does it also act as a moneyaundering place like London or Dubai? Well, we know that London definitely is the global epicenter of money laundering. It's also the place where uh you know former uh dictators etc go to go to retire and so on. People who have served the west that sort of people right uh so that's the kind of place it is London. What about Singapore? Uh I don't know about Dubai moneyaundering and all that. I'm not aware of that. Uh but what about Singapore? So Singapore is kind of the London of the East essentially uh especially as as a major financial hub in in the eastern hemis well London is also technically the eastern hemisphere I suppose but in in Asia you know in the Asia-Pacific region you have Singapore that's a major uh financial center. I once again I'm not sure about whether there's any moneyaundering or whatever happening out of Singapore. Singapore obviously is is very much allied or aligned with the west. So I'm sure that sometimes you may have Chinese warships that may dock at Singapore port but uh Singapore is very much aligned with the west not with China. it has good relations with China and the Chinese Communist Party has actually studied Singapore in great detail um in order to understand how to transform a nation and how to bring about the reforms that make a nation a great power. The Singapore can't be a great power. It's just a city state. But Ding Shopping used to send uh CCP, Chinese Communist Party officials to Singapore to study how they have u you know structured their government and how they carried out reforms that transformed Singapore in just one generation from third world to first world and they implemented that the Chinese they they've been you know u they deeply admire Singapore and obviously Singapore is dominated by Chinese origin people. So you have these factors that definitely um show us commonalities between Singapore and China. But Singapore is very much aligned with the west. You have American aircraft carriers that routinely dock in Singapore. Routinely, I mean reasonably routinely dock in Singapore. U so Singapore, if you want to designate Singapore as a vasal, it definitely is not a Chinese vasal. Um, of course, Singapore has, you could say Singapore is kind of a US facile. Singapore has of course stood up for itself when it comes to u, you know, not bending to American dictats and whims. For example, there was the famous famous caning case, right? Uh, Singapore U Singapore caning caning uh, yes, caning of Michael Fay. So there was this guy in 1994 you know American teenager who was sentenced to be lashed six times with a cane for violating some rules right vandalism act and the American government protested they said that you can't do this and Singapore said go to hell we're going to can him and they caned him so you know Singapore has kind of stood up for itself in this small matters uh let's see this one this also do Chinese warships dock dock in Singapore I'm pretty Sure they do. Yes, Chinese warships do dock in Singapore, right? Do regularly dock in Singapore. So Singapore is it's not a Chinese vasal. It has good relations with China, but it's if you want to well, if you want to assign vasal hood, it's definitely more of a US facile. Okay. Pascar Bandit says, "Why do ordinary Europeans seem so naive about the US being the dominant power in the EU?" Many on social media act as if Poland and Denmark are bravely standing up to US bullying and they denied Trump Greenland and what not. Look, most people believe whatever they are taught. I don't expect uh European textbooks to teach kids that you know what we are not sovereign nations. Our sovereignty has been taken away by the US. Our big boss, our overlord is the US. That's what you will I don't expect any European nation to teach this to their kids in schools. They're going to tell kids that you know our country is great. We have the rule of law. We have laws. We are part of the EU. Blah blah blah blah blah. they will not mention any of this. I mean look at what you have in Japan. Most Japanese people are super pacifist because they have been taught in school that Japan is a terribly violent evil nation that deserves to be punished for its sins and the Americans are this great benevolent power that has placed Japan under its protection and Japan has forever forceworn the use of military force and all of that. Right? And uh because of what they are taught, the Japanese kids are completely oblivious to the fact that Japan has it hosts more than 130 permanent US military bases on its soil. It's under permanent US military occupation. Despite this being there right in front of their eyes, they don't realize that they are not a sovereign country. They are an occupied country. Eventually, once you reach a certain age, you may start questioning that. But most people don't question anything. Most people just want to be told what to think and they are happy with that. Thinking is hard work. Thinking thinking hurts the brain. Why think? Just live in this happy illusurary world. So that's the thing. I'm sure there are Europeans who understand what's happening. But the ordinary European person will be oblivious to what's going on, you know, and that's that that's that's how the world works. That's that's the facade of democracy and all that. Bascar Bandit says, "Please elaborate on how the panuran corridor can allegedly benefit our ally nation Israel. As we discussed this one area where Bharat, Iran together are with Armenia against Turkey, Azarbaijan and and the prior the prior. Okay. Okay. Let's go to the map. Okay. We since we are discussing the pan corridor um yeah okay so let's open the map. And we're going to discuss the pan corridor and first of all understand what part of the world we're talking about here. So we are talking about since we're talking about Turkey. See if you look at central Asia. Yes you have nations like Kazakhstan, Usbekiststan, Kygystan, Turkmanistan. U also well Chinese occupies occupied East Turkiststan etc. All these nations are Turic nations. Okay. Their people speak Turk languages and they have a Turk ethnicity. Turk ethnicity mixed with some Indoskitian ethnicity which is older but that's what it is. So these are all Turk nations and to the west we have uh Azarbaijan which is not part of Central Asia. It's part of the caucases. It's also a Turk nation. And then to the further to the west bypassing Armenia leaprogging Armenia we have Turkey. So if we go east of Turkey, if you just disregard Armenia, you have Azarbaijan, then the Caspian Sea, then a bunch of Turk nations. Now in olden days, the Turk nations, this territory was called Tan. Tran. So the great dream of Turkey is to essentially erase Armenia from the map of the world. Have Azarbaijan take over Armenia or maybe have Armenia's territory split into Turkey and Azharbaijan. Okay. And then create this corridor that stretches all the way from essentially Anatolia Turkey through Azarbaijan over the Caspian Sea into this Turk region large Turk region. Turkmanistan Usbakistan, Tajakistan, sorry not Tajakistan, Tajakistan is Iranian, Indo-ranian, Kygystan, Kazakhstan, all these Turk nations. So that is the idea of this pan corridor. This great Turk corridor, this broad region in central Asia that essentially is entirely Turk in in ethnicity and culture and language. The only issue is Armenia. So that's why Armenia the Turks want to solve Armenia by essentially wiping Armenia out and finish what they started in 1915. So that's the pan corridor. Okay. So if the pan corridor happens then Turkey has unfettered access all the way into central Asia all the way to Kyrgystan uh and and Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan it borders essentially almost Mongolia that's how far east it reaches and this region obviously it has plenty of uh natural resources oil gas Kazakhstan etc. uh lots of mineral resources and so on and uh so it's it's a pretty uh you know uh lucrative region from the natural resources viewpoint and for Turkey it's obviously Turkey likes to position itself as the leader of the Turk world. So if can if it can connect with the Turkey world, it will uh you know give Turkey more power, prestige, resources, all of that. And Turkey obviously has dreams of reviving the Ottoman caliphate kind of thing. So neo-toman ambitions. So that's why the Panther corridor is the dream of Turkey. Now how does it benefit other nations? So how does it benefit the US for example? So as as we discussed you know this region the central Asia region is rich in natural resources and Turkey is a member of NATO it's a US ally US vasal even though it has imperial ambitions of its own. So if Turkey can control these nations and have access to this entire region that it benefits the US straight away, right? because US can also u you know tap into this region also it it uh kind of uh if this region comes under Turk and American domination then it's a challenge for China as well as Russia because Russia likes to think of Central Asia Asia as as its uh uh region of you know region of interest region of dominance but if Turkey becomes do dominant in the region it's a challenge for Russia as well as China has this belt and road initiative that it seeks to expand through Central Asia. It's not working anymore. The the project is kind of dead. But it's a further challenge to China, right? Because China also seeks the resources in Central Asia. Uh now what about Israel? So Israel as as we have discussed in the past, Israel is an ally of Azarbaijan and Azarbaijan and Turkey are mortal enemies of Armenia and India and Iran are supporting Armenia. So India is is essentially supporting a nation that Israel is opposing. So, Israel and India are on opposing sides when it comes to this conflict. Azaranjan, Armenia. Uh, so Iran and India are supporting Armenia. Now, if this pan corridor happens, how does it help Israel? So, first of all, why is Israel supporting Azarbaijan? Well, two reasons. First of all, Israel is purchasing Azar Azarbaijani energy, oil and gas, right? In reasonable quantities, large quantities, I suppose. That's one reason. The second reason is that you know if you look at Iran, Iran's northwestern region is the Azarbaijan province and the people here are ethnic Azarbaijanis. So if Iran can um you know if if Iran is an ally of Azarbaijan then it can use the Azarbaijani population in Iran to keep an eye on what's happening in Iran and possibly do a you know in the future some kind of regime change operation if that is even possible. So that's why Israel is aligned or allied with Azarbaijan and if the pan corridor becomes a thing then Israel can you know Azarbaijan becomes more relevant more powerful and Israel can uh tap and and and this is a challenge then for for Iran also because Iran and Turkey are you could say adversaries. So if Turkey becomes dominant in central Asia, that's a major challenge for Iran also. And that's obviously is an indirect good thing for Israel. So multiple reasons why Israel can benefit from a pan corridor happening. I'm sure the Israelis have no ill will towards the Armenian people, but well, it is what it is. National interest comes first. Basker Bandit says, "We discuss often how ISRO is underfunded, but what benefits can BAT have by developing an equivalent to the James Web or the Hubble Space Telescope? Any benefits that will add not only to astronomy but military?" See, why does the US spend so much on NASA? Why does it spend so much on these uh projects like like Hubble, like the James Web Space Telescope? Why does it spend so much money on these uh uh on these spacecraft like New Horizons that you know did a flyby of Pluto 11 years ago and it's still going out into outer space. What about the Pioneer missions? Pioneer 1, Pioneer 2, the Voyager missions, the Voyager spacecraft are now out uh into outer space beyond um essentially out of the solar system. Why does the US spend so much money on these things? What's there? What's the point? What's the point? Why does the US spend so much money on things like uh things like uh LIGO, right? The gravitational wave detector costs so much money. What do you get out of this? You get scientific expertise, engineering expertise, technological expertise. All of these things have spin-offs in so many different areas. So many different areas. For example, space. If if you want to put something like the JWST James web space telescope into the what into one of the lagj points the one that's behind the earth in the earth's shadow well you need to have high quality a high quality space program to do that of course they use the the French rocket for that aryan but whatever so first of all to do all these projects you need to have a high quality space program which means you need a high quality engineering uh pool of talent which means you need to develop a high quality education system for that and R&D and all that right. So just to put this thing into orbit you need high quality engineers and those engineers they will they obviously work on space rockets and all they can also work work on missiles and that those engineering skills can be applied to any engineering work right then you have um if you have JWST James web space telescope all the way you know millions of kilometers away and you need to get signals from from that you need to have extremely high quality telemetry okay uh telecommunications equipment. So you need to develop that that has other if other spin-offs into all kinds of military applications or other applications, right? So the space program itself has had so many spin-offs that had that have you know military applications that essentially you can't imagine. So all these things just by having just by developing things like this you you're forced to develop technologies that have applications in lots of other domains including the military domain. So let's say India okay BAT develops uh let's say u u something like the James James web space telescope. So that's a massive massive machine to launch that just into orbit you need a probably a rocket that's more powerful than the most powerful rocket India has. I'm sure the PSLV or the GSLV or whatever LMV3 whatever I'm sure it can't take what's the what's the JWST's launch mass? Let me see. Okay, let's see quickly. Uh, JW ST launch mass. What was the launch mass? 6,000 something kilogram. 6.1 tons. Okay. Uh, LVM preload capacity 4,000 of the GGS uh, low earth orbit. But we want this to go beyond low earth orbit. We want this to not even go into geosp synchronous track for orbit. We need the the the uh telescope to essentially go into the lagrange point. So you need to send it beyond the GTO. So the Indian rocket simply can't do the job. We don't have a powerful enough rocket. So we have we'll have to develop a more powerful rocket. Well there you have augmented capabilities just to launch this thing. Then we will need telemetry. We'll need to have the telecommunications. there are capabilities that can actually communicate with with this thing in near real time as as close to real time as possible. So you need and and to develop a a telescope of that that quality you know with those hexagonal you know uh elements in its uh mirror and all of that you need to develop high quality optics and whatnot which obviously if you can develop high quality optics you can have military applications of that. So all of these things they may look like wasteful expenditure but you know the the technological capabilities you develop by building these things they have applications everywhere. We only see just one linear thing that you know we are building a telescope but do you know um the US military at some point in time donated two uh telescopes space telescopes to NASA okay because they were redundant and they the US military didn't did not need those those were spy telescopes and each of those telescopes was more powerful in terms of capabilities than the Hubble space telescope so something like Hubble that is turned towards the stars if you turn it towards the imagine what it can do, right? Or or something similar to Hubble. So that's the point. These things are everything is interconnected. Just by developing missions like these, you can you'll develop a pool of talent and set of capabilities that have applications in all kinds of different fields, especially the military field. Rocketry and missiles are the same thing. Telescopes and spy cap spy satellite capabilities are the same thing essentially, right? telecommunications, telemetry, all of that you need that in the military domain and all the electronics and whatn not you develop will also be used in the military domain. All of this comes together right but we in India don't have this understanding possibly or maybe we don't have the ambition that's why ISRO is just underfunded and I don't know what's happening Pawar says are we back in the era where the strong will eat up the weak when did we ever leave that era in the past things were done nicely today things are done brashly you know Donald Trump is throwing around his weight like like a wildfire in a library right like an elephant in a garden. But the US has always done this. In the past, they've done it diplomatically. They have not shown, they've not flaunted their power, but they've always done the same things. I mean, after in the 1990s, what did they do do to Yugoslavia? What was it? It was brutal. Was it not the time when the strong ate up the weak? Yugoslavia was weak. Its strong protector, the USSR, had disintegrated. So, what did the remaining strong guy, the US do? ate up Yugoslavia, right? You didn't see that the US did all these regime change operations from the 2000s, 1990s, 2000s, all the way until now. They recently I mean it's always been this way, but in the past you you could not see it. I could see it. I was telling this for 4 years, but now you're beginning to see it because now Trump is making it very obvious. It's always been the an era where the strong eat up the weak. The 1990s it was that 1980s, 1970s, '60s, it's always been that way. The strong always eat up the weak. But typically they do it quietly behind the scenes. They do it with diplomatic fides. Diplomacy is is typically nice and gentile and polite and sophisticated and cultured. Today diplomacy is brash, especially American diplomacy and Chinese diplomacy. The Chinese have toned it down. The Americans are very brash now in the Trump era. But the world has always been the same. The world is unchanging. The rules of power have never changed. They're still the same. VK Baja. Well, thank you so much, sir. Thank you very much indeed. Abishek Shivastav says, "History of Germany, their culture, language, origin, whole history. You want you want their whole history?" Uh, look, I can't give the whole history of Germany. I will you can do like a 100 one-hour episodes for that. Uh but uh history of Germany in in compressed time scale. Uh the ger there there were a bunch of Germanic tribes you know that the Romans were aware of. So north of the river Rin R H I N E. Would you like to see the map of the Ryan? North of the Ryan the German the the Romans called that region Gmana Magna. Okay. Greater Germany or whatever. See the Ryan River is the border between Switzerland and Germany. If you come here from the Buden Sea, you will see this river the Ry this river here. See Ryan River. So this is the this river is the border between Switzerland and Germany. And the Romans considered the lands north of the Ryan to essentially be Germany, Germany Magna. South of that you had the Celtic lands. West of that you had Gaul Golish uh uh which is Golish territory which is now France. Okay. And north of the Rine you had Gmanaga and there were a bunch of Germanic tribes that the uh Romans were aware of and they fought them and they subjugated them to some extent but those lands were terribly inhospitable in inhospitable full of forests and bogged down and all that and u so the Romans kind of stayed out of it. They kind of tried to subjugate the people but did not quite work. you had 10 AD or 9 AD you know um the battle of Tutberg forest which was a disaster for Rome and so on so you had Germanic tribes there mainly you know pretty wild people and then then Romans fought them on multiple occasions and so on and then there's a bit long long long history where Germany um did not really matter and then you had the Holy Roman Empire and it was partially in Germany and so on and then you have Gutenberg and all that and you have Martin Luther in the mid in the dark ages of Europe and that that gives rise to the enlightenment Gutenberg and Martin Luther and then in 1871 we have the before 1871 you have hundreds of Germanic Germanic principalities duchies and all these little little what in India we would call princely states. Yeah. And then in 1871 for the first time in ever first time in history this entire territory was was united for the first time ever by the great uh iron chancellor um he was Prussian and Germany became kind of an embodiment of Prussia and that's 1871 the first ever unification of Germany an artificial nation created out of a bunch of principalities uh and and unified under one language there's a bunch of languages in Germany, Germanic languages, but it was the one language we call German was superimposed on everything. And then you have Germany you know taking off because they had a worldclass probably best in its kind education system which focused on science and technology. And that's why Germany gave us quantum mechanics and so much more and obviously Germany became a major industrial power and then you have World War I World War II and that's that's the end of Germany essentially because Germany becomes occupied by the Americans in 1945 and it has been ever since. And there we have it. Saswat aims says, "Was Isil involved in 2611 terror attacks? Many claim RSS were traitors." I have no idea about these things. I have never heard of any Israeli involvement. I don't know any of the speculations, so I can't say. Sorry. Shubam V says, "Succession plan after she power scramble in CCP." We just discussed this. We have no idea what's a succession plan after she Mr. Shiining has no intention as far as I know of uh of of giving up power. He wants a fourth term as the president. They're obviously see the Chinese Communist Party is this cutthroat system. Cutthroat system. Okay. Only the most ruthless rise to the top and survive. You have to be ruthless in the Chinese Communist Party system. And that's why they always have high quality leadership, not soft, useless, weak leaders. They have ruthless leaders because the system is so ruthless. It's so cutthroat. It's dog eat dog. And Xiinping if you look at his rise political rise he has left a trail of opponents in his wake. So that's how it is. So there's going to be you know Xin if you are the Chinese president you always have to be on your toes. You always have to keep looking you know behind your shoulder who what's everyone doing? And that's that's the situation. Uh so obviously looks like there's been some kind of incident in the CCP maybe some kind of coup attempt or something and it's been foiled as far as we know and that's why the general was uh unceremoniously ousted and harsh condemnation was issued in the Chinese media. Uh but what's the succession plan after? Well, how am I to know? China is an opaque country. The Chinese Communist Party system is super opaque. Whatever plans exist, we are not supposed to know. So we can only speculate. I have no idea what's the succession plan after she mlein says general class is angry at BJP. We really need an alternative. Yeah. The UGC thing right those horrific draconian uh the whatever it was you know see what I'll say is this. Our leaders keep saying that cast is a big problem in India. Right? Cast is a big problem in India. big problem in India. So if cast is a big problem problem in India, why don't you remove cast from everything? Remove cast from birth certificates. Remove cast from school certificates. Remove cast from every official document. Remove it. Right? Make it irrelevant. They won't do it. You go to a government office, they will ask for your cast. You go to a temple, nobody asks for your cast. But they say that temples are cast and government is secular. So that's the situation. Now if you have this problem cast problem and you claim it's it's an inherent problem in in society, remove it. But they're not removing it. And uh on the instead of removing it, they're creating this permanent distinctions between artificial divisions oppressor and oppressed. So only certain categories of people are the oppressed and they are permanently oppressed and certain categories of people are permanent oppressors. You're creating a permanent solution to a temporary artificial imaginary problem. Maybe not imaginary, maybe it exists. Okay, let's let's say it exists. So you're creating you're implementing a permanent solution to a temporary problem. A permanent solution to a temporary problem becomes a permanent problem. That's what's happening. And uh it's unfortunate. Net stat grep says, "Are holograms scientifically possible? A device projecting 3D images in the air and vacuum, not the spinning screen ones that mimic a hologram. Are holograms scientifically possible?" Uh, a device projecting 3D images in the air and vacuum. Okay. 3D images in the air and vacuum, not the spinning. Yeah, we have the screen things in which we look and we it looks like a hologram, right? It mimics a hologram. You can see it from different angles and yeah it looks like it's a threedimensional thing, but it's actually a two dimensional image and you know it uses a trick of opt tricks of optics to do that. Now, can you have a device that actually projects a three-dimensional image into air? Well, you see, if you want to project, you certainly can project photons, light into the air, but how do you have the photons create a visually, you know, a static image somewhere? You can create an image by projecting light on a screen, but air is not a screen. The vacuum is not a screen. So, how do you have light stop at a place and and essentially being emitted from a fixed position from a fixed location in three-dimensional space which is air or vacuum um scientifically possible? I haven't thought about this. I'm sure tech this is this is actually a technological problem and you certainly can make air emit light by excite by by having excitation of the air molecules or gas molecules. Can you have vacuum emit light? Vacuum contains light. Vacuum can't emit light. You have pair production etc. this quantum u field theoretical phenomena but you can't have that actually create light. So it may be possible in air. It's just a it's just an engineering issue. There's nothing against the laws of physics that happens in that a vacuum. It may be more difficult. But I'm sure that also is a problem that can be solved through engineering. So I would say there's nothing in the laws of physics that that prevents such phenomena you know prevents you from having such such an effect. But how to solve it how how to solve the problem how to make it happen that is something that needs to be thought about. So I think scientifically it should be possible. There's nothing in the laws of physics that prevents this from being being possible but engineering obviously it is a difficult problem to solve but not unsolvable. Basar mandit says during and post operation Sindur we saw these earthquakes in temporary nation Pakistan as well just as now in Iran. What can such a thing signify allegedly? Well, see, I took a look at the time I mean a few months ago, I took a look at those earthquakes that had happened in in May, right? In Pakistan. Uh let's let's see if we can pull up that data. Yeah. Earthquakes in Pakistan May 2025. Uh earthquakes in what is this in Pakistan May 2025. Do we have data? Let's see. Do we have data? USGS or whatever earthquake today. Earthquake today. Uh Substack earthquake insights. Um do we have USGS? Do we have that? No. Okay. Let's see. Um this is February 25. I said May, right? Let's see. I'm sorry. I don't mean to yell at Google. So this is when when did this up? Okay, this is January. The point is what I'm trying to say. Okay. List of earthquakes in 2025. Do we have any Okay, let's not say geological data. Okay. Data volcano discovery. Um, once again, we don't have official. I'm not sure which is the Okay. Do we have earthquake list? Okay. Complete Pakistan earthquake report. Okay. Uh, location, location, location. This is January 20. This is today. Hell no. Uh map of latest earthquakes in near Pakistan. So can I Yeah. magnitude 2 plus major only all earthquakes. Latest earthquake. Can I filter by by date? I suppose I can't. 240 yearly. So once again, I'm not sure. Uh can I go back? Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Do we have any other data? What's volcano discovery? So do we. Okay. May 31, May 31, May 30, May 30, May 24. Okay, we have let's say May May 13, for example. This is Afghanistan. This is Balut Baluchistan. Let's see info. What info do we have? How deep was the earthquake? Depth 10 km. So look at this. This is the point I'm making. This earthquake happened at a depth of 10 kilometers. Now humans typically can't dig to a depth of 10 km. Let's say you let's say we are aware of the fact that if you detonate a nuclear weapon underground, it shows up in seismic seismograph records as a low intensity earthquake. And you can pinpoint essentially if you have multiple seismographs where it happened and how deep it happened. So typically when you do an underground nuclear test you may do it a few hundred meters underground maybe a kilometer underground. Let's let's ask Google uh you know uh at what depth are underground nuclear nuclear tests conducted. What depth? Okay. So, yeah, depth of 200, 26, 800 m, maybe a kilometer, right? Like I was saying, but these earthquakes that we're talking about, they typically happen at a depth of like multiple kilometers, 10 km, 12 km, maybe more. That can't be human in origin. That can't be nuclear detonations unless these reports are lying to us. And you know, that's also a possibility. Maybe the earthquake happened at at a maybe the the event happened at a depth of 800 mters but they are saying 10 km they're lying that's also possible but based on the open source information that we have those bunch of earthquakes around May that typically happened at significant depths typically depths that human beings humans don't reach the deepest hole ever dug was about 9 10 kilometers right so uh unless the the data is manufactured unless the data is falsified Those were not nuclear tests. Now what I'm seeing in Iran, I'm not sure. I mean, I took a look a while ago at the latest earthquake data in Iran. I was not able to find much. So, I think we'll just wait and watch and see how is how it's going. Right. Amisha says, "Can um you should write a book on the Arian picnic myth." I should, shouldn't I? Yeah. Yeah. I've got multiple multiple books in here. Now I'm in the process of slowly, laboriously, tediously bringing them out. So yes, I will certainly write a book on this arin pit myth eventually. I have a couple of books that need to come out first. So I'm working on those first. But yes, thank you for the reminder. I have multiple people reminding me of this. Some people remind me of this every day. So Amish, thank you to you two for reminding me. I certainly will. I certainly will. uh top seven whit says blunders of burkad were with kgill 201611 see look my regular viewers know I don't speak about internal politics in India okay I stay out of this matters we all know what happened but u I I will stay out of this matter I speak about three things history geopolitics and science I don't discuss Indian politics and this comes in Indian politics actually even though it's actually journalism but uh it's political in nature so I will not discuss these things right but I think we all know so Rohan says RSS had talked about creating a new cast system in Kolkata PC if you had to make a system where there can never be discrimination how will it be look I will not discuss Indian politics um all these matters are internal matters of India Like I said, uh but if I had to make a system where there can be never be discrimination, I will not be able to make such a system. There can never be a system where there is no discrimination. Never. Never. Impossible. You imagine that outside India all the systems are without discrimination. You think in the US there's no discrimination. You think in Finland there's no discrimination. You think in other western countries there's no discrimination. There can never be a society where zero discrimination exists. You are all to taught by the Indian education system that the Indian system is horrible. The Indian culture is horrible. Hinduism is horrible. Indian civilization etc is horrible and everything else is is is ideal. You know that's how they make you hate yourselves and your ancestors. That's how they put this inferiority complex in your heads. I'm not saying the current Indian system is great. I I think it's terrible. It's terrible. Okay. But if you want to create a system where a society where there's no discrimination, you will never be able to create the society. No matter what rules you implement, no matter how many safeguards you put in, you will either have a draconian dictatorship which itself will be discriminatory or it simply won't work. Right? So, I mean the Taliban, have you seen what they've done recently? Have you seen what the Taliban has done recently? I mean, I'm not sure if this report is true or not, but let me uh pull it up. Let me pull up this report. I'm not sure if it's true or not, but it's it's rather funny to see. Okay, so give me a second. Let me go to our friend Twitter. Okay, now look at this. So, this is a report from this Twitter account. I'm not sure how true it is. Okay, it says the Taliban has introduced a new law which divides Afghan society into four classes. How many? Four classes with different punishments prescribed for the same crime depending on social class status or whatever you want to call it division. Religious scholars are placed in the highest Religious scholars are placed in the highest category and are exempt from severe punishment with admonition deemed sufficient in case of wrongdoing. So the highest category in Afghan society is now religious scholars. What do you call religious scholars in the Indian subcontinent? I wonder. Okay. Next. Uh the second category includes respected elites such as tribal elders, military commanders and influential figures. Second category category is mainly warriors. Very interesting. Yeah. Individuals from this group may be summoned and warned but will not face imprisonment or corporal punishment. The third category consists of middle class for whom imprisonment may be imposed. And the fourth and lowest category includes ordinary citizens who may face imprisonment, flogging and and all that. What is the Taliban doing? Right? The Taliban is an ideal society, right? In the Islamic world, why are they creating this four levels of society? What would you call those four levels? I wonder. Anyhow, my point my point is you can never have a society where there is zero discrimination. Impossible. User U7 VB V8 V says globalization cracks backlash equals elites nervous at WF. Okay. Not sure if it's a question or a statement. Um WF happened and yeah there's unease in the west for sure. Amisha G says, "I was reading an article that says Russia is the world's worst patron from Syria to Venezuela. Now Iran Putin has overpromised and underdelled. Do you agree? Russia isn't powerful enough to project power the way the US does. What can Russia do if the Americans decide to overthrow the government of Venezuela? What can Russia do? Does Russia have military base in the in the region? Can Russia project power in the region? Russia can't do a thing. So if you are to make Russia your patron then you should be aware of the limitations of Russia. In the case of Syria, Russia did what it could. But at the end what happened the see the Americans launched this this so-called civil war in Syria, right? Regime change operation in Syria in what 2008 910 around that time. And the objective was to remove Bashar al-Assad from power. And what weapons or tools did the US use to oust Bashar al-Assad? They used al-Qaeda and ISIS. These are American tools. Al-Qaeda and ISIS, terrorist groups. And what saved Syria? Russian intervention. Russian military intervention, Latakia airbase and so on, right? Um Tartus, the Russians sent military reinforcements. The Russians sent soldiers. They were able to project power in Syria and they were able to stabilize Syria and prevent a regime change done by the US and and ISIS was beaten back by Syria, right? And the Russians trained Syrian troops and you know stabilized the uh Syrian government. But then when this Galani comes in and uh does his move on on Damascus, what happened? The Syrian armed forces did not resist. Clearly, the Americans bought some of them. It's all about cash. So, is it Russia that failed? No. It's I would say Assad who failed to ensure that there are no corrupt people in in the Syrian armed forces. Has Russia failed in Syria? I would disagree. Russia did what it could. So, Russia has limitations. The US has more than 800 extrater territorial military bases across the world. The Americans can project power anywhere. We are seeing it in real time now, right? Russia doesn't have it. So if you make Russia your patron, you should be aware of Russia's limitations. I would not say Russia is the worst patron. Russia tries what it can, but uh it has limitations. So it's your choice whether to make Russia your patron, to make the US your patron, or to stay entirely or to stay remain entirely sovereign, which is the hardest thing in the world. So it's not like I so I I don't agree with this. I don't agree. So it's not like Russia has deliberately sabotaged these nations. Russia tried what what it could, but it was understood that there are limitations. In the case of Venezuela itself, when the regime change happened, did the Venezuelan armed forces fight back, even attempt to fight? One guy launched a manpad missile and he was blown to bits. That's it. Nobody else fired a single shot. Is that Putin's fault? No. It's cash. Greenbacks that bought people, right? Kilki Susant Kiki Susan says, "I've been reading the Art Shastra. It mentions large chambers and buildings could be destroyed when required to protect city secrets of architecture. Can this be the reason we are not able to discard much?" I'm not sure I have read that in the Arta Shastra u secrets of architecture. Look the reason we have been not been able to discover much for example in northern India what kind of temple architecture did we have in northern India why don't we why are we unaware of this because the temples were all brought down destroyed by Turk invaders and occupiers only small temples remain and whatever temples exist are all damaged and defaced and in ruins the destruction was done by the foreign occupiers and invaders not by our people right when it comes to ancient forts like uh the old fort in Delhi etc. It still kind of stands to some extent. It's in terrible condition in ruins. The ASI doesn't give a damn. It's still kind of trying to stand. When it comes to the fort of Kaneshka in Patiala Chandigar, where is it? Kaneska's fort in Punjab. Whoopsy daisy. What is this? What happened here? One second. Um, Karn Nishka Fort not super man. Fort Akila Kila Mubarak. Q kila. Is this one? Kila Mubarak. Batinda. Okay. So you have this roughly 2,000-y old fort that still stands in Batunda, Punjab. This fort was built by Shri Kaneshka. Kaneshka the great still stands. So So my point is I can give you lots of examples like this. I am not sure exactly what you've read. I am I don't recall reading that the shastra. See obviously if you have some buildings that contain secrets and which should not fall into the hands of invaders or enemies makes sense to destroy them but it's not like we randomly destroyed temples and buildings and all that no it was the invaders that did that and the reason why we are not able to discover much is because the ASI does nothing. The archaeological survey of India is okay. Ripple power says, "Do cosmic voids encode inflationary information?" Cosmic voids, do they encode inflationary information? Inflationary information. So we had a period of inflation uh in the very very very initial moments of the universe after the birth of the universe and the event that we call the big bang. So there was a period of of of super lumininal expansion of spaceime. Okay. Spacetime ex expanded at mindbogling speeds that vastly ex exceeded the speed of light. And that's the period of time the epoch that we call the inflationary epoch. that began what 10 raised to minus 20 seconds into the birth of the universe something. Yeah. Around that that sort of thing very early universe and before the inflationary epoch we have something called the very early universe that period about which we know next to nothing. So now we have inflation that happened and inflation stretched everything out and that after inflation the universe was probably the size of a football or something in today's terms and then it expanded further. It's been expanding ever since. So what what happened during inflation? Does some of do some of those clues exist in cosmic void? So first of all, what's a cosmic void? A cosmic void is this area these areas of of space that are essentially empty. There is something called the boots void. Okay, let's see the boots void. What is that? Okay. is void enormous nearly spherical region of space roughly 700 million lighty years from here and it's kind of empty as lly as it can be it's a YouTube video it's a brute void uh doesn't mean there's nothing there not entirely sure so that's the boots void and other cosmic voids do we have any other example cosmic voids so yeah there's vast spaces between cosmic filaments Okay. Now what are these cosmic filaments? The very largest scale in the universe. So look coming back to the scale we have the solar system right and moon and planets around the sun. Then we have the region neighbor the stellar neighborhood which is Proxima Centtory AB and so on so forth Alpha Centuri all the you know surrounding stars. Then we have the Milky Way galaxy. Then we have the neighboring galaxy Andromeda. And then you have the local cluster of galaxies. Then we have the LANA supercluster that's a big supercluster of galaxies and then all the superclusters are connected together by these filaments of dark matter and these are filaments that we're talking about and sometimes between between filaments we have these cosmic voids but nothing ex essentially the space space seem to be empty now do these empty voids encode inflationary information that's the question that's being asked I'm not sure what kind of inflationary information do we have could we have the inflaton field the infl we can't really detect the inflaton field. So I'm not sure if cosmic v voids encode inflationary information. They are obviously mysterious. We then they're very far away. So we can't really say but I'm not sure if they encode inflationary information. I don't I'm not aware of it. probably I don't know would not venture a guess but I would say I would say I don't know that's the answer actually okay anyway I hope I threw some light on what cosmic voids etc are and inflation is Jorah TV says is it possible that instead of simply retiring and discarding old jets like the MIG2 we could upgrade them into autonomous unmanned systems and use them for uh ISR or electronic warfare what is ISR R reconnaissance ISR recon intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance okay ISR right it's certainly possible to do that the only question is if you're flying um remotely flying u um a MIG2 or if you have an AI on board that flies it autonomously the only issue with the MIG2 is how reliable is it is the air are the air airframes and the engines and so on because the big 21s have had so many crashes and failures and if you're flying an autonomous big 21 what if it fails and and then uh you know crashes and causes fatalities that's the only thing um it certainly is is possible it's feasible you would need a high quality AI system uh that's that's taught the rules right what to do and so on the other thing is that if you want to use it for ISR intelligence surveillance reconnaissance the MIG21 is a massive thing, right? It's a massive thing. It's a It's a big unit. For ISR, you would ideally want to use smaller assets. No, a drone that this that is this size almost undetectable. Fly it high and have it loiter for 10 hours and do ISR quietly. A MIG 21 is big, visible, shows up on radar, massive, loud, etc. makes way more sense to use drones, but you could use the MIG 21s as decoys, autonomous decoys or or wingmen. You know, you could either fly them remotely or autonomously. Have have them have an AI fly them autonomously and use them for, you know, first strike penetration or whatever to absorb the initial fire or whatever. That sort of thing you could do. So I'm sure we can find good uses for MIG 21s, but I'm not sure if they are the right platform for ISR work. Electronic warfare. I suppose we could find uh ways of using the MIG 21 for electronic warfare also. You know, pit them with jammer pods or something and uh send them in first before you send in man fighters. That sort of thing can be done. So I'm sure there are creative ways of of repurposing the MIG2 um in beneficial ways in advantageous ways but I'm not sure if they they are good uh platforms for ISR work for other work. Yeah, sure indeed. Fast snail says big reason for dirty public places is good stains. Why is it prevalent only in India? What can the government do? In the west we don't see it. People smoke or vape. Yeah. Every every culture has its own weird things right now. When it comes to good casta stains and you eat eating chewing beetlenut and all that I'll tell you what. Okay. PG beetle nut papua nu guini okay in papwa nu guini also you have this practice of chewing beetle nuts and spitting them out and all that. So it's it's not like it's only limited to India but it's a pretty nasty practice you know. Uh the gutka is something else. It's not exactly bettnut but it's part of the of this practice of chewing things and splitting them out. uh beetlen nuts are used in eating pan right and there are various kinds of pan sweet pan and tobacco pan and what not else pan whatever and then the gutka is this little ghastly little sachets that people I suppose they contain tobacco and god knows what else and people chew that and spit that out and gives them those ghastly red teeth or whatever or brown whatever right and obviously I completely agree that it's a terrible practice and people who do that they have this habit of spitting around right spitting in some public corner some public place and that that that obviously is is is horrible to see those places with those gutka spit stains. Um in western countries people don't have this uh this habit this practice it's it's unknown to them. People there typically I suppose smoke cigarettes or or vape these days those chemical pouches or whatever. Um yeah people yeah in the west it's not there that's for the west seems cleaner is cleaner is cleaner so what can the government of India do about good cara I suppose you ban good cara right the thing is the thing is that I suppose in a in a large population you there is I mean you you should allow people to have some vices right it's not like you should encourage bad habits but You recognize the fact that in society a certain number of people will do certain will indulge in certain bad habits. That's why alcohol is not banned. Cigarettes are not banned. Tobacco is not banned. I suppose I suppose in India maybe a large number of people do this good car thing. Looks like that. Uh and if you ban that maybe you lose votes if you ban that people get dissatisfied. Um so what the government does is is it taxes these things. Uh and I suppose tobacco products and good car products are taxed higher percentages than other things. Sin tax they call it or whatever. Even I suppose even alcohol. Um what can the government do? Well, I would I would say the government should ban this. This is a terrible practice. Terrible. It's bad for your health. It's bad for your teeth. It's bad for uh for for for public cleanliness and all that. Right. It it makes the makes the country look dirty. Ideally, you should ban it, but then you should also ban tobacco, I suppose. And um well, that'll make a lot of people, I suppose, unhappy. Um so what could can you you know realistically do? Realistically, what you can do is you can ban spitting. If somebody's caught spitting, they should be fined a large sum of money. And to make this happen, you need proper enforcement. In India we have laws we have zero enforcement at times in some places especially when it comes to these little things littering and spitting and all that people are never punished for these things even for uh violating traffic rules traffic laws who punished ever once in a while you're punished but you can get away with a lot of things in India because of lacks enforcement so what India needs is proper laws and and strict enforcement harsh enforcement then things will Sergeant Skylin says, "Can something good come from this Trump term? A lot of good will come for the US. Are you talking about something good for the rest of the world?" Well, look, Trump works for his country, of course. Right? Every leader is supposed to work for their country, hopefully in mutually beneficial ways with other countries. So, a lot of good will come for the US, right? the US gets more powerful. The US throws around its power everywhere. Consolidates its Western Hemisphere uh dominance um gets more nations in line. Potentially acquires Greenland and so much more. All that is good for the US, good for India. Why will Trump do something that's good for India? Why will Trump do something that's good for China? Trump and the US don't want to see India grow and rise. So why will they do some anything good for India? They'll pressurize India. They'll pressurize China. They'll pressurize Russia. So whatever good comes out of the Trump term, that good will be good for the US, not for the rest of the world. Especially not for India, Russia or China. That's just the way it is. Hyphen says, "Does nuclear deterrence still work in a world of cyber warfare and hypersonic weapons? Also, what can India do to stay sovereign and keep growing?" Okay, two questions. Does nuclear deterrence still work in a world of cyber warfare? And absolutely it does. It does. It is madness to launch a nuclear weapon even with hypersonics or whatever. Right? You can succeed in nuclear war only if you launch a massive massive first strike that is undetected and and if it is a decapitation strike. And in today's world with all the surveillance, all the everything, it's impossible to launch a nuclear strike that goes undetected. You have massive networks of satellites all across Earth orbit. You have swads of ground stations everywhere whose only job is to detect nuclear launches or or missile launches. Right? So the moment you see a missile that's launched with a parabolic ballistic trajectory or a near ballistic trajectory or if you see a missile that has long range capabilities that is being launched and so you know what are the characteristics of a potential nuclear launch. So so you're going to have a response then and that is devastating. It's it's mutually assured destruction. So nuclear deterrence does still work. It does still work. Of course, one can some some actors may gamble, you know, do do a tactical strike or low threshold, low, you know, low low yield strike, maybe 20 kiloton strike or something, you know, on a battlefield, that sort of thing. Will that can you get away with that? That sort of thing. I mean, there are all these theories about that, but at the end of the day, a nuclear strike is a nuclear strike and it's going to invite a response. I think a nuclear deterrence still does work. It does work. Cyber warfare, hypersonics, doesn't matter. It it still works. Uh what can India do to stay sovereign and keep growing? First of all, avoid any major conflict. If there's a major conflict, finish it in 3 to 7 days maximum, right? Um bolster your military strength. India needs to bolster its military might. India needs to stockpile tens of thousands of missiles first of all of various kinds including ICBMs. Okay, India needs to do that. India needs a stockpile of tens of thousands of missiles. India needs a massive stockpile of ammunition. Okay, India needs to stay a breast of uh the latest advances advances in warfare which primarily we see the as lessons of the Ukraine war, right? Uh various kinds of drones, autonomous systems, loitering munitions, kamicaz drones, all of that. India I believe has reasonably good cyber warfare offensive defensive capabilities. India needs to develop a massive navy. India needs to get going on submarines and also you know the air force part of things. Of course if you have high quality missiles you don't really need a very that can compensate for any shortfall in terms of fighter jets and all that. uh and of course along with this India needs to keep growing as an economy you know at least 6 7 8% at least 6% per year uh GDP growth wise and India is doing the right things by by signing FTAs potentially with the European Union and other countries you know excellent work on this front excellent work and at the end of the day India will need political continuity political stability and high quality leadership and India will need reforms internal reforms India needs massive internal reforms, ease of doing business, education, all of those things. Education is like completely neglected. But education, the quality of education determines the quality of your people. So all these things need to be done in the next 20 years. Okay. Vijay Viki says, why is ISO failing to put strategic satellites in space? Possible sabotage. only strategic satellites are failing in the recent past and even for Navik satellites unfunctional now. What's the what could be the cause of this? Well, let's think of the scenarios. See the PSLV which is used to launch these satellites, it had 21 consecutive successful launches. It had become so successful that a PSLV launch was boring. That is the ultimate accolade you can pay that your launches are boring because we know they are so successful. There's no excitement is we know it's going to work. That's how successful the PSV was. And now we have two consecutive failures. Each time the third stage something goes wrong. Each time when you have a strategic military satellite, right? And apparently with the Navic satellites um let's see about Navic. What's the status? Uh how many Navic satellites? uh does India have in orbit? How many? Eight operational satellites blah blah blah blah blah blah blah etc. Uh what is the state the status the ah status ah the status of India's 8 navic satellites uh how many of these are operational critical near defunct status only four of the 11 launch satellites are providing core reliable navigation services according According to Vion and Reddit users, I'm not sure how reliable these things are but whatever. Atomic clock failures. Uh the atomic clocks obviously we are purchasing from the west and those have failed. So only four satellites are fully operational which is a disaster. Okay. Five older satellites are completely defunct. Uh and the first nextG satellite NVS01 is operational but NVS02 failed to launch to reach its target orbit. What is this NVS02 satellite 29 Jan? Okay. What happened? 29th Jan. What happened to it? Was it launched? Launch fuel system failure. It was launched on GSLV F-15 29th January. And this failed. This failed. So even the GSLV is suffering problems. That's where we are. That's pretty bad situation. So, is failing somehow or is there sabotage? Now some of you may remember a year or two ago I had put out this video analysis in which I said that there is a strong possibility that the Chundrean 2 uh spacecraft was sabotaged and there were this analysis faced a lot of criticism from various experts and today we have this happening two consecutive PSLV launches have failed our Navic system is essentially Only four out of 11 satellites are operational. One of the Navic satellites was launched on GSLV that did not reach orbit. Looks like critical systems, critical satellites that push the envelope are being targeted. I think there is a very high possibility there is sabotage. Maybe spies inside the system. Maybe moles in the inside the system. Maybe some kind of some kind of some way of potentially hacking or sabotaging the launches, the vehicles or something from outside. Most likely not from outside. Most likely internal sabotage. Looks like that's a very strong possibility. I'm not claiming it's 100% certain that there is internal sabotage of some kind. I'm saying there is there seems like it it From a logical perspective, I think it's highly possible. From a logical perspective, it's there's a high probability that there is sabotage that's going on. And India needs to get it act get its act together. Whatever sabotage may or may not be happening, look into it. If it is indeed sabotage, hypothetically, identify the source of the sabotage. Um, apprehend the whatever people may possibly be be involved in this, right? So, yeah, this is this is a very serious situation and uh yeah, very concerning for sure. Very concerning. What's also concerning is that ISRO is launching like five rockets a year. Five rockets a year. SpaceX is is is launching like five rockets a week. And ISRO is launching five rockets a year. Is it Israel's fault? No, it's the it's the government's fault. The government seems to have zero ambitions now in India for India in space. I don't know what's going on. Seriously, baffling. Absolutely baffling. It's like ISRO is no longer in the space. We've given up on space. Who cares? Who cares? Doesn't matter, right? Crazy madness. Keshov says if the US seeks a land border to base its military infrastructure and power and project power against China, why haven't they gone after Bhutan too high? What a land border to base military infrastructure and project power against China. If the US puts things in Bhutan, China will take over Bhutan the next day. I mean it's we are not in kindergarten here, right? It has to be feasible. If the US puts personnel or equipment or weapons, military infrastructure in Bhutan, China will invade the next morning and take over Bhutan. And why will Bhutan allow this to happen? Why you think Bhutan's available to whoever wants to do whatever whatever stuff? Bhutan seeks to continue existing. Bhutan knows China is its biggest threat. Bhutan knows that India is the only nation that can save Bhutan and continue Bhutan's existence. Why will Bhutan invite retaliation from China by doing something so stupid? If the Chinese invade Bhutan, do you think the Americans can save Bhutan? I mean, think logically. Think beyond the surface level. What happens if you if if the US does this? What happens if Bhutan is so stupid it allows Americans to put some weapons in Bhutan and some personnel? What happens next? What will China's response be? Have you thought of that? And if China invades, let's say, then what will the Americans be able to do? Do does America have a land border with Bhutan so that it can do something? Can America project power in the Bhutan region? Will India allow Bhutan to allow the Americans to put weapons there or whatever there? I mean, think of it. Think of it. Let's think seriously here, right? Okay. Raza Ali Shirazi says, "Greeting from the land of Nadesha." You all remember him. Nadesha was a one real son of a wasn't he? Nadesha. High quality bastard. Was he? He was Nadasha. Okay. Ammon Kumar Dankar says reminder Mr. Bramud best time for Mr. Ramdei also. All right sir. Thank you for the reminders. Thank you. Chira Shinat says hi Kushal. I think this is not for me. Who's Kushell? This is not Kushell. I am pretty sure this is you have put this question on the wrong channel. I think you are looking for Kushel. A uh not me. Would you like me to take this question because this is not for me. Let's take it anyway. My name is Abhijit. Abijit. By the way, Abijit, not Kushell. I appeared on Koshal's channel few days ago. This is Abijit here. Okay. How can No. Can India become rich within its current framework? Most countries industrialized under strong strong state control and democratized later in the '90s. Is India doing trying to do too much at once? India is trying India you are absolutely right take the example of South Korea for example South Korea industrialized under strong state control democratized only later South Korea used to be a dictatorship only after it properly industrialized did it become supposedly a democracy under US occupation of course but still on paper a democracy um and there are plenty of such examples right India has never had that strong state control that can properly industrialize it. India is this chaotic democracy, isn't it? When you have states that have at times more power than the center, states, the states can veto the center. If the center wants to, let's say, you know, open up some industries in a certain state, they can say, "No, no, our farmers protest. our our our under the protest and we we will not allow this to happen. We want to remain dirt poor. We don't want industries here and it works and then other states will say okay bring it here we'll benefit. This sort of system doesn't work. India will have to significantly reform things if India wants to be rich and powerful. The current framework is loaded against India. It's like it's like the system is rigged against India. The system wants to ensure that India doesn't succeed. System is designed to keep India mediocre and poor. Yeah. So India is not trying to do too much at once. India is trying to do everything within the confines and boundaries and constraints of the worst system imaginable. So you are right. It doesn't it can't work and that's what that's why India needs reforms. massive reforms which I keep saying. Chira Shrinat says can India become rich within its current chaotic framework? Most countries industrialized under a strong state control in the 50s and 60s. Uh yeah, I just answered this question. It is very hard for India to become rich and powerful within the current chaotic framework. I agree with you. It's it's very hard things have to change. Okay. Naven says the dome of Imam Ali Shin Iraq and the open curved arches and Ians of Montas Syria Madarasa Iraq remember resemble similar architecture of Taj Mahal and both of them built centuries before Taj Mahal. Thank you very much for the very interesting observation. Chance says, "Uh, Western folks on X often make fun of Indians saying they are the true Arians with pics of Indians with dominant AASI features underneath. What's the apt report to make to this to make them shut?" The apt report is to either mute them or block them and move on with your life. Who cares what they say? Who cares what they say? How How does it Why do you need external validation? Why? Let them say I mean you walking on a street and dogs bark at you. You're going to bother the you're going to go after the dogs are you you're going to move on with life, right? How do we care what they say? You can't fight them all. So my my point I mean it's not like I don't see this. I just move on. But if you want to I mean look it's very easy to to sell a lie an oversimplification of things when the response is complicated. So if you want to respond to these folks, okay, then you have to explain the details. You to explain that this Arian invasion/migration theory is a myth. You to explain that it was cooked up by Max Mueller with the u five what 4,000 4,000 year um creation story of Jesus Christ and God Yahweh and all that in mind. So he put an arbitrary date of 1500 BC for the Iranian invasion which has no basis in anything any any any any concrete truth. Then you have to show how all the claims of the iron invasion theory are false which is why they had to create Arian migration theory. And then you have to show how the facts of the Arian migration theory are also false. Then you have to show that India has tremendous genet genetic diversity the second highest genetic diversity outside of Africa which is why you have people of so many different kinds of facial features and so on so on. So you have to write a long essay to counter one picture, one meme. Do you have the time to do all this? Right? These people seek to waste your time and energy. I would say just move on. Ignore such people. Block them or mute them or ignore them. That's it. Shirakes says, "I was curious if you have paused your podcasts as I haven't seen any recent episodes. if you plan to restart them. It would be great to have Abija Aritra and Ram Di back on the show. I have kind of you know I've not entirely stopped the podcasts. I have kind of uh reduced the frequency. I've done more than 100 now and I've learned a lot lot of lessons along the way. So there are some really really great guests that I've had. One of them is Abijah Aditra obviously um Dr. to me actually Jane and I'm I'm sure I can name a few more great guests who are outstanding when who I would have who and whom I would love to have on my show on my on the podcast again but I've also realized that a lot of the times many times I've realized during the conversations that I'm not sure why I call this person because I kind of know more than them so that's why I have decided to now bring the frequency of the podcast episodes down. It's not going to be it used to be like once a week or twice a week earlier. I think once a week at least. Right now it's going to be once in whenever I feel like only when I happen to speak to somebody really interesting who really has something really valuable to contribute that I can't contribute. Right? So it's going to be it's going to be there once in a while. Once in a while uh but yeah so that's the status right now. It's not stopped. It's not paused. It's kind of a little infrequent right now and that's that's where we are. Munabaya says IG V JPY Modi who played better geopolitics against US and China? Uh IG Indra Gandhi V. What's a V? Who's a V? VJP Baj Pai. Baj Pai Modi. Who played better geopolitics against us and China? Indra Gandhi well she did a great thing by by bifurcating Pakistan resecting Pakistan that's that's one of the greatest military achievements since 1947 so full marks for that waji well without wajpay we would not have a nuclear deterrent today so he showed spine of steel in going ahead with the nuclear um tests in 1998 Mrs. Gandhi also had conducted a nuclear test in 194 1974 but then she for whatever reason sheld the nuclear program Mr. Waji reactivated it and then converted that into an act actual active nuclear deterrent right and Mr. Modi has taken Indian foreign policy to the next level obviously right over the years over the past 11 12 years he has totally sidelined Pakistan shown a very hard stance against Pakistan the kind of stance no other leader has done in the past and he has expanded India's economy sign significantly had this multi-aligned foreign policy that has worked very well for India so I would say all of these leaders all three of these leaders have done a lot of great good a lot of great at least some good and some great but overall I would say that of all the Indian prime ministers I am aware of that we've had since 47 overall cumulatively Mr. Modi has been the most successful in terms of foreign policy uh geopolitics etc. Yeah, Vive Singh says, "Non UNSC, UN Security Council, non UN Security Council nations are joining the board of peace. Is it going to be a competitor of the UN or will it fade away like the League of Nations? Do you see a EU US conflict soon?" So, Donald J. Trump, American president, 47th president, he has uh instituted constituted this this board of peace thing and there's a bunch of nations in the board of peace. So what does this tell us? Is this going to be a competitor to the United Nations or is it going to fade out? Look, one thing it tells us is that the United Nations is failing as a global institution. It's not able to guarantee the peace in any any region. The UN is able to do nothing when it comes to Gaza. What was the UN able to do? nothing. The UN is a failure. The UN is increasingly irrelevant, almost completely irrelevant. So Trump constituting a border of peace that will actually guarantee the peace in Gaza, it is a slap in the face of the UN. It it shows the world the UN is irrelevant. So that much is definitely established and that is definitely something that Trump has already achieved through this board of peace. Now if you look at the kind of nations that have joined the board of peace, you have nations like Turkey and Pakistan which doesn't give a lot of credibility to the board of peace. Pakistan a terrorist regime. Turkey enabler of terrorism, supporter of ISIS. You have such nations in the board of peace. These are all opportunists who seek to curry favor with Donald J. Trump and achieve something for themselves. and Shabb Sharif is it's and aim it's not like they're doing something for Pakistan they're doing it for their own benefit dictators tinpot dictator well Shabb Sharif is the puppet essentially he's aim's puppet he's the standin for Munir so um that's the board of peace and if you want to be a permanent member you have to pay a billion dollars and then and even then Trump is the lifelong chairman of the board of peace that sort of thing so it's kind of a circus to some extent So uh will the board of peace last? I it it it can last only if it has global recognition. If it it can last only if it has recognition from nations like India, Russia, China, right? Only then will it be legitimate if outside of the US the three biggest economies stay out or the three most powerful nations not biggest economies three most powerful nations outside the apart from the US stay out then it doesn't get any real legitimacy so I expect that if India Russia China don't join then this thing will eventually fade out do I see a EU Russ US conflict soon I don't not not a war there's obviously tensions and so or so on, but not of war, not a not a military conflict. Hyphen 6552 says, "Sorry for multiple questions, but will climate change become a p primary driver of conflict?" No, that's that's the first answer. No, it won't. Or a threat multiplier. It could potentially multiply threats if there is massive effects of climate change like floods or massive u you know um you know natural disasters. Also, are human rights promoted for moral reasons or as tool of tools of leverage? Okay. About climate change, it won't be a primary driver of conflict, but it could be a threat multiplier in some some geographies. For example, it can be a threat multiplier in a geography that is for example uh prone to regular earthquakes. It obviously is is something that you have to uh mitigate or or consider as part of your lifestyle. If there's a contract there, it obviously is going to have effects. Let's say you have a region that's prone to volcanism, the ring of fire region. Well, there you're going to have issues, right? Um it can be a major driver for a threat multiplier for low-lying countries in the ocean, oceanic countries like Maldives. If the ocean levels do rise, we we don't see that happening, but if they do rise, then it's going to be a threat. It could be a threat for Bangladesh and then it could drive conflict. If the ocean levels rise like say 3 4 meters in the next 20 30 years if that happens but um that is well if that happens that sort of thing. So it depends on the geography on the country on the local uh politics and so much more. Now are human rights promoted for moral reasons or as tools of leverage? Well, human rights ideally should be promoted for moral reasons because human rights are should be sacrosant wherever you have uh wherever you have human beings. But uh if you look at the champions of human rights like the United States, they use human rights as a tool of leverage. They use human rights as a stick to beat certain nations with. So they will so when it comes to let's say the US attempting regime change in Syria well they supported ISIS and al-Qaeda or the moderate re rebels al-Qaeda are the moderate rebels ISIS are nasty but they will they will turn the other way while they do this stuff that sort of thing and today you have an ISIS terrorist who is the so-called president of Syria and he meets with Donald Trump what happened to your human rights But when it comes to other countries, they will use uh so-called human rights uh challenges or whatever based on whatever reports they put out as a stick to beat the country with. So it's it's all tools of leverage. People power says, "Is interior reconstructible from boundary data?" You're talking about the holographic principle, are you? I mean, I'm I'm sure you're talking about physics here, aren't you? boundary data. Let's talk about let's talk about black holes for example. Okay. So if you have a an uncharged non-rotating black hole, it's called a Schwarz chilled black hole. Okay. And it's it's the the solution to the Einstein field equations is a perfectly spherically symmetric solution. So it's a spherical black hole. It's not rotating. It doesn't have angular momentum. And let's say it has no charge. Typically black holes have very little charge. if if any at all. But okay. So then you have a spherical object which seems to contain at the center it's at its heart a singularity and the singularity is a probably mathematical artifact but it's not a coordinate artifact. It's an actual physical singularity from the equations which means the equations break down to the center. You have a region of infinite curvature infinite density which is unphysical. It's division by zero which actually indicates that there's something somewhat wrong with the equations. It needs an improvement of some kind which means it's physics that we don't understand there. U now at the surface the surface what is the surface of a black hole. So when you are falling into a black hole do you see some kind of signboard? Here here is the point of no return you don't see anything. The surface is is an imaginary surface. It's called the event horizon. Okay. And you can construct this boundary at the event horizon. And there so the holographic principle says that this this two-dimensional surface uh it encodes all the information that's inside the black hole in some scrambled encrypted form or whatever. Uh that's the holographic principle. But can you reconstruct the interior from the boundary data? I'm not sure we can. I don't think we can. I mean I would like to know what's at the heart of the black hole. What what does the singularity look like? Does do we actually have a singularity? So the boundary data doesn't really tell us anything about the singularity. Whatever we know of the interior of of a black hole is from the solutions of the Einstein field equations. Um the the holographic data the the the surface boundary information. So one thing we know is that uh the surface area of the boundary of the of the event horizon it is proportional to the entropy of the black hole. The amount of let's say disorder in the black hole. Okay that's one thing we know that's black hole thermodynamics. But can we can we determine whatever is inside the black hole? How many photons went in? How many how many neutrinos went in? How many charged particles, atoms, whatever went in? Can we do that from the boundary data? We can't. We can't. At this point in time, we can't. Okay. Dian plane crash says, "Your opinion on Soviet icranoplanes. Soviet erranoplanes were this gigantic whoreboards." What's a horcraft? Horcrafts. So, what's a horrorcraft first of all? So a horsecraft is this uh essentially it's a floating vehicle that floats on a cushion of air and it has these propellers which propel it forward. So it's this uh vehicle that that you can drive over land or even sea. You can drive it across a river. It'll be it will it will be floating on a cushion of air and you can just drive it over a river. You can drive it across over a sea. And these echrano plans were gigantic warcrafts and those could carry dozens of troops, maybe hundreds of troops, maybe even vehicles, very large. Um, so let's see what these looked like. First of all, what's what does the horcraft look like? Socraft, it looks like this. Okay, we have horcraft services in various parts of India. This is a small one. This is a medium-sized hovercraft. As you can see, it's it's go it's it's traveling over a river or or or water. This one is on land. So, typically you use it to cross to essentially travel over or over water. Now, what does an echranoplan look like? So, it was this gigantic horcraft beast. Okay, you could use it to launch invasions. You can see how many engines it had. Eight engines. And I suppose these were heavily armed too. You can see these missile tubes or whatever. Right. This is another uh the Caspian Sea monster. Massive massive beastly object. So you had these plants. I'm not sure how many were built. I'm sure I'm pretty sure not very many were built. This is Darpa. Okay, forget about Darpa. So these were massive designs. I don't remember what the strategic or tactical use of these was and a few of these were built but uh these were eventually abandoned and they are no longer in u operation. The Chinese have plan like like like like vehicles warcrafts that can potentially be used for an invasion of Taiwan. Okay, that sort of thing. Uh so that's what I know about econoplants. Very interesting. a vehicle, military vehicle that that the Soviets built. Uh I'm sure it's it's a good concept and can still be adapted for 21st century warfare, especially for amphibious invasions and expeditionary warfare. Okay. Okay. So if for example if India wants to practice an invasion of some country some hypothetical country then you could take off from let's say Vishakapatnam or whatever on an Eranoplan like vehicle and practice an invasion of the Anderman islands you know just for practice purpose and are anyway ours but you practice so you could do that if you had econom like vehicles maybe each plant could potentially carry let's 100 troops or 200 troops. Launch 10 of these and you have a pretty good invasion force. No marines that sort of thing. Shivanch says, "Have you read Mr. Ambedkar? Do you subscribe to any of his ideas?" I unfortunately have not read any of Dr. Ambedkar. So I am not aware of his ideas. Right. There are so many historical figures, you know, fascinating historical figures, very important historical figures. So many of these in past history. So many of these that it's impossible to study each of them. uh and I have never had the opportunity or the time or somehow it's never happened that I uh got the chance to read about Dr. So I am not aware of his ideas in in any any great detail. Caitana on tech says since inception has the US always interfered in other count's affairs? When did this start? Well the US so the first of all the what was the inception of the US? The inception of the United States was Europeans interfering in the internal affairs of the Americas. See Columbus set out from Spain in the hope of discovering India and he stumbled into the Caribbean region and he thought this was India. I discovered India. He goes back to Spain and says I found the Indies. I found India and so on. Eventually the Spanish realize this is not India. It's a new land that they found. Eventually they find La Florida the flowered coast which is now Florida. And then eventually uh it's the English who first resort to piracy and then they they actually go and uh set settle down. You first have Jamestown which the Americans don't want to talk about because it was a disaster, nasty disaster. And then you have Plymouth in what is now the Massachusetts region. And then they invade this land and massacre the natives, genocide the natives and set up eventually the United States. It was first British colonies and then 1776 you have the formation of the United States. So this was the formation of the US. The creation of the US was was was the theft of land from the natives and the decimation genocide of the natives. And then you have further westward expansion at the cost of the lives and territories of the natives. But this was interference in the internal affairs of the native people of the Americas who hardly exist at all anymore. And and then they stole territory from Mexico in the 19th century. What 40 1848 was it? US Mexico war. When did it happen? Let's quickly take a look. Okay. US Mexico war 46. Okay. I was off by two years. It it ended in 48. So how how do you have territories in the US that are called Colorado, Teas, California? Those are Spanish names, right? These were all Mexican territories which was Mexico was once called New Spain. And then in what 1823, the Americans instituted this foreign policy called the Monroe Doctrine that we won't allow any European power to interfere in the Americas anymore. that was obviously interference in the internal affairs of other South American nations, Central American nations and so on. So it's always been that sort of thing. See the America the United States was founded by invaders and occupiers. European invaders and occupiers. And what was in their blood? Invasion and occupation and plunder and pillage and theft. That's how Australia was created. Australia was once populated only by native people, the so-called Aboriginal people. Where are they today? What happened to the natives of Tasmania? Not a single one is alive today. This is what the the the Anglo-Saxons have done across the world. Interference in other countries affairs, theft of countries, theft of land, genocide, plunder, pillage. What did they do in India? The same Anglo-Saxons. They um artificially engineered hundreds of famines and killed hundreds of millions of Indians. Your textbooks won't teach you this. So when I say this, people will question me. What are you talking about? You've gone crazy. Your textbooks won't teach you this. Your NCERT revisions, do they teach you how many artificial famines the British engineered? How did they engineer the famines step by step? And how many Indians were killed as a as a consequence? They won't teach you this. This is the problem. Okay. Shahon says, "Is Ali Adris really that great?" I'm sorry. Who Who is Alris? Let's see who is Alidris. Muhammad Ali. Uh I haven't studied the life and the story of Muhammad Ali. Uh Abu Abdullah Muhammad Ali Kuri Alassani what was an Arabic Muslim geographer and ctographer who served in the court of King Roger II at Palmo Sicily. He was born in Suta belonging to the Alam Muravit dynasty. Okay, I am not aware of this fine gentleman so I don't know. Sorry. Right. Next. Giora TV says, "Isn't it a good idea that to fix India's language dispute in the future? All major regional languages should be taught in schools. Aren't so many years enough for kids to learn a few languages?" So, see, it's it's I would say it's a on paper a good idea, but think of it practically. Let's say you're a kid in in in some state in India. Let's say you are a kid in in Andhra Pradesh. So typically what a kid goes through in school is that you have to learn the native language as one of the subjects. Then you have to learn Hindi as the nation language. That's the second one. And if you're in the English medium, you have to learn English the third language. So out of your seven or eight subjects, three are languages. And you learn this year after year. first standard, second, third, blah, blah, blah. 1000 all the way I suppose to 12th standard. 12 years of your life, you're learning three languages when you could have spent that time learning something way more interesting if you only had to learn one language. So if you make kids learn five languages, six languages, what else will they have time for to learn? That's the problem. That's the problem. You should have one. See in my opinion you should be taught two languages. One is your native lang your your mother tongue. Your education should be in your mother tongue not in a foreign language. And apart from your mother tongue you should be taught one national or civilizational language which in my opinion should be Sanskrit. And there should be no foreign language taught to any kid. If they want to learn some foreign language whether it is French, whether it is German, whether it's Chinese, Japanese, Swahili, whatever, let them learn in their own free time as a hobby. No one's preventing you from stopping you from learning a foreign language. But in the Indian education system, you should be taught instructed in the mother tongue and you should be taught the civilizational language Sanskrit. That's it. So if you are a school, if you're a kid from Karnataka, your education should be in the Canada language and you should be taught one language apart from that which is Sanskrit. If you are from Assam, you should be taught in the Assam is language. All your education and apart from that you should be taught Sanskrit. That way that way everybody has one language that everyone can communicate in which is the civilizational language and you are also being instructed in the bad tongue which makes your education so much easier. That's what should be done. Teaching 500 different languages will it's it's pointless. It's pointless. Our civilization always had this issue that we have so many languages. We are a genuine civilization. We are like a continent in our own own right. Hundreds of languages spoken around and thousands of thousands of dialects. So how did we solve the problem? by having a single civilizational language that everybody understood everywhere or at least the educated people, highly educated people understood everywhere. So you could travel across the country and no matter what language people spoke, you could communicate. That's what needs to happen instead of having all kinds of languages taught. That that's my opinion. You can feel free to disagree with that. Rahul Ladu says which tech should India gain very urgently? India should um which tech first of all India should develop its own large language models and AI systems indigenous trained on indigenous sovereign data. It's I have no issue with us scraping the entire world's internet and getting the data but it should be trained on our terms. That's what needs to happen. So we need to have our own lang large large language models, our own AI systems. See and not necessarily large language models. Some should be LLMs. Some should be trained on something else. You know you have data apart from text data, right? You have video data. You have got audiovisisual data. Train your AI models on all kinds of data not just text which is LLMs. That's one thing that's urgently required in India because we are not even of we are not even participating in the AI race as of now. We're not right. Uh you may have significant AI penetration in India but that doesn't mean we are a leading AI nation. We are not a leader. We are not even second rank. We not even in the second category. We're nowhere right now. I hope some work is being done and let's see the results first instead of boosting. Uh that's one thing India needs to do. What other technologies? Um jet engine technology obviously that needs to happen rapidly. Um what else? Materials science. Um miniaturization of nuclear uh nuclear reactors for submarines and so on. Um India is behind in many technologies. We should catch up with all of these urgently urgently. India needs to also become a major player in the space race. So what technology is needed for that? Heavy lift rockets. We currently have light light lift rockets. Our most powerful rocket the GSL can lift 4,000 kilograms to uh to geocynchronous orbits which is which is a respectable amount but compared to the big players it's okay. So a lot of these things need to happen. Uh, Pratam Sony says, "Five rules of power in and its nature for nation and individual. Five rules of power." Ah, it's been a while since I've thought about the rules of power. Power, how do I explain power? Power is is is like a force. Okay? Power, I don't know about five rules of power, okay? But, uh, power is is What is power? First of all, do we even know what power is? Instead of giving you five rules of power, let me explain what power actually is. So, one easy metaphor I can give you is this. Let's say I have a million followers on social media. H let's say I have a million followers across social media. That means that about a million people will sometimes pay attention to me and sometimes take some of what I say seriously. Sometimes it means that I have some influence over these people. I may not have full influence over all of them but some of them find me interesting or whatever that's why they follow me and sometimes they'll take me seriously at least some of what I say seriously. That is influence. That is not power. But let's say I have a million guys. Let's say I have a million people who are highly trained, highly heavily armed and who will obey me without question. That is power. Huge difference between power and influence. So the power, what is the meaning of power? The power is power is the ability to compel outcomes whether someone likes or not. That's power. and then you can figure out what are the rules of power based on that. So that's what I will tell you at this point in time. Fast snail says what if China proposes to send troops to help Russia just like North Korea did so they are battle battle tested would Russia welcome it? Would see a red flag? That's an interesting hypothetical scenario. So let's say China has decided for whatever reason we'll send troops to help Russia just like North Korea did and we want our troops to be battle tested and Russia gets additional troops who who will fight on its behalf. Would Russia welcome it? Would see a red flag? I think Russia would be very cautious about this and I don't think Russia will be cautious about this because they are worried about the western reaction. No, no, no, no, no. Russia will be cautious about this because they will be wor they will be worried about the presence of Chinese troops in close proximity or in contact with Russian troops with access to Russian military equipment because the Chinese troops will be spies. Russia will see it as a red flag, not the West. The West may be happy actually. Okay, the Chinese are playing games with Russia now. They'll be happy. I think Russia will see this as as a red flag and uh they may not be in a position to say no to China but they would be extremely cautious about this. So Russia would probably not reject this but they may they may impose special conditions on the on the Chinese troops. You know they'll have to negotiate a deal as to what kind what kind of operational measures will be taken and what kind of operational freedom the Chinese troops will be given. I don't think China will agree to Chinese troops being under Russian command because that is a sovereignty red flag. I think this is a highly unlikely scenario. I think China first of all won't propose this and even if the proposed Russia Russia may be very very cautious or suspicious about such a proposal from China. Would the west see a red flag if Russia accepted? I think they would see a red flag anyway. Yeah. And that would actually give the west multiple excuses to to sanction China and China doesn't need this right now or want this at this time. So that's where we are. Okay. Gayora TV says, "Do you think that India possesses or is in the process of having space-based DEWs? There's chatter about some project Kali. What's a DEW? Directed energy weapon. What's a directed energy weapon? It's typically weapons that use photons as a weapon. What's a photon? A photon is a quantum of light. It's a wave packet. Essentially, it's like lasers. Okay. Lasers. What's laser? It's just light. Light emission by synchronized emission of radiation, right? Yeah. Laser. Yeah. Kind of. So population inversion what I don't know okay that's not relevant here. So a laser is a directed energy weapon. You use energy in the form of light okay as the weapon and you can have u various kinds of such weapons. Um so the question then is so that now we have understood what a directed energy weapon is. It's like a light beam essentially or a beam of photons. It could be ultraviolet, infrared, whatever. But energy which is being used as a weapon. So that's a DEI. Now does India have spacebased DEIs? I think India does have landbased DEIS very powerful land-based DEIS. Space- based I doubt it very much. First of all, let's see what kind of landbased DEIS India has. India directed energy weapons. So we do have um DRDO projects like Kali microwaves, Sudia high powered lasers, Sahastra Shaki weapon mounted laser laser etc. We have pretty powerful uh DEIS kilo ampere linear injector uses electron beams to generate microwaves to soft kill electronics and drones and missiles with potential for future upgrades. Shahustra Shaki 30 kilowatt vehicle mounted laser system that successfully neutralized drones. It's been tested up to 5 km away demonstrating real world capability. Surya 300 kowatt high power laser system targeting aerial threats like missiles at longer ranges up to 20 km. Very very very good. Excellent. I like it. Adita gas dynamic laser demonstrator on a vehicle for terminal missile defense. Laser dazzlers. Okay, that's fine for crowd control. Dura 2. Uh we're not sure what that is. Directionally unrestricted ray gun array. Uh yeah, so all these strategic u you know objectives what you can do with it. And uh the great thing is that you don't need ammunition for this. You just need energy. Um you may need capacitors and all that. Okay, you don't need ammunition for this. Now these are pretty massive systems. Okay. And uh typically this would weigh hundreds of kilograms potentially. How do you launch that into space? Yeah, sure we can launch several hundred kilograms into space, even thousands of kilograms. But uh We most likely don't have that. So recently we've been we've been trying to launch some uh military satellites or or critical strategic satellites into space and it's not worked out right very well. Uh and we we we hardly launch five or six space missions a year and we typically announce what those space missions are. It's not always military satellites. Sometimes your standard communication satellites are sometimes something like Chundrian or Mongalan or whatever. So I therefore doubt very strongly that we have any space-based directed energy weapons. If India was a nation that launched dozens of space missions a year then we could easily quietly launch something and not you know people won't realize but when you launch just five or six space missions a year everything is scrutinized and it's very very very hard to to to camouflage the launch of a DEI uh system into space so I doubt that we have that India has space-based DEIS we hung Kuran says is no uh India is developing ramjet powered artillery shells if it is successful how significant will it be for our defense capabilities my super chat but watching since 5 years I learned a lot oh outstanding thank you so much thank you so much for being for having been a viewer for 5 years thank you so much really appreciate that um now right so uh yeah I've heard recent recently the news came out that we are developing ramjet powered artillery shells so what's What's a ramjet? A ramjet is a special kind of uh of propulsion system. Uh what's the application it what's the application of ramjets? One example is Brahmos. The brahos missile employs ramjet engines and these ramjet engine this ramjet engine on a brahmos missile accelerates it to mark 2 which is twice the speed of sound. Right? It's a pretty massive missile and with this powerful uh engine that accelerates the missile to Mach 2. So, Ramjet technology, Ramjet engines accelerate projectiles to very high speeds, typically M2, sometimes Mach 3 also. And then you one step beyond ramjets is scramjets which is supersonic combusting supersonic combusting ramjets which takes you to Mac 5 plus. So the news is that India is developing ramjet powered artillery shells. So what's an artillery shell? It's a projectile that is shot out of a cannon or an artillery or a howitzer or an artillery piece. Right? So what does a artillery shell look like? Let me first show that. Okay. Artillery. Artillery shell. So that's what an artillery shell typically looks like. Yeah, it's got this super uh this this this uh streamlined aerodynamic shape and you have artillery shells that come in different sizes and shapes. Mostly the shapes are similar but the sizes are different and then you have artillery shells with fins and whatnot and some artillery so so artillery shells don't typically have a motor an engine that propels it. It doesn't leave behind a jet. It's simply shot out of um of the tube of the artillery piece and that's it. Then it then it just goes on a ballastic trajectory and impacts the uh the destination. But now we have this artillery shell which will have ramjets. So what that does is it's going to extend the ra range of the artillery shell. It's going to kind of turn the artillery shell into an extended rocket kind of thing. And the power it delivers, you know, the speed at which it will impact the the the the the target is going to be higher than a typically typical artillery shell. So what's the advantage of this? First of all, extended range. Let's say you have an artillery gun that can fire a shell to 20 km, but maybe with a ramjet you can fire it to maybe 30 km, maybe maybe 40 km. I don't know. I don't know what the specifics are, but it extends the range. If you have an artillery shell with that sort of range, you may be able to possibly double the range. Maybe maybe even beyond that. Who knows? That's one thing. And secondly, the kinetic energy it carries will be higher because it's it's traveling faster. So that sort of thing. Yeah. So it's obviously good for our defense capabilities. It's not a gamecher, but it's definitely excellent. Right. Okay. So yeah, thank you Vihank for the super chat and nice to have finally had communication with you. Thank you. Just kidding says namaste sir. Well, namaste G. Namaste back to you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Honey Sharma says I know you don't watch Indian movies but you must you must watch Tumbad. Tumb. I I used to think it was Tumbad based on the English spelling tu mb. I was like what what does toubad mean? But then someone told me it is tumb. Okay. Uh yeah and so you must watch tumb and it's based on Indian goddess and monsters. It's a beautifully crafted movie. Please watch. Um yeah, I never got the opportunity to watch it on the big screen and I've heard a lot of really good things about it. Like it's one of India's finest uh movies, genuinely world-class movie. Apparently a frightening movie and scary horror stuff. Oh, I'm so scared. But yeah, thank you for the recommendation. I will certainly watch it. I it's it's been on my watch list for like a few years, but I somehow never got around to watching it. So, thank you for the reminder. I will certainly find the time to watch that movie. Thank you. Slow cheita. Well, we had fast snail, now we have slow cheita. I love this uh this creative usernames. Okay. Which Indian emperor was strong in terms of power projection? Oh, well see when we talk about pro power projection in the modern day era we're talking about missiles we're talking about military bases we're talking about naval bases across the world we're talking about satellite systems we're talking about cyber capabilities right 21 20th century and 21st century technologies that's what has enabled nations like the US especially in the US to project power globally now you go back to the 19th century The only way to project project power was by having a very powerful and capable navy and using the navy to enforce the control of sea lanes and the protection of strategically uh placed ports and those ports would also serve as points of extraction from the colonies from the occupied nations. like you had ports in India which were places where from which you know all the all the resources of India were extracted out of India and sent to the sent to various parts of the world. So that's how you did power projection now in India. So that's 19th 18th 19th centuries. Before that you had traders like Indian traders who would trade with East Africa etc. Um but those were trading missions. Those were not power projection missions. So if you ask me what Indian emperor was strong in terms of power projection when it come who was the last great Indian emperor. The last great Indian empire was the Marata Empire and it was one of the great uh advantages it had was it it had a very powerful navy. So the Marata Empire was able to project power across India's coastline. Right? So that that's one. Apart from that the Gupta emperors had pretty powerful navies. Obviously there was no air force in back in the day. You had infantry, you had and you had cavalry and you had navy. So when Samudra Gupta uh conquered the Deken region all the way to you know the south southern part of India, it was a two-pronged invasion. It was a land-based invasion plus a sea based invasion. So Samodra Gupta was very powerful in in that sense. Apart from that um power projection was all landbased. when it comes to for example I suppose various Indian emperors also were able to project power through the through naval means into the straight of Horbos etc but most of those records have disappeared we've lost those but yeah we did have that during the time of the Mahakhatraas you know the Indoskeian rulers of western India especially Gujarat Sarashtra Maharashtra that region uh even Rajasthan and so on those those Mahakhatra rulers like Rudra Daman etc. Nahana, Chashtana, Rudra Daman etc. These great kings they also had powerful navies. They controlled the great western ports of India the ports in Gujarat and Sarashtra through which we traded with the west and that's why the Mahakhatra was very were very powerful and very u um very wealthy and then the Gupta Gupta emperors took over that part of India they defeated the Makatraas. Uh so yeah so back in the day power projection was mainly naval and when it comes to an emperor like Kaneska his power projection was all landbased so those days we did not have air force we had some navy that's why power projection was limited not just in India everywhere in the world okay uh tu says your review on jajnadvam work now expert try to review his work kushal look I haven't studied his work in detail. I have had him on my podcast and I think he's legit. He he has uh so the work he has done. Okay. The the work he's done is essentially the the the decipherment. Let me find that. Okay. Give me a second. It is the decipherment of the uh so-called indust value or harapans script and and he has done it through cryptographic means by treating the problem as a as a cryptographic problem and that's a scientific way of doing it a logical way of doing it and I'm pretty sure that what the work he has done is legitimate uh so if you want to know what podcast it is on my channel uh if you look here it is this one ACP91 Abij Chava 91 a year ago. This one here. So if you're interested, do do watch that. So I I think his his work is legit. I think his work is great. But I haven't studied it like rigorously and go through gone through his entire process because I've never had the time to do that. But it makes the most sense to me um to Okay, it's the same question all over again. Okay, I just answered that. All right, thank you sir. Tu thank you. Uh Naven Ch Johan says India's information warfare or narrative remains weak across X, Instagram, YouTube in Reddit. Even Pakistan outperforms us in narrative coordination. Why? Because the government doesn't consider this whatever reason to be important. When it comes to the Pakistani um narrative warfare uh approach, well, it's the government of Pakistan that's involved in this. When it comes to the Chinese narrative warfare strategy, the government funds this and coordinates this. The Chinese government does it. In the case of India, it is individuals who do it. The government simply is not interested. Why is the government of India not interested in fighting a narrative war on social media? I don't have the faintest clue. Every nation has a propaganda outlet, right? The BBC, it is the British propaganda outlet. U the Americans have multiple CNN, Fox News, they they have various print or or uh you know uh internet outlets like whatever New York Times, uh Washington Post, etc. The Chinese have C CCT CCTN or whatever. Every nation, the the Germans have Deutschell. The French have France France 24. Every nation has these BBC's, their version of the BBC. India has nothing. India simply doesn't care about about fighting a narrative war. The government of India, it has it has had all these years to do do something about it. They simply don't care. I don't know why they don't care. this what we have this information and broadcasting ministry why do we have it why I I don't get it so the question is why and I don't have the answer to this the government of India simply doesn't care why I think only they can answer this question I don't have an answer beats me I'm clueless I'm stumped stumped by a mile Singh says planning to watch board of two no plans to Watch Border 2. I watched Border One on the big screen when it came out. Yeah, I It was a pretty long movie, but overall satisfying, good movie. Uh I'm not sure if I should watch Border 2. I I'll I'll wait for the reviews to come in. Has it already come out? The movie? I'm not aware. Uh yeah, a lot of these movies are intensely disappointing when they come out. Like I has come out. I've not seen it but I've heard not nice things. Dhandra they all's last movie. What did he do? So I'm not sure if I should watch Bord. If if the if the reviews are good then then yeah I I may perhaps consider watching it. Uh Ra Run Rajger says when when is the last time you you proven wrong? Uh when was the last time I was proven wrong? One of the I don't know exactly the last time. One example is this. I was a firm believer in the Arian invasion theory. I believed it. I I mean it's what I had been what I had learned growing up and all the textbooks said that there was an ar invasion of India and it just made sense that you know it must have been like that. I never really paid attention to it and and and I used to I used to have these comments I used to see these comments on Twitter that you know the RN invasion thinking theory is wrong and all and I used to get annoyed. I used to get annoyed with this people that why does everything have to be wrong? Why do we have to question everything? Then one day I think in 2016 or whatever I decided to actually examine the evidence properly. Not not the textbooks and not the history books, but the actual history historical data, the histo the the archaeological records, the the history, the research papers, the genetics, the genetic research papers. I went through all of that and I was like, what the hell? I'm completely wrong with this. It was like the biggest revelation. It was a complete U-turn for me. 180° turn. I was completely wrong in my belief that the iron inversion theory is correct. So that's one example. I'm sure there must have been more. Honey Sharma says, "Why are we so awful in tests and ODIs recently but dominate like no one is in T20s? Is it because of the new coach or something? I can't see." Well, that's an interesting cricket question. Look, I um uh first of all, look, I have never played cricket uh seriously or professionally. So maybe I'm not the the expert, but what what do I see? Why are we so awful in tests and ODIs recently? Because we insist on having crap wickets, low bouncing, hard turning wickets, bad wickets, terrible wickets. You know the best wickets according to me, quality wickets. Those are the Australian wickets. They are hard and bouncing wickets. I've I've been I've seen various Indian teams tour Australia over the years since the since the early '90s. And what I've always seen in in the past, not recent 232s, but in the past is that the first three, four matches, the Indian batsman always struggle because it's hard and bouncing, they can't handle the bounce. But once they get the hang of the bounce, it they play superbly especially quality batsmen like you know Lakshman and Draid and Tendulkar, even Seag and so on. Did I miss some names? I'm sure must have missed some names. But high quality batsmen, they love those hard bouncing wickets. They play superbly there. in Kohli. Ki Kohley is another another example. So you need quality wickets. Okay. What's a quality? What's the definition of a quality wicket? A high quality wicket. A high quality wicket is a is a wicket on which highquality batsmen will get runs and high quality bowlers will get wickets. But poor batsmen will struggle and poor bowlers will struggle. That's a high quality wicket. It's balanced. Now look at India's wickets. The kind of Indian wickets India produces in test matches. rubbish wickets, wickets that crumble in in like within a day and then this this start spinning viciously. When you have a dibbly doubly bowler like Joe Rut who who could take wickets or or who's the latest South African guy who came and took so many wickets a part-time off spinner takes wickets like like his mutan when you have part-time bowlers becoming life-threatening that's the exa that's an example of a very bad wicket and in seam bowling terms when you have Phil Simmons bowling 10 overs for three runs and taking four wickets that's a very poor fast bowling wicket so you need to have a balanced wicket that is challenging but fair and that's what we would like to see in test matches and if you produce these third rate wickets then then others will take advantage of that and T20s it's okay it's good to see T20s but the real test m test of high quality cricket is test matches and we have been doing poorly of late uh is it because of the new coach something I can't see I mean we we look at our bowling attack we have one world class bowler Bumra right we don't have any other world class bowler right now Shami is world class but he has been kept out for whatever reason why isn't has he been kept out why he was the best bowler of the 2023 world cup he should have been the man of the series not kohi he bulldozed every opposition on Indian wickets so why is he not in the team I don't get it so that clearly seems to be something beyond merit Why? So we have world class spin bowlers. We have Ravi Jadea. Who else do we have? Whoever it may be. Um Kulp, we have Bumrah fast world class fast bowl. One of the greatest of all time. Of course. Shami is also a great bowler but he's not there. So who do we have? We have Prasid, we have Siraj, we have uh Harshett. Those are good bowlers but not great. So there's many problems and maybe something to do with the coach perhaps. I mean I'm a big fan of Gambir especially as a player who was a great player for a while. Not the not the best of all time but definitely a very hard worker and all. Um but yeah something's wrong needs to be fixed. There's a there's something wrong with the mindset. You should have high quality wickets. Anyhow that's a good diversion into cricket. Okay, let's get back into on track. Okay, Sergeant Skylin says, "Slow. Sorry to clarify my earlier question regarding Trump's term. Good for India. Like, will India use this opportunity to make reforms?" Oh, well, a an external challenge is often a great opportunity for a nation to make reforms to to solve internal problems. So, will it will India use it? Will India use this opportunity that we have external pressure? Will we use this opportunity to make internal reforms? Well, I don't know. That depends on the government and the leadership that I can't tell. I can tell you what approach Trump will have towards India. It's going to be a hard approach. So that I can tell you what India's response will be will be towards that. the the the reforms we need are major reforms and uh well those can be unpopular in the short term politically unpopular in the short term will the government of India have the wherew withhold to make such reforms you know see major reforms deep deep rooted reforms pay dividends only in the wrong long run you won't see immediate returns for But that's what we need. And shortterm you will have pain. If you if you do reforms that will only bring the results in the long run, it means there are going to be short-term pain. You go to gym for the first time. You're going to be in pain for 3 weeks. Every muscle fiber will hurt. But long term it's going to be great for you. But do you have do you have that in you to withstand those three weeks of pain? Or maybe two weeks, whatever. Depends. So uh I'm not sure if India will use the opportunity to take the to make the reforms. I'm not sure. Vihung Kuran says is nuclear energy a good alternative for rocket and missile propulsion compared to chemical rockets considering its success in submarines. Totally different matter. A submarine is a totally different thing. Okay. In submarine, you have a miniaturized nuclear reactor that drives a se steam engine essentially that gives r gives gives the energy the electrical energy to the submarine and the propulsive energy to its to its propeller. Okay, that's a massive thing that nuclear reactor even if it's a miniaturized nuclear reactor it weighs a lot weighs a lot. Now a nuclear reactor is a very expensive thing. Costs a lot of money. And if you use a nuclear reactor in a rocket or in a missile, you you want to launch let's say 300 missiles every day. Can you have 300 nuclear reactors? First of all, how much money that will spend? How much money will you lose in that? And you can't have a nuclear so small it'll fit into a into the backside uh posterior side of a missile. Um so yeah it's it's not a great alternative but but but but we're still discussing rocket propulsion. Well there's two kinds of nuclear rocket propulsion. One is simply nuclear detonations. You need a very massive rocket for that. Okay. And you can launch a rocket using nuclear detonations, pulsed nuclear detonations. There was this this this project in the 1960s or something to Mars by a bomb or something. I I don't remember what what it was called. Give me a second. Sorry. What is this? Um, give me a second. Let's Google this. So, you can do that. Okay. uh to Mars by a bomb. Project Orion. Project Orion. So, uh what was this? Project Orion. Nuclear propulsion. Okay. It was a study conducted a series of atomic explosions behind the craft. So, you're actually detonating nuclear bombs behind the craft. You need a very massive craft craft for that. So, yeah, it's it's theoretically possible. Theoretically works. Another way of having nuclear propulsion in a rocket or a missile is to have a nuclear ramjet. Okay, that essentially can give a rocket or a missile unlimited range. You can keep it flying for months. Nuclear ramjet. Would you like to see that? Okay, I'll show you. A nuclear ramjet. And the Russians have such a missile. Nuclear ramjet project Pluto. uh nuclear ramjet and Russian Russian nuclear ramjet. So the Russians have this bur snick. That's right. So they have this uh so near unlimited range and low altitude stealthy flight and so on. Yeah. Uh but once again this is going to be pretty expensive. Each each missile is going to be pretty pretty expensive because you actually have a nuclear reactor inside it. So it's possible but it's pretty expensive and it's not something you want to do on a large scale. Rashid Rashit Shawastu says Indians take pride in juggard. We need to fix it. See every every problem doesn't have a juggard solution but jard is a good tool to have in your toolkit. Jard means you means improvisation right? You improvise you somehow find a solution. It may be a stop gap solution. It may not be the most elegant solution. It may be a temporary solution or whatever. But you somehow make it work. That is a good tool to have in the toolkit. But it should not be the only tool we have in the toolkit. Unfortunately, the things way things are in India sometimes it's the only tool that people have. So it's good to have it. But we need to think of long-term solutions also. So yeah, I agree with you that we need to fix this mentality of only doing juggard for everything. I agree. Rahul says, "With with the UAE getting closer to Bat, do you foresee more Arab nations doing so? With Oman's good relations with Bat, can it get can it be next to get close?" Um, we have good relations with various uh nations in the Arabian region. UAE obviously with the UAE we have excellent relations. We have a free trade agreement and we possibly will have a defense deal with them mutual I don't know some kind of defense agreement defense deal a nuclear cooperation much more and we have a massive population in the UAE so UAE and India very good relations do I foresee other nations uh when it comes to Oman we already have good relations with Oman we already have some kind of defense understanding with Oman have you heard of dukum well this is not classified so I can I suppose I can show this it's obviously known to the public. Dukum where is Duke? Uh here we have Dukum. So this is a port city, port town and we have a port here. Port of Dukum and u well India kind of operates some part of this port. India doesn't operate this port but India has the um the the permission to use the port for naval operations or or or naval refueling or whatever right uh so India has excellent relations with e with with Oman and uh so we already have a defense understanding clearly with Oman um so it's already close it's not like it it should be the next to close. It's already close and uh yeah, I think uh we are on a very good track when it comes to these matters. Obviously, Saudi Arabia is aligning with Pakistan and with Turkey. So, we have India and and and uh the UAE and and Israel. That's that's the other coalition kind of thing that's that's emerging in this region. Um and we have good relations with Oman as well. So, I think we are in good shape. I am I don't necessarily see India and Oman having to get closer than what they already are. Riser 199 says how does balkcanize of India happen process your theory? No, we don't want this to happen. What is balkcanization? First of all, what's the process of balconization? Balkcanization means the break up of a nation into multiple multiple pieces. This term comes from the Balkans region, the Yugoslavia region. Yugoslavia used to be one one big country. Now it's broken up into multiple smaller countries. Serbia, Kosovo, Serbia, uh Croatia, Bosnia, North Macedonia and so on so forth, right? U balconization. So how does this happen? It happens in it can happen various a variety of ways. U the Americans simply broke up Yugoslavia through military force essentially. um and the Chinese and even the Americans would like India to be balconized. So how how did it happen in 1947? That's also a bulcanization process, right? Historically Gandhar was split off from India by invaders, by occupiers. So that was the first bulcanization of India. 1935 the British broke off Burma from India. Second bulcanization. Then Sri Lanka whenever it happened and then 47 was Pakistan east and west Pakistan. So these are processes of balconization. You can have bulcanization through multiple ways. One this is one example. GG Gosavi says why has no country tried color revolutions in the US despite them abusing minorities too. US is probably most susceptible as the mistreat natives, blacks etc. The US is too powerful. That's why this answer is so simple. The US is just too powerful. It's not like I mean it's not like okay let's do bulcanization or let's do color revolution and it'll happen. The process of a color revolution is a very long stepby-step process with in which you to to to create the right conditions on the ground. You have to you to cultivate people. You have to you have to you have to cultivate traitors in the country. You have to cultivate media organizations. You have to cultivate uh uh NOS's you have to infiltrate the country deeply and then create fake movements and all it's a very long process why has the America why has the US never tried this in India they kind of did a test run in 2019 the the Shahin bag thing and Delhi rights and all that they did a test run of course because India is deeply penetrated and compromised in a variety of ways so But it's not easy. It's very difficult. Right? That's why Aries Manticor says LLMs are just the start. They're going semantic next. Let me tell you, let me tell you something interesting perspective. One of the world's biggest AI companies is Tesla. Tesla doesn't have LLM. What does the Tesla AI do? What what what kind of training data is used to to train the Tesla AI, recordings of Tesla cars, video recordings. The Tesla cars, they have this video um they they record video, right? Self-driving video and all that or or manual driving video. So all of that every every day probably hundreds of thousands of hours of video are recorded. All of that is used to train the Tesla the Tesla AI to create a properly genuinely auto autonomous self-driving system. So there are various ways of creating AIS. LLMs it's just one one kind of AI all kinds of AIS died in plane crash says a family member went to Sri Lanka told that roads there are much better than in India. Is being an independent nation good for its people as they don't have to suffer under our Babuam? Uh it's an advantage they have that they don't have to suffer under the kind of conditions we have. Uh why are roads bad in India. Um I think the roads that come under the central government typically are better than the roads that come under certain state governments. The the re real reason why roads are bad in India in some parts of India is the alleged corruption. Alleged entirely alleged corruption that allegedly exists. Let's say you hypothetically allegedly allocate a 100 cr for a road project. How much of that money is actually used allegedly to build the road? And where do the cuts allegedly go? That's the reason allegedly Aries Manticor says why didn't we create our own modern political philosophy to be taught in universities rather than communism, socialism, feminism, etc. a growing poison that fundamentally does not ally with us. To create a modern political philosophy based in based rooted in our civilizational values, you need highquality original thinkers. Which institution is supposed to produce highquality original thinkers? It's your education system. What is the quality of your education system? It's third rate garbage. It is trash. It seeks out, identifies and destroys talent and it promotes mediocrity. If somebody is a highly original thinker, it'll seek out and destroy that person. That's your answer. That's why I keep saying that we have we must reform our education system top to bottom. This is your answer. Right? You can't have original highquality worldclass top- class thinkers with a third rate education system. You may have such people who are naturally brilliant and talented, but the education system will sideline them. It'll never allow them to have a voice. It'll drown them in the rat race. That's your answer. Arismantic or sir, ma'am, whatever. Okay. Uh ICMBB says, "What's the future of channel? Can we contribute? You are contributing just by being my viewers and by interacting with me. The future is whatever we seeing now now is the future. Uh there is no massive future plan as as in I'll do something completely drastically different or something. uh we this channel is about me interacting with you all and uh us exploring and understanding the world together the past present and future from three lenses history geopolitics science and that's what we continue doing maybe in the future I may do something somewhat different maybe people have been suggesting I restart the understanding America series or maybe I I create standalone videos like I used to do before maybe I'll take that up. But overall, it it's going to be the way it is right now mostly. Arismantic says the IIAF released statements that we can't miss miss the next fighter jet fighter jet generational leap. We need to either join the French German FCAS or German Japanled Tempest programs from which we at least start our own program. So what happens to the AMCA the advanced medium combat aircraft? Isn't that a fifth generation fighter plane? Why do we need to partner with the French and Germans or the Japanese? Or why can't we do it on our own? I think I think this is highly perplexing. Why does a very all technology have to come from abroad? Why do why do all systems have to come from abroad? Why do we have to partner with foreigners for the for the for some people to be happy? uh this way we will always be be you know dependent on foreign technology and subordinate to foreigners. So I I don't get this if if this statement is is is has actually been released by the IF it's perplexing in that case perplexing. Mclovin says, "Why has the US and Russia never been in a direct war?" Because a direct war between the US and Russia will inevitably lead to a nuclear exchange because things escalate. And up the escalation ladder, we have things we don't want to use. So, historically, it's been the USSR, now it's Russia. But Russia has the same nuclear arsenal and maybe a better nuclear arsenal, more augmented nuclear arsenal. So, that's why it doesn't make any sense for them to ever be in a direct war. That's why it's always been proxy conflicts. Ashoto Debar says in the 1820s Thomas Mandro's survey of indigenous education of in India reported castwise composition of students and teachers suggesting wide representation thoughts no surprise no surprise all these stories see first of all these four casts were instituted in India at the end of the 19th century or maybe the beginning of the 20th century that's when the British mandated that every India Indian must identify with one of the forecasts before that you had Vera and Jati. Vera is the four-fold division which pe people roughly had some idea of but what they really ident identified with was the jati the jati right you had thousands maybe tens of thousands of jatis in India and it was the jati that was more important than the vera or the cast the cast it's a foreign term for India now like you say Thomas Mandro survey of indigenous education we have we had our own indigenous education system in India based in temples the great universities has been destroyed a thousand years ago in around 1000 AD but we still had temples at the grassroots that survived and continued the Indian education system and that's that's where the survey was done in various temples right and various partialas and what what not right and what they found what Thomas Monro found was you had wide representation not just various so-called casts vernas and jatis but also both genders boys and girls were also equally represented so all this all all this atrocity literature of India being a castist uh oppressive unequal society it's all lies and beyond that I I I would recommend um uh read this thing okay the the daral daral daral um what beautiful tree the beautiful tree okay uh indigenous Indian educ ation in the 18th century. Read this. It's not one book. It's a series of I think two three books. Okay. And that will I mean if you read that you will understand that we had the world's best education system. The British ruined a beautiful thing. Everybody was given education. All the so-called casts, boys as well as girls. Everybody was educated. And education was typically free. You had no monthly fees and tutori. The British ruined a beautiful thing and today your teachers will tell you that the British brought education to India. Here is Mantor says actually we have recently privatized the space sector. Is the government of India trying to create more players alongside ISRO to eventually reach the frequency of launches you mentioned? They suspect sabotage too. I don't know if the government of India suspects sabotage. Obviously, they should they should investigate that. Now, we have recently privatized the space sector is in in the sense that we have now allowed private companies uh to to participate in the space sector. Some of the companies can simply produce spare parts or or spares or or components for ISRO rockets. Um and some space space companies can start you know developing their own rocket technology technologies or whatever. We have various companies that are trying to do that. Skyroot is a good example right um it's good but this the private space sector is currently in its infancy infancy. Okay. It's it's just starting off. Uh you can't if you have a private space sector that's in in its infancy, you can't you can't use that as a justification to bring the number of launches of ISRO down to from maybe 20, 30, maybe 10, 20 to five. Let the space the private sector mature. Give it 10 years, 15 years, 20 years typically minimum 10 years. And once they can start launching rockets and satellites on their own, then you can have ISRO do other things. Right. Right now the private se space sector is in its infancy. It's taking baby steps. This is not the time to bring the frequency of launches of ISRO down. Doesn't make any sense whatsoever. That's that's the issue. That's the issue. You see, Honey Sharma says, "I think something is wrong with me. I'm preparing for CAT 26. I really want to study for hours, but after an hour, my brain is fried." Uh, continue. If I take a break, that turns into hours and the next thing I know I'm watching Netflix the rest of the day to be continued. And not to forget, I usually feel sleepy when I try to study. My vitamin B and D are in check more or less. What do I do? Um, what do you do? Well, that's that's a major problem you're having. So, clearly it's not an issue with your vitamin levels. They seem to be fine. I suppose you've done your blood work or whatever you've test checked your vitamin and other levels it seem to be fine. Um when you try to study you feel sleepy but when you watch Netflix you can watch it the watch it all day. So what does it mean? What do you do? It means that you are not interested in what you're ma what you're having to study. It doesn't interest you right. It doesn't motivate you. So the What can you do about that? Um I I would actually need to know more about you before I can give you a solution because I don't know what you're studying. I don't know how relevant it is to your life. Sometimes you you get into various study programs because your parents pushed you pushed you into it. Maybe you want to do something else and you have been pushed into it unwillingly. You have no choice but to accept what your parents forced you forced you into. So you get into the course and then but your heart is somewhere else. Maybe you want to do something else. Maybe they're pushing you to be a lawyer, but you wanted to be a doctor. Maybe they're pushing you to be a doctor, but you wanted to be um an entrepreneur. I don't know, right? Or maybe you just don't know what's at the end of the tunnel. If I get this degree, then what happens? What do I do with my life? And you have no idea. And that's why you're not getting the motivation. So, what you have to do is first find some kind of goal for yourself. Whatever age you're at, give go forward 10 years and imagine what kind of life you want to live. What kind of work do you want to be doing in 10 years time? Ideally, best case scenario, how much money do you want to have? And then work work backwards. How do I reach there? And does this study program that I'm doing help me in that? If it does not, then maybe it's not the right thing for you. And if it does help you, then maybe this this big goal motivates you towards that. So that's typically how we do it. Very often in India what you find is many students who are pushed into things that they have no interest in uh because parents know that you know you've got to be safe in life you got to have a job and so on and maybe yeah so you've got to work things out for yourself that's what you have to do you to figure out what is your big goal in life you have to reverse engineer the the success and figure out how do I reach that step by step and then once you have this the a rough idea of how others have done it in the past sort of achievement you know then you can figure out whether you are on the right track or not do I need to study this nonsense or is it actually useful for me if it's useful then it's not nonsense then go for it study then you're motivated otherwise drop it and do whatever is right for you along the path but always have a plan B and plan C okay don't put all your eggs in one basket so that's the deal okay sir Anish Sharma thank you and all the best I wish you well I wish you well I wish you success all the Karthikaya says why don't we why don't have hundreds of cha chavdas sidek sudanchis across the country busting propagandas and myth the more the marrier uh why don't we have more of people such as these um I never thought about it why don't we have them uh see I'll tell you what I wasn't produced by the education system of India okay I am not a product of the education system I did go through the Indian education system some various times in my life but it hasn't made me who I am. I am entirely self-made. So I suppose other people like this will be safe self-made potentially possibly. I don't know. Okay. I don't know what has been the life trajectory of the people you're mentioning here. For me it's been like that. I am not a product of the education system. I am entirely self-made. Everything I've learned I've done in my own no one's taught me a thing. So that is I suppose a little rare in life. And maybe that's why we have fewer people like these. I suppose that could be one answer to your question perhaps possibly. I'm just speculating here. Aries Manticor says many secular people uh trying to tell us to think critically about the positive contributions of the muggles that are not taught to us. Critically I say strangled economy, terrorist population, what else? I mean I can't think of any significant positive contributions of the muggles. They were foreign occupiers. And if you say they were born in India and they had Indian mothers or whatever, Orurangev was born in India. He would have had Indian female ancestors. What was he? He was a monster. He was a barbarian was a terrorist. So I don't know what real positive contributions they did. So my suggestion, my recommendation is ignore these secular people. Critical thinking. They're going to teach you crit critical thinking. Really? They're teaching you the opposite. They are recommending you do the opposite of critical thinking and ignore the evidence that's staring us in the face. Right? Ignore such people. Arismantic says we need to not only reform policy but institutional capture with the right people. We should have learned this from the Soviets would have made our bureaucracy a fast and mean machine unlike the Babuam. I agree with you. I agree with you. But uh reforms are are difficult. They're hard and they're painful. You're going to have face push back from the people from the people who are invested in the system from the people who benefit from the system. They won't let you make the do the reforms. They will resist the reforms. Let's say you want to reform the bureaucracy. Let's say you bring in one new rule only one new rule that a bureaucrat can be actually fired for uh for non-performance or for for doing something harmful. Right now you can only suspend a bureaucrat and then the bureaucrat is generally after the suspension period of one week, one month or whatever brought back into work. You can't fire, you can't terminate a bureaucrat's uh employment, right? You can only suspend them. Suspension is a joke. Let's say you bring in a new law that says that now instead of suspending we can fire people. We can turbulent employment permanently. What will happen? I imagine the entire bureaucracy will go on strike and the whole country will be paralyzed. Then what does the government do? They can't do a thing. These are issues, right? Major issues. The people who benefit from this rotten system, they won't they won't give in easily. They they'll try their best to stop reforms from happening. Then what happens? Prime Minister has to roll back reforms and issue an apology. How does it look? Best not try these things. You see that's the problem are Raju Run. Okay. The question is can you tell about the hindrance kovacin faced even though it's better that than it's better than many by who and west big farmer afraid UK quarantined coaxined Mexico politics etc we may have given for cheap or free okay I am not very very deeply um uh I I I don't know much about this um I I'm obviously aware of coax vac it's it's the vaccine India developed indigenously and it's not an RNA based vaccine messenger messenger RNA vaccine it's a standard you know good old-fashioned vaccine uh the good old fashioned vaccines are typically vaccines that use either disabled or partial viral sequences what's a virus there are various ways of looking at a virus a virus is something it's an organism that is it exists on the boundary between living and non-living. It has some properties of living beings and some properties of non-living beings. It's on the boundary. But one of the properties viruses have that are that of living beings is that it has DNA or RNA. That is something non-living beings don't have. Right? So that's a virus. But viruses typically have short genetic sequences. DNA or RNA. They're like genetic ideas. genetic ideas, bits of ideas floating around. So, so typically in a old-fashioned vaccine, what you do is you take a disabled virus that can't really in hurt you or you take a partial fragmented virus or whatever and you you use that to make the body familiar with the virus and develop the antibodies needed to fight off the viral infection. That's your standard old fashion fashion vaccine and that's what coaxin is the messenger DNA vaccine that Fiser and others have produced. My goodness, I don't know what I that is that is frightening. You don't want that in your system. And that's that's it looks like you know in the past when I used to talk about corona virus or COVID on this channel you would get a disclaimer below the video and all even on even on Spotify now it's not the case. I'm glad it looks like the Fiser vaccine has killed more people than it has saved right um and the Americans wanted India to allow the Fiser vaccine in India and India insisted on user trials and they they said we don't we will not do user trials. I mean what why will you not do user trials get lost so that's why the Fiser vaccine was not allowed in India thankfully and that's why we are in better shape that's what I know I don't know about the hindrance and all that that that story I'm not aware of so Bihung says if we develop large language models using Indian languages and data can it then be used to decipher an unknown language belonging to some Indian language language family can AI be used to decipher unknown languages absolutely Absolutely it can. Yeah, that's the answer. If we develop large language models using Indian languages, see all Indian languages are interconnected. North Indian, South Indian, East Indian, West Indian, all Indian languages have connections, deep connections going back thousands of years. Going back to ancestral languages, some of which are no longer spoken, many of which are no longer spoken. Right? So if you train LLMs on these languages with all the texts we have, they'll be able to decipher any unknown language that is part of these language families. Even languages that are only that are less related or far away with with distant relations like you know let's say the LM has never come across for example the Irish language. You give it the Irish language, it may be able to quickly decipher that. Even if it's only been trained on the the Indian indoor and and the so-called tidian languages, it'll be able to decipher that. So yeah, yeah, it can certainly be used to decipher unknown languages. Aurora Thornne says Dr. Sarah Payne from the US Naval College says the root of Russia and China's problems are that they are continental powers. So they always underperform naval powers like the UK, Japan and US thoughts. India look Dr. Sarah Payne is employed by the US Naval College and she has to say things that are well that make the US look good. Oh, you will see this. I've seen a few of her snippets of whatever she says. She consistently shows the US is the greatest power, the most benevolent power and so on. In Russia, and China, these are kind of incompetent nations and so on. Right? So whatever she says, you have to take it with the understanding that she's employed by the US Naval College and it is it is her job to put forth a certain narrative and she's deeply invested in that. So um I watched a few videos and I just got got the got the idea of what she's trying to achieve. N it's all right. Dr. Dr. Sarapin, I'm sure she's high quality scholar, very knowledgeable and so on and also very intelligent and that's a great combination, isn't it? Uh, hyphen says, "Thank you." Thank you so much. Hyphen G, thank you so much. Vihank says, "Thank you for answering all my questions. You're most welcome. I've been watching the channel since you posted the video on best books in Indian history." Well, that well well that's a long time. That's probably the first video I put out, right? Uh, thank you for reigniting the love towards learning within me. Thank you so much for being one of the first viewers of this channel I suppose. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that and uh I look without you viewers without you all this channel would not be relevant. So I would thank like to thank you Vihang and thank all of the viewers for your viewership for your support for just being here right thank you so much everyone and to you also especially you Vihang thank you IPK1s says Babuam and reservations why AMCA etc never happened. Yeah. Well, why was the Theis fighter delayed? It the the the project came out in the early 80s, right? The Theis fighter jet is a replacement for the MiG 21. The MIG 20 was Mig 21 was finally retired I think last year. The project came out in the early 80s. It was delayed over and over again. Why was it delayed so many times? Because the requirements were changed randomly. I'm I'm just giving a hypothetical representational example here. not necessarily what happened. That's the requirement is that the jet fighter has to be 11 m long. Then that's how the design proceeds. A year later they say no, it should be 11.3 m long. It's a completely hypothetical example. Okay, it's not really what happened. I'm just saying that's how you can randomly um change requirements arbitrarily. Then you say I want the the wings to be certain dimensions. 6 months later you say no no I want them to be so some other dimensions. you keep changing the requirements the the project can never take off then funding if the funding isn't enough sufficient whatever then how do you manufacture the the prototypes and so on. So these are the issues um that's how you just keep on indefinitely delaying um various programs right and uh who could be behind it? Could it be politicians? Could it be bureaucrats? Could it be somebody else? Who knows? And reservations is a whole different matter. I completely uh I think reservations is a really bad thing. It's good in the short term but like I keep saying a permanent solution to a temporary problem becomes a permanent problem and that's what India is increasingly seeing now. We are increasingly putting we are increasingly creating permanent solutions to temporary problems. Solutions that can't be rolled back. So they become permanent problems. That's what India is seeing over and over. Godliness says yes we face a lot of problems. Yes we have difficulties but we are the custodians of the Pashupati seal and on this republic day like always we seek the blessings of Mahabharati in happy republic day. Happy republic day. Let us be positive. Let us be optimistic. We have problems. We have issues. But we shall overcome and we shall prevail because we are the custodians of a very very very ancient civilization. The oldest civilization that is still in existence and it's at least 10,000 years old. May it last at least another 10,000 years more. So let us do our part. We are one link in this immense chain and it's our job to ensure that the future generations have better opportunities than us. So let's do it. All right. Great message. Thank you. Godliness, godliness. Thank you. Deep says, "Is the gold owned by large religious institutions in India helping the country or the economy grow? I was wondering what the purpose of that wealth is if it's just stored there stored there for centuries. See this wealth was donated to the temples over centuries maybe thousands of years by devotees. The temples served a certain purpose in society of of a central purpose in society. They were not merely places of worship, places of religion and spirituality. They were educational institutions. Okay? And they they were so valuable to society and played such a vital role that people came and voluntarily donated their gold. Not just ordinary people but even kings came and donated gold. Kings from neighboring kingdoms. Even in the Sri Pashu Padma Swami temple you will find coins donated by Greek kings and whatnot thousands of years ago. So that was the purpose for which the wealth was donated to the temples. Now what is the use of that wealth in the temples today? See today we have a non-Indian constitution essentially a a dharmic constitution and a non-Indian non-dharmic system of governance. If this wealth is made available to the politicians what will they use it for? I wonder. I think we can all imagine. So this wealth I would say should remain in the safe custody of the temples until India becomes a civilizational nation again in line with its own civilizational values. Then let's see how the wealth can be used for society in the right way not squandered away and and dumped into the pockets and bank accounts of certain certain individuals. We don't want that to happen today. If you make this wealth available to the government, see the government steals the wealth of so many temples. What is the wealth used for today? There are so many temples where the wealth is stolen by the government legally. It is legal. So it's not theft but actually it's theft. Devotees donate money to the temple. The government takes the wealth and uses it for for doing what? I'll not tell you what. We all know what the wealth is used for. It is not used for dharmic purposes. Right? So we have some temples where wealth is stored. We don't want that to be stolen for and used for essentially anti-vilivilization purposes. Right? So let it be there for the future generations and hopefully it will be good for them, useful for them if not definitely not for us. Uh Mangi Kosherit says do you think India today lacks good parenting? Uh look um does India lack good parenting? That's a pretty interesting question. I haven't really thought about it. Does India lack good parenting? Um parents today typically in at least in cities have less time for their kids. Kids are neglected. kids become iPad kids. Gen Z, Gen Alpha are increasingly uh out of touch with their culture and so on because parents have to work so hard and parents both parents have to work and so on. Um is that bad parenting? I suppose it is it is not as good as the previous generations, right? Um so I suppose the quality of parenting and the quality of childhoods have kind of decreased as the generations have have gone by. So in the past let's say in the 1950s and 1960s you would have had in India mostly extended families right joint families it used to be called it's extended families you know uh people living with their siblings in one house all getting married and so on and you have these extended families being raised together so kids have access to their grandparents and aunts and uncles and nephews and you know cousins and whatnot and extended big family and it's a big social environment and you grow up in a in a big envirment environment like this you you learn better. Today you have nuclear families in big cities where kids aren't socialized the same way and obviously it's a different quality of of childhood maybe a poorer quality quality of childhood. So overall things have changed I I would not know for sure whether it's bad or poor parenting or or less good parenting but definitely the childhood experience has changed and it's not changed for the better. Okay. YT user says, "What's your opinion on Europe, the last battle? Do you think it's propaganda?" As they say, history is written by winners. Europa: The Last Battle. I haven't seen it. It's this massive documentary, right, about the Second World War. What is that? Uh, Europa, the last battle. What is this? It's about the Second World War. Uh, 2017 English language Swedish 10 part neo-Nazi propaganda film. Neo-Nazi propaganda film. So it I suppose it glorifies the Nazis and Hitler and so on. I haven't seen it so I can't say I haven't seen it. I I believe it's a pretty massive documentary 10 part was it 10 part and each part must be at least an hour long. So it must be like 10 12 hours. So I haven't seen that answer and say uh Sri Jay Singh says adversary camp have been tearing the fabric of India apart cast language gender religion region government changes playbook stays since 47 when do we counter it and how what can the ordinary people of India do nothing all you can do is vote and hope for the best it is the people who we vote for who are supposed to make things better so what can India do about this so What India ideally needs is India needs a new constitution, a new form of governance, ideally a presidential form or something similar, right? A new constitution, a new form of governance, a new education system, everything new. Who's going to do it for us? It can only be the people who we vote to power. But the people who vote to power come to power through the current system. And why will they change the current system which brought them to power? So that's the loop we are we are stuck in. I have no idea how it's going to be changed. We're going to need a leader who comes around in once in a century or once in 500 years. Someone like Chhatraati Shwaji Maharaj or somebody like like Kaneshuka or some other somebody of that sort somebody like Vishnukta Chanaga. We don't we don't have anybody of that stature today. Somebody of the stature of Lord Krishna or Lord Ram somebody like that we'll need who can through sheer will force of will change everything. as of now uh we I I don't see any such leader. Yeah, that that ordinary people can't do a thing. You can't do a thing without power. So either you get into politics and acquire power and change things or you vote and hope for the best that whoever you are voting for it does the right thing for India and that we know how it goes. Aries mantic horror says global education levels are falling with the latest generation especially since chach JPD may have lost the ability to critically think are easy to manipulate no soft skills etc what WTF is going on it's going on yes especially with chd especially in India I mean people have just delegated their thinking process to chat GPT oh chat GPD told me so it must be true you know that sort of thing it's dumbing people down it. People don't want to think anymore. Chad GPD, what can I do about this? How do I solve this problem? Grock, is this true? That's it. People just don't want to do any work anymore. So, it makes people people easier to manipulate. It makes easy it makes it easier to lie to people, to mislead people, to change governments, to change regimes, to create a one world government. You see where where we're going? Uh P says, does entanglement fully determine geometry? Not that I know of. Geometry. No. How can entanglement determine geometry? Um, geometry is shapes. Entanglement is a is a quantum mechanical phenomenon. It does not in any way determine geometry that I know of. So no. Uh, Han Sharma says, "Cat is for MBA and I want to do it and I have the motivation to study in the morning but can't sit for hours." So, you're doing a CAT common cat. What's a CAT? One second. What is a CAT? CAT MBA? CAT MBA. Uh, sorry. MBA. Not MDA. Sorry, not what is that? >> M. >> What's a CAT? Common admission test. Okay. You want to get into the MD to into an MBA program. For that, you have to do a common common admission test. CAT. And you have the motivation to study for it in the morning but can't sit for hours. How can I do it after one or two I need a break and that turns into a rabbit hole. I just want to do it. Earn a ton of money. Okay, so you want to do it. It motivates you. You want to to achieve what this gives you because it will bring you money. So So then how do you motivate yourself and so on, right? So okay, so let's say you study for 1 hour and then you are like okay, I need a break and then you go and watch Netflix. Okay, so I'll tell you what. Don't go and not watch Netflix. Go and do 50 push-ups or do five push-ups. Then go for a 10-minute walk. Don't watch Netflix. Do some shadow boxing. Yeah. Or or do something that is physical in nature. Go for a short run, then come back. That that will reset your brain, right? Then you come back and study just 30 minutes more. So maybe 1 hour is too long for you. Maybe you need 20 minute sessions. So do a 20 minute session, then do five push-ups or do a 20-minut session, then do a 10-minute jog or a 10-minute walk, then come back and do it again. So chunk it down into smaller chunks. That's you have to try these different techniques. Make it work somehow. If if you can't study for hours, I can't study for hours. I hate it. Right? So do it that way. Study for let's say just 20 minutes. Study one topic for 20 minutes. Then go and do five push-ups or go and do a 10-minute walk. Come back, do another 20 minute session of studying. Then do another five push-ups or 1 minute 10-minute walk. Then do it again. Then do some something else. Lift some weights. Do something different. Break the pattern of Netflix and whatever rabbit hole you're getting into. Don't do anything with a screen. Do something out there. That could be a good solution. Okay, try it out, sir. All the best. Make it work. Rohit Shrar says, "How badly do you think India has been impacted by its failure to industry lies?" Modi is doing some things, but is it too late? Can India still build a strong manufacturing base? I think India can still build a strong manufacturing base. We will need massive reforms in the ease of doing business. Cut down the red tape. Cut down the alleged corruption. Make energy cheaper. The price of energy in India is so much higher than China, Russia, US, etc. Electricity, make it cheaper. Cut down all the all the red tape and all the license whatever the hell exists right all the unnecessary broker brokery all that make it easy to run a business make it easy to start a business whatever problems exist cut them down make it easy for people to acquire capital acquire funding start a business try fail start try again all that it's possible India can industrialize and obviously India has massively impacted by its failure to industrialize. We should have industrialized in the 1950s. We did not. But it's not too late. Modi is doing things. He's building massive infrastructure, roads, railways, airports, whatnot. But um we need to industrialize. Yeah, I agree. It needs to happen. It can be done. It will need reforms. Aries manticors, bloated primary education systems of the world collapsing on themselves, producing extremely mediocre students. Almost all of these are west derived infiltrated by infiltrated by vocism DEI. Is it a coincidence? No, it's not a coincidence. Um, it's not a coincidence. The quality of education worldwide is going down. The US education system is pretty poor now compared to what they had in the 1950s. In the 1950s, they had the world's best education system, high quality education system. And since then, it's been going down, down, down, and out. Right now, it's pretty bad. But it's still leagues ahead of India. Then you have other education systems across the world that are kind of going down. Chinese education system is getting better and better. So you see this happening in the west. They are dumbing their people down. They want sheep. They don't want original thinkers. They want people who obey. Right? You're seeing a big brother in action. George Orwell 1984. You see that in action. It's not a coincidence. The West wants just sheep to rule over. So this is now showing us what the west really is. It's an authoritarian system masquerading for the longest time as a benevolent you know uh democratic system and all that. We are seeing it in seeing it now seeing it for what it is. Okay. Aayush Gupta says can't we launch military satellites with Russia? I suppose we can. It'll cost us. See, why don't we why do we prefer to launch our own satellites, whether it's military or whatever? Because it's cheap. We build our rockets and we launch the satellites full freedom, no constraints, no nothing. When somebody else launches satellites for us, they'll charge money and they'll they'll charge more than what it costs to launch the satellites ourselves, right? So, ideally, we should only launch we should launch our satellites to our own rockets only. gives us full freedom, full sovereignty or whatever we're doing. So that's that's the reason why of of course we can use Russian rockets, American rockets. We sometimes use SpaceX rockets because they're very cheap, but we can also use Russian rockets in that in that case. AVMG says, "Uh, thoughts on ARR?" What's ARR? Uh, Ar Raman Arman's recent comments. People elevated him to god-like status. Yet he chose to play victim and show his true colors. Well, what are my thoughts? Never liked him. This may be this may be unpopular. What I'm going to going to say, I think he's mediocre as a musician. What he's good at is electronic music. In the 1990s, Indian music, Bollywood music and film music was all uh Indian instruments. And Raman brought in the synthesizers and all the western instruments, electronic instruments, and he makes the music sound great, but he's not original. He's he's a good sound engineer, music engineer. He's not a great musician. He's an overrated singer. He's mediocre and I don't like his singing and and I don't don't like his music. Nothing to do with his background or whatever. I just don't I understand music, okay? I understand what music is. I have a back I have a musical background myself. So so I understand what music is and there's nothing special about Raman. Mediocre average guy and his recent comments is a whole different story. I personally I've never liked him. I said this in in 2021 or something and people I had a big backlash. Well, here we are today. I stand by my words. He's mediocre and overrated. So I'll just comment about what I think of him as a musician. The rest I think everyone can see what he is. AKS Baga says WSJ Wall Street Journal reports just 30 minutes ago that China's general top general leaked nuclear secrets to the US. Well, that's fascinating. Let's see. Um, Wall Street Journal, China general. What does it say? China's she places top general under investigation. alleged severe violations of party discipline state laws. No, no, no, no. I want Aha. China's top general accused of giving nuclear secrets to the US. Bribery allegations and oh my goodness, he is in deep, deep trouble. This is a serious purge. Okay, thank you for bringing this to my notice. So, she is going after this like he's totally going after this guy. This guy is doomed. So yeah, like I said, uh, Chinese politics is cutthroat. I don't know if he actually did that, but yeah. Well, he's done. His his his goose is cooked. Hyphen 6552 says, "I was very good at math. I had to quit my education after SSC because I started working early in my life. I'm 48 now. I want to restart learning maths. I don't know where to begin. Any suggestions?" I'll tell you what. The best way to learn maths is through self-study is by using the Shom series books. Okay. So we you start with Shom. Oh man, come on. Tom elementary mathematics. This is the first book you start. You just it will teach you the basics. You just work through all the pro problems. How do you learn math? You learn math by solving problems. That's the only way you learn mathematics. There's no other way of learning mathematics. and sham the sham books are the ideal way of learning mathematics self-study. So you start with elementary mathematics then you go to elementary algebra okay you go through all the problems here then you go into um sh's u then you go into geometry then once you're done with geometry I suppose you go into trigonometry uh sorry trig trigonometry there we have it you go go for this one then you go with pre-calculus uh shows pre-calculus then you go with calculus and so on and then when you when you are when you are good with algebra trigonometry geometry pre-calculus calculus well I think then you can do it your own way whichever way you want to go that's how you do it the sham series set of books is the best book best series of books for mathematics you don't need anything else so this is you know the kind of math you would want to use in physics if you want to go into into number theory and all well there are different books for that but I'm assuming you are talking about the standard maths that I mean a physicist would eventually use so that's what you do okay sir all the best I'm I'm glad that somebody wants to actually learn math at the age of 48 why not why not outstanding I love it all the best sir do well dark Orion says the babus won't strike if reforms are done if if reforms are done. I continued the babos will strike. I am pretty sure they will and they won't allow reforms to happen if it if it impacts them and their interests. That's what I expect. Okay. Baskar Bandit says, "What are the qualities of an excellent diplomat and statesman? Any examples of such which you might have admired?" I look diplomats are tools. diplomats are are are minions of the people who really do the things. Uh um and of course you we the world has seen some some really high quality diplomats you know who made a big impact uh in the on the world. Um obviously Henry Kissinger is a great example and uh who was the guy Napoleon's uh foreign minister forget his name uh Napoleon's foreign minister uh halo this guy he is another uh very famous diplomat very accomplished diplomat and was great at at his So what are the qualities of an of an excellent diplomat? See diplomat and statesmen are totally different things. A stateman statesman is a world leader. That's a totally different thing from being a diplomat. Totally different set of skills. A diplomat is somebody who's a great communicator, great negotiator, somebody who's loyal and faithful to the boss, someone who's loyal and faithful to the country, and someone who can use various who understands what power is, what leverage is, and understands how to use leverage in negotiations, who who is sophisticated and suave and polite in public and brutal in private, and so on. There's plenty of qualities that go into this, right? Um, somebody who can take pressure, somebody who can take threats, who can convey pressure and threats and so on. So, okay. Mang Kosher says, is a black hole an object or a pathway? As far as we know, it's a black it's an object. Um, there are some theories that black holes could be pathways and so on. But look, the standard solutions to the Einstein field equations say that you have a black hole is a region in spaceime that conceals a essentially a singularity at the center. A singularity is a region of space of spaceime that has infinite curvature and infinite density which is obviously unphysical but yeah that's the solution but those are the solutions to Einstein field equations typically this schwarz shield solution and so on. So these are objects not pathways. Of course you can have something like the Einstein Rosen Bridge which is a pathway. That's uh the Einstein Rosen Bridge is colloially known as a wormhole. That's a pathway but that's a pathway that snaps shut. You know it wants to snap shut. Doesn't want to stay open. The the neck closes and and splits to two black holes. How do you keep it open? Well, that's a big question. You can either use exotic matter such as u negative mass matter or you could use not even antimatter. No, negative matter with negative mass with repulsive gravity could potentially keep that open if if such matter even exists. Or you could use something like a cosmic string which is a topological defect in the fabric of spacetime itself and so on. So a black hole is an object. It's not a pathway. Basar Bandit says 396 Russian drones hit Kiev yesterday. It's the second day of talks in the UAE. Will this round end the same as before? US pushing and Zillinsky not backing off. Nothing's going to change. Nothing. Yeah. This this this round of talks is not going to produce any any results. Yeah. I don't see that happening. I I hope I'm wrong. I hope there is some some ceasefire or something. But no. Zalinski Zalinski his life depends on the war continuing. How why will he back off? Yeah. So yeah, I don't see anything happening at this point in time. Pascar Bandit says, "Muggals or muggles?" Muggles. Muggles. M U G. Muggles. And I think that was the last of the questions for today. It's been 3 and 1/2 hours. Nearly three and a half hours. Well, that brings me to the end of episode 325 of Ask a Bijit. Thank you so much everybody for all the questions. It was as always great fun. I look forward to continuing this next week in the episodes that we have. We will have next weekend. So, I look forward to see you there. Keep learning my friends. Keep learning, keep being positive, keep asking questions, and keep raising your standards. Take care. I'll see you very soon in the next one. Bye-bye for now.