[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello. Good evening. Good day everybody and welcome to this special 60inute episode of Askabit. We're trying to make up for the episode that we lost over the weekend. I hope everyone's doing great wherever you are in the world whether it's day or night or evening or morning and let's see who is there with us on the live chat before we begin. I can see ace photon hit praapati geopolitical dub from indor. Today guest user 262 Aush Singh Mystic SK Hensy Penguin Bonjour Daksh uh City Slicker meet Mystery Davik Shrian Sanat MN Hensy Penguin again Sparti Uturi Namaste Geopolitical again Swami Jan Orbit and Markets Deepika Gorab Banskota Dave Suraj Ulas Bruce Wayne from Gotham City Aditya Gaquad Polar Bear Gorish KB chat DSP who says I don't receive notifications for your channel anymore. Yes, I'm aware of the situation. That's all right. Uh yeah I know well thank you for letting me know. Uh Shividas Bachari Raghav Malotra Manisha Maiti love Travel Guru Nutan Roshan Somi Jen from Jaipur and everybody else. Okay so what all do we have? Let's take this question from Aayush. First of all please take a look at uh the Indo France deal on the jet engine that's happened and explain in detail. Mthil Modi is also there, Gorab from Sydney, Chira Raj and so on. So now what's this Indrance deal on the jet engine? So we still don't have the details the the the contours of the deal. What exactly is the deal? uh the defense minister Shri Raj Rajnat Singh GI the Raksham Mantri had tweeted about this a while ago that we're going to be making jet engines in India and we're going to looks like uh we're going to tie up with Safhan which is the French company which was earlier called Snikma and it looks like from what one hears that there's going to be complete transfer of technology of the jet engine all of it end to end and the manufacturing will happen in India that's what one hears but we still don't have an official statement an official uh statement with the full contours of the deal. So we don't know for sure as of yet. I'm not sure if it has been approved at the highest level and it has been given the go ahead uh from both sides but it looks like we are very close to this thing this deal. So uh it's it's still a work in progress. Once we have more information we can look into that. But it looks like the deal which is more or less almost finalized but not quite finalized. It's about the production of of a new series of series of jet engines which is which is going to be a collaboration between India and France. From France we'll have snik snikma yeah safh and from India we will probably have DRDO probably uh and the production will happen in India and the co-development and so on and this will be used for the upcoming fifth generation fighter plane of India um and possibly even the the possibly I'm not sure I we'll have to look into that. So uh we'll see about that. Now next geopolitical dub says how do you see quad's future now? Well let's see how it goes. You see uh there's supposed to be a quad summit in India in the coming weeks sometime in the coming couple of months maybe September maybe this month maybe October somewhere on the horizon we have this upcoming quad summit. The question is will this summit go ahead? Will the great president of the United States Shri Donald Trump G will he come to India? I think that is going to be a great indicator of the future of Quad of the Quad. I think the way the US is going hammer and tongs after India and the kind of statements that Trump's minions like Pete Navaro and various other minions are are making, it looks like they the the attitude towards India is very hostile right now. And if their attitude towards India is super hostile, I don't see really a viable future for the Quad. And considering the events that have happened in in China the past couple of days, Mr. Modi meeting with Mr. Xi and Mr. Putin and it looks like there's been a reset of some kind between India and China to some extent. There's still major issues to to work work through, but it looks like Mr. Modi is signaling to the US that you know what, we have options. we have alternatives and if if this is the attitude you're going to show then we will not pick up your phone calls and we and I'll go and talk with Mr. Putin and Mr. So I think the the future of the quad is kind of shaky right now. It's on shaky ground and depending on how the US behaves the next few weeks the quad may either continue in some shape or form or it may dissolve and instead of a quad it may become a trilateral between the US, Australia and Japan which defeats the purpose of the quad. Without India there's no quad. So I think the future is very 50/50 right now. Very shaky for the quad. MK says, "Was the early British Parliament similar to the Roman Senate? In both systems, power was distributed among the elites?" No, it was very different from the Senate. See, in the Roman Senate, the full power lied lay with the Senate. In Rome, when you had the Senate during the Roman Republic period, see Rome had three periods. The Roman Kingdom, the Roman Republic, and the Roman Empire. The Roman Empire starts with uh Augustus. Augustus, right? Uh Julius Caesar's uh adoptive hair. So during the Roman Republic period, the Senate had all the power in Rome and there was no king or emperor in Rome. All the power was vested in the Senate. Those that bunch of old guys wearing togas who would discuss what happens and discuss the big issues of the day and make decisions which would be implemented. So the Senate was all powerful in the British Parliament. The British Parliament was kind of a compromise between the king and the nobles, right? Between the crown and the nobles. So in the UK, you still had the supremacy, the majesty of the crown and some power lay with parliament. So it was kind of a compromise, right? But the majority of the power still lay with the crown. The crown could do things that the parliament could not and the parliament could not veto the crown mostly. Some things say it would be it would be they would allow it to slide. But over time the parliament became became more and more powerful. Today it is said that the UK crown is a figurehead but uh 100 years ago it was different. 200 years ago it was very different. So over time the British parliament became more and more powerful. But historically if you see for the majority of the time the parliament existed in the UK in Britain it was nowhere as powerful as uh the Senate in Rome. Genuine beatboxes Rafal fighter jets we bought those also not 100% technology transfer yeah well you see transfer of technology is very expensive no nation is willing to give up its technology just for a couple of billion dollars maybe $10 billion or whatever it is you've got to pay see technology is is developed over decades and the price and if you have spent decades like 40 50 60 years developing a a certain piece of technology You're going to put a very heavy price on that. It's not like you're going to the market buying tomatoes and potatoes. This is a whole different thing. And we bought how many? 24 26 Rafals. If we had given an order for 200 Rafal, well, they would have shifted the whole production line to India and probably given the whole technology transfer to India. If you buy a small number of Rafal jets, well, then it doesn't work. And uh so that's how it goes. You are right that when we bought the Rafal jets we did not get the full transfer of technology and when it comes to the Rafal you see it's not just one it's not one potato it's got so many different components that are made manufactured by different companies and you got to deal with each of these companies individually you can of course do it through the French government in case the price is high enough because see when it comes to the Rafael the the jet engines are are manufactured by Safhan the ejection she seat is probably manufactured by Baker and whatever it is the the UK company and so much more. So it's anyway it's impossible to get a full technology transfer but the main piece that we are looking for is the jet engine. So that's that's what the talk is about these days. Shankar Mahadevan says that Jake Sullivan has said that Trump's business is the reason behind the attack on us Jacob Bababad air base where we hit where we hit during operation sindur. Jake Sullivan, have you watched my geost strategy episodes which I have discontinued because of the shadow ban on my channel? I have gone into excruciating detail about the kind of business deals Trump has in Pakistan. He is very heavily personally invested in Pakistan. Okay, that's the deal. That's why he is so pro Pakistan. That's why the US regime, the Trump regime is so pro Pakistan. And this is going to continue. and he has been allowed to do this because he has kissed the ring and the deep state has approved this. So yeah, Trump is personally invested in Pakistan. He wants to extract $50 trillion worth of uh oil and gas and row materials from Pakistan. The Pakistanis are willing to sell off their country to Trump as long as they support as long as the US supports Pakistan. So yeah, MK says is history repeating itself? Europe going through Yamna 2.0 and Constantinization 2.0 ongoing genetic and religious re-engineering through demographic imig through through illegal immigration. You see, if if Brussels is engineering the immigration, it's no longer really illegal. The the Parliament of the UK Excuse me. Okay, let's take this question again. Is one second. Let me see. So, everyone is saying that the video is blurred. Is it? Is the video blurred? Just please let me know on the live chat if the video is blurry, sound is lagging, everything is lagging. Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. Give me a second. I'll have to fix this. Okay, looks like something is blurred. Give me a second, please. All right. I apologize for that problem. I hope that we are we are better now. Uh please do let me know if uh if ah it's fine now. Yeah, I think it's fine now. Well, thank you for letting know letting me know. So coming back to the question is history repeating itself? Is Europe going through Yamna 2.0 and Constantinization 2.0 ongoing genetic and religious re-engineering through illegal immigration? First of all, the immigration that's happening in Europe is not illegal. It is being uh it is being mandated by Brussels. See, Europe is ruled from Brussels. Brussels is the uh seat of power of the European Union. And the government, I mean the the the bureaucrats who rule Europe from Brussels. They have mandated that every EU country should bring in a certain number of immigrants from specific countries every year. Every nation has a kota of immigrants or refugees or whatever they have to allow in their country every year. Well, if that's the case, it's no longer illegal. It is legal. It is being mandated from from the top from the rulers of Europe who are not democratically elected. So uh we are seeing we definitely seeing genetic demographic religious re-engineering of of Europe through forcible uh through through the countries being forced to accept immigrants. That is what's going on. And yeah, you could say well it's not Yamna 2.0 because Yamna was an invasion that was done by horses by horsemen. It was an invasion through the borders of whatever you know communities existed at the time. This is different. This is being done bureaucratically. So it's not that sort of invasion. It's a bureaucratically uh engineered uh invasion. Constantinization 2.0. Yeah. Constantin Constantinization. By that you refer to the forcible Christianization of Europe which was done through force through through brutality. Well once again maybe a new religion is being brought into Europe and it's not probably being done through force. It's just being done through migration. So it's a different way of doing the same thing of achieving the same objective in Europe. Proud Dana says, "Navaro's comments about brahinss make me think this Harvard DNA lab is CIA etc. program as well." So yeah, this this individual, Trump's minion, Navaro, Pete Navaro, the guy who was in jail this time last year. This time last year, the guy was in jail. He's a convicted felon. That's the kind of individual that Trump has brought to, you know, elevated to his minionship. Uh so Navaro went he has been going he has been ranting against India multiple times on on American national television and the most recent rant is about brahinss. He's saying that the brahinss in India are are profiting from Russian oil from Putin's oil and that's how that's how the brahinss are marginalizing and oppressing the rest of Indians and they are profiting from Putin's oil and and funding Putin's war in Ukraine. Essentially, that's what he is saying. He's trying to create some kind of he's kind trying to engineer some kind of cast divide in India, right? And Indians have this massive inferiority complex. When a white man says something, they will start dancing on the top of the roofs that yes, white man said this, so it must be true. And Navaro is not even really a white man. He's a he's a Latino. Anyhow, he's white enough for Indians, isn't he? Uh, so the Americans have been playing this game for quite for a very long time. For decades they have been trying to create and and and widen various kinds of divisions in India, fissures in India, through various NOS's through through uh university professors and so on. The entire academic system has been hijacked by the leftists in India and Indian leftists are not like Chinese leftists, communists who are highly patriotic. Indian leftists are mercenaries. they will work for the highest power for the highest bidder right they will they essentially will I'm not naming anybody by the way okay I'm not naming anybody I'm sure there are good leftists also but uh it is it it it's apparent it's clear that many Indian leftists are are up for hire and they have been working if you look at the if you look at various Indian academic departments humanities departments I'm sure some are great but many of them they will write the only research that comes out of these these departments the research papers is all about cast cast. So they're trying to create this this huge narrative for decades that India is ridden by cast wars and all that and they're trying to actually make the students believe it and and generations of students have grown up believing all this nonsense. So the Americans have created this the all the the groundwork for what Navaro is now trying to achieve by of of creating divisions in India and maybe weaponizing those those divisions. So all of this is how DNA labs hard Harvard CIA all of yeah it's all it's all interconnected and that's what they're trying to do the end objective is to balkcanize India it's to fragment and fracture India so that so that India can never achieve its potential that's the objective the Americans are pretty overt now in what they're trying to do the objective is no longer possibly to contain India it's to fragment India bulcanize India says how India's capture of Kailasha heights during conflict in 2020 forced per to come to negotiating table. Well, I haven't looked into the tactical events of what happened in 2020. I I look at a at a at a at a different see when it comes to a conflict. You there are different ways of looking at it. Different lenses. You can look at from a very microscopic perspective. What happened those 20 m this these 2 kilometers? What happened? This this mountain peak or this hilltop who captured this the finger one finger two finger three of Pangong Lake. What is happening there? the those 300 mters who's there 200 m here what's there that's one way of looking at it that's how the army looks at it the army looks at it from a tactical perspective and also from a strategic perspective but this is a tactical perspective the way the way I look at conflicts is from a different perspective from through a different lens I look at objectives I look at agendas I look at what is this guy's national interest what is this guy's national interest what does each party want the higher ground who has the advantage what is the long-term objective all of that So I don't know what exactly happened Kailasha heights this hilltop we captured and what happened but yeah see the basic principle in in any in in the in the military domain is that whoever has the higher ground has has the advantage. Okay. So if you have a higher ground and you're going to fight with someone then your opponent will have to come and fight you. You he have to come upwards and spend more energy while you can conserve energy and and shoot down shoot downwards. So uh so obviously that will give you an advantage and there is the deal. Okay, next question. Karthika says, "You said a military coup will never happen. Not last, I said it will never happen. It won't ever succeed in India." That's what I said. What are the reasons for it? Is there a possibility of a regime change in India by foreign powers? Okay. So uh now if you ask me what are the reasons why regime change why why a coup can never happen in India. See there are I don't remember the exact specific details of the three conditions that Edward Lutat put forth in his book. One is is that see one of the conditions there are three conditions that need to be satisi that need to be present in a country for a coup to ever succeed. If those three conditions aren't present in the country then a coup can never succeed. Firstly, the country should be dominated by a single ethnic group and a single linguistic group. For example, China. The entire country is dominated by the Hanchinese in this one primary language which dominates the whole thing. There are many other so-called ethnic groups in China, not so-called actual ethnic groups, but those are marginalized and small in number. Right? So, there's only one ethnic group in China, the Hanchinese. And there's only one linguistic group in China more or less. So that is the first condition. In India you have you have so many different India is so diverse. We are one ethnicity Indians but we look up if you look at how Indians see themselves. The truth is that Indians prioritize their subnational identity more than the national identity. I am Bengali. I am Asamese. I am Tamil. I am Punjabi. I'm Oranavi. I'm Maharashtrian. I'm Gujarati. I am Andra. I'm I'm whatever. Indians always prioritize their subnational identity over their national identity. Always there are very few of them who actually truly inside their heart believe we are Indians first. And many people will say will in public say no no no it is not like that. But the truth we all know. So we prioritize our regional and linguistic identity over our national identity. In a country like that a coup can never succeed. Secondly, the second condition is that for a a coup to succeed in a country, there needs to be a huge divide between the elites and the downtrodden huge divide in ter in terms of means. So the elites must be living in walled gardens with all the privilege in the world and the common people must be living in abject poverty. That's what you see typically in African nations. That's very what you see in nations where there is a lot of inequality. So the elites have all the power and the the common people have no power. They're completely helpless and they are typically extremely poor. Well, India is indeed a poor country for sure. If you look at GDP per capita, yeah, that is true. But if you look at the genie coefficient, the inequality index, India is the world's fourth least inequal. It's not number one in the least inequal countries but it's number four in the least inequal countries unequal countries inequality. So India is one of the most egalitarian countries in the world and that's why once again a regime change operation can a coup can never succeed in India. And the third thing I don't remember it right now but you can look up the book by Edward Lutwak. So there are reasons which need there are very specific conditions that need to be satisfied for a coup to ever succeed in a country and India is not one of those countries. Regime change operation is a whole different thing that can actually happen if the groundwork is laid over many years and probably it is being laid by for many years by the United States in India to conduct a regime change operation in India. Maybe they they will try and attempt this in the next year or two. It's possible the Americans. Okay. Amisha says can we trust China? It can be a neu moment for Modi. You cannot trust China. You cannot trust anybody. But you can trust them to prioritize their own national interests. And if you know what their national interest is, you know what they want. Now we have to understand that Nehu Gi and Modi G are different people. Mr. Modi G is not Shri Neuji. Okay. Modi G is not Nehuji. So that is well you see nobody can be as magnificent as Shri Nuji. Right? So Modi G is not Neuji. So I think we can rest assured that we are in good hands. But yeah, China, we can work with China. But you always have to keep double-checking everything. That that essentially applies to everybody every other country. In the past, our foreign policy was extremely naive and that is why we we faced the situations that we faced with China. Right. Okay. Next. Mahar KVS says Indian immigrants are contributing more to the western economies compared to Chinese immigrants. Is it a question? It's a question. But westerners love Chinese more than Indians. Is there a black pill element to this or soft power issue? There's nothing to do with soft power. The reason why the west hates India right now is that India is daring to stand up and try and become a great power. India is right now the fourth largest economy. No, it cannot it can no longer be ignored. India is soon going to leapfrog the number four three economy and become the third largest economy. We have gone ahead of the UK, going ahead of Germany. We will soon go ahead of Japan. We'll be number three. All the other white countries, European countries will be behind us. That infuriates these people. That infuriates the West. How dare you brown folks who we had almost destroyed. How dare you not die? How did you manage to survive? How dare you stand up again? Right? They don't care what you contribute to their economy. Now why this this uh approach towards Indians as opposed to the Chinese? Because they ruled India. They didn't rule China. They ruled India. And every country they ruled has been destroyed thoroughly culturally, economically, civilizationally, in every way. The every country has been bulcanized. Look at Africa. Look at the map of Africa. You have straight lines across Africa. The original shapes of the of the of the empires and kingdoms have been wiped out. No one even remembers them. That is what they've done. They've reshaped Africa in their own image. They've done the same to the Middle East. Look at the straight lines in the maps in the Middle East. When it comes to India, we have to some we also have balconized. They want to balconize us further. But we have not allowed them to totally destroy us. So they hate that. The Chinese, they could not rule China. They they did not have the time to rule China by the time the age of colonization was coming to an end. The day age of direct colonization, right? So they don't see the see the Chinese the same way. They see the Chinese as as a country as a civilization that they have never really defeated. So then they they are fine with that. But India was a defeated civilization. And how dare India rise again. That's the hatred. Okay. The westerners have no love for China. But they tolerate the Chinese more than the Indians. They just hate the Indians because they consider Indians first of all as brownskinned people to be inferior and secondly a defeated civilization. How dare you rise again? And how dare you be proud of India? How dare you? only we folks have the right to be proud of ourselves. That sort of thing. It's it's a very deep visceral deep-seated hatred. It's very deep in the deep inside. MK says India and Pakistan have similar cultural backgrounds. Absolutely not. What what similar cultural backgrounds? Where where sir where do we have similar cultural backgrounds? We have the same genetics. Yeah. And yeah little bit of uh little bit of tradition still continue in some in some shape or form. The Pakistanis also I think I I believe that they respect respect their elders the way we do. I think they they conduct mar marriage ceremonies in some ways reminiscent of the old ways despite the Islamic angle because in Pakistan also some I suppose the brides wear bright red colors and all that if I'm not mistaken I may be wrong in that also I don't know. So many of the old traditions have somehow survived. But culturally, culturally Pakistan has nothing to do with us anymore. Culturally they are not similar to us. Background, genetic background, history, heritage 10,000 years ago, same. Sure. Culturally completely different from India. Look at how Indians behave in the UK and look at how Pakistanis behave in the UK. Do you see the cultural difference? What are Pakistanis famous for in the UK? Do I have to do I have to use those words? Those words should not be uttered in a in in in any civilized discussion. Right? Uh so the point is I'm just seeing the chat. Do we have any issues? No, we don't. Right. Hopefully. Right. Oh, okay. People are reminding me it's not India and Pakistan, it's Iran and Pakistan. Okay, the video quality is again blurry apparently. Well, that's lovely. That's lovely. I apologize. I thought I had fixed the thing. Give me a second, please. Oh, hello. Testing. >> One second. One second. Okay. Come. This one. Um, okay. I think we are fine now. Uh, let me just double check with the with the audience with the live chat. Am I audible now? Am I visible? Yeah, I apologize for the delay. Ah, I don't know. Yeah, I think we're fine now. Okay, I apologize once again. Let me go back to what I was talking about. I remember people reminding me I it's Iran not Pakistan. Okay. So Iran and Pakistan have similar cultural backgrounds. Yet you say Pakistan could not develop its own nukes because of its own culture. Why is that? Oh well interesting question that you ask. Well has Iran developed its own nukes? Has it? Well if you have two countries which have similar cultures and similar backgrounds and one has developed nukes, one hasn't developed nukes, then we can compare. Well, which country has developed nukes? Secondly, Pakistan. Yeah, culturally, culturally they are still not the same. They are both countries that have been converted to a foreign religion. True. Iran for almost 1,200,300 years. Pakistan for the past, I don't know 500 or so years, maybe slightly longer than that depending on how we see it. But the thing is Pakistan is a colonized state. It's it's a it's a mercenary state. It's a nation that is uh has been created artificially by a foreign country and the only purpose of the existence of Pakistan is to serve foreign objectives, right? And you don't allow a nation like that to be able to develop nuclear weapons. You don't allow that. You give them nuclear weapons. You allow them to keep them, but you don't allow them to develop the knowhow, the technology, all of that on their own. Look at their abysmal system, their education system. I mean, I talk about India's education system, which is terrible. I mean look at Pakistan's education system. Look at their physics syllabus. Look at the textbooks that they have physics textbooks. Have you seen I I I I have the misfortune of of seeing somewhere online the first few pages of a Pakistani physics textbook. If you read what's written there then you would understand that they can't develop the nuclear their own nuclear weapons. So it's it's more to do not about I I have never said Pakistan first of all I have never said Pakistan could not develop its own nukes because of culture. I never said that. So let's not put words in someone's mouth. Okay. Pakistan is a is is is an abysmally underdeveloped country. It's a vasalized country. It's a mercenary country. It's a country that is run by a small group of dictators. It is highly unfortunate the situation Pakistan is in. It is terrible for the people of Pakistan. It has nothing to do with Pakistan culture. All right. Our friend James has returned. Cheerio James, how are you doing, sir? How are you doing? It's always good to see you, James. It's always good to see you. James, our friend, our former colonial overlord, says that London thrives eternal. Your cities decay still. Well, I remember the last time I was in London. There was garbage thrown all over the streets. I saw some bobbies, some cops eating a packet of chips and just dumping the packet of chips on the street. I saw people smoking cigarettes and stuff snuffing the butts out on the pavement. And I saw the situation in London and other parts of England. You're talking about decay. Well, please, Sir James, please take a look at your cities and see, please take a look at what's being done to your cities and your people and your children by Pakistanis, by Pakistanis. Pakistanis and just and then compare it with India. I mean you people destroyed India abysmally. When you people left our uh our life expectancy was 31. Imagine what you did to my people. Our life expectancy was 31. And see where we are today. We we were we were beggared by you. Utterly beggared. There was nothing left. Our GDP was 33% of the world's GDP when you came in. And by the time you left it was less than 2% of the world's GDP. It's going to take us some time to get back on our feet. But now we are getting back on our feet. And that's why you people are so upset. So upset. Dear James, take care of your country, man. Do that. Take care of your women folk. Do something about the Pakistanis. Well, I think it's too late for that. It's too late for that, James. I really, you know, some part of me feels sorry for your people. It's not their fault. I mean, look, you guys genocided us. You did. you did whatever you did to us. It's not the fault of today's English English men and English women. So I I kind of feel sorry for them. But maybe it's karma. Maybe you do pay the price for the sins of your ancestors. All right, James. Cheerio. Ashtohi says, "What does common Russian people gain from India India Russia relations and vice versa? Apart from energy, defense, security, how can common Indians profit from Russian market?" Well, if you manufacture things in India, if India becomes a manufacturing power, let's say you manufacture all kind of things, watches, shoes, guns, helicopters, cars, I don't know, whatever. Sell it to Russia, you'll make money. I'm sure the Russian uh market will be happy to, you know, buy Indian products. So, both nations benefit, both nations benefit, both sets of people benefit. uh if India doesn't become a manufacturing power then we will simply have government-to-government relations then there's going to be less people-to-people connection but if India does become a major manufacturing power then we will have lots of trade relations which bring in people-to-people relations how did the whole of Southeast Asia become Indianized it started through trade didn't it that's how it started trade is is is a great catalyst trade can start kickstart a lot and then we can open up um you know I mean I've been saying this for such a such a long time India has the potential to become a tourism superpower then you can have Russians coming in coming here and Indians can visit Russia right Russia also has so many tourist destinations so there's a lot that can be done if we get things right yeah so how can a common Indian profit from the Russian market well become a manufacturer manufacture something export it to the Russian market get a profit that's how it goes Uh hush says you have mentioned India as one of the least inequal countries but I see every time opposition targeting billionaires in mentioning inequality. You see you have to create fake narratives right I mean I don't know I I have not seen the opposition who is doing what and all that. Okay, I look at the geopolitics globally, but hypothetically if you were in the opposition, okay, and and hypothetically if you were some hypothetical political party with hypothetical connections to a superpower and the superpower wants to destabilize India and and and effect put create the groundwork for a future regime change operation, then you create fake narratives in India through a hypothetical connection with a hypothetical political party. H that's how you do it. So what do you do? You target the most successful people. Who are the most successful people? The people who have become billionaires by succeeding and many of these billion I mean is is is being a billionaire a bad thing? It means you did something right. If you did it in a rotten system maybe you did you took some shortcuts perhaps. I don't know. I'm just saying hypothetically. The thing is India needs more billionaires. I would like a 100,000 billionaires in in India. I want all of you to become billionaires. What's wrong with that? So by targeting billionaires, what you're saying is that being successful is bad. Remain poor. We will worship the poor. We will worship poverty and we hate success. So you know that's what I can say about I will not go further into this because this is about domestic politics and I don't really talk about that. Godliness says listening to many retired diplomats, army officers and especially some high some right-wing commentators. Uh it seems like the it seems like the love Indian political thought and human resources have for the west is everlasting. Um let's say it's possible. Yeah, I I I note what you're saying, right? Is it surprising? Maybe it's not that surprising. I'm sure not all retired diplomats do this. I'm sure not all retired army officers do this. I'm sure not all right-wing commentators do this. But it is possible that many of them do it. It may perhaps be possible. See, geopolitical commentary has become an industry in India. Now in 2020, it was just a small number of people. But now you have heavyweights in the Indian geopolitical commentary industry. There are two classes of these heavyweights in Indian geopolitical commentary today. There are three classes actually. One is journalists who have rebranded themselves as geopolitical commentators. They are typically new news readers. They used to read news from a teleprompter. Now they are regarded as geopolitical analysts because they kept on reading the same international news, foreign policy news. So they they are now regarded as geopolitical commentators. That's number one. Number two is retired diplomats. Okay. And number three is retired army officers. So there are three classes of Indian geopolitical commentators. And look, you don't make money doing geopolitical commentary, right? You make money by being part of some organization somewhere. Maybe a think hypothetically some think tank or hypothetically some other organization which may have funding from somewhere hypothetically perhaps. I am not naming anybody by the way. So don't don't please don't you know attempt to create some controversy. I'm naming nobody. I'm saying hypotheticals. There could be see there are so many think tanks in the world and so many of these think tanks hypothetically could have funding from hypothetical superpowers or whatever. So if if you are hypothetically in one of these think tanks or associate or maybe you want to become in a part of a hypothetical think tank then you may uh have the tendency to have a love affair with the west. So I think that should explain things and if you are hypothetically uh political I mean I mean I mean a journalist in so and so media outlet hypothetical media outlet and if that media outlet has funding from wherever then you're going to sing those tunes. So today geopolitical commentary in India has become noise. Absolute noise. 99.9% of it is absolute garbage. Truly there superficial stuff surface level stuff and most of it is it looks like it's paid commentary. Not all. Uh Pratt Dana says James sent rupees. L James seems to be on a trip visit to India perhaps. MK says, "Many one man show empires ended after them like Napoleon, Hitler. Will it be the case with Putin? Why doesn't Great Britain Empire vaselize neighbors like as any other empire does?" Interesting questions. You're right. Many such empires ended after the big guy passed on or or gave gave up power. See, like I've always said, I've been saying this for years, the critical time period in any empire's history, the most vulnerable time period is the time of the handover. Have you seen a relay race, 100 m relay, you hold a baton and you run 100 m and by the time you're reaching the 100 meter mark, your your your colleague is there who starts sprinting and you to hand the baiton to the colleague. Now while handing over the bait and if the baiton falls down you're disqualified it's done finished. Similarly in an empire when you have a great emperor and the empire is great the critical most vulner vulnerable moment is the time of handover to the next to the successor. If the succession goes wrong, if the successor is weak, if the su successor is unqualified, if the successor is inept, incompetent, then everything your predecessor did is going to be waste, wasted away, frittered away, right? The succession is the most important thing. So yeah, Napoleon, Hitler was defeated. Hitler was defeated. He he made too many blunders. Napoleon again himself was defeated. But somehow kind of his legacy continued for a while. Putin. So it will depend on who Mr. Putin appoints as his successor. Right now I don't see anybody on the horizon and maybe it's a good thing for Mr. Putin that he has not made it open overt keep it very secret but eventually Mr. Putin will have to hand it over to somebody one way or the other right the ideal situation is that he decides when he step steps down and who who is the successor and he retains some power for some time to ensure things go well. So if that goes fine then the empire won't won't be destroyed then it will last it may thrive it may even do better so it all depends on who comes next does Mr. Putin decide or is it all left to chance which is stupid. Why doesn't why didn't didn't Great Britain Empire vaselize neighbors like any empire does? The Great Britain Empire vaselize the whole world. So Dark Knight says is the accepted narrative of AQ Khan stealing nuclear tech fake since you claim PAC doesn't have its own nukes and the reports of Pakistan providing nuclear technology to North Korea are also fake. We have been sold all these stories and we have swallowed them wholesale. Uh what we know see what we have been told is that Pakistan developed a nuclear bomb. How did they develop it? Because Abdul Kadir Khan this great Pakistani physicist he stole some blueprints and he brought them to Pakistan and through the blueprints they developed nuclear weapons. Are you people kidding me? He stole a bunch of blueprints. Is your is your security so lax that a Pakistani nuclear scientist can steal blueprints from Netherlands or wherever? Yeah. Really? And based on the blueprints, he made nuclear weapons. Are you people kidding me? What are we 3 years old? Do you believe this is a Mickey Mouse story? Yeah. This is a nice cover story they've made up. Pakistan providing nuclear technology to North Korea. I think it was the the Chinese who may have helped North Korea with something or the other. Right. And the story is that the the the Chinese then passed on new North Korean rocket or missile designs to Pakistan. I am not sure what exactly is the situation between North Korea and Pakistan. But I don't believe for one instance for one moment that Pakistan developed its own nuclear technology. Nothing to do with culture. Nothing to do with culture. More to do with their education system and the abysmal quality of the technology technicians, engineers and scientists. Nah. So I believe this entire story is a nice cover story that gullible people have swallowed hook line and sinker. I don't believe it. Virgo's sager says Navaro meant Boston Brahman's Indian equivalent. That's what some Indians are trying to now say to cover up what Navaro has said. No no no no no. In the US they had this term called Boston Brahmans. You see when uh when Plymouth was founded and the and the pilgrims stepped on the rock of Plymouth and established the first settlement which was not the first settlement. The first was Jamestown by the way but when they established Plymouth they eventually in a few years established Boston in the Boston Harbor and those were the first immigrants from England to the US and they are the Boston Brahmans the highclass people. That's what they say. There was a term called Boston Brahmans. still exists by the way the people who are called Boston Brahmans they still have English accent accents British accents but Navaro did not mean that okay if some if some individuals on Indian Twitter are claiming that then I would like to look at who is funding them that's all I'll say bonjour I joined late says anonymous scientist the why does the US want to start a conflict with Venezuela what are the planning look Venezuela is rich in oil Venezuela is run by Maduro who is anti-US who refuses to cave in and become a US wasal and do everything US says and sell oil as per US directives and that's why the US is unhappy with that and maybe they will do a coup there maybe they will just invade like they invaded Nicaragua perhaps yeah so the deal is that Venezuela refuses to be a US wasal if you look at the entirety of Latin America all the countries in Latin America they are all US the polite term is allies is so Venezuela refuses to be a US ally just like Cuba. So that's why they are uh singled out for special treatment. You see um Sarram says China grew at 14% per year at their peak uh India can't reach 8%. Why? Simple difference very simple. China is a dictatorship. India is a chaotic democracy. If you have a dictatorship the same kind of dictatorship you have in China if you have the same thing in India India will also grow at 14% per year. If you have someone like Emperor Ashok at the helm who you can't mess with okay you don't mess with Emperor Ashoke. If you have somebody like that at the helm that's sort of dictatorship India India may even surpass what China did but we are a democracy democracies are so we can't grow like that. We should be happy with 6 and a half 7%. Yeah. Pratt Dhana says coverage of Iran Israel war by our right-wing people opened my eyes and now they are clear cleaning Trump's mess by calling it ego battle between Modi and Trump but it's not it is not an ego battle with between Mr. Modi and Trump. There are many people I don't know about right-wing, leftwing, that's a different story. Okay, I'll not go into that direction. But many Indians are saying and many Americans are also saying that Modi is being Modi is being stubborn. Modi is being obsinate. We know Trump is a very childish person. He's a very egoistic person. Just massage Trump's ego. Just nominate him for a Nobel Prize. Just say that yes, Trump, you played a role in the ceasefire with Pakistan and everything is fine. Is that going to solve the problems? You see what does Trump really want? The Nobel Prize thing and the Pakistan operation sindur thing it is a cover story. What Trump really wants is that India should open up its entire market to the American exports. India should apply 0% tariffs on American imports. India should open up its agricultural sector to American imports. So we should allow American agricultural imports and dairy imports into India with 0% tariffs. What will that do? Right now people are claiming in India that the Trump tariffs are hurting India's economies and they are putting businesses putting you know companies out of business and people are losing the jobs. If you do what Trump says our entire manufacturing sector and agricultural sector will be out of business. H then what happens? It's nothing to do with ego. It's nothing to do with the Nobel Prize or the or or accepting uh to have to to massage Trump's ego that he uh did the ceasefire. It's nothing to do with that. That is not going to solve the problem. If that was all it took, we would have done it. But Trump's Trump wants more. He doesn't want a pound of flesh. He wants a ton of flesh. And the people who are, you know, claiming that India should just massage Trump's ego and that's all it takes. Well, either they are naive or or or sir there is something else behind it. Iran Israel war I mean lots of Indian so-called right yeah rightwingers also they're like yes hammer Iran what how naive can people be Iran is on our side Iran is not an adversary the last time you had a pro- US puppet regime in Iran they were pro Pakistan today's Iran government is not pro Pakistan they are anti-Pakistan they don't like Pakistan they hate Pakistan they even bombed Pakistan a couple of years ago The moment you have a regime change in Iran and this government falls and you have a pro-Israel, pro- US- government, it will be pro Pakistan and our brilliant right-wing analysts, they don't understand that. What can I say? Yubra Singh Sikh Shikhawad says Arctic geopolitics rising. Where does India stand? I'm not sure India stands anywhere in the Arctic geopolitics right now. Uh we do have two or three research stations in the Arctic which is a good thing. Which is a good thing. So we have a to hold there. Uh I think India should invest in ice breakers and India should should expand its footprint in the Arctic. Um why am I talking about Antarctica now? India has a footprint in the Antarctica region. Well, see when it comes to Arctic geopolitics, China is a near Arctic country. They they have a way to get to reach the Arctic. Russia is an Arctic country. So is Canada. So is the US because Alaska and so is Denmark because of Greenland. But India is nowhere near the Arctic. So if India wants to become involved in Arctic geopolitics, we have to do it by partnering with Russia. Not with the US, Canada or Denmark with Russia. So another reason for us to partner with Russia. But India doesn't stand too much. I mean really anywhere in Arctic geopolitics right now. See because of global warming the the northern trade, the sea route will open up and there's a lot of resources there, oil, gas, whatnot, fisheries, much more. Okay, Girish Rati says, "After the SEO summit, Mr. Putin and Mr. Modi met secretly off record." No, it was not secretly, it was very publicly, but it was off record in a car for 45 minutes. Avoiding Beijing's notice, what was what was so sensitive perhaps linked to Japan that needed secrecy. See when you have a summit in China and you have let's say 20 world leaders let's say three world leaders then every single thing will be recorded whether you know it or not whichever you room you go to let's say Mr. Putin and Mr. Modi go to a meeting room somewhere and nobody else is there. Even that is going to be recorded because there's going to be sensors everywhere. The Chinese will have sensors all over the place. They want to know every single word that's being spoken. So when Mr. Modi, Mr. Putin want to have a face-to-face conversation about whatever the best solution is to go to Mr. Putin's car which is entirely under in under in the Russia's control and go on a 45minut ride and then discuss whatever you want to discuss. Even there the Chinese will try to somehow eaves drop but it may not be possible because the Russians will have taken all the possible counter measures. So what was so sensitive? Well only Mr. Putin and Mr. Modi know what was I don't know if it's linked to Japan. I don't think it I I doubt if it's linked to Japan. I think it's more about India Russia relations and maybe about China as well. Maybe there was a discussion about about what's the deal with China. Are we going to make some progress? India, China. What can Russia do about this? How is it really how does it really stand between Russia and China? How what was the deal with Alaska? All of that stuff which we don't want the Chinese to know about. Right? So Mr. Modi and Mr. Putin have their own onetoone relationship or long-standing relationship. They don't need the Chinese listening to that to whatever they talk about. So it's good that they had a long discussion and now we look forward to Mr. Putin visiting visiting India and having further discussions. Sedharma says isn't it time to move beyond the debunked ideas of P and Oak and Pravin Muan? This is not geopolitics anyway. Uh how long will India hold on to such stories instead of embracing facts and looking moving forward with progress? Pnok ah P and Oak I don't know. I mean I've seen some of his uh publications and definitely complete I mean completely debunkable stuff. Pravin moan look Pravin Moan is doing great work. You may you may say perhaps that some of the things he says you don't agree with but some of the stuff some of the the the the videos he makes are really interesting. So you cannot because one or two of the ideas may not be entirely something you agree with. Doesn't mean that everything he does is bad. I actually have a high regard for Pravin Mohan. Okay, I do. So let's not put P and Oak and Pravin Mohan in the same category. Pravin Moan I think is doing great work overall. PN my god I I don't want to comment about PN but anyway let's discuss geopolitics today. Yes. Um, the King Charles says, "I'm sorry for all, but how can I save my empire?" Well, ask your daddy, Mr. Trump, as to how you can save your empire, King Charles. King Carlos, King Carlos. Okay, we have reached 1 hour, 2 minutes. I'm going to end this in like 5 minutes. Okay, so two more questions. Jen says, can we not develop our jet engines and other stuff by reverse engineering existing stuff? You know, even to reverse engineer something, you need a very high level of tech technological capability. Let's say I give you this phone. Hm. A phone. And I tell you to reverse engineer it. Okay. Here is the phone. Here it is. Take it. Reverse engineer it. What will you do? Will you be able to reverse engineer it? You need a tremendous level of technological knowhow to reverse engineer even a phone. To reverse engineer this microphone, to reverse engineer anything, you need a certain amount of technological knowhow. Okay, even if you have the complete blueprint of a jet engine, but if you don't have the methological knowhow, then what will you do about it? If you don't have the capability, capacity to to manufacture certain ceramics, what will you do about it? You may be able to develop a jet engine with the exact specifications as per the blueprint, but when you run it, the temperatures go so high your turbine blades just melt away. Then what will you do about it? Right? It's not that easy that they're easy. So that's the thing. It's it's pretty difficult but we should keep on going at it. Develop our own jet engines. We have done some progress in it. Just keep keep at it. Right. Project smiling Buddha says why do our business houses packs Americana unless unlike Chinese? Why our business houses packs Americana un unlike Chinese? I'm not sure what you're asking. is our you saying that our business houses are pro America and like the Chinese it's because India is a deeply mentally colonized country and because we are a deeply angopilic country and all our men so many of so many Indians have family in the west so we are kind of invested in the west and we are very comfortable with the west so that's why we are different from the Chinese the Chinese are very proud of being non-western we are like yes sir we are western that sort of thing mahar says is Ibrahimore a Panaffrican leader. No, he's not a Panaffrican leader thus far. Um, he is the leader of what? Burkasu is it? Or Nijair? Nger. Is it Nijair? Uh, but look, one second. I [Music] he is the Burkina Faso inim president. Yes. Is he a Panaffrican leader? He could be one. He's a young man and uh he has devasalized his country. Of course, when you def devasalize your country, you have to align with with some powers and that has to be done. So yeah, but it's too early to say if he is a pan-African leader for that he will have to achieve much more. But yeah, he has done a a commendable job in devasalizing his country and and uh and uh putting his his country on the right path of development and not being you know a minion of the west. Arian Kapoor says what's the best reply to the US and Donald Trump and his minions? The best reply is keep quiet and do your do your work. Ignore them. The best reply is to ignore them. They want India to respond emotionally. They want our leaders, our politicians to start speaking in the same kind of language they are speaking. Their language is crass. The language Navaro uses and Trump uses is the kind of language you will hear on the streets. Actually, the kind of language Trump uses at times, it's it's street language. And Navaro is is a crass kind of person. a guy who was in jail a year ago. So they want India to respond in that kind of language so that they can tar India with with with a certain kind of brush, right? The best reply is to ignore them, not pick up the phone, ignore them, do our work and go and take our business wherever it is welcome. That's the best reply to the US. And um the long-term best reply is success. We have to succeed. We have to become a bigger and bigger larger and larger economy and a more powerful nation. That's the best reply. The best reply is not a verbal reply. It's never a verbal reply. When a bully is bullying you, ignore the bully and do your work and then become bigger than the bully. Then we'll talk a Okay. All right folks, I think we are done for the day. We have crossed 1 hour 6 minutes. Uh okay. I'm going to end it. Hoya. Thank you so much for all the questions. I apologize for the couple of interruptions we had. I don't know what the hell on earth all of that is. But uh one last question. Okay, one last question. Will this regime change tactic by the US work? Time will tell. They will try their best and they are really good at this. The Americans do want a regime change in India. All of us need to be aware of this. Okay. The Americans are very serious about a regime change in India. So it's going to be very dangerous the the coming days. All right. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you so much once again. I apologize for the interruptions but I hope it was I hope it was valuable and I look forward to seeing you in the next live stream. Thank you so much everybody. I really appreciate you all and I look forward to seeing you in the next one. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards. I'll see you soon.