Heat. Heat. N. [Music] Hey, hey, [Music] hey. Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to episode 249 of the Ask a Bijit Show. I hope everybody is doing fantastic. Let us see who all is there on the live chat. This is a live chat episode. It's a super chat episode after hundreds of episodes after after hundreds of hours of ask after thousands of questions answered. I have turned on the super chat today. So let's see how that goes. Uh but let me see who all is there on the live stream. I can see Anime Ramshi Khim Subramanyam Lakshmanan Bhavan Pranavony Nikl Sav Dha J Mr. Jam cost of Mukharji again DG walkthroughs Korish KB fate Vin Baron Zemo Pran Paul from Kolkata Dipti Talle Aush Pande Animeish again Spade Event Countdown Arpita Shukla Liette Nikl Balyan Pranav Vidi Manar Shri Ramchandra Namaha Asra Crazy Brain Rishi Edtopia Shlesh Chri Ritik Badia Really now Info King, Pearl Gupta, Baba Abijit, Chow, Arpit, Ilas Gaming, Rashmir, Priyanchi, Sud Raja, Dil, Oscar Madison, Rakshit Mishra, Jooshi, Tan Chandra, uh, Jatin Aherwar, Mr. 88s, Sanida, Kumar, Sharma, DGBHF, Caitana, Manuja, Kulib, Johan, Geopolitical, Dubai from Indor, Mr. Jam Krishna Ragunat from the Surinamese Netherlands. Uh Spade uh Sange Kumar again Adita Prem Chira Aasti Vishal Patro Magdum Aditya Prem Torres Adja Biology Angelie Sha and lots and lots of other people. So uh let's going get going with the questions. Uh I will prioritize live what is it called super chats today. Uh so people have told me in the past that I should turn on super chats. The quality is better because people who use super chats are more serious about the questions. Uh so let's see how it goes. I have always turned off super chat so that everybody gets the same opportunity. But let's see how it goes. I I am not opposed to having better quality of questions. So if there are super chats I will uh prioritize those but as far as possible I will take everyone's questions. So let's start with the super chats that we have. Utkash has asked this question. Thank you for so much for the contribution. West took 500 years to go from dark ages to modern society. Why did we India not reach modern age? We were prosperous and scientific since 8,000 or so BC. But it did not lead to large-scale industries, guns and tanks, satellites, computers. Okay, so this is a question I'm sure lots of people have that why did India not industrialize? Why did India not have advanced technology etc. Here's the deal my friends. India was the first fully industrialized society. The British de-industrialized us and our historians don't teach us that. That's why we are not aware of the fact that we were a fully industrialized society. We had every kind of industry imaginable in India. We had ship building, we had uh um you know tech textile industries, we had arms manufacturing industries. uh you know technologically we were so incredibly uh advanced in comparison to the rest of the world. Um the first uh I mean the oldest iron smelting is found in in southern India in in parts of Tamil Nadu even Sri Lanka you know uh what they call cerak steel or Damascus steel is actually crucible steel that was that is a technology that was invented in India. We had ship building going back thousands of years. There were ships that were used in the American civil war that were built in India. When Vasco Dagama reached uh the Cape of Good Hope, he was he thought that he had the best ships in the world and he was astonished to see Indian ships on the coast of eastern Africa that were like three times his size and that was those are just regular Indian ships and we had uh hydroengineering. We had I mean every single industry you could imagine was there in India. We had our own economic system which was different from what we have today. totally different and um I mean if you if you if you want to talk about technology you look at the the the harbor the dockyard in places like Davira and Lothal etc in western India which comes under the time period of the Sarasati synindu phase of our our history of our civilization and if you look at the dockyards there the harbors of those ports they are comparable favorably comparable in in size and quality to today's visha Putnham dockyard which can harbor aircraft carriers. So let's understand, let's put the real history in context. We were genuinely genuinely the first fully industrialized civilization and the British de-industrialized us so that they could then turn us into you know uh this juice box that they could suck off, right? They wanted to extract everything of value out of India. And if India was more advanced than than the British than than Britain and Europe then you know it would have the other effects. So you first de-industrialize the society you impoverish the society and then you turn it into something else that you that you want want to make it turn it into. So uh we were more advanced than the British than the Europeans even when they reached even when they reached here but we never used our advancement technological advancement and prosperity uh in those you know for those purposes like you know uh colonizing destroying exploiting uh we never did that and that's why we were destroyed ourselves. So maybe we can we could have perhaps learned a thing or two from our oppressors right. So we had large scale industries. We discovered we invented gunpowder tanks. We didn't have nobody had tanks 500 years ago, right? Nobody had satellites 500 years ago. Nobody had computers 500 years ago. If you go back 500 years, if you go back to the 1600s, 1700s and you compare the state of technological development and industrialization of India, visa with that of the UK or of of England and other European uh kingdoms, we were better at that time and it was not because of the so-called mules or whatever. It was our own thing that that tra that you can trace back thousands of years. So we are not taught these things and that's why we have these questions in our mind and that's why Indians suffer from this crushing inferiority complex because our education system our teachers our professors our textbooks don't teach us the truth right that's the problem Mr. Sid says, "How to overcome mobile addiction and develop a routine in the world in a world where everything is done through your phone, mails, calls, chats, meetings, etc. Okay, look uh I can I can I mean I should answer you straight to the point, right? Uh no need no point sugaring what I should say. Let's understand why does this mobile phone addiction happen in the first place. You're not the only one to this to whom this happens. I know per people personally to whom this is this is an ongoing for for whom this is an ongoing issue. So what happens is you you lack something you lack some purpose in life, right? Maybe you have a job which doesn't give you fulfillment. Maybe you're doing something that doesn't give you fulfillment. Maybe you're supposed to be doing something else, but you're not able to do it. There is some kind of a a hole in your existence. You there's a lack of purpose. There's a lack of meaning. Maybe it's your fault. Maybe it's somebody else's fault. Maybe, you know, the world has conspired against you and not given you the path that you should be on. And you're not happy. And then what you do? You find the cell phone, right? The mobile phone. Here it is. Everybody has one of these little things. You look in look at it and you you have these all these apps Instagram and whatever else. You scroll scroll scroll and very quickly these these apps that algorithms you know those those uh those machines machine learning algorithms they very quickly identify what are the things that make you happy? What are the things that please you? What are the things that you search for? What are the things that you spend time watching? And they and it gives you more and more of that and you keep on watching and you g you get this dopamine hit after dopamine hit after dopamine been hit and you know you get hooked to it. It's a pleasure machine and you you keep on scrolling to to find the next source of pleasure you know 60 seconds 60 seconds 60 seconds and after before you realize 3 hours have gone four hours have gone right. So that's how this happens. Initially it's harmless but as you spend more and more time every day you will eventually after a few weeks you find you spending 3 4 5 6 hours a day on the phone and it's a disaster for anybody. Imagine how much I mean it fries your brain. It fries your mental circuitry. It makes you unable to experience real pleasure in life, real happiness in life. That's what happens. So that that's how it happens. That's the mechanism by which it typically happens. And it happens because there is something missing in your life. Now imagine you are a person who has an obsession, who has a purpose, a cause, a mission. When you're sleeping, you're dreaming of that what I'm going to do next day or what I've been doing. And when you wake up, the first thing, the first thought in your mind is let me go and get to work. Let me get up and get back to work because I need to do it. It's an obsession. Nobody's forcing me to do it. I I it's coming from inside. When you have that that obsession, that mission, when you have that sort of meaning in life, you think this cell phone will come in the way. It won't. So, what's missing is a purpose, a burning desire to do something in life. When you have that these these little things, these scrolling apps and all they they become pointless, worthless, and you no longer care about them. So the the way to overcome this addiction is to find something that is stronger and more meaningful to you. Right now you know the problem is that by the time most of us are are out of school, college, university, by the time we are in our early 20s, most of us are disillusioned with the world. We have realized by the time that the world is very different from what we imagine it would be. As kids, we thought the world is a wonderful place and we can do whatever we want and we can rise to the fullest extent of our potential and so on. But by the time we reach our 20ies, especially in a nation like India or even anywhere else, you find that the world you know it it doesn't allow you to do things. It is it is very hard for you to achieve what you want to achieve unless you fight really really hard. And so typically in India, let's say by the time you're you know 20 you have your first job, you find that it's something you never wanted. This is never what I wanted to do. I wanted to become a pilot or I wanted to become so and so but look at me I'm I'm sitting on a laptop in front of a laptop in a cubicle and I'm doing spreadsheets or or whatever else it is that you're doing. So you are unhappy you did not get what you wanted and you don't see a path through which you can you know turn things around. So you then get into these things and of course these things I mean you do everything through that you know your emails your your phone calls your zoom meetings. So that's the problem. The solution is first of all you need to reorient your attitude. Your attitude should be very clear. There's a song by Led Zeppelin. Nobody's fault but mine. That's the attitude you should have. Don't blame the world for what happened. Don't blame your family. Don't blame your siblings, your parents, your spouse, your whoever. Don't blame your superiors, your bosses, your teachers. Don't blame anybody. Whatever happened to you, you allowed it to happen, right? So grab life by its throat, by the scruff of its neck and and and try your best to turn it around. And when you try something hard and you have some goal, some objective, some purpose, this becomes meaningless. That's become this becomes pointless. You don't find that burning desire that that passion or whatever you want to call it. Or maybe you're not putting 100% in whatever you're doing. Put 100%. When you do that, of course, it's not it's easier said than done. Everybody has the temptation to spend some time on social media. Don't I have it? Of course I have it. Sometimes they do it. But I typically have other things that that will pull me away and not allow me to do that and waste my time there cuz I have certain goals, objectives, mission, whatever you want to call it. So once you have that some some bigger thing, something that's bigger than yourself, something very big that you want to achieve, then these things become pointless. Find that thing in your life. Everybody can find it. It's not easy. Speaking saying all this to you is very easy. Doing is very hard. But you've got to find a way to do it. So Mr. Sid, all the best. All the best. Okay. Rik says, "Why India chose peace over Pakistan occupied Kashmir to avoid sanctions?" See, you you should achieve something. If you see Poke, we all want it, right? This land, beautiful land, the land of Rashikashup, our ancestral ancient land, we want it back and it was taken from us by treachery and so on. We want it back. Sure. Um, but right now perhaps was not the right time to do it because see, we have external forces that are way more powerful than us. If India is a 6t tall strong guy, then when China is 20t tall and the US is about 90 ft tall or 28t tall or whatever you want to call it. H so when you're 6t tall and you've got a guy who is 90 ft tall and who doesn't want you to do this, you do you think you will be able to get it done? No, you can't. So this is not the time perhaps to do it. You have to wait for the right time. And if you sit around doing nothing, the right time will never come. So India has to grow. India has to do the hard work, the dirty work, the not so glamorous work, you know, go get down in the dirt and work really really hard for the next 20, 30 years until we are 30, 40t tall. Then let's see what the big guys can do. When you are a little little fella, you should not have an attitude. You shut up and do the work. Okay? Lift your weights, do your work, grow, grow, grow, build the muscles. And when you have the muscles and when you have the heft, that's when you talk. So right now, we are the little guy compared to the US. That's why we quietly chose peace. Okay, it's a very harsh world out there. And you have to be practical and realistic. So that's why we chose it right now. The Americans see the Americans, they they see some value in Pakistan. Pakistan is valuable for them. They want Pakistan to keep existing. The Chinese also see Pakistan the same way. Okay. So the Americans and Chinese see see eye to eye on this matter. Pakistan they both agree America and China are enemies but they both agree that Pakistan should continue existing and both are much more powerful than India. In that situation if you're the leader of the country you do the right thing and not push it too far. Okay. It's it's going to take another 20 years. I hope I'm wrong. I hope it happens next next week. But realistically it is more likely that it will take 20 years compared to three three weeks or three months or three years. But it will happen eventually if we all work together to make this happen and we can all contribute in some way in our own way in our own 0.001% way all of us that's what needs to happen. Anu says is there a possibility of a Muslim alliance consisting of multiple Muslim countries attacking India in this decade? Um I think the only Muslim countries that would that that see uh that uh have that sort of attitude towards India are uh Pakistan and and and Turkey. The other major Muslim countries see which are let's first ask ourselves okay which are the major Islamic countries Muslim countries in the world. Okay we we already spoke about Pakistan and Turkey. Fine let's put them here. Okay they are sitting here. Now who is here? Here we have Saudi Arabia, major Islamic country, right? The home of Mecca and Medina, the the holiest sites uh in Islam. So you have Saudi Arabia. You also have Persia, Iran, our neighbor, well neighbor, historically our neighbor, soon to be neighbor again. Iran now that's another major Muslim country. You also have nations like Egypt, right? That's another part of the Arabic world. And you have nations like the UAE, uh, Oman, uh, Qatar, Qatar is quite small and so on. You know, the these are the nations that we can talk about when it comes to the Muslim world. And we also have on the other hand a couple of other nations like uh, Indonesia and Malaysia. Now, if you look at a nation like Saudi Arabia, they are on very good terms with us and they have they they have no intention of of towing the Pakistani or or Turkish line when it comes to India. Saudi Arabia is a nation that wants to modernize. It's a nation that wants to be even more prosperous in the 21st century. It knows that very soon a post oil world will arrive when oil is no longer as valuable it used to be. And it wants, you know, friends and allies in the neighborhood. And we are a nation that's growing. We are a nation that's going to be great again. Why would they want us as their enemies? So Saudi Arabia and India, we are on excellent terms. the relationship is is getting better as we speak. Saudi Arabia want to participate in this this idiotic uh scenario. Okay. Now Iran, why would Iran want to antagonize India and so on? We are not you know best friends like you know hugging each other every day or something like that. But we are not enemies in any any manner. We have reasonably good relations India and Persia. Uh Iran nowadays it's Iran. So Iran won't participate in this nonsense. you the UAE is is extremely good friends with India. Why they would not do this? Uh who else is there? Egypt. Now we have good relations with with Egypt. We have excellent relations with our Indonesian cousins. U Malaysia so but not not really terrible relations, right? Uh and so on. So apart from Turkey and Pakistan, no other Islamic nation uh would even entertain the thought of of forming some coalition against India. They would laugh it off. What nonsense? Please go somewhere else. Go find a convention of of of insane people. Go to an insane asylum. That's what they'll say. So there's no possibility of this happening. And it's thanks to the leadership that we have had the past decade that we have completely turned around our relationship with all these nations. uh in in 2010 of a relationship with Saudi Arabia, with UAE, etc. that there's nothing to write home about. But look at how it is today. So awesome job. Awesome job. Chiraasi says, "Why is Trump so desperate?" Look, you have to understand Trump's um psychology. I have been watching Trump for for a very long time. Most people in India at least and even around the world would not have paid much attention to Trump before 2015 2016 right I have been watching Trump essentially since since the year 2000 around the 2000s early 2000s so there was this show TV show called the apprentice and Trump was the main guy in the apprentice it was all about him it was about him interviewing doing a long interview over multiple episodes of a bunch of people who will and he will eventually hire one person to work work for him for the Trump corporation the apprentice and if you watch the first three or so seasons of the apprentice it's the first two three seasons are very raw very real very unscripted later on it becomes very much more polished so in those seasons you see the real Trump how he is and if you see Trump in those seasons you will understand the real Trump who Trump really is people don't change I'll tell you something I'm still the person I was when I was 2 years I've learned things. I've acquired behaviors and mannerisms and whatnot. But I'm at the core of my being still the same person I was when that I was when I was 2 years old. People don't change. The core uh inherent qualities of a person never change. So Trump is still Trump. And if you watch Trump back in the day, you will see that he was this very vain person, very self-centered person, me me, huge ego, very egotistical person, very self-centered person. Um and uh he is very capricious. He he vacasillates a lot. He will say one thing one day, he will take a 180°ree U-turn the next day. Constantly contradicting contradicting himself. and he uh he trusts very often the wrong people. He very often uh promotes the wrong people and so on. So that's how he is. He is in constant need of validation from the world that I'm the best, I'm the best, I'm the best. And he has he he's you know he's very vain. He's very self-centered. He's very egotistic. He's very narcissistic and so on. That's the kind of guy he is. But overall, he's not a bad guy overall. So now as president who is his constituency his constituency is the people of the US not the entire population of the US but the MAGA voter base that's his core constituency and he is he every day he strives to to to gain their approval and validation every single day. So everything he does on the world stage on the geopolitical stage it's to prove to his to his people the MAGA voter that they voted for the right guy and I'm the best I'm the best president ever. I'm the best president ever. I I don't know how to speak like him but you know what so um that's the deal. So and he wants to take credit for everything whether he has done something or not and he wants to be remembered as the biggest baddest greatest president in the US since Abraham Lincoln essentially or or maybe better than Abraham Lincoln maybe better than George Washington also that sort of thing that's what drives him and that's why he he he exhibits the behaviors that we see him exhibit you to understand the guy you to understand him to realize why he behaves the way he does. Um, Nav Singh Bajad says, "Why don't you go to Joe Rogan or Pierce Morgan to give the Indian perspective?" Well, I'm right here giving the Indian perspective and let's make this channel much bigger, right? So, uh, look, it's not like you can just walk in there and and go and talk to Joe Rogan. You've got to be noticed, right? And he he he should think that you're he he should have you on the channel and so on. is like that Piers Morgan also I suppose if you know the right people and if you let's say you know the right people you have to go and you know request them put put in a word for me that sort of thing so listen I don't need any any white man's validation the the Indian perspective is right here let's say that I am India's ambassador to the world let's let's put it put it that way right so yeah if if I'm invited in the future I'll I'll be happy to go but right now the perspective comes comes from here. But uh thank you for the suggestion. I appreciate that. Nav G. Animeh G says in the memory of the passing away of Sri Jan Nikkar, can you throw some light on how he challenged the big bang theory and can you help us understand his quasi quasi steady state theory? Okay. Uh all right. All right. Yeah. First of all, um Dr. Jen Nardle passed away recently. uh very famous uh physicist astrophysicist worked with uh the great Fred Hy and uh put forth a theory that was a challenger to the uh big bang theory cosmology right so um I can talk about the theory I don't know his life and work in great detail the one work that I know him for is the quasi steady state theory right so what was this theory so Jant Narikar in association with Fred Hy another a astrophysicist who Fred I know I personally know Fred Hoy from childhood because I read a couple of his science fiction books one was called a and the other one was called the black cloud very very nice books I really like those books so anyway Fred Hy and Narliker Dr. had proposed this theory, the quasi steady state theory of the universe. What this theory essentially says is that the universe has always existed in the shape and form that it currently exists in. And it doesn't it's not a it's not changing. It's not a changing universe. It's a steady universe. It's always been it's essentially infinite infinitely old or something like that. Uh so it's an unchanging universe. It doesn't expand. It doesn't contract. It stays the way it is. Essentially that's the theory they had proposed. Right? Now today if you look at astrophysical astronomical observations you will find what will you find in the universe you will find that if you go into outer space you'll find that there is there is a glow in outer space uh in outer space photons very ancient photons very ancient light exists in the universe and it's a it's at a very very cold temperature about 2 point something uh Kelvin which is like just just about two 2 point something Kelvin above absolute zero so extremely cold light in extremely redshifted light right that's what that's one thing we observe so there seems to be a background radiation all across the universe whichever direction you look in it's mostly the same and it's very cold and very old and very redshifted redshifted means the the the photons the the the waves are stretched out now why are they stretched out is the question right why are these waves stretched out Then another thing you see when you observe far away objects in the universe like galaxies typically the the furthest objects you can observe are galaxies. Now let's say you're observing a galaxy that is way way far away. H maybe a billion light years away and then you can do the measurements and in any galaxy you will have every single chem chemical element imaginable. You will have iron, you will have copper, you will have oxygen, nitrogen, helium, hydrogen everything, right? And all of these elements if you see their spectral lines you know exactly where the spectral lines are. You can I mean you can do that in physics lab or chemistry lab in college or in university. So you know where the sodium lines are. You know where the other lines are and so on so forth. You know exactly what the frequency is supposed to be. But when you see the frequencies of the same chemical elements in far away galaxies you'll find that these frequencies are shifted towards the red end of the spectrum. They are redshifted. The question is why are they redshifted? Well, the answer is very clear because the galaxies are moving further and further away from us. And the further a galaxy is, the faster it's moving away from us. So, the universe is clearly expanding. Far away objects are moving away. And the further an object is, the faster it's moving away. So, the universe is expanding and the expansion is accelerating. So, there is clear unambiguous incontrovertible evidence that the universe is expanding. And the universe has a leftover glow of radiation everywhere in every direction. Something happened sometime which left behind this radiation. What was it? And why is it so cold today? So if the universe is expanding at a very rapid pace then in the past it would have been contracting. If you if you you know take the clock backwards, the universe is this big today. It's expanding. In the past it would have been smaller. It would have been contracting if if the clock goes backwards. And this cold radiation would have been hotter. Now you take you exterpolate it backwards. You reach a time about 13.7 13.8 billion billion years before today where the universe would have been a single point. So the universe expanded out of a essentially a very small point of almost infinite energy and mass density, almost infinite temperature. That's the big bang. So the evidence that we have shows us that the universe expanded out of a very small point which is the big bang theory. So Jant Narliker and Fred Hy they proposed this quasi steady state theory. I am not very familiar with the theory. I've never been interested in it. It's a failed theory. I'm sorry to say sadly. Uh but I'm sure it was relevant at some point in time. So you need to propose theories, theories that that match what is known today, right? The observational evidence that we have today, we need to have theories that match it. In the future, more evidence comes out that may perhaps invalidate some theory which happened to the quasi steady state theory of of Hil and Narlicker. Uh so it was not a challenge to the big bang theory. It was at that time very little was known about the universe. At that time it was not known that there is this afterglow of the big bang this cosmic microwave background radiation that we know of today. Pensas and Wilson discovered it by mistake completely accidentally and they completely accidentally got a Nobel prize for that and so on. So when they proposed this theory it was a very good theory and it was a theory that people took seriously and the big bang theory at the time did not have too many takers. It was not even called the big bang theory. And Narlicker's uh colleague collaborator Fred Hy, he went on some radio show because there was no TV back in the day. He went on a radio show and to make fun of this theory, he called it what the he called it the big bang as a porative remark but it got it stuck and today we all call it the big bang theory. Uh so that's what it was. His theory was that the universe essentially is unchanging. It's not expanding. It's not contracting. It doesn't change much. just stays the way it is and probably it means that it's infinitely old or something. That was a theory and it was a a failed theory. I don't know what other work Dr. Nardiker may have done. I'm sure he was a great popularizer of science. He was a great uh professor. He was a great uh communicator and teacher of science and so on. And uh yeah, so he was definitely uh one of our great physicists, astrophysicists. And uh I'm sure the world is poorer now that we have lost him. The world is poorer for his passing. So thank you Dr. Narika for everything you did and we will remember you fondly. Thank you sir. Right. Okay. Good question. Vidi Manar is a new member. Thank you so much ma'am. I really appreciate it. Um geopolitical dub says why is France so reluctant to share source code? You see nobody will give source code. Nobody will source code is is the secret source the brains behind um whatever m whatever the machine does. So obviously uh geopolitical Dubai is talking about the source code that drives the software which is at the heart of the Rafal fighter plane. Let's say it's not the Rafal, it's something else. The source code is the heart. It's it's the logic, right? So let's say you have a fighter plane and today I'll tell you something most uh fourth and fifth generation fighter planes are inherently unstable designs. So if you go back to the Cessna planes you know what a Cessna plane looks like. Let me put that on screen so that you all you know um let's let's go to the map. So you know aircraft designs have evolved. So let's say Cessna Cesna aircraft. So your typical Cessna aircraft looks like this. You know, this sort of thing. Uh these are your Cessna aircraft. We've all seen these all over the place. You know, very standard design. So these designs, these aircraft designs are inherently stable. If you switch off the engine, the plane will just glide, glide, glide as long as it is possible until it reaches stall speed. But otherwise, it will just keep on gliding. It's a very stable design. If you look at uh designs like this one, Spitfire, this was another pro probably very very stable design. So you switch off the air the engine, the plane will just fly itself. It will refuse to crash until it reaches stall speed. And older aircraft had these stable designs. Now if you look at the B20 B whatever bomber uh stealth bomber B2 stealth bomber, what is it? Is it B2? Yeah, these things. This aircraft has a shockingly unstable design. Okay, if you switch off the power, it'll just fall like a rock. The same goes for the the ajis fighter plane. The fighter is doesn't have a completely stable design. And this is this unstable design is by design. That's what makes it more maneuverable. But then to stabilize the aircraft when it's flying, you need a software that controls all the control surfaces and gets all the feedback in real time from what's happening and it keeps the system stable. So there's a s there's a source code that goes into that into the stability of the aircraft. Then there's source code for the target acquisition system and source code for all kinds of things. Now this this is is the heart of everything and you would not share that. That's I mean it it's do you have any idea how difficult it is to write software? I mean unless you you've written software you will not know how hard it is. You make one change in one subsystem somewhere and it'll break 17 other things somewhere else and then it's a you got to going to pull your hair out trying to figure out what went wrong. Debugging and god knows what. Anybody who has written software will understand that. So source code and and typically the source code in these systems, fighter planes, it goes to millions of lines of code. It's extremely complex. Why would you give it up? I mean it's it's worth billions of dollars, I'm sure, maybe more, maybe tens of billions of dollars. So that's why, you know, it's it's very very hardearned whatever they have created and it's very you would not give it away. If we we had a source code, I mean we have the source of the code of the nobody wrote it for us. We wrote it ourselves. It's a pretty good achievement actually and we would not give it away to anybody, right? And so on. So nobody gives it away. It's you can't blame them for it. So at the end of the day, we have to design our own aircraft systems. We can buy things from others, but they will not share everything. That's the deal. Ashish Chri, thank you so much, sir. Thank you very much. AJ Sharma, thank you. Your view on India sovereignty. We lost a few points, have we? Earlier it was one now I believe 0.8. eight. Uh we were not able to destroy Pakistan sovereignty entirely. Uh so yeah, that's what happened in Operation Synindur, a three three-day very quick rapid war and we probably did not achieve everything we wanted to achieve. I'm sure we wanted to do a little bit more. I'm don't know if the objective was to take back P at this stage, but I'm sure we wanted to do more. And I could see that from the reaction of the prime minister in his address to the nation that he was visibly angry and probably he was angry at Trump and clearly his reaction or lack of reaction to Trump shows that he is very displeased with Trump interfering in the matter. Does it mean that we have lost some sovereignty points? Once again, let me remind you all my friends of the definition of sovereignty. So what does it mean to be a sovereign nation? One, you have complete control over your borders, right? You get to decide who comes in, who goes out, and who can stay. That's number one. Number two, complete control over your economy. You control your economy. You control your currency. Nobody else does it. You don't have to accept somebody else's currency as your national currency. Right? Third, um, so that's another definition. Thirdly, uh, complete political independence. So you, your government gets to decide the policies that will be implemented in your country and nobody else gets to deci decide. That's another uh thing about sovereignty. Fourth, you don't serve anybody else. You have complete control over everything you do. Uh you're not a mercenary nation like Pakistan. You're not under foreign occupation. You you don't host somebody else's military bases on your soil. All these things are are part of of of sovereignty. So if you look at all these points put together, we are completely 100% still sovereign. Uh we were not able to completely dismantle Pakistan sovereignty. The Americans prevented us from doing it. But we don't host American or any other military bases on our soil. We have complete control more or less for for borders. There are some issues here and there but overall we have control. Everybody has some issues like that. Um we completely control our economy. We control our currency. We don't have to use something like the euro or the dollar or anything. Right? Uh we have our own government. We don't serve any other nation. So if you look at all of this put together, we have complete control over over our military. We are not like the NATO nations who who give up their the control over their military to the NATO command and so on or we are not like a nation like the EU where you don't have your own currency and you don't have your borders you know the sanctity of your borders isn't there and in the EU uh you have a situation where Brussels decides what policies will be implemented in your country and your people have no choice in this that's a lack of sovereignty we if you look at all these things put together we are still one on the sovereign scale. Yeah, we we we were not allowed we were prevented from u you know taking the logic taking the operation against Pakistan operation sindur the special military operation to its logical conclusion. Uh but we are still fully sovereign. So I I I do not think it's 0.8. Let's not be so pessimistic my friends. We are still a fully sovereign nation but we can still certainly do better and we need to work hard towards that. Sanjay G, thank you very much. Appreciate it. Taskar Gupta says, "Can we use TV antennas all over India combined together acting as a large radar? Maybe some changes." Um, can we do that? I'm not really sure how radars work. You know, I've never really looked into it. Radars are obviously, you know, what a radar does. Okay, let's go back to first principles. What does a radar do? A radar is a big machine, let's say, with a certain surface area and all that which emits and also receives radio waves, right? It sends out radio waves in all directions. It it it turns like that 360°. It keeps turning. It sends radio waves in all directions. It also has a receiver to try and catch those radio waves back. So now radio waves travel at the speed of light. Those are that's electromagnetic radiation, right? Radio in the radio frequency range. So they send radio waves in all directions in a certain frequency and there's also a receiver that is listening to the same frequency. Do I get something back in a similar way and if I get something back it can kind of tell where it came back from. So it hit something and came back. So that's how you can detect incoming aircraft and other things. That's how radar works. Uh now there are various kinds of radars which work at various frequency ranges and bands and all that um and so on. Now does it mean that the larger your radar is the more the better it is? I think we have some radars that are pretty large pretty large radars with a lot of energy that they generate and such radars can kind of detect stealth aircraft but can't detect exactly where they are but you can see you can see something is out there. So can we use TV antennas? So TV antennas are receivers. Understand a radar is not just a receiver it's also a transmitter. It's a transmitter and receiver at the same time. So if we take TV antennas all across India, we can create a very big receiver. For example, when I was a little kid, we only in India in the 1990s at before the 1999s also, uh we only had one TV channel in India, Dur Dash. And often the coverage would be very patchy. So you would have an antenna at the top in the top of your house or whatever and you would have to point it in a certain direction to get good coverage and sometimes the wind would blow it away and the coverage would be bad. Sometimes the signal would be bad. So what you could do is you could take the antenna and plant it on on top of a tree and then the tree becomes a huge receiver and then you get much better reception that sort of thing. So it's so these TV antennas are receivers. They're not transmitters. So it can it can act as a big receiver of various kinds of signals but it can't act as as a radar. So I think your thinking your thinking process is good that you're trying to find solutions. Um but it probably won't work in the way that we want it to work as a very powerful very large radar. But what you can do is you can build dedicated radars that are like know half a football field size or maybe a football field size. You can build it. It's very expensive can be done and these can be very powerful. So it can be done. Arjuna says is it right to blame in invarious rather than introspect? Some time ago I I spoke about this song by Led Zeppelin. Nobody's fault but mine. You know you can blame invarious. You can blame everybody but at the end of the day it's nobody's fault but mine. If if something bad happened to me to at some level I allowed it to happen. Invaders are invaders were terrible. They were cruel. They were barbaric. They were univilized. But hey, why didn't we stop them? Why don't we destroy them? So, you have to intros in introspect. No question about it. So, where did we go wrong? First of all, when the Turk invasions happened, we were not unified under a single political system. We've had phases of unification in the subcontinent, the Moria Morian empire period where we were united united under a single empire. Before that, there was the Nanda Empire. once again united under a single empire. The Nanda Empire was so scary that the Greeks ran away. Alexander's troops rebelled. They mutinated. They refused to go further into India. They went back from from western Punjab. Right? So when you are powerful, when you are united like this, nobody can dare invade. They'll be they'll be squashed. So during the Nanda Empire period, during the Chorian period period, nobody could invade us. During the Kushan period, they themselves were descendants of invaders, but they were some of our greatest emperors. Kaneshka the great man. So during Kaneshka's time, nobody dared look at India from an invader's perspective. During the Gupta period, some of our greatest emperors, the Gupta emperors, nobody dared invade India, right? When the Chola Empire was at its peak in southern India, nobody dared invade southern India. Of course, then India was much harder to invade and so on. So when you are not unified under a single emperor who unifies the whole subcontinent, you are at risk of invasion. So that was the situation that happened when the Turks first the Arabs and the Turks invaded us. When Persia fell to the Arabs, the Persians would have wanted nothing more than India to save them. But we were no longer under the Gupta Empire at the time. We were all fragmented by the time. So we could not save Persia. If we had saved Persia from falling to the Arabs, a lot of things would not have happened. So what you need is political unity and political stability and you need a highest quality of leadership. when you don't have it, it's your fault. You can't blame barbarians for being barbarians, right? So, so the point is not to blame our ancestors. You know, this is a cyclical process. The rise and fall of empires, imperial cycles, the Chinese have seen it, we also see it. Sometimes we are united under one empire, sometimes we are fragmented. So, when the fragmentation happens, it's not really our fault. It happens. It's just a natural process. And uh at that time if somebody tries to invade it is for somebody to rise up as a leader from the fragmented kingdoms and unify the country and fight the invaders didn't happen and which is why we are where we are today. So the point is not to blame our ancestors not to blame the kings who still fought who fought for centuries who gave made incredible sacrifices. My point is not to blame them. My point is to learn the lessons today. Today we have to learn the lessons that that we have which we have learned from 1,000 years of very painful history. A thousand years of humiliation. So uh but listen it also is important to blame the invaders for being utter barbarians. In today's day day and age it's all about propaganda right the whole world tries to blame India for having they say that India is is you know what they say about India right? They try to attack our culture, our civilization and so on. You people have a backward culture. You people have a cast system. You people are misogynistic. You people are backward. Your culture is this, your culture is that. So if you we are at the receiving end of that completely unjustifiably, we should also blame the invaders for being utter barbarians. Whether the invaders were brown as in the Arabs and Turks or white as in the Europeans, right? So, but we have to learn the lessons of history. Moit says, "Do you think the reason the US is becoming hostile towards India is due to us being the same GDP as China in 2008 with much better demographics?" Now, somebody's thinking here, aren't they? Moit, good job. See, understand this, my friends. Moit is absolutely right. Um the US whether they say it or not they will never say it but they regard us as a potential future challenger competitor potential future challenger which means that maybe by a 2040 horizon we may be the next big challenger the way China is today and maybe we'll be different from China and maybe we'll be more dangerous perhaps than China from their perspective. They don't want us to be in that position to challenge them in the future. Today we are a nice little country. Not little but you know little in terms of GDP and hard power compared to us. So we are like a cat. A house cat. Well, you know what a house cat is like? Nice cute little creature. It has claws. It has teeth but it's relatively harmless. It eats mice. It eats birds. It can scratch you if you're annoying. If it if it wants to be annoying, but overall mostly harmless. But imagine that house cat in 20 years becomes the size of a cheetah or the size of a leopard or the size of a tiger. Will the house cat behave like a house cat or will it behave like a tiger? Well, size matters. And this nice little country with a 4 trillion GDP, if it is a 20 trillion dollar GDP, it will not act like a house cat, it'll act like a goddamn tiger. And that's what they're worried about, right? So, they will do their best, my friends. The Americans will do their best to keep us down. And you can't blame them for it. They are the top dog and the top dog wants to remain the top dog and they don't want any challenges to emerge down the line. So they will do whatever it takes to keep the potential challenger down. That's the way a great power is supposed to behave. So don't so there's no right or wrong. There's no morality or lack of morality in this. It's simply the way the world works. It's a real politic. Right? So the point is you have to expect this to happen. The Americans will increasingly behave like this towards us and you know for when it comes to India they may actually see eye to eye with China and they may cooperate with China when it comes to matters concerning India they may cooperate with Pakistan in matters compar concerning India. So you have to expect this and we have to find ways to grow despite this issue. But Moit is absolutely right. You have hit the head the nail on the head sir. Okay. PLTP says why crown agents run RBI Indian media. Is it possible that both governments is it possible both governments work for the same people? Why BIS Crown Temple in city of London can't be sued? Crown agents run the Reserve Bank of India. The Indian media, I'm not sure about the Reserve Bank of India, but the Indian media is full of foreign agents and our our ancient elite, not ancient elite, but postindependence elites of of of India, the people who run ran the show, ran ran the media, ran the government. These were all Angloiles. These were all people who had whose families had essentially benefited from British rule. Look look at this. Look at it this way, my friends. Anybody who in 1947 was rich could only be rich because they cooperated with the British. I think that should be a no-brainer for everybody. Any person, any any individual or family or business entity that was rich in 1947 when the whole country was devastated, they could only be rich because they had cooperated with the British. They had collaborated with the British, which means they were British agents. Anybody who was put in power in 1947 would be a British collaborator. Okay? uh and these people they controlled everything in India for decades. So even today you see the legacy of that you see a lot of that I'll not go into the details but you see that I mean a lot of the Indian media for decades was controlled by Brit people who are very very favorably inclined towards the British towards the west and who still yearned for British rule. I've seen YouTube videos of of various restaurant owners in certain parts of Mumbai which was then called Bombay who have the a portrait of the British queen on the walls of their restaurants and who yearned for the British to come back. Okay, there are people like that. There are people like that even today. The people with the old money because see in 1857 all the true Indians were killed off. All the true Indian royal families were wiped out. the ones that fought the British. The ones that collaborated with the British were given special titles. So after 1857 only those who collaborated with the British and served British interests were allowed to succeed and these people they continued being being the elites of India post 1947. So I'm not sure about the RBI but the Indian media is full of the descendants of these people. Okay. Um so yeah that's a situation that that's why I say that we are not decolonized we are still very strongly colonized until we get rid of the the old colonial influence you know things uh won't really change and India won't really progress I'm not sure about the crown temple in city of London how we can sue them and all but you have brought out an interesting important point uh so yeah a lot of very important positions in India are still filled by these things. Okay, Matthew Perez says, "Thank you for recommending Children of Time. I've read that in the Children of Ruin. Like that even more. And I'm Children Memory. Afterwards, I'm going to do Final Architecture series." Okay, I haven't read that. But yeah, uh these three books are tremendous. I haven't yet got on to the Children of Time or the Children of Memory. H sorry, I haven't read Children of Ruin or the Children of Memory, but Children of Time was amazing. The the spiders, right? the story with with the spiders. Very very interesting book. After a long time, I read a science fiction book that I really enjoyed. A modern science fiction writer who writes well, very rare. So yeah, I enjoyed it. And the final architecture series. Okay, maybe that's something I should find some time to read about. So appreciate it, Mateo. Very, very much so. Thank you. Chola Empire says, "You once said Indians are overly emotional about Israelis and get and get praised mainly for engagement, but Israelis have raised issues like Bangladeshi Hindus and Palam unprompted. Do you still hold that view or has it changed?" Look, anybody who uh supports India online when we need support and unprompted I appreciate that, right? But let's understand we should not get overly emotional about anything. I appreciate anybody who stands by my people in my country because see my people in my country are on the right side of things. We are not evil people. We are not an evil country. We are not colonizers. We not occupiers. We don't occupy someone's territory. We don't genocide people. Uh we don't plunder other people's uh resources. We don't do any of these things. And so if people stand with us, I I welcome it and I thank them for it. Uh but please understand one thing that the only flag you should have on your profiles is your own flag. You cannot have other people's flags on your profiles and uh you cannot hero worship other nations. So I I I'm grateful for those Israelis who did stand with India and uh yeah so so I certainly have that view and overall I am I'm very uh it's a Israel is a nation I respect a lot and there's a lot India can learn from Israel and there's a lot of convergence of interests when it comes to India and Israel. So I would like to see the India Israel relationship gets stronger and stronger for sure. But I am not somebody who will be overly emotional about other countries. I welcome their friendship and I welcome their respect and I respect them back and that's how it should be. More than that I don't understand why people have to give more than that. You know full supports are my your flag on my profile. Why? I have some selfrespect. User 6362 says, "Why is the US selling fighter jets to Turkey desri despite Israel's objections? Is it because Trump wants to reduce Russia's access to the Mediterranean Sea? Look u you see Turkey is an interesting nation. Let's take a look at the map. We haven't seen the map today. Well, we'll break it out now. Let's understand the geography of the region because that kind of tells its own story. So, here we are. Here we are. So we go to Israel to the the Mediterranean region and here we have Israel. Now Israel is not far from Turkey. You know you cross Cyprus and you reach Turkey north of the Mediterranean Sea. Um now why is Turkey so important geographically and geopolitically? Because it controls the Turkish straits. the straight of Bosphorus which is over here. Okay, this is the straight of Bosphorus and then there is the straight of the Dardels over here. Okay, this is called the Dardell straight. These are two extremely important choke points. You see, if you have, let's say, a fleet of ships in the Black Sea and you want to reach the Mediterranean Sea, you have to go through both choke points in the straight of Bosphorus. It essentially passes right through Istanbul, Constantinople. And there are a couple of bridges from which you have to you can see the ships crossing the straight. And it's a requirement that any naval ship that crosses the straight is required to show itself. So if you have a submarine that wants to cross the street, it has to show itself. It cannot cross the street hidden. It's a requirement. Okay? It's by uh by by law. So this nation Turkey, it straddles these two extremely vital straits, choke points and that's why it's so important. So Turkey has been rent seeking its geographical location. So anytime Russia which has the Black Sea fleet wants to give its o its warships access to the Mediterranean Sea it has to pass through Turkey to through the Turkish straits. Anytime it's its ships want to enter the Black Sea from the Mediterranean they again have to pass through the two Turkish straits and the and the sea of Marmara. So it's very very strategically important this location that Turkey occupies and it has been rent seeking this location ever since uh yeah ever since the second world war ended essentially. So Turkey is very important and you have uh what's his name Mr. Erdogan who has these neo imperial neotomantoman ambitions and he's playing not just double game he's playing multiple games. So he is uh to some extent being friendly with with Moscow, to some extent being friendly with Washington. He's hosting US nuclear weapons and warheads on his territory allegedly, right? He is part of Turkey is part of NATO. They've they have tried to be part of the EU and so on. But uh and and but they also have purchased the Russian S400 air defense system which is why they were denied u participation in the F-35 program and so on. So Turkey because of its geographical location is really important okay for NATO for for the US. Now uh Turkey and Israel obviously have issues right because Turkey supports the Palestinians and so on but they also see eye to eye when it comes to Azarbaijan because Israel and Turkey both support Azarbaijan while India supports Armenia and Turkey and Israel are enemies of Armenia and so on and there are different they have very different reasons for supporting Azarbaijan but that's that's a different matter. So now why is the US selling fighter jets to Turkey? Israel won't like it, but the US has its own calculations and as far as long as the sale of fighter jets to Turkey doesn't really hurt Israel, it's okay because Israel's national interest is very important to the US. Okay. U so it means that it doesn't really hurt Israel's national interest. So u so Turkey can certainly control the extent to which Russia can access the Mediterranean Sea and if required it can if if Turkey wants it can even deny Russia access to the Mediterranean Mediterranean Sea. So the US wants Turkey on its side right they don't want to have physical occupation of Turkey by invading Turkey let's just uh keep the Turks happy and have them do what they what we want them to do. So yeah, that's the game and that's the game the US is playing. Okay. Animeish says, "Are rumors about Rafal source code true? Did the French do us the same the US did to the Os? Did they render Rafal useless in this war with Pakistan? Is it an effective plane?" Well, I have heard no such rumors. I I'm not sure if if any of this is true. I've not heard such rumors. Uh the source code issue um look if there was an issue with the Rafal source code it would have been evident when we were trying out the aircraft we have purchased the aircraft what some years ago we've had it since at least we've had a few aircraft the first few aircraft ever since 2022 or something or 23 I'm not sure which year so we've had these aircraft for at least 2 three years and if there were issues with their source code they would have been very apparent from the very beginning right um is it possible for them to retrospectively in the future at a future date disable certain sub some systems it's certainly possible so theoretically it's possible that I buy a plane in 2022 it works fine but the day in 2025 I need to use it for a for a war suddenly some things don't work it's possible it is possible I'm not saying it it's what happened but theoretically it's very possible So theoretically possible but I personally have not heard any such thing that any such thing happened that the Rafal became useless in this war with Pakistan. I've heard no such things and I am in touch with various people and I've not heard that. So listen let's not give too much credence to rumors. Uh one way to understand whether this is true or not, whether these such rumors are possibly true or not is to wait and watch and see how is the interaction and the relationship going forward between the governments of India and France. Is there any friction that's visible? If there is friction that visible, if there is some tension that's visible, then maybe there could possibly perhaps be perhaps some potential hypothetical truth to this uh to this scenario. Yeah. So that's one way of finding out but I personally have heard no such thing. So I'm pretty sure it's still a very good aircraft for us. Uh the great revolution says how would Chanak take control of India? Modern India if Chanaki was alive today how would it take control of India? That's a very naughty scenario to ask because that that involves regime change. What did Chanake do in about 2 and a half thousand years ago? He conducted an internal coup in India, a regime change operation. He fought against the government of India. The government of India was the Nanda Empire based out of Partipra. Right? I'm sure the Nanda Empire was not very good and not very good for the people of India. So that gives you the moral authority to fight against the government. So at that time the government of India was based out of Patutra not Dhi and the government of India was the government of the Nanda Empire. So Chanaka what he did is that he found a sharp brilliant young boy and we don't know the boy's parentage. He was definitely not a noble of noble blood. This boy this guy was Chandra Gupta and we don't know why he's called Moria. Maybe because his mother's name was Mora or maybe he was from a place called Mora or something. But yeah, Chandra Gupta was the boy. So, so Vishnu Gupta Chanaka identified this brilliant young boy. He trained him, promoted him, taught him everything and then somehow or the other they they uh executed a very effective regime change operation that involved military campaigns and fighting against the government and the Indian armed forces of that time militarily overthrowing the government and placing Chandra Gupta Moria as the new emperor of India. That's what he did. It was not a civil war situation because civilians were not involved. It was a regime change operation and it was an overthrow of the then government of India. So that's what he did then. How would he do it today? Well, I will leave it to your imagination because I don't want to discuss such things over here which involves overthrowing the the existing government and internal regime operation. See the thing is when there is a regime change it's it's a very destabilized time for an whenever you the there's a nation that under goes a regime change for good reasons or bad reasons there's a period of chaos there's a period of great uncertainty and at such times if you have dangerous neighbors they will certainly definitely 100% they will take advantage of the situation by grabbing your territory and by doing atrocities on your people and so on. Now we are in that situation today that if there is chaos in the country the Chinese and the Pakistanis will take advantage the Bangladeshes will take advantage even the Maldis will want to take advantage imagine that everybody will will try and take advantage everybody will try and take bites out of Indian territory right so in today's day and age you don't want that sort of chaotic situation you don't want that sort of uh situation where there is uh chaos in the country and and instability in a country even for just a couple of years. You don't want that. So it's not a good idea at this time, right? Okay. Spade says SAR are India and Rossia. Rossia. Yes. Is India and Russia aligned on Bangladesh issue? So UNOS is pro America. The army general is said said to f favor Russia and India. He visited Russia last year. Is UNUS delaying pools for a US base on that island? Eunos is a mercenary. Okay. He's he spent his life serving foreign masters. That's why as as as reward he was given this this bone, this Nobel Peace Prize. You know who else got the Nobel Peace Prize? Kissinger. Henry Kissinger. You see this book here? You see that book there? This white book here. There's a book over here and some more. Henry Kissinger. One of the most evil guys who ever lived. He won a Nobel Peace Prize. Who else put Nobel Peace Prize? Barack Obama guy who dropped more bombs on innocent people than George W. Bush and so on. So people are given Nobel peace prizes prizes for as a reward for for for services rendered. So Ununus is that and he we know he's involved with Soros Foundation with with various other foundations and so on. So he's a classic puppet. He's a classic Vasal. That's Ununos. the army generally seems to be perhaps possibly slightly more sensible. I'm not sure why one hears that. Um so he visited Russia last last year and so on. Um and uh US base on the island. So I had spoken about the possibility of a US base on the island like what 2023 or something around that time. Um so what is actually happening are India and Russia aligned on the Bangladesh issue? Yunos seems to be also you know wooing China. He went to China and he he gave a speech where he said that Bangladesh can cut off the rest of cut off India's far east northeast and make it a completely completely landlocked region. He first said country landlocked country then said landlocked region that sort of thing. So he is a very problematic person and he would love to serve anybody as long as it hurts India. if the US is no longer interested, he will certainly serve the Chinese and so on. Um, and Eunus, his government is an illicit government. It's an illegitimate government. It's an undemocratically placed in power government. They haven't come to power through elections. They came through power came to power through a coup, a regime change operation. Um so I'm not sure what the deal is where when there will be elections and all that and if elections happen will there be they these elections be legitimate elections because if they're overseen by Eunus and his cronies there these are not legitimate elections uh and so on. But the real question you're asking is are India and Russia aligned on the Bangladesh issue? I'm not sure about that right now. What is Russia's perspective on Bangladesh? If China and Bangladesh are aligned then maybe the Russians will want to not displease China by not interfering too much and so on. So I think it it still remains to be seen. I have not been paying too much attention to the Bangladesh issue right now because of other things that have been happening. So maybe I need to take a look at this and and see exactly where everybody stands. Where does Israel stand visa with Bangladesh? Where does the the US actually stand right now after things have changed with Bangladesh? Is Bangladesh more inclined towards China right now or is it actually going in the direction of Russia? And what's the relationship between Bangladesh army and India? What is the deal between Bangladesh and other subcontinental nations especially Pakistan? What about Nepal? What about Maldives? I need to and what about Myanmar? That's an interesting thing. So I think I need to revisit this entire matter and maybe we can discuss this in the next episode. I'm not 100% sure where Russia stands with Bangladesh right now. Okay. Zishan says, "How can India ever reach the level of the US or China if it suffers from permanent disadvantages like being surrounded by enemies and a religiously divided population?" Love your work from Washington DC. Thank you so much Zishan G. Thank you so much. Yeah. You know what? A nation that is too diverse, it's it's hard for the nation to succeed. I mean, the US is a pretty homogeneous nation in a certain way. Look, it's it's it's a multicultural multi-thnic nation. You've got the majority white population, which is which will soon become a minority population. You have a lot of African origin people. You have a lot of what you call Hispanic people. You have a small population that has some uh native ancestry. And then you have people from other parts of the world like China, India and so on so forth. A very diverse population. And yet this nation is essentially an autocracy that masquerades as a democracy. And when you are an autocracy, a uni party system, then you can control everybody, right? And you can keep things very much under control and it doesn't matter who the president is as long as the president doesn't doesn't come in the way of the of the big agenda. So that's how the US runs. So the US and and the Chinese have sought to emulate the US. The Chinese actually idolize the US. The Chinese hero worshiped the US even though the two are adversaries today. And the Chinese have sought to emulate everything the Americans have done. And this they started the program of emulating the US in the 1980s. So uh that's how China has reached where it is by learning a lot from the eventual adversary. They knew the US was their adversary from day one. The Americans took a long time to catch up with that situation. So the Chinese are also a uni party system. A uni and they are not just a uni party system. They are a very homogeneous population. Or are they? The Chinese also have lots of ethnic groups who are nonhanchinese. Right? You have the people of Yunan who are not Chinese who are not Hanchinese. The people of Yunan are Thai people. Thai or th ai/ dai. Thai. Who are these people? They're the same ethnicity as the people of Thailand and the same ethnicity as the people of the ancestors of the Oh people of of India. Right? So the people of Yunan are Thai. They are under under Chinese occupation. The people of Tibet are of Tibetan ethnicity. They are under Chinese occupation. The people of Inner Mongolia are of Mongolian ethnicity, not Chinese and so on. The people of Shinjang are of Turk ethnicity. The people of Manchua are of Manchu ethnicity, not Hanchinese and so much more. So China is also kind of like the US ethnically diverse but China has imposed the monoculture on its country one language one culture one system and they have impose it by force through brutality through brutality. So these are both autocracies and you have a tremendous amount of advantage if you are an autocracy because you can get things done because you don't tolerate disscent. In the US they don't really tolerate descent. There will allow so-called free speech and blah blah blah but the moment you genuinely go against the interests of the establishment it won't end up it won't end well for you. You see that over and over again in the US. It's very easy for you to get shot shot by cops in the US. Okay. Very easy for somebody to get shot by cops, to get shot by robbers, to get killed by a by by by by what's the thing they have invented? Uh serial killers. The US invented serial killers, right? Every town, city, village has either vampires or serial serial killers and so on. So in the US, you're allowed to have so-called free speech, but the moment you your actions go against the interests of the establishment, you're done. And the same goes for China. So very similar nations in the case of India very different very different we have permanent disadvantages like Zishan is rightfully pointing out we are surrounded by enemies right and we have a population that's divided in so many different ways religious divide there's the linguistic divide and there's god knows what other divides you know then now we have invented cast divides we have invented I don't know what other divides we have India is a nation that that keeps on creating more problems for itself and a nation that does this has no realistic chance of surpassing the US or China. So this this needs to change. We have too much democracy like the Chinese keep on pointing out. They keep on pointing out India as an example of a nation that has too much democracy. Not the US. They won't point out the US because the US is not really a democracy. Two party system one step above a one party system and both parties have the same policy essentially. So the US is a monoparty uni uni party system. India is a true democracy a chaotic democracy and uh it's not good for India. Most of India's energy and vitality goes in fighting itself. Internal friction internal um yeah friction resistance you know when you have a current that passes through wire there's certain amount of resistance. If you have a superconductor there's zero resistance you in the case of India we are not a superconductor. We are not a regular conductor. We are a very bad conductor of electricity. So we have a tremendous amount of friction and resistance from within. Our entire energy is it's spent fighting ourselves among ourselves arguing and shouting and fighting and talking and having elections every other week. That's where all the energy goes. So something needs to change otherwise India will never catch up. So Zean points out what he points out is is very true. Something needs to change. very deep reforms in the country otherwise we not going to end up going anywhere senpai says when a Pakistan fragments how can India strengthen its influence in the new states okay should India establish military bases like the US and Japan and South Korea or focus on investments trade etc instead when frag Pakistan fragments so Pakistan will fragment maybe in the next 3 months maybe next three years maybe most at most next 20 years. So when that happens, what does India do? How do we strengthen our influence in the new states? Establishing military bases or like the Americans in Japan, South Korea, etc. Focus on investments, trade, etc. What we should do, we should have a multi-pronged approach when this happens. First of all, we should act as a civilizational mentor to these newly created nations. Okay, you are a newly created nation. You've come out of chaos. You came out of civil war. You fought the Pakistan army and you won. But you are devastated. Your economy is in shambles. Blah blah blah blah blah. So, we're going to hold your hand and help you get up on your feet. We're going to give you economic aid. We're going to, you know, help you rebuild your institutions. We're going to build libraries for you. We're going to build schools for you. We're going to build a parliament house for you. We're going to show you how to write a constitution. We're going to show you how to draft laws. If you need something, you ask us. We're going to have observers and helpers for you. That's what we need to do. Then we will help you with trade. You need trade, we're going to invest. We will invest. We will build factories of so and so things for you. And your people will as a result get jobs and they will also get expertise. So we can in we can invest. we can set up industries over there for those nations in a nice way without exploiting them. We can do all those things. Um so trade is a very good way of doing it. Cultural exchange is a very good way of doing it. Uh mentoring a nation uh by by helping them with institutional uh with creating institutions and maintaining institutions, running institutions. All those things we can do and we cannot allow outsiders to come in, step in after we break up the break up Pakistan and the US comes in and says okay now we will take care of things. No, stay out none of your business. So we have to do that. So that's how we see what we should have done in Bangladesh after 71 is we should have helped them set up their democracy, their government, their institutions, their education system. We should have invested in that nation's economy and set up industries and things for them. We should have had Indians all over the place working across Bangladesh interacting with the people. That's how you do things. And we we instead of doing that we just stepped out of of the of the place and just let it go to the dogs. So it has to be a multi-pronged multi-level multi-dimensional approach. We have to help them in every possible way without exploiting them like the west would do. Right? That's what needs to happen. And then over time we can slowly examine the possibility of reintegrating them into India whenever the time is right. Yes sir. I know you're watching CIA Sand S. Thank you so much. I appreciate the contribution. Uh, Geopolitical Dubai asks, "Why is France reluctant to share the source code?" I think I've I took that question some time ago. Maybe it's a repeated question. All right. AJ Sharma says, "Views on Putin. Will history be kindered to him?" You know, Putin brought Russia back from the abyss, from the brink of the abyss. Russia was on the brink of the abyss under Boris Yelen. So Gorbachev was the guy who broke the Russian nation, who broke the USSR, who dismantled everything his predecessors had worked so hard to build. Of course, the DK started before him, no question about it. But he could have done something about it on the instead of doing that, he allowed the nation to disintegrate and he then appeared in pizza commercials for the US. So it would not be wrong for the people of Russia to regard Gorbachov as a traitor, a western stoogge, a western agent, an agent not of the British like we say over here in India but agent an agent of the US. Then the Americans they they invested let's say in Yelen. So Yelson was their guy drunk. He appeared drunk in public at times and a guy who was least interested in anything. He let the Russian economy go to the dogs. Very soon after he comes to power, the Russian economy is in shambles. People are lining up for soup and bread. And the USSR had a collectivized economy, right? Which means that everything in the USSR, the whole economy was the collective property of the people. every single ruble that the people of the USSR had saved this life savings where they exist that existed in the form of the economy of the USSR. So it was the savings of generations of Russians. That was the economy of the US USSR. And Yelin takes that and he gives it away to a bunch of people, the so-called oligarchs. And those oligarchs then proceed to take these huge this huge capital huge amount of capital and these huge industries and they proceeded to run them into the ground deliberately. They proceeded to destroy the economy of the USSR deliberately. So that's what Yelin oversaw. He precided over the deliberate destruction of the life savings of generations of Russians. And then he wanted to open up the country to the west so that the west the US can come in and start exploiting all the incredible mineral and natural resources and wealth of the USSR of Russia. by the time there was a plan and he also messed up in Cheschna and whatn not okay that's what it did but then you know he became too unfit to rule and then power was passed on to a small un unknown guy who had served in some bureaucratic positions who was a former KGB agent uh Vladibir Putin no one knew Vladibin he was some some random some low low reasonably low ranking bureau bureaucratic guy with a with a intelligence uh track record past. So everybody thought that he will be controlled easily but Putin had his own ideas and uh it took him at least a decade but he put Russia back on track. He brought Russia he pulled Russia back from the brink of the abyss from complete disintegration and by the 2010s Russia's military was again feared and whenever they did those zapad exercises and was exercises and so on so forth Europe would would be worried you know so by the 2010s Russia's war machine was again in reasonably good shape today it's very different today Putin has spent more than 25 years in various forms of power and I so the question is how will history look at Vladimir Putin? How will he be remembered in history? How will history books speak write about Putin a 100 years from today? I think it all depends on the succession. See, Mr. Putin is in his 70s now and in a few years it's obvious that he will have to hand over power to whoever is going to be his successor. The most crucial time for an empire or a kingdom or a nation is the transition phase from one ruler to another. If you mess that up, then you're going to be remembered as a disaster. You may be the greatest ruler of all, but if you don't handle the transition right, if you don't ensure that after my going the right person is in power, if you don't ensure that, then whatever you did was worthless. Because if you hand over power to the wrong person, that person will destroy everything you you worked so hard for. So it is crucial for Mr. Putin to handpick the right successor. If he does that and if the next person is even 50% as good as him, then Putin will be remembered as Putin the Great. Kavia says, "Did Jesus Christ really live on the planet? Did the church create Santa Claus and Jesus to keep keep kids and adults in check? You're asking me a very very controversial question. Did Mr. Jesus Christ actually exist? Um, look, we have not found any actual archaeological evidence of the existence of Mr. Christ. Um um but yeah there is so much there's a whole cult a whole religion that's built around him and there is this uh this uh monument this this architectural um building the church of this holy sepulkar or something which is rumored to be the resting place of Mr. Christ and so on but it has not been archaeologically proven 100%. There's the shroud of Turin that was dated carbon dated to the to the Middle Ages, but some other kind of testing apparently claims that it's it goes back almost 2,000 years. There's all kinds of ambiguity and controversy about this from a completely realistic hard evidence perspective. uh we don't have hard awareness of his existence but I would say most likely somebody most likely he probably must have existed otherwise so many people would not u believe in him is it uh I think the first mentions of Jesus Christ they they are from at least 100 years after he's supposed to have lived which is a big red flag actually similarly there there are there are there is a story of Uklid the Greek the Greek mathematician or something there is no evidence a person called Uklid actually existed you know so there are lots of such madeup stories I I don't know if I say Mr. the Christ did not live then lots of people will get very upset you know but uh from an evidence perspective I think it's still missing but similarly that way because see if if take for example Kaneshka the great who lived about 2 almost 2,000 years ago now do we have evidence he existed we have statues of him from his time we have his inscription that he himself had written in Rabatak in Gandhar now part of Afghanistan at that time it part of India the robatak inscription of kaneshka himself in which he writes his his who he is and his ancestral lineage um so when it comes to kaneshka we have hard evidence of his existence from his time itself not from 100 200 years after he died but for when it comes to Mr. Jesus Christ. I don't think there's an evidence any hard inscriptional or other evidence of of his existence from the time that he is supposed to have lived. Whatever writings turn up, they are from at least a 100 years after he supposed to have died, which is kind of, you know, from a completely realistic perspective, it it is kind of a red flag. Uh but yeah so I think it's it's still a question mark but it's a it's part it's a part of a a lot of people's faith. I think Christianity is probably the second biggest or something like that religion in the world. So yeah it is what it is. VK18 says how does the future look utopian or dystopian? You know the world is somewhere in between. It's never completely black completely white. It's somewhere in between. But one way of looking at this is from my favorite genre of of of fiction. Since I was a little kid, the my favorite genre was science fiction. All I would read is science fiction. You know, Fred Hy who I mentioned earlier, he wrote a couple of science fiction books. Asimov kind of Da but I did read his books. Very interesting books. Um Arthur C. Clark, uh Larry Nan, so many so many writers of science fiction. Um, so if you and and I was very fortunate as a kid to have access to a library that had a whole stash of science fiction books from something called the science fiction book club London from the 1950s and60s. So as a kid I I grew up reading science fiction from the 1950s and60s. And if you read those stories they are so incredibly beautiful. They speak about beautiful future worlds. Very very optimistic worldview was there in the 1950s and 60s in science fiction. Okay. Very optimistic worldview that humanity will reach the stars and that sort of thing. You may have alien invasions or whatever but it will be a situation in which you are a very very uh technologically advanced society that's invaded by aliens and everyone's happy essentially. So the future was depicted as a utopian kind of future. It was a very it was a very positive outlook towards the future that you had in the 1950s and60s. Now if you read today's science fiction it's all dystopian. So something has changed in the world from the 1950s to the 2020s in the in the ensuing time period of of 70 years fiction has become more and more dystopian which kind of tells you the direction in which the world is going that you know we've had we are seeing so many advances in technology but who's controlling the technology and what is it being used for? Everybody can see that it's being used to consolidate. It's been used for the purpose of consolidating consolidating power in the hands of of a small number of people and the rest of the world they are being used as guinea pigs on which or or or as resources right so yeah from that perspective if if the wrong people get all the power and they use the technology to amass even more power then the world will go in a dystopian will go towards a dystopian direction even if we reach Mars, okay? And set up a population center on Mars. Who's going to control Mars? It's going to be one person, one government, right? And what's the value system of that one person, one government? Is it what you need in the world? So, yeah, the future kind of looks dystopian at this point in time. It does. And for the future to change, to become more utopian, to become better, you need a multipolar world. You can't have a world which is controlled by one or two powers and you especially need a nation like India to rise and become part of the multipolar world which is why India is so important for the world in my opinion. Okay. Games rich says what's your opinion on Penrose's twister theory. Twisters are one step ahead of even tensors. So look it's it's a mathematical construct that's used in string theory and other things. Twister theory it's used in string theory. It's also used in general relativity, but it's not a theory of physics. It's a it's a mathematical tool that we use in physics. So, it's not some it's a it's a good tool to have. You know, string theory has has given us so many really interesting mathematical tools to work with. But at the end of the day, they are tools. These are invented tools. Are are they discovered tools? You know, the question is always there. Lots of YouTube channels ask this question. Is mathematics invented or discovered? Well, mathematics is the language of the world of the universe. It it simply uh is a description of the regularities and patterns in the universe. But how to solve differential equations? We invent techniques for solving differential equations. But differential equations represent patterns and regularities in the world. Similarly, twister theory is is uh well, twisters are are objects that can describe physical phenomena and so on and can be used to solve problems that are part of various theories. So, it's a useful tool to have. Beyond that, I don't have much opinion about twister theory. It's it's a nice thing to have like rejipole theory and so on, you know. Okay. Lakshi Kana says, "Why did India decline the opportunity to join the GCAP program which could have enhanced its defense capabilities?" What is GCAP? You have stumped me sir. I'm stumped by at least three sentiments. Let me find out what is the GCAP program. Um let me go through our friend Google and we shall together find out what is GCAP. So first of all, excuse me. Uh let us go here. Okay, let's see what is GCAP. GCAP. GCAP program. What is this? Okay. Global combat air program. It's a multinational initiative led by the UK, Japan, and Italy and Italy to jointly de develop a sixth generation stealth fighter. You see the problem here? The UK is involved and so are Japan and Italy. Now, Japan is I mean I'm I'm very fond of Japan. Italy great history. But today the UK and Japan and Italy are vasals of the United States in different ways. The UK is not part of the EU but it is the US's premier lap dog number one closest. Japan has been under US permanent military operation occupation since 1945. Italy has been under permanent US military occupation also like Japan since 1945. Japan and the UK and Italy have had their constitutions essentially written by the by Americans or under complete under American supervision. So these are three nations that are US vasals. They are developing jointly developing apparently this uh sixth generation stealth fighter. You don't want to be part of that because you're going to get compromised. you will not not get all the technology and even if you get the fighter plane it may have problematic uh characteristics when you need to take it out for for a combat mission military mission you may find that at the exact minute you need its capabilities it will not do what it's supposed to do and so on so you know what you have there are no shortcuts in safe. It's a nice opportunity. You think that they have offered us the opportunity, they given us the opportunity, the invitation to join this program. It may be a trap for us. There are no free lunches in the world. There are no shortcuts in the world. If you want a sixth generation fighter plane, you first develop your own fifth generation fighter plane and then use the learnings of that to take to take the next step and develop a sixth gen generation fighter player. you the only technology you can trust is technology you have developed yourself because if you take somebody else's developed technology then there will be issues with that you will not be in full control so I think India has done the right thing I know it it it feels like we are giving up we are you know passing passing on good opportunities but it's not the case it's the right thing to do okay uh Akar says eam's book the India reveals China's lust for deception, deceiving the heavens to cross the ocean or making a sound in the east and strike west. How to assertain the truth especially with respect to China's economy. Uh I may have that book somewhere here but I haven't read it. So okay the India way right he I think Dr. Jashankar has has authored at least two books in the past few years if I'm not mistaken. So the Chinese like this is nothing new about China. Read Sunsu. His book is full of aphorisms like these, strategys like this. Uh yeah, deceiving the heavens to cross the ocean and blah blah blah. Oh, this this is very Sununzuish stuff. The Chinese have always been like this. You know what? Everybody is like this. Every power that make that actually matters follows these rules and principles. The Chinese are not special. They're not superior to the rest of the world because they have nice little aphorisms and nice little strategys in a small book. The Chinese have always been like this. But for us we we have given we have settled ourselves with this with this belief that Chinese are super inscrutable super um um advanced in in these practices and whatn not okay they are every nation wants to deceive the rest of the world as per when it comes to its capabilities it's only Indians to to an extent that want to advertise you know we have done this we've done that no keep quiet mind your business and let the world believe what it wants while we rise. That's how it should be. Uh so how to assert in the truth especially with respect to China's economy? We have to first of all be clear about one fact. The Chinese will not reveal everything about their economy and whatever they will claim will most likely be an exaggeration. It doesn't mean that we should underestimate the Chinese economy. So let's say they are saying that we are growing. Let's say hypothetically the Chinese claim this year hypothetically that we are growing at 6% a year. Maybe they are growing at 4% a year. Maybe. So you have to take their claims with a grain of salt. But it is stupid to believe that because instead of 6% they are growing at 4% that means that they are weak. They're not weak. They've done a tremendous amount of hard work the past 30 40 years. Don't underestimate them. So it's difficult to know what's actually happening inside China because the system is so opaque. Right? They hide the truth from the world because they want to hide their weaknesses and they want to claim something more than what they are. But it is still stupid to underestimate them. So the truth somewhere usually lies somewhere in between between this and that between two polar opposite ends. So you should we should understand we should we should uh be clear about one thing. We will never know know exactly what's happening within China whether it's from the economic perspective from the political perspective from uh a military perspective we will not ever be able to know exactly what's happening in China unless we have ways of hacking into the systems and all that and if we have such ways and means we will not talk about them right so for us in the public it's very hard to assert in the truth we should know that the truth is somewhere it's not what China is claiming but the Chinese uh are not to be underestimated. That's what I would say. Harsh says, "Thoughts on polygamy? What's its pros and cons? If you're capable, can you do it or not?" Look, in our culture, there is no we don't have any any procriptions, any prohibitions on polygamy or even polyandry, right? We we never have these things. I don't know why we have these laws today that you can't do this or that. Let people decide what whatever the hell they want. For most people it's it's it makes no sense to have polygamy or polyandry. Makes no sense. But if some people want to do it, let them do it. I I would say leave it to the people. Don't don't let the law decide. In Indian culture, we never had this prohibition on polygamy. It doesn't mean that I'm pro polygamy or anti polyolyam. I'm just saying we never had any prohibition. And generally, most people can't even afford to have multiple spouses, right? I mean, come on. How how do you do that? So it it just makes sense for one person to have one one spouse only because you know the human population is generally 50/50 male and female. So I think it's a very unusual situation where where polygamy would be practiced. In India it was generally kings who would practice polygamy or maybe very rich people who would practice polygamy. Most people simply could not afford it. Uh so that's a strictly nonmoralizing perspective that I'm giving you. What are the pros and cons? I think you can decide for yourself. General Vladimir Put says, "If we travel 20,000 light years via wormhole, faster than light, can we see the Earth's past using an advanced telescope catching that ancient light?" That's a thought experiment you're proposing, sir. I don't think we can see the Earth's past using an advanced telescope uh catching that ancient light. Look, uh, traveling 20,000 light years via a wormhole doesn't mean you're traveling faster than light. It means that you are using a shortcut in the shortcut in the fabric of spaceime. And the good old cliche is you take a piece of paper and you poke a hole through it and bend it like that. And that that you know if you had traveled in a straight line, it would have taken you such a long distance. But because you have bent spacetime itself, you're able to travel very fast. So it means that you have traveled from point A to point B faster than it would have taken you to travel regularly. So it looks like it's super lumininal travel but it's not. So by doing that you don't actually end up uh traveling through time. Okay. But there are ways of traveling through time that are not prohibited via Einstein's equations of general relativity. And there are thought experiments you can actually do in which you know um time dilation becomes a factor and so on so forth. But whatever you do you won't be able to um see earth's past. I think it's very difficult for me to imagine a scenario in which you you can see the earth's past. So I think um look I'm not going to sit down and do the calculations right now and look at this particular thought experiment. It's an interesting thought experiment you proposed here. Um it's something that can be given as an exercise to a high school or college student you know to figure out whether if you travel to a place that's 20,000 lighty years away through a shortcut which is an Einstein Rosen bridge also known as wormhole then will you be able to see the earth's past will you be able to see it so or let me do it right now so let's say I am at a place that's 20,000 light years away right now and I'm looking at the earth through telescope I will obviously see something that happened 20,000 years ago now now if I reach there right now and I look at the earth I'll actually be looking back in time yeah you're right so yes I did the thought experiment in my mind now so if you travel 20 years 20,000 light years away by a wormhole why some kind of shortcut which seems like faster than light but it's not then if you look at the earth you will through the past. True. Very good. Good job. Yes, you will through the past. All right. Rishi says, um, Aim Munir has been promoted to five-star rank. Why do you think the step was taken considering the fact that the Pakistan army already has overwhelming power inside Pakistan? It's just to consolidate the legitimacy of the Pakistani army. They have put out this fiction that they have done very well, performed very well in this three-day war against India. we have brought down 85 Indian fighter planes and 200 Indian UFOs and we have shot down we we have destroyed 28 Indian air bases or something like that that sort of claim they have made right so if you make that claim then you have to give some reward to your general otherwise it looks like you're lying so to make the story seem true you have to actually give rewards and promotions to your armed forces personnel that's why they have done it to to keep up appearances and to mislead the people of Pakistan that you know this actually happened that's why we are promoting the great aim who brought us this glory against India okay Karthik Gandhi says why do you include Israel in the sovereign country list yeah I I all these all I mean the past year or so when I spoke about the sovereign countries I said there are four sovereign nations US the US, China, Russia and India apart from that I said there are no other sovereign sovereign nations but After rethinking my thought process and so on and taking a fresh look at the world, I have realized Israel is a fully sovereign nation. Now the question is why do I include Israel now is as in in the list of sovereign nations, five sovereign nations. Well, when you have the when you have a nation like the US that prioritizes Israel's national interest and will never do a thing that will hurt Israel's national interests and the US happens to be the most powerful nation nation in the world then you can at least say that Israel is a fully sovereign nation right if it has such incredible influence influence I'm saying I'm not saying power I'm just saying influence but if it has so much influence in the over the US maybe it is a fully sovereign nation just from that perspective I think you tell that that Israel is a fully sovereign nation. Akar says, "What's the probability that the Starlink constellation of thousands of satellites contains infrared senses sensors to to detect to early detect the launch of intercontinental ballistic missiles? I think there's a very high close to 100% probability that the Starling constellation of satellites doubles as a surveillance network. Okay, I'm sure they have remote sensing capabilities and they can see what's happening all across the world in real time. To what resolution can they see? I don't know. Do they have infrared sensors? I don't know. Do they have other band sensors? I don't know. But I am sure they have advanced surveillance capabilities. Can they can some of these satellites detect the launch of an ICBM? I'm pretty sure some of them at least will have it. Will all of them have it? I'm not sure about that. Um but yeah I think it's a surveillance mechanism. Can I show comments on the stage? Can I maybe I can maybe I can't. Okay. So yeah. So so that's the answer. It's definitely a surveillance um network. Okay. Now next next is by project smiling Buddha. Why do Indian students coming abroad lack confidence? Um why do Indians overall lack confidence? Because of the education system and the media and all that. Because of the uh of the mentally colonized people around them. It's it's a self-fulfilling prophecy kind of thing. It's a self-sustaining um environment. See the education system. I had a a question from some time from I think the first question I took today was why did India never develop as as a technological power as an industrial power. The truth is we had developed right we were the first fully industrialized society. We were the first fully industrialized civilization fully industrialized and fully urbanized civilization on the surface of the planet. But nobody knows this. We don't teach this to our students in the education system. We were we accounted for at least onethird of the entire world's GDP for most of recorded history. Do our teachers teach us teach us this? Do our textbooks teach us this? When you are not taught anything about what you have, what your ancestors accomplished, then you will end up believing grow up believing that you come from a civilization of losers and you will feel that everybody else is superior to you because they did all these things. We did nothing. So you will automatically see everybody who has a different appearance from foreign foreign nation as being superior to you. That's the inferiority complex. Then the Indian media it reinforces these stereotypes. The Indian entertainment system reinforces these stereotypes. So everybody and and your and everybody around you the elders they also have grown up believing this. So they also will reinforce the stereotypes. So it's a self reinforcing system that we have in India that we are a nation of losers. We never achieved anything. We never had a sense of history. We never wrote books. We only memorized things. We had no education system. We are a backward culture blah blah blah blah blah over and over again that's why Indians lack confidence Indians have this crushing sense of inferiority because of all these things so that there's your answer sir Bharava says I consider corruption to be the biggest hindrance to India's development do you see the ethos of Indians changing discipline and honesty increasing among Indians I could not agree more with Mr. Bharav corruption is India's number one pro problem today what India needs is a war against corruption the moment you cut down even 50% of India's corruption half the problems in the country will disappear why do we have a 100 million possibly Bangladeshes in India because of corruption why do we have lacks of cookies and lacks of Rohingyas and god knows how many Pakistanis in India because of corruption why our are our borders borders so poorest because of corruption. Most of the problems in India exist because of corruption. If you remove corruption, the education systems quality will increased drastically. If you remove corruption, the the the painful process of of interfacing with the government that most Indians have to face, it will disappear. Mr. Bharav is so right. India's number one problem is corruption and which politician from top to bottom do you see talking about this where is India's war on corruption and you know we are made to believe that corruption is our fault because we are a corrupt society that's why we have corruption I'll tell you why corruption exists Indians are not a corrupt people we have no we have never been a corrupt society you know who introduced corruption into India it's the British how did they introduce corrupt caption into India. They created the Indian administrative services, Indian civil services they were called and other institutions of India, the legal institution, other institutions, right? And the objective of creating these institutions was to create the infrastructure of occupation over India and of control over India. So the armed forces, the British armed forces were created, British Indian armed forces, the British Indian police system which continues today, the British administrative system which continues today in India, the education system which continues in India. All of these institutions that created had a certain purpose of enslaving Indians. And if they had a judicial system, that judicial system was meant was created for the purpose of serving the British. When Indians would approach the judicial system, they were made to go through a different process. They had to pay bribes. If a British person, you know, went to the judicial system in India during British occupation, they would never have to pay a bribe. But if you were Indian and you had to approach the law, you had to pay bribes at every stage of the way, at every step of the process, and you had to pay bribes to Indians because Indians were made to oppress Indians. Whether it was the bureaucracy, whether it was the judiciary of the British, whether it was whatever else institution, the the system of the the process of corruption was institutionalized as an additional measure of oppressing Indians. And the system the British created continued intact after 1947, which is why corruption continued intact in India. And it became even more deported and entrenched after 1947. That's what happened. We are not a corrupt people. The system is such that the only way to deal with a lot of the government machinery is through corruption. We have no choice. The people of India have no choice. So most people will will just give in. Okay, let's pay a bribe and get it done. So that's why Indians are so cynical because you know that's the way the system works. It's not the fault of the Indians. It is not. And why is there in discipline in India? The same Indians who when they go to a foreign country are the most disciplined in the world. In India they're not disciplined. Why is that? Because they know that there's no point being being disciplined. Let's say I want to put trash in a trash can. H they said that Indians litter on the roads, right? the Indians litter on the roads. Let's say first of all you will not find trash cans in most parts of India. H but let's say you have trash cans. So let's say we put the garbage in trash cans. My question is what happens after that? What does the municipality do with that trash? The trash that you so assiduously put in the trash can they will dump it in the ocean or in the river or in some garbage heap somewhere. They will not process it. they will not recycle it. So what's the point of you putting the trash in the trash can? Eventually people just get sick and tired of it and they they just stop being disciplined. And when this happens for 70 80 years the whole of the country becomes like this. Indians are the most honest people in the world. They are the by by by culture by civilization we are the least corrupt people in the world. But it is this foreign system that has ruined the country and it is high time our leaders do something about this otherwise they are complicit. Anuja says prime minister and defense minister recently said that we are only at a pause. Can this pause be a strategy to have a surprise attack on Pakistan in a few days? I think we will have to wait and watch. Uh maybe it is, maybe it's not. We'll have to see. Um this is a question of war. So it it it's it's uh yeah so in in war everything goes every strategy every method is acceptable and admissible and we shall wait and watch and we shall see how it goes. I will not be displeased if we finish the job we we started a few days ago. Yeah. Literary literally office officer K says how did Israel get away with the US's liberty? If that was an Indian ship, we would have been outraged. Yes, the Israelis took down the US warship uh USS Liberty back in the day. Which year was it? Let's find out. Let us do a Google search and find out. USS Liberty. What happened exactly? Right. USS Liberty. What did I say? ISS. USS. USS Liberty incident 1967. It was an attack on a US Navy technical research ship, spy ship by Israeli Air Force fighter jets and torpedo boats in 1967 during the six- day war. This combined air and sea attack killed 34 crew members, wounded 171 crew members and severely damaged the ship. Israel apologized for the attack and they said that they thought it was an Egyptian ship and u so on. Yeah. So the Israelis got away with this and that's why I said that Israel is a is a super sovereign nation. They can do things to the Americans and they still can get away with it. Why did they get away with it? Because I because the Americans u treat Israel as a super special nation and they won't do a thing that will harm Israel. Why is that? I don't know. But it is it is the case. If it was an Indian ship, it would have been outrage for sure. If an Indian attack had happened on the USS Liberty and if it was Indian aircraft and Indian torpedo boats that had attacked the ship, the Americans would probably have invaded India and and probably tried to destroy India. But Israel gets away with it. So it's a special nation, isn't it? Sharma says, "What's the history of Hindi's closeness to Persian?" The closeness of of Indian languages to Persian goes back a long long time. If you look at old Persian, the language of the Hakshamish Empire of Persia, a Kirid Empire, if you that language was almost identical to Sanskrit, old Persian. And how was that uniform script deciphered? Let me put something on the screen. What did the uniform script look like? So, so our Persian neighbors, they had something called the uniform script. Persian uniform. Okay. So if you look at the uniform script of the Persian Empire, this is what it looked like here. Okay. This was the script. Uh E all that sort of thing. Sounds suspicious suspiciously similar, right? So this was the script and it was undeciphered for a very long time. Then I don't remember who it was that deciphered it but their hypothesis was that let's imagine that Persian that the old Persian language is is very similar to Sanskrit and then let's try and with that hypothesis try to decipher the script and using that hypothesis they were able to accurately decipher the uniform script and it turns out that the old Persian language was almost identical to Sanskrit. So you see the Persian people they spoke a language that was almost identical to Sanskrit and their ancestors were ancient Indians the ancient capital of Persia that Alexander the Greek destroyed what was it called? It was called Parhuapur. What is Persia? It's a corruption of Para of the Para people. The people who wielded the battle axe the Paru Paru means battle axe in Sanskrit. And the people who wield the Pershu were called the Parhua people. And they gave their name to the lang to the land Persia. That's a very ancient connection that we have with the Persians, the old Persians. Today's Persians are different. Today's Persia is different. 50% of Persia's population is not Persian anymore and so on. Uh and the Hindi language, it's a mongrel language. It's a mixed language. It's it's obviously an ancient it's a descendant of an ancient April language which which obviously has its roots in ancient Sanskrit obviously um and its vocabulary is most its grammar is mostly derived from Sanskrit. This it's the the vocabulary of Hindi has lots of Persian and Arabic words. Now a lot of the Persian words of today are also descendants of Arabic and Turk loan words but many Persian words are descendants of old Persian which has ties to Sanskrit and so on. So that's the convoluted history. Um and Hindi or Hindavi was it's a language that eventually uh emerged out of uh the Mughal and Turic courts in North India and it has so many different dialects which are non Persianized like Aadi like methyli like whatever else which have I'm sure less Persian influence and so on. So because of the Turk occupation of India and the fact that they used Persian as the court language that's how so much of Persian vocabulary became um you know enshed in the Hindi language along with words that have Turic origin and Arabic origin. The word aad is Arabic. the word uh for liver. It's the Turkish word So many of the words you use are of foreign have have foreign origin. Turkish or Arabic. I am okay with Persian. Persian is one of our languages essentially for all intents and purposes. But yeah um not sure how to read this. My sirillic is very rusty. Uh but the question is why can't India use the tactics of Israel hitting militants every few months. I think we have just very recently changed our doctrine right um that any terror attack is an act of war against India. I think let's wait and watch. I think India is going to use such tactics going forward. We should and I agree with you that India should use the tactics that Israel uses hitting militants in Pakistan every few months whenever required. Of course, we would remember that Pakistan is not Palest is not Gaza. Pakistan is a different kind of entity. It's not as helpless and weak as Gaza. U so it's a different scenario that we have. But I agree that we should treat Pakistanis the way the Israelis treat their enemies without mercy because they are terrorists. What can you do? Yes. Indian Sultan. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you. Way says says, "Thank you, VA. Thank you so much. Please bomb Pakistan. Well, I can't bomb Pakistan, but I hope that uh we end the menace of terrorism once and for all. It'll be a great service to the whole world and also to our own people. Um Nille Shuranjan Shivasu says, "Many news outlets are telecasting increasing cases of corona virus in Delhi and Maharashtra. Should we worry?" Uh no. Let's get on with our lives. I'm I'm done with Corona virus. I think I never want to hear the that word again corona virus. I mean all those waves of corona virus the shutting down of the whole world of the whole country what was it called? Oh mic oh micron oh micron variant and what enough of this nonsense if these new news outlets are are are creating a new scare then there must be some vested interest behind it. So uh yeah I I don't think we should worry and I'm sure the government of India will not shut the country down even if something actually happens. The corona virus is weaker than the flu and it was clearly designed as a bioweapon by somebody but you know enough of corona virus seriously. Hardig says how can we protect ourselves from China Pakistan and Bangladesh and especially China's dirty tricks tactics of proxy wars via Pakistan and Bangladesh. The only long-term realistic solution is for us to become so powerful that nothing will work against India. That's the only way. Right now we are like a lion surrounded by three four dogs. But what if we become a Tyrannosaurus Rex who can eat a lion in one in one bite? That's what we have to become. Okay. Then the dragon will also look small. the Chinese dragon and Pakistan, Bangladesh and whatever else will be of no no importance anymore. That's the only long-term solution. In the meanwhile, we have to be super vigilant and we have to hit the terrorists where they exist. We can't wait for them to come and hit us and then we hit them back at the border. No, we have to find them where they are and hunt them down and eliminate them and everybody who shelters them and this has to be an ongoing process. Now, that's what we have to do. So, we have already changed our doctrine. We will no longer wait to be hit. We'll hit whenever required. And but the only long-term solution is for us to become huge, gigantic, keep growing, keep brewing, become a Tyrannosaurus Rex, a T-Rex, not a lion, a T-Rex. That's what we need to do. Animeish says, uh, would you be making a dedicated video on how to raise its standards? Uh, maybe I should, but maybe it's not something that can be covered in one video. Maybe it should be a series, but then yeah, I'll have to think about it. I had actually intended to do that. It's not happened thus far, but something else is coming up. So yeah, really now says Agnikol tested an electrical semicryogenic engine skyro with young blood should be funded by Adani etc to have hundreds of launches and geoloink. Well, well, I'm glad we have Agnik, Skyroot, all these all these startups that are doing really good work in India. Some of them have fully 3D printed components on their rockets. Uh, we need these companies to become the next, you know, what what Space X's and and whatnot, right? And u they should be funded by whoever can fund them. Um it would be fantastic if we have our own space ecosystem public private partnerships. We have ISRO that's the government entity which is superb which has some of the best quality in the world and also all these up and cominging startups that can all combine come come together to create a self- sustaining ecosystem and it would be so nice to have something like you know um our own constellation of satellites just like Starlink but a better constellation a better alternative a cheaper alternative more e efficient effective alternative which also serves a geopolitical purpose for us. It would be so great to have that. So I agree with really now I do really now says I wish you open a university for all for all ages. Maybe I will in the future let's see but uh thank you for the suggestion. No idea says why generalizing India is easy but not the west. Well it depends on who is doing it. U the west likes to infantilize nations portray them as an infantile society and they try they like to generalize everything. Give let me give you a different example. Africa when you see a black person you see a person a person from the perspective of a western person you see it from western eyes. When you encounter a person who is black black ethnicity you see that from a western perspective. Oh this is African. You know how big Africa is. It's like saying when you see a white person oh this is a white guy or a European guy. You know in Europe you have so many different countries and ethnicities and cultures. You have Slovenia, you you you you have uh within France you have so many ethnic groups actually but it's been homog homogenized. You have the Slovaks, you have the Polish people, you have the Hungarians, they are so different from each other. A Romanian and a British person have almost nothing in common but from from an outside perspective they look the same. Right now imagine Africa which is so much larger than Europe has so many different languages and ethnic groups who have nothing in common with each other but from us from from an outsers's perspective they for us they're all the same oh African it's a it's it's so silly right so this we see it that way because we have internalized the western perspective and the west likes to generalize um make make generalizations about about various cultures and all that especially those they don't like. So and and they've done that about India also lots of generalizations and stereotypes they've created about India u and they have studied I mean all the literature that you find about the west is is very detailed right and very nuanced but the same authors when they treat do a treatment literary treatment or or or academic treatment of other nations will resort to generalizations it's it's a it's a case study of double standards. So it's because they do it and and because we accept their perspectives that's why we we feel that we are being victimized and and generalized. We need to have our own scholars who write about the west and I'm not saying we should make generalizations. We should have our own approach and our own academic treatment really now is says what is the leverage that Israel has in the deep state. Well, if I knew that, then I would Yeah. See, that's that's a big question. That's that's the trillion dollar question. I'm not sure what it is, but they clearly have some leverage. So, I'm not sure who who is in the in the right position to answer this question, but clearly Israel has some kind of very very deep leverage. I'm not sure what it is. Um, PB says, "Please throw some light on the French Vikings occupying Britain. Did the French rule the UK for centuries and what's the origin of present day royalty? Um, that's an interesting question. French Vikings occupying Britain. It's a very interesting story. So, what happens is this. You had a kingdom of France, France, Franka, the Frankish kingdom where the people were the Frankish people, the Franks, and they had their own kings and all that. One of their kings was Karonus Magnus also known as Shaklammana and so on. Now about,200 or so years ago before today around the year around the 700s and 800s the 8th 9th centuries around that time the people of the Scandinavian region they started raiding Europe. So let's go to the map. Where's where where is map? Let me put uh the map on the screen so that we uh get some sense of perspective and direction. So here we have um the region that we are talking about the Scandinavian region is Norway, Sweden, Denmark. That's that's essentially the Scandinavian countries and later on Iceland became part of that region of the Scandinavian ethnic groups uh lands that they lived in. So around 700 800s ADs around the time the Scandinavians also known as the Vikings today they started uh doing these these seabboard raids on mainly England mainly what's today the United Kingdom. Okay. Um and the first one of the first places they did a raid at was let me find the place. Where is it? I've got to find the place. It's obviously going to be somewhere over here south of Edinburgh. Lindesfarn Holy Island and there's a ruined abbey over here. So, let's zoom in, zoom in, zoom in. Here we have it. Now, where's the abbey? Lindesfarn Abby. There's a ruined abbey, which is a religious thing. So, this island is called Holy Island. And yeah, this has to be the place somewhere here. Mindisfarn Abbey. There are ruins all over the place here. Maybe this is the one. You can see there's some structure. There's a ruined castle over here and so on. So I not bore you with the details, but this is one of the first places where the Vikings launched a raid. It's called Lindesfarn and so on. So the Vikings were not just uh raiding England, they were also raiding France. Okay. Now the French king eventually proposed a deal to one of the Viking chieftains. The name of this Viking chieftain was Rolo. Rolo. So the French king told Rolo that you know what? Instead of raiding us all the time, why don't you settle down in France? I will give you and your men a large territory in the western part of France where you like to raid so much. I will give you the territory. I will make you a duke which is the second highest title after king of France. I will make you the duke of this place and you settle down with your men. Here are the conditions. First condition, you adopt Christianity. You give up your pagan mult polytheistic culture. You become Christianity. That's the first condition. Second condition, you will adopt the French language, the French customs and you will marry French women. And third condition, you defend France from the other Vikings. So this was an offer Rolo could not refuse. So Rolo became the first duke of this region which came to be known as Normandy Normandy. What does Normandy mean? The realm of the northmen, the Vikings. So then so Raw became the first Duke of Normandy. His son was the second Duke of Normandy. His grandson was the third Duke of Normandy. And I think it was around the time of his great great grandson that there was an issue. So one of his descendants I think it was the great great grandson or some around that time that guy he had to go he by the time his descendants had become completely French Norman Normans but French. So this descendant of Rolo who was probably the fifth or something Duke of Normandy he had to go fight a holy war the crusades which was fine but he he had a big problem. He did not have any legitimate sons. He had illegitimate sons but he did not have any legitimate son who he could make the temporary duke while he was gone because what if he dies during the crusades and his son has to take over right but he had no legitimate sons. So against his wishes he was forced to give the title of Duke of Normandy acting Duke of Normandy to one of his illegitimate sons. So this illegitimate son becomes the next Duke of Normandy and the Duke of Normandy goes on the crusade and he dies. So an illegitimate boy becomes the I think the sixth Duke of Normandy. His name was Guom or William. And he had a very rough childhood because everybody was upset that this illegitimate boy becomes Duke of Normandy. And there were many attempts on his life by his relatives who wanted to take over the the the the title of Duke and so on. But he survived and he became a very powerful duke, the most powerful Duke of all time, William. And he called himself William the Bastard because he was illegitimate, right? And it was in his in his 50s when he was in his 50s that he what he did was this. He built a big navy and he crossed the English Channel and he invaded England. absolutely crazy thing to do, right? By William the Bastard, Duke of Normandy. And unfortunately for the king of England, Harold, just one week before William lands uh over here some at Hastings. William lands at Hastings. One week before that there was another Harold Harold Hadra who was a Viking king who had landed in the north of England with the brother of King Harold uh Tostig. So Harold, king of England, had to go all the way north, fight the Vikings in a horrifying battle, battle of Stamford Bridge in which he defeated the Vikings and killed the king and his army is exhausted and the moment the battle is over, they hear they get word that the Normans have landed in the south of England. So they have to come rushing all the way south despite being bruised and battered and then they engage William the Bastard at Hastings, the Battle of Hastings. And the battle is going well, but a stray arrow catches king of England Harold in his eye. He dies and William the bastard becomes William the Conqueror. So William the Conqueror that is the origin story and this happened in the year 1066 AD and from that time the Saxons you know they lost control of England and the Normans started ruling England and the spoke they spoke French and since the year 1066 AD every single king or creed of England has been a descendant of William the Conqueror. Even the present king of England is a descendant of William the Conqueror. So yes, that is the legacy of Rolo the white king whose descendant William went from being the bastard to the conqueror. And for centuries French, Norman French was the language of the court in in England and eventually it became part of common English. That's the story. Very interesting story. Geopolitical Dubet. Thank you so much sir. I really appreciate that. Sergeant Skylan says uh which is better Tamil Nanu economic model or the Gujarat economic model which would be better I think I'm not sure what the differences are uh I know Gujarat did very well under Mr. Modi when he was chief minister and Gujat probably is the state with one probably some of the highest quality living standards in India very good quality of life and so on etc. Tamil ladu I'm not sure I'm sure I've heard that their their economy is also doing well so I'm sure both these economic models have some strengths right and obviously every economic model will have some drawbacks or deficiencies I'm not saying what these are because I'm not examined in detail I would say we need to take the best of both approaches and fuse it together right that's what we should do Venom says do Monty Hall problems makes makes sense I'm not sure what the Monty Hall problem is I'm going to do a Google search once again. What is the Monty Hall problem? Let me see. Where is Google? Monty Hall problem. What is it? Maybe I know, maybe I don't know, but I don't remember. Monty Hall problem. What is that? Is a brain teaser in the form of a probability puzzle based nominally on the American show Make a Deal. Okay. Okay. Okay. Suppose you're in a Gabe show and you're given the choice of three doors. Behind one door is a car. Behind the other doors are goats. You pick a door, say number one, and the host who knows behind who knows what's behind the doors opens another door, say number three, which is a goat. Then he says to you, do you want to pick door number two? Is it to your advantage to switch your choice? And I believe the answer should be that you should switch your choice. I remember reading about this somewhere a long time ago that it is advantageous to switch but I don't remember the logic anymore. So I won't be able to answer you right now because it will involve doing a lot of reading but interesting question you've asked and maybe I should revisit this. So anyway, thank you. Uh Viber Chops says do you think Norththeast insurance will help China like they did with Pakistan? What's northeast insurance? Do you think the northeast insurance will help China like they did with Pakistan? You mean insurgents? Okay. I think you're you're asking about insurgents. Um, now it depends on which insurgents you're talking about and who they're fighting and who they serve. There are always insurgents who can be bought and some insurgents will so it depends. If you're talking about the cookie terrorists, oh I'm sure they will help whoever will come to their aid. If you study the history of the cookie insurgency, the cookie terrorism and the cookie encroachment into India, you will see that they've always had this the eyes on this big territory that is mostly Manipur and they have allied with whoever would would aid their cause. So if the Chinese give them some aid, they will certainly ally with the Chinese. No question about it. No question about it. Yeah, anime says, "Thank you for giving us a super chat episode." Thank my my pleasure. Thank you so much. I It's an experiment for me. You know, I have steadfastly said this. I've maintained this for so many years that I will never do super chats because uh so many of my uh viewers are students and students obviously can't afford super chats. But I can see that. But I have been told over and over again that you know if you do super chats and the quality of questions improves because people are serious. They're putting money with the questions. So they are serious. It's not just a random question you can anybody can type into something. So today I thought let's do it because I've already done hundreds of hours of Q&A sessions. Hundreds of hours actually literally and I've answered thousands of questions. All the questions are still out there. So I thought let me try and do a super chat episode. And it looks like I'm I'm getting better quality questions. So maybe it's something I should continue. I'm really enjoying this actually. And I've already gone past 2 hours 21 minutes. Maybe I'm going to go on until 11:00 a.m. 11:00 p.m. It looks like that. So anyway, it's my pleasure and it's it's great to have viewers like you all. You know, it's a privilege to have viewers like you. Narendra says, "Pakistan sent swarms of Turkish drones which India accepted with costly missiles. Is that an economic loss? Isn't cheap anti- drone technology the need of the hour?" So look it's it's it's a very common I believe belief that people that people have about operation tendur the air defense component of that you know the Pakistanis they sent hundreds of cheap drones maybe 1,500 maybe 2,000 cheap drones over time over 3 days into India and we intercepted these drones with with our S400 system or or the Akash system or the Barak system or the Pora missiles or whatever. That's not the case. We intercepted these Turkish drones and other drones with the L70 BFOR's gun. Let's take a look at what this gun looks like. L70. Yeah. And this is not the So, okay, let's first look at it. Okay, let's see what it looks like. L70 air defense gun. It's a L. Okay. So, this is what it looks like. The design goes back to the 1940s of this gun. So very ancient gun, 1940s, second world war. But these are upgraded L70 air defense guns and so on. So what is the upgrade is the question, right? So we have done what we call jugar with the guns. We have put upgraded radars on the on the guns and we have uh converted the guns into automated systems. So in the 1940s you would have had a gunner who will then take aim at aircraft and shoot the gun. Today it is an automatic process. There's no human being involved. It automatically finds the targets and shoots at them. And it hits the targets every single time because we have upgraded the gun with advanced technology. So, it's a 1940s gun with 21st century technology and it shoots down everything auto automatically without human without the need for human aiming. So, this gun L70, it shoots shells, not bullets, but shells. And each shell is cheaper than a drone. Okay, we did not intercept those goddamn Turkish drones with with with uh with costly missiles S400 or Akash or whatever. We used this ancient gun which has been upgraded to to 21st century standards to shoot down all the drones. So who ended up losing more money? The Pakistanis. Now the Pakistanis will try and find some way of of you know of learning the lesson and maybe evading the the gun. So we'll have to adapt once again. So that's how it goes. All right. Uh Sam says, "Son Chad, some people say that mid lowend manufacturing is a thing of the past and India should largely focus on cutting edge manufacturing." Jam I think India should focus on every edge of manufacturing. We should become a manufacturer of nuts and bolts and become the largest exporter of nuts and bolts in the world. We should export the highest quality chips. We should export everything and manufacture everything. I think the world needs a mix of everything. The world needs low-end products also which don't cost millions of dollars. The world needs spoons. The world needs forks. The Chinese manufacture these things and sell it to the rest of the world. Why can't we do that? We should sell spoons. We should sell forks. We should sell glasses. We should sell utensils. We should also sell satellites. We should also sell rocket launch systems. We should sell everything. So my point is you know yes in the 21st century cutting edge manufacturing is very important and you are right sir but it doesn't mean that lowend and lower end mid-range mid-end etc manufacturing will become a thing of the past. I don't think so. So if some people are saying that I think they are kind of mistaken. every end and edge of manufacturing is going to be relevant but yeah it it it is very important for us not to be left behind and we should certainly be at the cutting edge of technology for sure. Rahul says, "Do you think quantum computing can become an applied field in the next 10 years or will it remain research oriented only?" I think it will become applied in the next two three years possibly because we already have quantum computing systems, quantum computers. Even India has quantum computers now. Yeah. So, we are also not going to be left behind in this matter. I'm I'm very happy to see that we also have at least one quantum computer in India and uh quantum computers I think will definitely become an applied field once you can sustain superpositions and um you know large large cubits and stuff. Yeah, you going to I don't I think it's just a matter of time. I don't think it'll take 10 years and soon enough maybe in 20 years you will have quantum computers powering your laptops and and mobile phones possibly probably not 20 years but something like that who knows who knows with the advances in AI anything is possible so I think quantum computing will be definitely become an applied field I think it's already becoming to some extent a field that is going in the direction of being an applied field so I think it'll happen soon and of course research will continue in it research Dadar, thank you so much sir. Do you think you No, you say that Israel is somehow a fully sovereign nation. Can't even type the name. Okay. Uh could you explain how is it possible for such such a tiny country or population to stay sovereign? [Music] Um how can a tiny country be sovereign? I mean when you're a tiny country with a small population then it's so easy for larger countries and larger economies to overwhelm you if not politically and economically or in some other way. So it's very it makes sense to pose this question. How can a small country with a tiny population be fully sovereign? The smaller your population the less sovereign you should be naturally makes sense. Now look at it this way. Look at it this way my friends. Prit Johawan fought two battle against Gori or Gaznavi whoever the hell it was. I always get confused about those two. It was in the year 1 191 and 11 192 AD. Right at that time there was a guy in a land called Mongolia whose name was Chingish Khan. He was still going through the through the paces. He was still struggling. But but in a decade or so after that he turned Mongol into a beast into a phenomenon like nothing seen seen before. And let me tell you during the lifetime of Shir Chingish Khan the Mongol army had a maximum strength of 100,000 and that was roughly onethird of the population of Mongolia. So about a third or a quarter of the population of Mongolia was the Mongolian army. Probably not. Mongolia would have had a population of maybe 3 4 million at the time but the Mongol army the full total corpus of the armed forces was about 100,000 at the peak of Chistan's power which means that the the army that conquered half the known world at the time you could have fit those soldiers into the Eden Garden stadium or the Narendra Modi stadium that tiny group of people conquered half the known world. Yeah. So then does it make sense why Israel a tiny country can somehow be a fully in sovereign nation and dominate so much of the world in in various ways? It's possible. If everybody every person in the nation is aligned in the same direction and working towards the same goals, anything is possible. How did this tiny island, small kingdom on on a on a tiny island, England, how did they conquer more than half the world? How did they create an empire where the sun never set? Small island, tiny pe tiny population. How did they do it? They did it. The Mongols did something even bigger. So, Israel also can be at least sovereign, right? It's possible. It's a nation that has a mission of its own. It's a nation that always feels that like it's under siege that kind of helps the people come together. Obviously, they also have uh uh you know, they also have other opinions. They they also have dissenting voices, but overall the nation is very much aligned in the same direction and they obviously have very high standards. Uh they believe that they are great and they have a great education system. They are great in technology. They believe that they you have to be at the top at the top of science and technology in in order to be a great nation. It's something everybody can learn from them. Okay. Moit Kakulo says, "Do you think the population crisis in China along with a slowing economy will force the CCP to launch a large scale offensive on either Taiwan, Vietnam or India?" Um the population crisis is something that is a long-term problem. The slowing economy is not that big of an issue because China is now the world's second largest economy. And even though the economic growth is slowing down, it is not negative. It is not a nation that's in a recession. It's no longer growing at 10% 12% per year like it was doing 15 years ago. Now it's growing at 4 5% a year, which is still good growth for a economy of that size. So I don't think the economic of course it is also possible that they are over representing their GDP figures inflating the GDP figures maybe instead of 5% it's growing at 3%. That's also a possibility. So maybe there are issues that are hidden from us economic issues. The population issue is definitely an issue but it's not going to be u something that we will be see seen as a crisis. It's a longstanding issue. It's going to get progressively worse and there is absolutely nothing China can do about it, but it's never going to be seen as as as as a crisis. It's something that's happening and they obviously would to be resigned to it. Um, so what is it that could actually force the Chinese Communist Party's hand and force them to launch some kind of stupid offensive against Taiwan, Vietnam or India? um that can happen only if they feel that their population is going to rebel against them. That can only happen if the Chinese Communist Party feels that its legitimacy is going to be is is coming under question. What is what is it that keeps the Chinese Communist Party in power? That's a social contract that we will be the only party that that exists in China. We are going to rule over you like dictator dictators. In return, we will give you extremely high living standards and we will give you national pride. That's the social contract. So, because we are giving you good living standards, we're giving you national pride, we're giving you national progress and so on, in exchange for that, you have to allow us to rule you. Now if that doesn't work, if the if if the Chinese Communist Party is not able to keep up its end of the social contract as in making China great and having great living standards in China, then the population will rebel against them and ch the Chinese population is rebellious. It's not like us. So it's in a scenario where where the population shows signs of restlessness and signs of dissent and disobedience. in such a scenario the Chinese Communist Party could could do something stupid you know to to uh resus resuscitate its image. So it's only in that scenario that I think China could do something stupid. Hershel says please take my question. I have posted it in chat. Well I'm taking questions sequentially. If it's there I'll take it but anyway thank you for contribution. I really appreciate that. Um okay you think you've posted it not in the super chat. Well, you should have posted it here. I will not be able to find it because there are hundreds of chat questions. But anyway, I thank you for your contribution. I really appreciate that. VK says, "Will our civilization survive because of the onslaught of western culture?" I think it's it's we are in a dangerous phase. We have existed for a thou for 10,000 years. But if we are not careful, we may not exist in the 21st century as as a distinct civilization because we are increasingly westernized. We we have this tremendous inferiority complex and Indians have kind of given up on their culture. Indian culture is no longer practiced by most people. So it it is possible that you know in the 20 22nd century there may no longer be Hinduism, the dharmic systems and Indian civilization. So we have to be careful. We have to keep it alive and we have to pass it on to our descendants very careful. It's it's I I am optimistic but I can see the danger for sure. Kunal Vishwas says how can Bharat leverage cryptocurrency and blockchain technology to reduce dependence on the US dollar and western financial systems. See blockchain blockchain technology is something that India can definitely leverage to in various ways. When it comes to cryptocurrency, if when it comes to Bitcoin, it is possible that it's a US state department or US uh intelligence thing. Ethereum is for sure not a completely um you know free floating currency. uh bitcoin also there are there are questions about it that maybe it's a CIA project you know but when it comes to the blockchain technology itself it's it's a very robust technology and it is certainly something that is uh very hard to crack or to hack and uh you know so it it it can create a trustless system where you don't have to trust anybody and you can just trust the system itself the blockchain system uh and and So if you have a global cryptocurrency which is not American in origin and which is not controlled by anybody and if it is based on obviously a blockchain technology then it can certainly u you know if it is adopted by lots of nations then it can reduce the dependence of the world on the US dollar. Uh so Barat if Barat decides to adopt cryptocurrency and all that and and maybe make the rupee may maybe create a crypto rupee or something. Um will it work? It will only work if lots of other nations also adopt the same thing. So if we use the rupee then other nations will want to have their own you know cryptocurrency of their own country the crypto dollar crypto ruble crypto yuan and so on in which case we end up with the same system. The only way we can reduce dependence on the dollar is if the rest of the world adopts a different currency in that case you don't even have to depend on the western financial systems anymore because you know the blockchain technology will ensure that you're not dependent on any financial system. So I think it'll work only if beyond Bat other countries also adopt the same cryptocurrency and the same uh blockchain based techn of technologies only in the that scenario will this happen you know going beyond the US dollar. Samrat says, "What are your thoughts on the ongoing vocal support for Hamas in the West and the shocking murder of a Jewish couple in the in Washington DC? Is Islam taking over the West?" Uh, I think it's it's sad. It's horrible that, you know, two people were just murdered for no I don't know what reason because they're Jewish. It's terrible. Um, and yeah, there are lots of people in the West who support Hamas and all that. I mean I mean it's okay to support for example hypothetically the Palestinian cause or whatever but supporting a terrorist organization I mean how does that work? So I it's it's it's a it's a symptom of the fact that um first of all the western western academia has been hijacked by a certain group of group of people kind of people who you know the leftists who support Hamas and who support terrorism and so on and uh a lot of significant portion of the US media is also kind of hijacked by these people and that's why innocent young people children teenagers years, they end up absorbing these ideas and believing they're right and then they end up, you know, doing things that are like this. So I it's it's terrible. Um, so it's not about Islam taking over the West. It's about it's about the the the the left taking over the West and espousing violent ideas and and and supporting terrorism. That's the problem. So the hijacking of the Western academic system began in the 1950s and60s. It happened very slowly, very gradually, very subtly. But today, if you go to any university in the US, you will see that especially in the humanities departments, non non non- STEM departments, it's all lefties. It's all lefties. All the professors are lefties. You'll hardly find a person who can be described as a centrist or or or as somebody who on the right side of the political spectrum. All left. And these people they're they you know they support terrorism mostly they support Hamas and so on and typically you'll find that that they hate India and support Pakistan. So it's something that happened very slowly very gradually from the 1950s and60s onwards they hijacked the academic system they hijacked the media they they hijacked feminism and so much more and today you can see the consequences of all of that in what we are witnessing here which is terrible. Pashant says, "As an Indian working in the US, what can I do to serve my country back? I try to be the best ambassador of India, but what more and how to raise standards? What can you do to serve your country as an Indian working in the west in the US? You can be the best ambassador of the country as possible. So look um every Indian who lives in the west represents India in some way. And obviously Indians are are almost like model citizens abroad. Indians never indulge in crime. Indians never do anything nasty, anything that is antisocial. You will never see Indians in prison and so on. So that that's one thing Indians already do very well. But what can you do beyond that is the question. Well, what you can do beyond that is to be excellent and to be better than the locals, you know, in every possible way. So you're working in the US, I'm imagining maybe you're in some company, some corporation somewhere, some startup somewhere maybe. So if that's the case, you have to be the best performer. That way you know the the image of India obviously rises and what else can you do? Let's say you become very wealthy. I would love for you Pashan Sharma to become very wealthy and then you can invest some money in India. And if if let's say you don't become a millionaire but you're I'm I'm sure you're well off as an Indian because Indians typically do well then maybe you can invest some money in India or or maybe by the time you're 16 you're done maybe you can come back to India and and start something India. So there are lots of ways of contributing to India. The point is that uh if you want to serve your country you you have to give yourself time first. You have to give yourself time to develop yourself to grow. You have to give yourself time to acquire skills and experience and knowledge and wealth. If you are in your 20s, don't think of serving serving India at this point in time. If you're in your 30s, probably not the right time to serve India. Probably if if you want to serve India, wait until you're in your you're in your 40s. That's when you have really acquired some experience and hopefully some good wealth. That's when you can decide how can I leverage my experience, my knowledge, my skills, my wealth to give something back to my country, the country of my ancestors. And by the time you're in your 40s, you actually have some idea of how to do that. So typically, it's how it's it's either by by mentoring Indians or by by investing some of your wealth in India or starting a new company or something in India or or or yeah, some something along those lines. That's how we do it. Um there Yeah. So that's how we do it. That's how you can serve your country. It's a long-term game. Don't think of doing it today. Wait until you're in the right actually the right position to do that. Uh General Vladimir Put says if we gets two seat then pass Ram Jesus Muhammad Krishna. I don't know what that means sir but thank you for the for the contribution. I I'm not sure what that means. Sorry. Vikramat says why is no one taking Trump seriously? Be it Mr. Putin, Mr. Nathanu and recently Mr. Modi now who did not tweet after his abrupt tweet while Mr. Trump has nobody to blame except himself. He thinks he's the greatest businessman in the world. Business is all about transactions. Sure, but business is also about reputation. It's also about playing the long game. It's also about being ethical. And um I'm not accusing Mr. Trump of being unethical, immoral, all of that. But he has a very transactional approach, a very brash, brusk approach, and that is going to alienate everybody. Mr. Modi has made it a point for so many years to support Mr. Trump in whatever is his endeavors are or have been, right? And Mr. Modi has always made it a point that whenever Mr. Trump tweets about India on social media or wherever it is, Mr. Mr. Modi will very quickly respond back with a great amount of warmth to Mr. Trump. But after Mr. Trump's latest misadventures, Mr. Modi for the first time ever completely ignored Trump's tweet about India. And Trump, Mr. Trump has clearly made Mr. Modi very angry. And I can assure you that this is going to be a turning point of some kind in India US relations. India is not going to trust the the US anymore. India will not be buying your F-35. India will not be buying more weapons from the US. We're going to buy Russian or French weapons now. We can't trust the Americans, right? The Americans have shown that they cannot be trusted. Mr. Trump has shown that to India and he is making all these nasty statements about India. He's telling Apple not to invest in India and so on. So if you have this sort of approach and behavior that you don't stand by the people who have stood by you and if you approach everything is transactional I will even pose with terrorists because today it matters and makes sense to me but tomorrow I don't care tomorrow I'll have him killed off if required but today I'll pose with him if you're that sort of person nobody will trust you nobody will believe your word and nobody will take you seriously right so that's something that will be increasingly the case with Mr. Trump because he has this pattern. He has this this track record of being very very capricious of being extremely incon inconsistent of constantly contradicting himself. So so what what do you expect when he has this approach? That's how it works. Uh phonography says what's the real life difference between fascism and communism? Both have a dear leader man man dear leader managed economy and military are the different fascists don't hate religion. Communists hate religion. That's kind of the difference. Fascists are big on culture and tradition. Communists hate culture and tradition. Fascists love grand aesthetics. Communists love miserable aesthetics. Lots of differences between fascism and communism. Fascism and Nazism are kind of similar actually if you look at it that way. Okay. So that is the difference. That's the the core set of differences between fascism and communism. And and check it out. I mean when you speak about fascism you're talking about obviously Mussolini the Italian fascists. They were big on culture. They had no issue with religion. They were pretty religious. But otherwise they were very similar to the the autocratic communists. and uh and you can see that the fascists and the Nazis got on very well together at least until a certain point and so on. So that's the core difference between fascism and communism. Um Vikramat says why do so many contra contradictions in geopolitics? Why so many contradictions in geopolitics? Israel supports Azarbaijan which supports Pakistan enemy of India which is a friend of Israel. Turkey and NATO and US are in NATO yet our opponents in Syria. It's always big picture, small picture. Big picture, we work together. Small picture, small details, we'll disagree. It's like that. It's like any partnership. any long-term partnership in in any long-term partnership in any big partnership the two partners will agree on the big things on the big picture but they but no two partners can agree on everything so there will be differences in opinion about how to do certain details and you know what if you are a long-term partner you will agree to disagree on some things okay when it comes to this matter okay we'll we'll not look at what what you don't look at what I'm doing I will not look at what you're and we will agree to disagree on this matter but big picture we should work together that's how it goes that's how the real world works even in let's say a marriage where you have two spouses husband and wife do you think they agree on everything they will also disagree on lots of things so you know it's it's not very contradict contradictory that's how the world works the world is full of inherent contradictions that's the real world it's not an idealistic utopian world it's a it's a real world with all the all the messy little details and that's how it works. Jugen says China is trying the China Pakistan economic corridor through Afghanistan with Pakistan. Will it succeed and will the US allow it or US has compromised itself for trade deal? Uh thank you Jagen. Thank you so much. Look Pakistan economic corridor through Afghanistan they the Chinese have been announcing this every year or every two years for the past 101 15 years. Has it happened? No. It's known for a fact that the US pays the Taliban a weekly stipend of about roughly between $50 to $100 million in cash. So if the Americans are paying the Taliban of cash stipend every week, obviously there has there is some deal between the Americans and the Taliban. The Taliban was given control of Afghanistan after the Dha Accord between the Americans and the Taliban. In in the DHA accord there were secret secret clauses which have not been revealed to the world. So it's pretty clear there is some kind of secret understanding and public understanding between the Americans and the Taliban. And the Taliban are serving a certain purpose for the Americans despite being a reasonably sovereign nation. So you see the Taliban are pashon nationalists. They hate Pakistan. They're okay with India. They they want their territory from Pakistan backa and so on. Beyond that they want the world to leave them alone to rule their country the way they want. If the Americans are giving some cash they will accept it and do something for the Americans but not beyond a certain point. They are okay with the Chinese also as long as the Chinese don't mess Afghanistan up too much. And they are clearly aware of the Chinese and the kind of threat that Chinese can pose pose for them. So it's complicated and the Chinese have been claiming for a long time the China Pakistan economic corridor will pass through Afghanistan and the belt and road uh infrastructure will also part through pass through Afghanistan. I mean how how many years has it been 20 years now? What happened not happening? The Taliban came to power. Okay, forget about forget about 20 years. The Taliban came to power in which year? 2022 23 whenever it was. It's been 2 three years. Has anything happened? So thus far it's all talk talk talk. I am I have no interest in talk. When something happens on the ground, I'll I will take that seriously. Words versus actions. I don't care about words. Words. Anybody has words. Everybody has words. Words words. I want to see actions and actions. Nothing has happened on the ground so far. So um so I would not be too worried about that right now. Uh Inferno Jes says India already has a success story in public private partnership. UI why can't this be replicated for military manufacturing? I think it can be and should be replicated public part public private partnerships for military and so on. I think it's happening. For example, India probably has one of the best drone manufacturing ecosystems in the world today. Much of it is private. For example, h I mean those wonderful screaming drones that we saw slamming into Pakistani military and terrorist targets, those were probably manufactured by uh through public private partnerships. maybe may may maybe possibly to a large extent private. So I think we are going in the right direction and what you are saying is very right that we need to take this to the next level. What's happening is just the beginning. We need to really really double down, triple down, 10 times down on this and and become one of the biggest manufacturers uh of military equipment in the world. We definitely at least should be 100% self-sufficient and reliant in in terms of military manufacturing and hopefully we can export become a major exporter but not like the Americans who fund wars to export military equipment. We should we should export it to those who genuinely need it. That's all. Uh Yatin Kumar says how do we how do you see towards India and Modi from the 2019 perspective considering how COVID was actually good for India other events in operation Synindor? uh operation uh 2019 to 2025 a lot has changed. I'm not sure if COVID was good for India. It was actually bad for the Indian economy. Lots of Indian businesses were ruined. Lots of people in India suffered tremendously. The whole country shut down. India's economy went into a recession briefly. Uh the GDP shrank. It went into into negative growth which which which means that it shrank and it was not a good time for India. I I don't see co was good for India. I'm not sure how you see it but okay. I I I take I take what you say. Um so 20 2019 was the beginning of a bad time for India actually October onwards COVID and all that. Uh but 2025 is a different India. We are now past the COVID era. We have again got back on our feet and we are again going in the right direction definitely in the right direction. Uh Operation Synindur was very good. it was um prematurely paused because Trump and his big ego came in the way and his need to have to have Pakistan continue to exist. That sort of thing. Um uh how do I see the path that India has taken? How do I see Mr. Modi's performance? I think Mr. Modi will go down in history as one of the greatest prime minister prime ministers we've ever ever had. No question about it. Obviously, there are some uh things that could have been done better. I am obviously one of the big disappointments is uh the situation in Manipur which is a disaster. Uh the indigenous people are being horribly oppressed by foreigners. The other big issue is the fact that there are 100 million Bangladeshes in India at least or allegedly approximately what has been done about that? I think now some action has been taken. I want all of them out because they are a burden on our people. What about the Rohhingyas? What about the cookies? about the Pakistanis I mean God knows how many illegal infrareds we have that is an issue that needs to be dealt with education reforms again nothing has happened new education policy is a joke it doesn't really address any of the real issues but apart from that Mr. Modi has done a tremendous amount of good work I mean compared to 2019 Balakur operation sindu today it is a night and day difference so Mr. Modi has has done a tremendous job of making sure that we are militarily in a very strong position. Obviously, a lot more needs to be done. Jet engine issue is there, fighter planes issue is there, lot of issues are there. Well, Mr. Bodhi inherited so many huge issues. So, I think he's done a tremendous job. Overall, I think he's done a tremendous job. Uh, overall, I I would say I'm happy with him. Overall, I would say that I am not satisfied that we are doing enough. We should do even more. I am never satisfied. But overall, that's how I see it. Right. Okay, Vikramat says, "Should there be an alliance between India, Greece, Armenia, Cypus to counter the Pakistan, Turkey, Azarbaijan nexus, even Israel can join?" Yeah, certainly. I think we have some kind of military agreement with our old friends, the Greeks. The last time we had a military alliance with Greece was more than 2,300 years ago. So, I think we have some kind of military alliance with Greece now. And the Cypress obviously uh is happy to is welcome to join Armenia also. We are we are aiding Armenia. We are supplying Armenia with the world's deadliest anti-aircraft system, the Akash SAM system. Uh so it doesn't, you know, you don't have to formalize an alliance. You can have an unofficial unspoken, unstated, unwritten alliance. I think we already kind of have that if definitely India, Greece, Armenia, I'm not sure about Cypress. We also have engagements with Cypress. So maybe so what you mention is actually it's kind of in the works possibly. Yeah, maybe even Israel can join. We can see. Uh Vidi says how super chat don't feel like Jia attacks on education. I'm not sure how it does attacks on education. Yeah, of course. See, like I said, I have done hundreds of hours of this without any super chats and thousands of questions. answered and I'm told that if you do super chats then the the quality of questions improve incre improves significantly because people are serious when they're asking question and I can see that I think today's episode has been very I I've really enjoyed it. I think the quality of the questions has gone up significantly. So maybe it makes sense to have super chats because only serious people will ask super chat super chat questions. Um and and for those people who can't ask super chat questions, maybe I can possibly in the future, maybe in the coming weeks, do two live streams in a week. One could be a super chat live stream, one could be a live a live stream in which I will take questions that people have asked in the comments. That way there are no super chats there. Only the best questions will be picked. How about that? And when it comes to education, I've answered thousands of questions. You can see all the past episodes. Everything is for free. So I don't think there's any GIA tax and education there. Okay. Really now says can I isro launches be sabotaged? Two out of two failures in 2025. It's a possibility. You know now nobody speaks about this today but in the 1980s many of the French Ayan launches were sabotaged by spies. No one speaks about that today. You won't even find it on Wikipedia anymore. Wikipedia you know. But yes there was a spy issue with the French Aran program. Many of their launches failed. So yeah, Mr. 88 says, "Who was Mr. Nelson Mandela? Was he a western stoogge just like a certain someone from our nation?" I wonder who that could be. Or was he a real revolutionary leader? Well, he was a freedom fighter. He believed in armed resistance against apathide. He believed in the armed overthrow of a apathide. He was one of the leaders of the African National Congress, the ANC. and he was imprisoned for I don't know 27 or so years by the South African apathide region the white dominated apathide regime for uh trying to fight for the for the rights of the indigenous native people of South Africa. Um now was he a western stoogge? I'm not sure about that. I'm not really I'm not really looked into the life story and history of Mr. Nelson Mandela. So I'm not sure if he was a western stoogge. If you fight the whites and you fight the whites through violent means, it kind of means that you are not quite a western stoogge, right? Unless unlike a certain someone from India like you're saying because Mr. Nelson Mandela tried to fight the whites using violent means. So that's a big difference. Later on after he was released, he espoused nonviolence and all that because he got what he wanted. He he got he got what he wanted the end of apathide and he became president. So once you get what you want why would you espouse violence right? So it doesn't make sense. So I think it was very very smart and obviously he was very forgiving. He did not um keep any personal grudges against anybody once he became president. So very nice of him. Uh Jagen says my question is why is our government unable to deal with the bureaucracy? After all, they're the main roadblocks for civil development and research policies in India. Thank you for opening super chat. Thank you, sir. Look, without the bureaucracy, the government can't do a thing. How does the government of India get things done? You can draft policies and write papers and things, but those policies have to be implemented on the ground. Who does that? It's the bureaucrats. Now if you start dealing harshly with the bureaucrats, what will happen? They'll go on strike. Then the government is paralyzed and becomes toothless and powerless. That's why you can't deal harshly with the bureaucracy. You have to take it very slowly and step by step. Especially our bureaucracy. That's the reason. That's the problem. I'm not saying all bureaucrats are are bad. There are some outstanding bureaucrats, upstanding bureaucrats for sure. But overall it's a it's a problem in India, right? We know that. We all know that. So the thing is without without the cooperation of the bureaucrats the government becomes completely powerless and that's the problem that we are facing. Okay, I'm going to take um just a few more questions. I've crossed 3 hours. So please stop paying for super chats now because I may be able to not take your questions anymore. I'll do it for another 10 minutes and that's about it. Hush Raj says, "Why no Indian explorers like Europeans and Chinese?" Well, do you know that about 4,000 years ago there was the in sudden introgression of Indian genetics into Australia? Don't believe me? Maybe you will believe web search. So, let's see. 4,000 plus years ago, uh, Indian Indian DNA Australia Aboriginal. Check this out. Uh this is just an AI overview. Let's look at nature.com. I think everybody will trust nature.com. Uh aboriginal Australian genomes reveal Indian ancestry. Flow of genes suggest continent was not isolated after all. And then you can't read a thing because it's behind a pay wall. Thank you. Nature scientific American genomes show Indian influx to Australia 4,000 years ago. uh some aboriginal Australians can trace as much as 11% of of their genomes to migrants who reached the island about 4,000 years ago from India and so on and so forth and so on so forth. Long story. My point is so lots of uh Okay, so I I have videos over here. It's pulling up my videos. Anyway, my point is you have Indians reaching Australia 4,000 years ago. Now, in case you don't know where Australia is, let me put up put the put up the map on the screen so that we all realize how far Australia is and how isolated it is. Check it out. Here's the map. You see where India is? You see where Australia is, how far it is. It's in the middle of the ocean, the southern Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean and the Arctic and Antarctic Ocean. You see how far it is? Can you reach by land? You can't reach there by land. 4,000 years ago Indians reached Australia. Some aboriginal Australians have 11% of their DNA which is of Indian origin. And by the way, it did not say South Indian, North Indian, anything. It said Indian, which means we are all the same DNA. We're all the same people. Okay? And overall, if you look at the statistical sample of all Australian aboriginal people, about 10% of them have significant like like non-trivial amounts of Indian ancestry. What happened there? No Indian explorers like Europeans, Chinese. You see, you have the problem is your teachers, your textbooks don't treat you the truth. And that's why my friends, we all believe that Indians did nothing. 4,000 years ago at the same time when Indians had reached Australia at that time itself 4,000 years ago you have the presence sudden sudden appearance of Indian zebu cattle in Mesopotamia and Egypt at the same time when Indians are reaching Australia they are also reaching Egypt and Mesopotamia and around that time you have the Yamna invasion of Europe so let's Please, please take the time to to research things. Take the time to research things. Indians were the biggest explorers, the greatest. We h we are the original maritime civilization. The riged speaks about ships that had a 100 oes ships with 100 oes. O A R S OS. The Romans, they had these warships called galleys which were powered by oes. The os were were powered by slaves who were chained below deck. How many ships how many oes did the Roman galleys have? 50 oes. The rigida comes thousands of years before the Romans. We had ships with 100 overs in the samudra. We were the original explorers. But your teachers won't teach you this. Your teachers don't know. They're illiterate. Your textbooks won't teach you this. That's the problem with India. Okay. Rip power says how to deal with deeprooted behavioral patterns um in yourself in somebody else. If you have deep rooted behavioral patterns which are not good for you, then you have to find ways of changing them. You have to try and identify the root causes. Let's say you have a phone addiction like like we took in the beginning of the show. Then the question is why do you have a phone addiction? what gap in your life is it filling that you're not able to fill with something else you to identify the deep psychological root cause for this thing and then you to address that that's what I would say um exactly says exactly when our gurugul padi starts declining it started with the British occupation of India in the 19th century uh the great writer Daral he compiled statistical data of that the British had collected of the Indian education system, the indigenous Indian education system and you had the gurugal system all all over the country. You still had temples as the center of education in the 19th century. That's when Macaulay imposed the British education system on India which was designed to to enslave Indians and to turn Indians into clerks and peons. That's in in the in the 19 1830s 1840s onwards that they destroyed the indigenous Indian education system. That's when the process started and today we are continuing the molleian system. See phantom surge says fix for lack of meritocracy and cast divisions. The government has to end this nonsense otherwise people will just leave the country. There is no other fix. We can't fix it. The government has to fix it. How to end cast divisions? Today it is mandatory for you to have your cast on your birth certificate, on your school documents, on your school living certificate and blah blah blah. Government mandates the use of cast and all these things. In the census, apparently they'll be cast. Remove all mentions of cast from official documents. Make cast irrelevant. Will the politicians do it? That will fix all the problems? They won't do it. You see karaj thank you so much sir thank you very much savage says do you see China and India first of all thank you do you see China and India settling their land differences over water resources annex next since 1971 I see I I am Indian-American in Maryland no one takes India seriously this needs to change well if you're in Maryland nobody will take India seriously Maryland is the is the heartland of the American intelligence and and community and the overall US estab establishment, the deep establishment, Maryland. Um, nobody there takes India seriously. They all still have this this 20th century mindset. A lot of them in Maryland, in DC, in the DC area and the Maryland area, no, nobody talks about India. Nobody takes India seriously. The only nations that take seriously in Maryland apart from the US are Russia and China to some is Israel for sure and to some extent France. Beyond that, no nothing. They don't think about India. They don't talk about India. Um now do I see India and China settling their land differences over water resources next since 1971. Uh the Chinese will not want to settle their differences with India. They use this uh border dispute. They use the fact that the India Tibet border is is undemarcated as a pressure point against India. They want to use this as leverage against India to be deployed this leverage. They want to deploy it at any time that they choose to. So they have steadfastly refused to demarcate the border right if the border is demarcated then there's no more issue with between India and China but they don't want that so the the problem that exists between India and China is entirely of China's making okay we have tried our best to have this demarcated but they don't want this so I don't see this changing for now uh the only way the Chinese will come to the negotiating table seriously and resolve the difference is if India becomes way more powerful than it is today. For example, the Russians and the Chinese had a big land dispute, border dispute, the Usuri issue. They nearly went to war in 1969 or the Usuri River issue, the Highline, whatever that island is called. I forget the name of the island. It's a Chinese name. And the two nations fought there. Hundreds of soldiers died on both sides. And Russia had decided to nuke China. And the Americans saved China. uh and this dispute was ended in the 21st century. The first decade of the 21st century by the time the Russians had again started resurging as a power that's when the Chinese took them seriously. So if India and China are to settle the dispute whatever they have land land differences it will happen only when the Chinese will see India as an competitor and as a nation they can really respect and respect only comes through fear. So um Prrenai says the only problem hindering India is reservations. Now I agree reservations and corruption. Beyond that you know if we resolve these two issues reservations and corruption India will be unleashed. The full energy of India will be unleashed. India will be unstoppable. But you know it it benefits some people. Reservations and corruptions benefit people. It benefits you we know who it benefits and they they are in the people who are holding on to power in the country and you know that's the problem. Viv says recently an Indian UFC fighter lost humiliatingly in just 45 seconds to a young China prospect. India needs to protein max not dal and promote jibbing. You know Indians uh Indians suffer from a severe protein deficiency. Indians think that their diet is the best in the world when it's actually a starvation diet. The British starved us for two and a half centuries and our diet completely changed during the time. If you read ancient Indian texts like manasa and other texts, you will see that our actual diet about a thousand years ago was very different from what we have today. We used to eat a lot of protein and today we eat dal. Dal has some protein but it has a tremendous truckload of carbohydrates with the protein. So if you let's say you eat some meat let's say okay 100 grams you get let's say 25 g of protein with that let's say let's say we're talking about chicken one 100 g of chicken will give you I don't know roughly 20 25 grams of protein and calories how much x number of calories if you take 100 grams of dal you will get at least twice the amount of calories through carbohydrates maybe twice the amount of calories through carbohydrates and less than half the protein So if you want to bulk lean, you simply can't use dal or chana or or rajma or whatever. It's just full of extra carbohydrates and you will get end up end up bloating yourself. So what's the solution? Eat paneer which is a lot of fat and not enough protein or eat meat. Indians used to eat meat back in the past. Now if you don't want to eat meat, it it doesn't mean that you can't get strong but it'll take you longer. So I'm not advocating that everybody should eat meat or whatever. My point is everybody should have enough protein through whatever means works for you and everybody should be strong. Indians are a lot of Indians simply don't you know they simply don't take the time to strengthen themselves physically. So I agree with Vive here. Okay. Ajit J says how India counter China chicken neck as China is there. What should India do? It's a I think India will have to wait it out and in the future obviously we'll be able to widen it. Right now right now India is not powerful enough to change the geography and the lines on the border right now because see if you want to widen the chicken chicken neck corridor you have to capture Bangladeshi territory and you can't do that without going to war. Bangladesh will not give it up and you can't go to war without having a real just cause for war otherwise you will be seen as the aggressor. So right now India can't do it even though we are militarily capable. So I think we'll have to wait for a future date for the opportune time because that is obviously our territory. Historically it's always been. Uh you said Israel is a sovereign nation. What about Iran? Yeah, Iran is is a significantly sovereign nation. I would not say 100% sovereign because it is dependent on so many things on for so many things on China and Russia because of the sanctions the Americans have imposed on them. They have imposed crippling sanctions on Iran which is why Iran has had to accept various deals, energy deals etc. a 25 year year strategic alliance with China and so on which kind of you could say to some extent compromises to some extent their sovereignty. So I would not say it's a completely 100% sovereign nation. They are kind of in a position like France quasi sovereign. Hershit Jen says what's your opinions on Duvarati? Is it biased or neutral? I have never seen a single Dhuvrati video. Uh but the um the impression I get is that he's extremely anti-India. Okay. I have never watched a single Duvati video in my life. I have no interest in doing that. But my the impression I get is that he's very strongly anti-India. That's the impression I get. Hopefully I'm wrong, but that's the impression that I'm getting from everybody I speak to, from trusted people I speak to. Dr. Ritik Patnak says are balo people actually good or will they turn out like Bangladesh I think Balo people people were always targeted and had to survive to live look everybody is good even Bangladeshes are human beings they're they're also good people I suppose but as a nation you acquire a certain identity and a certain character and a set of characteristics and it was our fault that we allowed Bangladesh to just slip out and we just let them go and do whatever they want we should have uh mentored Bangladesh and steered them in the right direction. We didn't do it. Our leaders messed up and that's why Bangladesh is today an enemy of India and the Bangladeshi people they're taught to hate India just like the Pakistanis. Now after Balojasthan becomes free, we should mentor Balojasthan, we should handhold Balojasthan and take it in the right direction otherwise it may even it even it may end up like Bangladesh. So it all depends on how we approach the relationship with this nation once it becomes free from Pakistan in the future. Inferno says shouldn't we come up with a punishment to make illegal immigrants work off their stay and charge them for the return tickets? EU may adopt it. I think we can certainly confiscate all their property which they may have acquired in India and confiscate their bank balance and send them back to wherever they came from penny less. Beyond that, I don't think we we want them on our territory for one minute extra than needed. Right? So we should confiscate all their property whatever they may have and on whatever bank balance or money or cash they may have and send them back penniles because they've leed all the money and property and and wealth off of India. That's what we should do. Beyond that we should not make them stay longer and work. We should get rid of them at the earliest. That's what I would say. And with that I am at an end of today's live stream. Thank you so much. A very long live stream. 3 hours 17 minutes. I'm going to end it over here. Thank you so much. I really enjoyed this. I may change my mind about super chats. I think I really enjoyed the super chats. I think the quality of the questions was much better. It was very much fun for me and I think I'm going to continue this. Anyhow, thank you so much everybody for all the questions. I hope you got some good value out of this and I'll see you in the next live stream which will be I'm sure very soon. All right, take care everybody. Thank you very much. Keep learning, keep asking questions and keep raising your standards. I'll see you in the next episode. Bye-bye.