[Music] Hey, [Music] hey, hey. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome Welcome to the Ask Kavaj Show. I hope everyone's doing great. Today is a history episode. We're going to discuss history. I've taken a bunch of questions that you all have asked in the comments and we'll take as many questions as possible over the next couple of hours. But before that, as always, let us see who all is there on the live chat with us. I can see it space jay bonjour, Swami J, A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Nisha Mishra Vishal Nata, Yrad Singh, Shik Kawat, Shashank Koshik. Good evening Aloc Bat Samant from Odisha Rasputin Latangi Suresh Latangi Suresh I am connected from Tutamil I'm not really sure about that but okay the world teacher Jagat Guru Swami Viveandanda U Valarandanda okay mystic skyri Krishna Hya Shanks Mojour Dave HB Rashmi Raturi Sud Ary Kash Anup Tik Anak Jin Dr. Surya Kant Tagar, Suraj Kulkarni, uh Vladimir Putin is there, Ram Shukla from Kpur, Kpur, Vidi Manar, Jay Gumman, uh GK, uh Chintapali, Kanaka, Mahesh, Chetan, Aradyas, Sharma, Dark Knight, good morning, Rasputin, VS, Na, Rashmi, Ratar once again, Diddi's son is here, Deb is here, Sat Gupta, Shankit, Pad, Mitesh, Gandhi, Vikash X an Aush Singh Raja Akash Kumar Ujiha YT Duv Durya Rasputin PJ Jwal Ketan Desai Beneath Might is Right Creative Clips Random Skull Hello Nishad Atalia Umesh Ush uh Satellite VS Nay Mitesh Gandhi once again okay I think I'm repeating some Ragav Chopra Suman Shakar Sarangi Deatra Das from from X Rakav Chopra Swami Jin from Jaipur Hideki Ryuga Tanmahesh Pandi Vashish Sharma when will I do a Hindi video in Hindi I'll see about that sir I'll see Air Shukla from the city of lakes Bopal good evening sir Vik Vishal Tokas might is right says take my name uh Nalind geopolitical from Indor good evening sir Rajat Duhan Kish WHMA Jio is investing in AI models that's fantastic Krishna Aruna from the Surinamese Netherlands and so many other people. Good evening, good day to all of you. Thank you so much for being on the live chat and let's get going with the questions. I have taken some questions 20 25 questions. Let's get going with the questions. What what are what all are we discussing today? Okay, what's the first question? Considering the role of France France in the American Revolution, could the colonies have won their on their own? Could the could the colonies the 13 colonies could have could they have won on their own? How much did the global balance of power decide the outcome of this pivotal moment? Okay, we're talking about the American Revolution, the American War of Independence, right? The Americans were under British occupation. Well, they were British. The Americans were British. They were British colonizers. What is the United States? It's an artificial nation created by settler colonialists. settler. It it was created by created by settler colonization. A bunch of Europeans came and discovered this land for themselves starting from the Vikings. But that that that was a chapter that was forgotten from history. And then you have uh Christopher Columbus who set out to discover India, set out looking for India. They stumbled into the Caribbean region and then the Spaniards discovered America and the French and then the British and so on and then there was a tussle between them and the British came out on top and they created the 13 colonies. The 13 colonies they created and then they decided we will no longer pay the 2% tax to the king of England. We shall no longer pay the tax. We shall keep all the money for ourselves. And that's was that was the revolt. That was the revolt that we no longer want to pay any tax across the Atlantic Ocean. We're going to keep all the money here. This is our land now. Okay. So that was the revolt. That was the revolution. And uh that's what they call the American war of independence 1765 to 1780 something 83 I think. Okay. So what was the French role rule in this? The French had a significant role. You know the Americans today make fun of the French. They call the French all kinds of unflattering names, surrender monkeys and whatn not. They keep poking fun at the French. Without the French, the Americans would not have won their war of independence. Okay, I assure you of that. So the French, they had this longstanding rivalry with the with the English. Okay, if you go go to the beginning of the 20th century, it was a thousand years of rivalry and enmity between France and England in a and it it manifested itself in so many different ways over the years and the centuries. So during this American revolution, the French provided essential support to the 13 colonies uh military support, financial support, diplomatic support, all of that matters. Without military support, without arms, ammunition, material, material, you can't win a war. Without financial support, we can't win a war. And of course, when there's a war ongoing, there's a there's a revolt that's going on, you need somebody to look out for you diplomatically. France did all of that. So, the American colonies would have faced tremendous difficulty. They essentially would have lost if it was not for the French and the help that they provided. So I remember when I was a kid like when I was like 8 n maybe 10 years old I watched this movie an American movie about the deafet who was a French uh military leader who participated in the uh American revolution the war of independence u and so the Americans did recognize in the 20th century the the French contribution to this. So what kind of specific help did the French provide? They provided first of all troops and officers, French soldiers, French commanders like I said the la then there were some other people as well the grass and and uh some other names that I don't remember right now. So the grass and there were some other major commanders and and soldiers as well. lots of soldiers that were provided by the French and these French military commanders, these French soldiers, they did they did shape the the course, the outcome of battles, the final siege of Yorktown. Okay, what was it? 80 1781 or something like that. Okay, you can look up the exact dates. The siege of Yorktown, who surrendered in the siege of York Yorktown? Lord Cornwallis surrendered to the Americans and that was essentially the beginning of the end of the u the the rule of the British flag in America. Lord Cornwallis who later came and occupied India that fellow. So the French provided soldiers they provided military commanders they they then they uh assisted the Americans with naval power. the French Navy, it engaged British forces not just in the Americas but but globally. They blocked British reinforcements at Yorktown u and that that that essentially was crucial to the victory of the Americans. This diplomatic alliance also uh that the the diplomatic support that the French gave it gave legitimacy to the the to the cause of the Americans and so on. So the the American colonies they were essentially like islands at that time. America was still not genocided completely. The natives still existed and the colonies were like islands and they lacked resources for a prolonged war. And the British side they had reinforcement. They had supplies coming in from across the Atlantic from from Europe from continental Europe from from England from Britain. So the French provided this vital uh support to the rebels, French supplies, French money, French commanders, French soldiers. Okay. And the French intervention forced Britain to fight globally. Globally and that's what really hampered Britain. And that's when when this happens, when you to fight not just in one place where the rebellion is happening, but globally in so many different places, you get overstretched, your resources get overstretched, your military gets overstretched, your navy gets overstretched, and you can't focus where you're supposed to focus. And that's what the French did. So without French support, the US re the American Revolution, the war of independence would have failed. It's the French who were instrumental in creating the United States of America. Let's not forget that. So it's it's it's a very interesting question that you've asked here and the world should know about this. Yes. All right. Vidhi manar says can you please uh tell us about Sharda Petit one of our greatest ancient centers of education and learning now located in temporarily Pakistan illegally occupied Kashmir. Who was responsible for its decline and eventual destruction? Who destroyed it? What was the temple and university like at the peak? at its peak what kind of knowledge was imparted there what were the qualifications of the scholars and teachers associated with it are there any books there where we can get all the possible clear details of Sharda Petit and so on look I am not aware of any books I don't think anyone anyone has bothered to write a detailed book about Shardat and so on you know our historians they are engaged in all kinds of activities that have nothing to do with Indian history so I don't know of any books about Shardet I have read from various different sources I don't even remember the sources I can go and look them up again. Uh there are obviously research papers and and fragments of of knowledge and information from various books here and there. But the books aren't about Shardet. Right? So Shardet was one of our great ancient universities. It existed at least in the 4th century AD probably before that. It is said to have been created by Lord Vishnu or Lord Brahma. one of the two I think one of the two I don't remember exactly which one so that indicates that it was considered to be a very ancient university uh I'm not sure exactly when it was when it was founded and who founded it but it was there at least in the 4th century AD most likely must have been there long before that was obviously in Kashmir and uh because of the presence of this great university Kashmir The land of Rishikashap was also known as Sharda. Sharda is obviously uh Saraswati the goddess Saraswati the goddess of of knowledge and wisdom and some of the major patrons of this great university were the great king Lalita and his successors. So that's around the 7th 8th century is AD 8 9 10 11th century AD around that time was the peak of this university the peak I mean the greatest extent and the peak of its fame the peak of its attraction for students all across the subcontinent maybe beyond that right you would have scholars coming in from what is currently the Chinese occupied Singinjang etc that was an completely Indianized region you had uh scholars like Kumar Ajiva etc who were associated with the university It is said that Jagat Guru Shankrara was also associated with the university. So uh in ancient India the universities were always uh patronized by kings. The kings were patrons who would subsidize the universities who who would give all the money all the resources needed for the upkeep and running of the university. Sometimes expansion of the university to provide for everything the teachers and students and everybody needs administrators all of that. So that there is no obstacle in the smooth running of the university and the university uh is said to have had a great library. We know that what happened in Naranda right? Shardet also had a great library. God knows how many texts were there and the Sharda script comes emerged out of well the Shara Sharda University most like most likely uh the Sharda script is associated with Sanskrit and so with with it is associated with Kashmir and Kashmir was Shard. So most likely Sharda University must have been the place the institution from which this this script emerged and the Sharda script was used for writing Sanskrit as well as local languages like uh the precursor to modern day Sanskrit and the various other Daradic languages that uh were spoken in the northwest northern and western parts of India. We're talking about extreme northwest which is Kashmir and Gandhar and so on. So uh it was a great university. It was a great institution of wisdom, knowledge. What did they teach there? They taught you everything that was taught in all Indian universities. They would teach you philosophy. They would teach you the shastras. They would teach you the itas. They would teach you mathematics. They would teach you astronomy. They would teach you the 64 vidyas, the 64 arts, all of that. Everything you were taught in Nalanda or Takashila or Telhara or Vikramila or or Odantaapuri or Walabi or whatever. Everything all of the same things were also taught in Sharda University. We don't have any records of its curriculum of its syllabus. Nothing is left today. Everything has been burnt into ashes. So we don't know quite what the details are. But the ancient Indian universities all taught similar subjects. Everything there were vishua vidyalas everything under the sun would be taught there. And you would obviously have great scholars there. Qualifications and all. Well, we don't have records. We don't have a single name today that still exists of someone who taught there. Right? We know that Jagat Guru Shankrari was associated with it. We know that uh uh Kumar G was the great the great central Asian scholar of Indian and Kashmir ancestry. He was also associated with the with the Shardit. But we don't know the details of what they taught, what were the what was the curriculum like? What texts they may have used and so on. All of that is been wiped out and we don't know uh any books. I I don't I'm not aware of any books. So, I'm sorry I can't help you with that. But maybe if we look around and if we do some deep research digging for information, maybe we can we could perhaps find something. But as of right now, I don't know of any books. So, that's what I can tell you in in in brief. And if you're really interested, I all all of you my viewers, please go ahead and and do some investigation on your own. And if you can find something of interest, something interesting, some some new valuable information, please do share it. All right, next question. This is by Uraj Singh Shikawat. What does the presence of Indis Valley seals in Mesopotamia signify? So what are these Indis Valley seals? Did they come from the Indis Valley, Zindu Valley? Well, no. They came from Indian civilization which at that time was kind of well the area of focus that we talk about is the Satasindu region. The seven regions which is Punjab the six the five Punjab means five rivers right but there was also the Saraswati which no longer exists today except in the northern part of India. So you had this great saraspati synindu or satasindu civilization satasindu era of our history of Indian civilization and that region was well highly highly developed highly industrialized fully urbanized complete standardization of weights and measures and so on. It was extremely prosperous and extremely influential and our ancestors from that time who lived in that region they traded with the rest of the world with the rest of the civilized world and what was right west of India we had Mesopotamia so if you look at the map if we look at the where's the map let's find the map okay is map let us put map on screen let us put the map on the screen So all right okay here we are so this is the map we're talking about uh you know we're talking about what what part of the subcontinent are we talking about we're talking about Gujarat northern Maharashtra parts of M of MP we're talking about Rajasthan Hana Punjab Jammu Kashmir we're talking about the whole of Pakistan present day Pakistan we're talking about Balojasthan we're talking about Gandhar Afghanistan um and all the way up to the up to parts of Tajakistan and also eastern Iran. So all of that was part of the Saraswati Hindu uh so to say civilization that part of our civilizational history. And to the west we obviously had Persia and to west of the west of Persia you had the great uh uh kingdoms and and empires that existed in Mesopotamia. And at that time we had trading posts in the Gulf region. Uh where was it? Was it Oman? Somewhere in Oman? I suppose we also had trading posts in in in very in far northern India and we also had connections with the Girroth civilization which was a sis which was kind of a sister or daughter civilization that existed in eastern Iran. So if you go west of India, you reach Iran and in Iran we had gi culture or girroth civilization and that was kind of the bridge between India and Mesopotamia. So our traders would essentially sail westwards cross the straight of Hormuz and they would essentially reach this region and from here they would trade with the Mesopotamians and there is a ample evidence of trade between India and Mesopotamia. Mesopotamia and cultural connections and trade connections. Uh we find that u some Mesopotamian kings were given red Indian dogs as gifts. You know the wild dog that you have in India, the duel, not the standard dog that you have on the streets of India, but there's another subspecies of dog called the duel. It's a reddish brown dog and it is not tamed dog. It's not a domesticated dog. It's a wild dog. So that dog was given to one of the Mesopotamian kings and uh there there's I think langours were presented as gifts because langors only occur in the Indian subcontinent and of course you have the presence of all these uh in these seals in Mesopotamia. You find a wide variety of Indian seals in the Mesopotamia region. Uh so what does it signify? It it signifies trade. Maybe the tra the seals were the stamps of various trading houses of various corporations, right? It's it's possible. Uh so so that sort of thing. So each seal has some kind of motif. Maybe it is uh the master of beast beasts motif. Maybe it is a pashupati motif. It is maybe it's a bull. Maybe it is whatever it is, right? Lots of bulls. You would have lots of inscriptions of rdra and so on. And these probably were the the trading seals or or the or or the logos you could say of various Indian corporations would trade. So the presence of Indian seals in this region it indicates it signifies the extensive trading contacts we had with this region. That's what it signifies. Okay. Yajj Navalia says the Akamerid Empire at its greatest extent was larger in area than the Roman Empire at its greatest extent. Given that the various Persian empires ruled over the whole of Western Asia for about a millennium or even more, what can we say about their impact on West Asian cultures? Excellent question. So yes, the Persian Empire, the Hakamanish or Kamanish Empire uh it uh conquered, let's once again go to the map, it conquered various I mean the whole whole of what we call the Middle East or West Asia today. So it starts from the borders of India. There is the borders present borders of Afghanistan and Pakistan. And you go and you go westwards you have Persia and they conquered well essentially everything. They conquered all the way to Anatolia uh present day Iraq, Syria, the whole of Mesopotamia, most of Arabia I suppose and also Egypt. Egypt was also uh a vasal and uh of of the Akameid Empire of the Persian Empire and also in the Caucasus region you had their presence. So and overall it was a vast empire the Persian Empire uh you rightly say it was it was larger in extent in geographical extent than uh the Roman Empire at its greatest extent. That's how large the aimed Empire of Persia was. It was a very vigorous geopolitically vigorous empire, an expansionist empire, always expanding westwards, westwards, westwards and they fought the Romans eventually, right? And they had pretty good success against the Romans as well. So that's was the deal of the uh Persian Empire, the Aimeirate Empire. So obviously they're going to have some cultural influence. they would have had a great amount of cultural influence and impact over uh over West Asia. But that has all been erased. Today you don't see that. You see some remnants of that here and there. For example, in in Persia, in Iran today, you still have some small scattered Jewish communities, small numbers of Jews here and there. How did the Jews end up in Persia? Well, the the the Persians, they they liberated the the Jews from what was it? As a Assyrian occupation and they all they they allowed the Jews to re to retake the Jerusalem and build the second temple there, which was eventually destroyed by the Romans. Okay? And that's a whole different story. And as a consequence, the Jews who were in exile were able to go back to Judea to present day Israel. And some Jews eventually ended up in in Persia because Persia was a very well welcoming civilization just like we used to be just like we still are. The Persians are also just like us. So Jews were were welcomed in Persia and some of them settled down in various parts of Persia and they also continued practicing their religion. Uh so the Persian Empire was a very the western term is tolerant, religiously tolerant. They were obviously eventually they became Zoroastrians but they allowed all their conquered peoples to continue practicing whatever cultures and religions they had. So it was a very from a western perspective tolerant uh empire. The ra the more appropriate term would be respectful of other people's cultures. Not tolerant but respectful. But that's something the west doesn't understand. They don't understand respectful. They understand tolerant. I'm going to tolerate you. That sort of thing. So anyway the Persian culture would have spread far and wide across West Asia but all of it was wiped out eventually by the u by the rise and spread of the religion of that came out of Arabia right in the which sixth 7th century AD whatever Islam I'm talking about right and there's nothing left of whatever uh cultural or civilizational impact Persia would have had on West Asia nothing that I can see yeah so all of that was wiped out and of because Persia was destroyed by Alexander. So all the Persian records of what they what they did, what they achieved and all of that that also was destroyed by Alexander. So there's nothing much left that that can tell us about the specific set of impacts Persia would have had on West Asia also Egypt. Amisha says, "How was Pushia Pushia Shunga able to execute the last Morian empire in public?" Brihadrita Moria, right? That was the last per last Morian emperor. So, Pushamatraunga his justification was that this guy the last Morian emperor was absolutely uh he was incapable of ruling. Okay. He was uh he he had no qualities as a ruler and he was running the empire into the ground and the foreigners were you know wreaking havoc in India. The yaners and whatnot. So it's better that somebody else takes over and and you know gets a grip on on the empire and and safeguards India from all this nonsense. That was the the justification and push mutra shunga. So the question is how did he do this? So first of all let's understand this. He did not execute the last Moria Empire. He assassinated the last Morian empire emperor. It was not an execution. It was an assassination. Let me explain what an assassination is. You want to know about a public assassination? Well, okay, I'll show you. Okay, let's Google this. Okay, we go to alami alami uh sad assassination. Okay, sad. Sadat, right? Okay, let's go to images. Okay, check this out. This is public. Do you see what's happening here? Uh, look look what's happening here. This is all public. You can see over here there's a whole this is a stadium and you can see people are sitting in in a large number of people are sitting in their seats. You can see over here this is a zoomin kind of thing. You can see some more details here. This is all in public. So Anoir al-Sadat the leader of Egypt was reviewing a military parade a victory parade of of the Egyptian military's achievements in the what Yom Kipur war war. And there's a military parade going on and uh one of the vehicles stops in front of Sadat and Sadat is standing and saluting them because that's what you do right as as a president you salute your armed forces. So these and a bunch of people, a bunch of soldiers comes out and they throw a bunch of like three grenades at him and one of the grenades explodes and then the remaining soldiers they start shooting at the president and you can see over here people are throwing chairs on the president so that he will be shielded from the bullets. So that's what happened in public. This was not a public execution. This was a public assassination. As you can see here, there's very few images available of uh of the Anar Al-Sadat assassination. But here you have a few. This happened what in ' 61 it was in sorry it was in 1981 Anoir Al-Sadat. So that's a more recent example. So what happened between Pushia Muttrashunga and Brihadrata Moria? Pushya Mitraunga was the sapati of the Moria Empire. He was the commanderin-chief of the military of the army of the Indian army. Okay. And the Indian emperor was incompetent. He was not fit to rule and it was causing tremendous havoc and problems in India. So the synapathy decided it's time. So during a military parade when all the soldiers are standing in in formation with all their weapons gleaming and the emperor comes and in inspects them that's when the sapati assassinated the emperor. It happened during a military parade not in public with all the Indian you know like republic day or something. No it was a military parade. That's where he was able to assassinate the emperor, the last emperor of the Morian Empire. And obviously he had the full backing of his army otherwise he would have been also executed. Right? If he if his actions did not have the full backing of the military then Push Pushy Mitraunga would not become the next emperor of India. But he became the next emperor of India. But his entire life he never called himself Maharaji which is emperor. He called himself synapati. So he always said that I am still the sapati. I am not an emperor. But his descendants were obviously the emp emperors after him. So that is how it went. Shah shahasara shah shahara shahasara. Okay. Says, "In what time period of history did the Dasa Raj Rajan Yuda or the battle of the 10 kings happen? Were the Yamna invaders of Europe also expelled from India after losing the war or was that event from a different time frame?" Okay, this is well in historical circles this is controversial. Okay, so first of all let's talk about the Yamna. The Yamna invaders who rampaged across Europe and in like few years it completely transformed they conducted a proper genocide of the Europeans of the male Europeans and today's Europeans are descendants of the Yamna males and the females of that time of Europe. So the Yamna they suddenly emerged from somewhere in the east about 4 and a half thousand years before today. That is about around 2,500 BC around that time. That's when this bunch of horse riders appear from the east maybe from the Pontic Caspian state maybe somewhere else. We don't quite know from where they came but in a short period of time historically short period of time they completely transformed Europe completely uh invaded occupied and settled the whole of Europe all of it. That is 4,500 years before today. It's it's known. We know all the I mean there's ample archaeological evidence of an invasion of an Arian invasion of Europe. Okay. um there's this mass graves and with with horrific injuries on the skeletons and also the genetics change in Europe around that time 4,500 years before today. So it's very clear this invasion happened around 4 and a half thousand years before today around 2,500 BC. That's the Yamna invasion of Europe. Those people they did not call themselves Yamna. The Yamna means a pit a pit in Russian. That's what it means. It doesn't mean they those people call themselves Yamna. Oh my name is Yamna. We are the Yamna people. Oh, we have no idea what they called themselves. Now, so that is about the Yamya. That sets the context. Now, what about the battle of the 10 kings? Now, let me give you an outstanding example of how Wikipedia lies to you. Okay, we're going to go to Wikipedia. And here I'm going to show you in real time how Wikipedia distorts history. Look, uh Wikipedia, Battle of 10 Kings, India. I mean there's only one battle of 10 kings. Even if I remove India, it'll say battle of 10 kings. Okay. So battle of the 10 kings. It's going to tell you exactly when it happened. Okay. According to Wikipedia, this took place between when did it happen? etc. First phase. Does it tell you when it happened? Which century BC? Okay. See, look here. Look, it says it it tells you it knows exactly when it happened. 14th century BC. Why does it say 14th century BC? Because the Arian invasion happened in the 15th century BC 1500 BC is when the Arians came to India. So obviously this happened this battle happened 1 century later because the rigida as we know was written in the 15th century BC. If let's look at the riga what Wikipedia says about Rigida when was it written? Look 1500 to 10,000 BC. They have decided they have decided it happened. This this was written at 1500 or 1,000 BC. Let me let me show you more distortions once again. Do we have any reference to Sarasati here? Saras Okay. Saraspati river. Now it'll let's see what Wikipedia says about Sarasati. It is a deified mythological river. It's a deified mythological river. Okay. And I mean let's see uh how does it how does it claim it's defying its mythological? It will say that this is a mythological river because the Arian because the rigida refers to it. But the Arians who wrote Rigida they wrote it in the 15th century 1500 BC but this this river this mythical river it dried up before that. So how can they mention a river that is mighty and all that? How can it be possible? Circular reasoning. Okay. Now coming back to the battle of the 10 kings. We have no idea when it happened. The rigida refers to the battle of the 10 kings which means that it happened sometime before the it was written or around the time maybe the rigida was written over a long period of time. So maybe it happened after the first writings happened or maybe before anybody wrote any portion of the rigida. Now the question then arises when was the rigida written? That's the big question. Wikipedia will tell you it was written around 1500 BC because that is when the Arian invasion happened. Before that, how can anybody write it? There were no Arians in India before 1500 BC. What evidence do they have that it the the Arian invasion happened in 1500 BC? If if it even did happen, they have zero evidence of it. Now they say, "Oh, no, no, it was not an invasion. It was a series of migrations." Well, show me evidence of your series of migrations, will none. So, this this is a brilliant example of how Wikipedia distorts history. There is no proof for the claims that are that are mentioned as set in stone in Wikipedia. Now, coming to your question, in what period, what time period of history did the this battle of 10 kings happen? So it is let's say it it happened sometime around the time the riged veda was written because it is mentioned in the rigveda. Okay. So let's say hypothetically it happened after they started after our ancestors whenever they were they started writing the rigveda. So then the question is when was the riga written? Now the rigveda like I mentioned it refers to the Saraswati. It refers to the Saraswati as a great river a mighty river a roaring river the mother of floods. Now we know the Saraspati existed. Now nobody can deny that. Even though Wikipedia still calls it a mythical river, we don't care. It's it's it's proven beyond any question of a doubt. The Saraswati existed. It's this gigantic paleo channel of a river that go starts from the Himalayas and goes all the way into the western Indian Ocean, the so-called Arabian Sea, the sea of Saashtra. Right? So this great river existed and you can see the paleo. You can see the drainage channel. You want to see it? I'll show you. I I will show you. Okay, give me a second. I'll I'll show you the I mean the conclusive proof that a monstrously massive river existed. Okay, we go to satellite images. Here we go. Now, now watch what happens. Okay, let's look at forget about what you see overground. Look at look at what's what you see under the ocean. You see this in the center of your screen? Do you see this this channel in the ocean? You can see this is an ancient drainage channel of a major massive river under the ocean. It still exists and it probably was created when this part of the ocean was above ground which means it was it created it was created maybe 10,000 or maybe several thousand years ago and imagine how massive the river must have been that it created such a gigantic drainage channel right so there you have I mean what else what other proof do you need do you do you see any other major channels over here you can see one here which is the channel of the Ganga and it's it's kind of distorted because it must have flowed in a different way in the past several thousand years ago. But this is one major drainage channel the drainage channel of the Ganga and here you have the drainage channel of the Saraswati. So this entire nonsense about the Sarasati become a mythical river. These people I don't know who they're trying to fool and how long that they imagine they can keep fooling people the the Wikipedia idiots. Now when was the Rigida written the rigida mentions the Tarati great river massive river the mother of floods the loudly roing river and so on. So clearly the rigida the people who wrote the the the rigida they saw a massive river a river in her prime not a river that is declining and drying out. So when was the last time the Saraswati was in her prime? around 6,000 BC because it is known that the papers have been published in nature that the Indian rainy season the monsoon started declining monotonically somewhere around around 6,000 BC that's when the decline started and that's how the Sarasi also started slowly declining over several thousand years over a period of several thousand years the river declined significantly eventually dried out massively majorly So it means that the rigida was written closer to 6,000 BC when the river was in her prime then to 1500 BC when she was largely dried out in the southern part of her course. So it also indicates that the battle of the 10 kings happened closer to 6,000 BC than to 1500 BC. What is the exact time period? We have no idea. When our historians who are paid to do work when they can devote their entire 15 hours a day to that if when they start looking into this we will know. All right. Next. Nirvana Shanks says given the battle of 10 kings where King Sudas defeated 10 more than 10 more than 10 united not tribes. We were not rag ragtag tribals. We were clans. These were not tribes. They Wikipedia once again writes about rights of aran tribe, Indo-arian tribes. These people were not tribes people. They were not tribals. What is the definition of tribe? A tribe is a group of people who live in isolation away from civilization and they don't have any of the aspects of civilization. That's a tribe. It's an isolated group of people. 100, 200, 500 people living in isolation, living like barbarians. That's a tribe. The Rigidic people, they were grouped into clans, not tribes. But that's what your historians will tell you. They were tribes. These were Indo-Aran tribes. These were not tribes. These were clans. Uh clans and coalitions and confederations. King Sudas was up against a confederation, an alliance of more than 10 clans who had all ganged up to defeat him. Yeah. And he stood against them and and he defeated them all. And he praised Lord Indra for for what happened because he was able to uh breach a dam and uh drown a lot of his his opponents and that's how Bharat was united. Uh yeah. So uh given the battle of 10 kings where kings defeated a coalition of more than 10 clans in the coalition war against kinshi hang during the waring states era in China. Are there more examples in Indian or world history where multiple powers united and were yet were ultimately defeated by a single strong ruler? Yes. When what happened? I mean do we have examples like this? The battle of the 10 kings is like the the victory of the underdog. King Sudas against a coalition of more than 10 clans numerically far superior to him and yet through his military strategy and acumen he's able to defeat them. Incredible feat right? Are there other examples? So one example is Kimshi hang the the the Chinese the essentially the uni unifier of China. The unification of China happened what around 200 something BC and he defeated a bunch of other a coalition of the Chu the Ki the Yan the Shing Shang whatever Xiao Wei An all these various groups they had formed an alliance a confederation to fight him but he defeated them and that's how he was able to essentially unify the first ever unification of China do we have other examples of that well I can think of a couple one example example is uh well recent second world war Adolf Fetler he was up against everybody I mean he decided to fight everyone right he decided to conquer the whole of Europe he fought everyone he defeated everybody uh of course he defeated them one by one by one but especially when it comes to the French and the British who united in who formed an alliance he was still able to defeat them and he was able to conquer France so that's one example Napoleon well before Hitler you had Napoleon a guy with unlimited ambition and guy who believed he could do anything and the Napoleonic wars. So the Napoleonic wars were kind of like that. Napoleon decided to go and fight everybody everybody at the same time. So when it comes to um the battle of oustroliths some somewhere in the beginning of the 19th century 180 something. So that is when Napoleon fought against Britain, Austria and Russia together. The three of them united their forces to defeat to stop Napoleon Bonapath. That's the battle of Austerliths and Napoleon defeated the three of them together the combined coalition forces of Britain, Austria and France u and and Russia. So and that was essentially the the end of what they called the the Holy Roman Empire. So that's an example but it's not Napoleon against 10 at the same time. It's Napoleon against three at the same time. So it's not as as great as what uh King Sudas achieved. And then obviously you another example is Chingish Khan. Chingis Khan when when he was in his teens and when he was growing up and when he was in his 20s and 30s Mongolia was a bunch of different tribes and they all were fighting each other all the time. And all of that was engineered by the Chinese. And eventually when Chisan became when when he was still called Timujin and he became a significant force in Mongolia. Then there were then various tribes came together and formed a coalition against him and they had leaders like Jamuka, one of his uh former friends and eventual enemy. So they formed an alliance against Teujin and Teujin defeated this tribal co coalition, this confederation. That was when he was about 43, 44, 45, mid-40s. And that was that that him defeating this coalition was the formation of a unified Mongolia. So whenever somebody has done this sort of thing, it's it's created some kind of unification. So King Sudas defeated this alliance of 10 more than 10 clans. He unified bat and that's the beginning of the of of of the I don't know the rigidic phase perhaps of Indian civilization and chingishan defed his this tribal confederation that was the the formation of Mongolia as the unified entity. So you have some examples in history but I can't think of any example that that that kind of rivals what Sudas did one against I don't know 11 12 essentially not 10 more more than 10 so very hard to find an example that is exactly similar like you know up against that sort of those sort of odds and still winning. Okay, next anonymous scientist says the US gained the USSR's support during the Second World War because Hitler betrayed the USSR with Operation Barbarosa. What happened to the USSR relationship after the war? Why did they start a new rivalry or cold war? I mean, a great question. They they used to be allies, right? What happened? So the u the Germans, the Nazis who obviously were led by Hitler, they had essentially a pact, a non-aggression pact with the USSR of Joseph Stalin. It was called the Molotov Ribthrop pact. This was a non-aggression pact kind of not really an alliance, but we won't fight each other, you know, that sort of thing. And uh that was kind of the precursor, you know, it it kind of it kind of made things easy for Hitler for a while. So they had this pact, the Molotov ribbon pact. And what was it 194142 whenever it was operation Barbar Rosa was launched? Hitler decided now the pact is torn to pieces and I'm going to invade the USSR. He did not wait to finish the job with England. Yeah. He decided, okay, forget about England. let's go to the USSR. If he had finished England off, which was possible, then it would have been a possibly a different story. And even with operation Barbarosa, instead of going straight for Moscow, he went for the caucases where you had oil and gas and he wanted that, but that allowed the USSR to regroup. Anyway, that's a long story. The point is that during the Second World War, the Soviet Union after Operation Barbarosa was on the defensive. Initially, Operation Barbarosa was a huge success. The Germans made tremendous progress. They essentially eventually reached the outskirts of Moscow. They could see Moscow through binoculars. Yeah. But that's where that's where grand old general of Russia comes in, General Winter. And that's when everything changed. But when the USSR was on the back foot and they were being hammered by the Nazis, they formed an alliance with the United States. The United States eventually did enter the war after a period of dillydallying and they were allies with the USSR and they did provide a lot of uh support material support etc to the USSR and uh the objective was to defeat Adolf Hitler right and uh then eventually the Soviets start pushing forward surging forward and most of the fighting and most of the dying in the war was done by the USSR. The USSR they lost about more than 20 maybe 27 million men in the war effort. There must have been women al obviously also but mostly I would say soldiers right and in order to to win the war they had to develop this massive industrial complex massive industrial complex. And the Soviets had an advantage the Germans did not have. They had inexhaustible land all the way to the far east of Asia. So they could afford to have factories deep in their interior, connect them with rail lines to the front. And that's how they started churning out the the the the weapons, arms, ammunition, machinery, all of that, aircraft, tanks, whatever that was needed for the war effort. And that created a massive industrial base for the USSR. It in under Joseph Stalin the USSR industrialized massively for the war effort. And that's how they were able to at immense cost the cost of oceans of blood. They were able to defeat Nazi Germany. The American contribution is nothing compared to the Soviet contribution in winning the war. The Soviets also are accused of all kinds of brutalities and atrocities. Even the allies did the same thing. Okay, let's not so let's not try and um have somebody hold the moral high ground because you watch some Hollywood movie. Okay, that's not how the world works. Uh so the US and the USSR were allies. The moment the war ends, they become enemies, right? The cold war starts. Why? Because they were allies. It was a it was an alliance of convenience. They were temporary allies because they had a common enemy. Once the common enemy was defeated, now you look at each other and you see something else. The US looks at the USSR. They see that this guy has enormous resources, huge amount of territory, massive industrial complex, massive military complex, very powerful armed force, hugely powerful military, thousands of tanks, thousands of aircraft, millions of soldiers and inexhaustible land and resources. Otarchi, well, there was only one other nation like that which was the US. They had acquired for themselves an entire continent which they could rule. They acquired it from the natives by killing them. So they also had this but the USSR had more resources, more material. So clearly you can't be friends anymore. That's how the world works. So they became enemies and that's that's the beginning of the rivalry which is called the cold war cuz that's how that's how it works in geopolitics, right? Aush Singh says, "How did the US and USSR get their atomic bombs? Why do you say that India is the only nation that has an independent nuclear program?" I have indeed said that and you are right. You should ask the question, why do I say that India is the only nation that independently developed a nuclear weapons program? Does it mean everybody did it independently? Let's figure out. So, let's begin with the US. How did the US acquire its atomic bomb? It's called the Manhattan Project. So in the beginning of the 20th century, you had a revolution in physics. There were some see at the at the end of the 19th century, it was believed that physics could predict everything. It could answer everything. You want to know when Hal's comet will come? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 1910, then 1986. And then keep calculating. You could know it. You want to know what is the speed of of sound in helium? Well, you can the you you can physics can tell you exactly what the sound of sound speed of sound in helium is to three decimal places. Uh you want to understand electromagnetism. Well, physics will tell you exactly. Maxwell's equations will tell you every everything you need to know about electricity, magnetism and how they interact and how they are how they are the a single force. Essentially everything you could imagine, you could predict and explain through physics. But then some cracks appeared in physics and that was the black body pro problem, the ultraviolet catastrophe and so on. And then we discovered that you know there's something called the atom. There's something called the atom atoms. Nobody believed in atoms until 1905 when Einstein wrote his paper about the full photoelectric effect. And eventually long story short this gave rise to the development of quantum mechanics and then the discovery of radiation x-rays 18 1894 1895 whatever ro ron jun the German dentist his wife's uh hand and so on so then you discover radioactivity radioactivity is a spontaneous decay of atom of of certain atoms uranium and so on and then physicists realize that you do some stuff with radio radioactivity it causes a chain reaction and theoretically It can give you unlimited energy but a runaway form of energy. It's something you can't control. And then very quickly they put two and two together and said that if you have sufficient quantity a sufficient quantity of such file material like uranium it'll just spontaneously explode in a nuclear explosion. But then such you needed you needed highly purified uranium for that more than 90% 95% purity for that. That's called weapons grade uranium. So how do you acquire that and blah blah blah. So that's what the Manhattan project was all about. J Robert Oppenheimer was put at the head of the uh head of the Manhattan project. It was a highly secretive operation and it went on for quite some time. They acquired tremendous quantities of uranium ore from Africa and they purified it and they had to do a lot of you know physics that had not been done before and eventually they they tested the Trinity explosion in Nevada or wherever it was. There was the first explosion. So the US atomic bomb was entirely indigenous. They obviously they brought in the best scientists from the world Enrio Fermy and uh Feainman and Oppenheimer and so many more so many more who all who all worked together on the atomic uh bomb project and that's how they were able to test the bomb first in Nevada and then in Hiroshima Nagasaki and so on we know that now when the Manhattan project was going on it was a highly secretive operation but there were spies there were spies in the Manhattan project. Okay. Uh the Rosenbergs and I I forget the names. You can look it up. Okay. Espionage on the Manhattan project. So once the Soviets got to know that the Americans have they also had excellent scientists, excellent physicists, the Soviets. Okay. So the Soviet Union had excellent physicists and they came to know that the Americans have already done this. So, so they started developing their own uh atomic weapons, nuclear weapons program and they indulged in espionage. They had spies who were working for them in the US and the spies brought in a lot of information, stolen information from the US and that accelerated the Soviet program. So the Soviet program was kind of partially indigenous and partially stolen from the US through espionage. So the Soviets test their atomic bomb and the Soviet Union becomes a second nuclear weapons power and that gives rise to the nuclear race, the arms race and uh all that. Now then what happens? The Soviets at that time had extremely friendly relations with China. So they helped China develop their atomic weapons atomic energy and nuclear weapons program. They gave a lot of knowhow. They gave a lot of technological technical assistance. The Chinese had access to uranium which the Soviets did not have. So the Soviets wanted Chinese uranium in exchange for so Chinese uranium. They gave knowhow to the Chinese to make the Chinese nuclear weapon. Some of the Chinese uranium came from Axai Chin. Do you know why Axai Chin is so important to China? Do you understand why? And so on. So the Soviets helped China develop the Chinese nuclear bomb. So the Soviets got their some certain nontrivial percentage of information and knowhow from the US and they passed a lot of that on to the Chinese. Now the British, they also got some assistance from the US. They helped the French. The French also got some assistance from the US. Maybe negative assistance, but they still assistance. What is negative assistance? What is negative help? It means the Americans will tell the French, we won't help you develop it, but we will tell you what doesn't work. So you'll not waste your time in the wrong directions. That also helps. So the British nuclear weapons program and the French nuclear weapons program was also assisted by the Americans. The Israeli nuclear weapons program, it was strongly assisted by the French. The French gave a lot of help to the Israelis in developing their nuclear weapons. And the Israelis maybe got some uranium from South Africa and so on. There was a South African angle also in this. The Pakistanis their nuclear weapons program it's either Chinese or American. I think their nuclear warheads are most likely American nuclear warheads. So that leaves leaves us with India. Did India get any assistance from anybody? No. And that's the end of the story. I I hope that answers your question. And you can look look all of this up. You can fact check everything I said. Look it up. I I invite you all I encourage you all to fact check what I just said. Look it up. All right. Next. Krishna Ragunat of the Surinamese Netherlands says, "I have done a little research on the era in which Zaratustra is supposed to have lived, but the information contradicts itself." Well, different claims contradict each other. One claim says that Zaratustra lived 258 years before Alexander the Great. A second explanation claims that Zoro Zoroaster lived around 1500 BC which exactly matches the rig with the date of Max Miller. A third explanation claims that Zeratustra lived 5,000 years before the Trojan War. What's my view on this? So because the Greeks destroyed all Persian records, that's why we don't quite know when Zeratustra lived. Um, so what's the truth? this 1500 BC Max Miller, let's throw it out of the room right away, okay? Uh we don't need to waste our time talking about Max Miller and his dates. Uh his dates were based on God knows what theological calculations that according to the Adam and Eve theory, the theory of creation, the world was created in so and so date. So, so Indian culture and civilization cannot be older than that obviously then. Yeah, that sort of thing. So, um Genesis, that's that thing. So let's forget about what what Max Mueller said in his 1500 BC arian arian invasion nonsense and rigida was written 1500 BC forget about that um zeros one claim says zeratustra lived 28 years before Alexander so Alexander invaded India and Persia which year which year it was uh it's right before it was when the Nanda dynasty was in power in in India and few years before the morian dynupta with the assistance of vishoptanaka. So let's quickly google this because I don't remember the exact date because you should never memorize dates. You can always refer to them. So let's go to google uh date of Alexander's date of Alexander's u disastrous invasion of India. Okay. when 327 326 BC okay that's when he invaded so uh if Zaratusra lived 258 years before that that's 527 BC plus 577 585 BC 585 BC is what that that claim would give us now a minus A minus okay when did he lived 7th century BC well That kind of makes sense. It's possible. It's it's plausible. I would say plausible. If it is 585 or 580 or something BC, it would be after aish. So the founder of the Aminid dynasty was this gentleman Akinus or Akamanish or Akamanish. And he was definitely not a Zorastrian. He if he was not a Zoroastrian, well what religion did he follow? Well, obviously the Vic religion, right? What else? Um, so it's I think that is a little plausible that he that Zarathra lived maybe a century or two after the founder of the Akid dynasty. That kind of could make sense. Um, Zarathra. So if you if you look at the name Zaratustra, it's two words Zarat and Ustra. Zarat means yellow or golden and Ustra means camel in Sanskrit. So it means golden camel or yellow camel. Maybe he had a golden camel or maybe he was the owner of yellow camels. I don't know what it was but that sort of thing. That's the kind of name it is. Um 5,000 years before the Trojan War. Well, when did the Trojan War happen? Tro Troy has been discovered. It's it's currently present day in in present day Turkey. It's a place called Hisarik. So that is most likely the site of historical Troy which at that time Turkey used to be Greece. uh and that battle if it happened the the the war of Troy the Trojan war it would be around maybe between 1500 BC and 2,000 BC around that time. So if Zeratus lived 5,000 years before that there would be 7,000 BC which I think is a little it's like farfetched a little bit. Yeah. So I would be I I I would be more inclined to say that he must have lived a few cent maybe two and a half centuries before Alexander's attempted invasion of India. Maybe that makes more sense. But nobody has the the the conclusive answer as to when Zaratustra actually lived because yeah we don't have the answer because all the records are gone. The Greeks destroyed all Persian records. So we don't know the answer but most likely after the foundation of the Akimeirate dynasty. Okay. Shahasara Shahasara says why did the British construct famines all over India? How would they benefit from these famines? Would that not cost them in the long term by decrease in tax collection and loss of manpower for their informal slavery? Why would why? It's a good question. Why if the British are occupying India, why would they have people die off in the millions, why not keep them alive and and have more tax? Right? So, understand this. We know what happened in 1857, war of independence. And the British had a great had a very hard time, you know, surviving that. And before 185 1857, there was more opposition to the British. Our land was under foreign occupation. It was a brutal occupation and we fought our people fought the British. Now what's the best way to prevent a people from fighting? You starve them. You starve them. If they don't have food to eat, how will they fight? India was the home of 330 million people. It's okay to kill a few million every every year. It'll it'll keep them in check. If they're all skeletonized and starving, how will they fight us? We can still tax them. That's why the British starved Indians, that's how the British engineered famines in India. Now the question also arises, how did the British engineer famines in India? How did they do it? I mean, how do you engineer a famine? So, so the British were very systematic in engineering famines. They had very exploitative economic policies, very exploitative agricultural policies. They obviously prioritize their interests, their commercial interests, their imperial interests. Uh they how how do you start a famine? You force farmers to stop planting food crops. You force them to plant cash crops. You make them plant opium which you will then sell to China and extract silver and gold out of China through opium taken out of India which was which was which you obtained by forcing farmers to to grow opium instead of food crops. So you're forcing farmers to grow opium. You're forcing them to grow grow indigo. You're forcing them to grow cotton. But who is going to grow the food grains? Right? So that's one way of of constructing a famine of of of engineering a famine. Then when a famine happens, you you are the government in some parts of India. So you will do famine relief measures. What kind of famine relief measures you'll do? You will say okay you people are starving. I'll give you solution. You guys come and do hard labor for me ext. So that is famine relief. Right? Um and the British had extremely exploitative land revenue and taxation. They had something called permanent settlement. They had something called the horrific riyatvari system. Right? They they stole all the lands all the land of the Indians. Today Indians don't have land. Right? Why do Indians don't have not have land today? Indians don't have land today. Most Indians have no land. Before the British came, most Indians had land. Before the Turks it came, even more Indians, everybody had land. Today most Indians don't have land. and they go to cities and they live in rent and whatn not. What happened to the land of the Indians? The British government took it and then it was passed on to the into the Indian government and Zabindari system all kinds of horrific things. The Rayataware system it stole the land of the people. It imposed and the British imposed extremely high exorbitant land taxes taxes. They forced farmers to do subsistance farming and that too of cash crops instead of food crops in order to not be killed so that they can pay their taxes to the government. High taxes, theft of land, forcing people to grow cash crops, no food security. When we had Indian kings, there was food security. the Indian kings is to maintain huge reserves of grains because every few years there's the elino kind of situation and maybe two three maybe one or two years there's the monsoon fails but if you have sufficient reserves of grains you can distribute them and you can wave off the taxes for that year that's what the Indian kings would do that's why India never had famines even if you go back to rakari and birana and all that like 5,000 7,000 BC you see these huge grain silos in which grain could be stored in tons So India always had this system. The British destroyed all of that. H then whenever there is a famine the British would export the grains to Britain and to other British colonies. So and then you would have some grain but the the farmers would have to buy it from the British at extremely high rates and because the farmers are are taxed so heavily their purchasing power is next to nothing. Right? And whenever you had famine relief relief camps, they would give less food than the Nazis gave to Jewish prisoners in their concentration camps. So there was increased mortality in these famine relief camps. And the epidemics, the death toll, nobody counts, right? And the British, you know what people what the British lovers tell us? The British gave us railways. They constructed the railways for us. Without the British, we would not have the railways. The railways were the infrastructure of extraction. If you had a railway network across India, then maybe if there's a famine in some part of India, you could transport the grains and whatnot there. But the railway system was constructed for extraction which is from the places where you have mines and and resources the British want to the ports like Mumbai, Kolkata, wherever. The railways were only used for extraction. They were never used for famine relief, food movement, nothing. So everything collapses right and in India another thing Indian kings, emperors, queens, whoever they invested in irrigation. You would have ponds in every village. You would have canals everywhere. You would have dams. Right? The British invested in railways and they killed off all the irrigation. Right? So that caused more vulnerability to drought and so on. I can just go on and on. how the British engineered, they constructed, they designed, engineered and implemented famines all across India. The objective and whether Indians died or lived, they would get what they want. They did not want taxes from India. They wanted resources from India. They wanted labor from Indians and they got it anyway. India was a land of plenty. If a few million Indians die, there are so many more Indians to work for the British. So one year you can have a famine in Odisha, Odisha. one woman one year you can have in Tamil Nadu one year you can have in Gujarat next year you can have in maybe three other parts of India you keep on moving the famines around and ensure that people are just oppressed all the time that's what the British did very very very very systematic policy extremely intelligently executed the British probably the most evil thing the British have ever done done anywhere all right Norman Auda says If the Greeks were originally of Indian descent, why didn't they worship the gods using their real names? And if they were Indians, then how and why they changed their language from Sanskrit to Greek. So this idea that the Greeks were of Indian origin comes from various sources. Let's put one of the sources. One of the ideas is that you know you had the battle of the 10 kings. Okay. Now and and those 10, 11, 12 clans were expelled from India forever and they became the originators of the Indo-Uropean languages across Eurasia. Oh. Uh, Talagiri 10 kings. Uh, I uh clan names. Clan names. Okay. Was Vishwa Mitra etc. Let's see. The Dash in the battle of the 10 kings and Lina. Okay. So, who are the opponents of Kings Sudas? The Pritus, the Parthas, the Parththeians, the Pershus and the Pashas, the Persians. There we have it. You can see already the Shimus, the Brigus, the Druhus, the Alenas, the Paktas, the Pakti, the Pashons, the Balanas, the Bolanas, the Shivas, the Visharins uh uh and so on. So he ex he tells you who these people were, the Simu, the etc. Nuristani, Pishanin, the Pakun, Pakta, the Bulani, Bhalana, Parthoparthians, Paro, Persians, Madra, the Maday, the Mids, the Ka, Alina, Smatians. So when it comes to Greece, the Alina clan that faced off against uh which was one of the 11 or 12 clans that faced that faced kings, the Alina, they probably are the originators of the Helenic people. The Hellenic people are the Greek people obviously, right? So that is a strong possibility. It is not proven for sure, but it's a strong possibility. Now, if this battle happened around 6,000 BC and Pers and Greece became a high civilization 2,000 BC, that's 4,000 years, that's a gap of 4,000 years. A lot happens in 4,000 years and it explains a lot if this theory is true. Now, tell me something. You It's a great question that you're asking. Now, let's understand it logically. The question you're asking is why didn't the Greeks if they were originally of Indian descent? Why didn't they worship the gods using the real names? Now tell me today h today in India how many of you worship Lord Indra using any name? How many of you worship Dorsetru? How many of you do? Has anybody even heard of Dors Petru? The pitu the father of Indra that was the original god. The pitu and pritim mata the sky father and the earth mother those were the original gods and go go goddesses god and goddess nobody worships them today in India. Who worships Lord Indra today? Nobody does. What happened? We ourselves have changed. Who worships scand today? Some people in south India some people. But the rest of India, does anybody remember scand? We had an emperor named after scandupta. One of our great emperors, right? We have forgotten so many of our own gods. We have relegated them to obscurity. Right? And we have so many new names for gods and goddesses. I mean we have multiple names for gods and goddesses that evolution happens in India also. And if they if the if the question is why did the Greeks change their language from from Sanskrit to Greek? Well simple question how many of you speak Sanskrit today in India? How many how many do people speak Bengali, Asamis, Kashmiri, Punjabi, Marathi, uh, Odia, Gujarati, Oranavi, you can go on. What happened to Sanskrit? Why don't Indians speak Sanskrit today? The same process that happened in in India happened everywhere else. And that's the answer. Very simple. All right. All right. Swapnil Mishra says once upon a time there was an ambitious plan called Atlantanropa to fully drain the Mediterranean Sea and reclaim land to connect Europe and Africa. So why is that even today a comparatively smaller project like building a bridge between Spain and Morocco has never been realized. Interesting question that combines world history with kind of present day stuff. But okay, let's go to the map. What was this plan at Tropa like? Let's go. Let's go to the map. So around the 1920s, there was a German engineer whose name escapes me now. You can look it up. There was a German engineer who proposed creating a gigantic hydroelect electric dam in the straight of Gibralar. And this project would entail essentially draining much of the Mediterranean Sea, which is this this sea here. And it would bring the sea level down by about 10020 meters which is a massive change which would completely completely transform the landscape of this entire region. It would essentially connect Africa and Europe and it would free up a lot of land for settlement and resource extraction and whatnot. So that plan was called Atlantropa. It was a hugely ambitious plan and completely unfeasible because of the engineering challenges involved. So that's why nobody took it seriously. It was a very ambitious plan but the engineering challenges were immense. It's almost like terraforming a new planet almost like that and the cost would have been exorbitant astronomical hundreds of trillions of dollars perhaps that sort of thing. So that's why it was never taken seriously. But if you just take a small portion of that and say that okay we just create a land bridge. Okay. To create a bridge, not just a land bridge, maybe a tunnel, maybe a bridge or maybe a tunnel across the straight of Gibralar. So we have the nation of Morocco here on the south and we have the nation of Spain in the north and between them there's this little straight of Gibralar. What's the width of the straight? It's about 15 kilometers. That's it. Just 15 kilometers. Why can't this be done? For example, one example you can give is the the the channel tunnel between France and the UK. So we have the English channel over here. And what's the distance? Let's measure the distance. It's about 35 or something kilometers and there is this underground tunnel that goes under the straight under the British channel under the straight of do essentially and uh you can uh essentially travel by train from London to Paris in I don't know very short period of time an hour or two I suppose because the the French TGV trains are extremely fast TGV anyway so if the British if this channel tunnel can be constructed under the under the ocean then why can't you construct a bridge or or or a or a tunnel between the across the street of Gibralar which is even the distance is even shorter it's less than half of uh the width of the other project that's the question now why is it that this hasn't happened there's still proposals that we should do this I mean they should do this so why hasn't it happened is the question I'll tell you Okay. First of all, when it comes to the British channel, the the the the depth of the sea between France and England is on average 50 60 70 m. Okay. So, the bottom of the sea is about 50 60 70 m more or less roughly approximately on average on average maybe around 60 m. That's the depth of the of the English channel. But when it comes to the straight of Gibralar, the depth must be I don't know 600 700 800 m maybe a kilometer. So it's tremendously deep. Tremendously deep. Imagine constructing a bridge in a place where in in a part of the ocean which has a depth of a kilometer. I mean it's a whole different kind of challenge, right? It's nothing compared to what they did uh with the channel tunnel. Nothing comparable. Totally different engineering challenge. And secondly, this place, the straight of Gibralar, it is right at the boundary of the Eurasian tectonic plate and the African tectonic plate. That's a tectonically active region. What does it mean? The plates keep moving moving. It's about half a cime per year the movement. Very small, right? In 10 years it's 5 cm. If you have a bridge and there's a shift of 5 cm it will collapse the bridge. Just 5 cm is enough to collapse a bridge. If you have a tunnel under the ocean and the wall moves one portion of the wall moves by 5 cm it's going to be a catastrophe. You don't want to build anything sensitive in that region. So because of these reasons, yeah, that's why this project has never happened. Amisha Mishra says, "What exactly was Athenian Athenian democracy? Was it truly as radically democratic as popularly imagined? Was it unique or or did other Greek states, city states also had this this also have this sort of thing, democracy?" Right? So people the whole world will teach you your your Indian history textbooks will teach you your Indian professors and teachers will teach you in school that Greece is the motherland. It's the it's the birthplace of democracy. Athens was the ideal city state. Democracy came from Athens. What do you people know you backward Indians? What do you people know? Democracy is the cornerstone of the civilized world. And it emerged in Greece in Athens. Athens was the was the shining light in the world of darkness. Athens gave us democracy. Athens had direct democratic governance. In the fifth century BC, 4th century BC. See, how long ago? 2 and a half thousand years ago, you had democracy in Athens. Political power was exercised by citizens. They had it was exercised by citizens through elected representatives. What the hell? I mean, no, they did not have elected representatives. They had direct governance by citizens. Now what's the truth my friends? What is the truth? Rick democracy. Let's examine the truth and please I invite you all to fact check what I am saying. Okay? Please fact check what I'm saying. Look it up. Go to Google. Go to whatever it is that you go to these days. Look it up. So when it comes to Athens, yeah, there was democracy. Citizens could vote. Who were citizens? Only citizens could participate in the democracy. Right? Only citizens. So what is the definition of a citizen of Athens? The definition of a citizen in Athens was a free adult male who Yeah. Free adult male. What does it mean to be a free adult male? Male. Male. First of all, you have to be male. So 50% population gone. women could not participate in this democracy. 50% out of the window. But when it comes to the other 50% who are males, we're talking about free adult males. So children gone, maybe 20 30% gone there. So we are left with what? I don't know what percentage we left with. So it means that about 10 to 20% maybe 15% of Athens population could actually participate in this democracy and vote the eligibility eligibility was adult male male citizens and also yeah there was another another piece of eligibility free adult male citizens who had completed military training. If you had not completed military training you could not participate in the democracy. Now what does it mean by free? Why not just adult males? Why not? What does it mean to be? What does this criterion mean free? It means you must not be a slave. Slaves are very bad. Slaves cannot vote. No, no, no, no, no. What is the percentage of slaves in Athens? 15 to 30%. Yeah. So, Athens may have a may have had a population of maybe two 250,000 2 and a half lakhs out of which maybe you had one lakh slaves. H oh no. So you had about one lakh slaves out of a total population of 2 and a half lakhs. So only one and a half lakhs are not slaves. Then out of those remove the women, remove the children, remove the males who have not completed military training, you're left with 10 15% of the population of Athens who could participate in this so-called democracy. You see, slavery, slavery was an integral part of the structure of the civilization. It was an integral part of the social and economic way of life in Athens. And Athens was was had a great reputation for having the largest slave populations of any Greek city state. And the slaves were not people who were who were were maybe abducted from Africa or something. There were Greeks. Greeks who were who had been enslaved. Yes. Okay. Very good. I think that should answer your question. And the other city states also had similar things. But Athens was the was the great democratic place. the the greatest of the democracies in the city states. Other city states aspired to be as great as Athens. So they also tried to emulate Athens and they also had their own forms of similar democracies. But there you have it. Is that what you call democracy? Really? H really? Okay. Next the question. geopolitical dubes were ancient Indian and Egyptian kings and people in direct contact or was it just trade contact through indirectly through Mesopotamia see in those days we did not have aircraft so if I feel like okay to to let's let's go to Cairo and visit the pyramid so I go and book my things and you know 3 days later I'm in Cairo doesn't did not work like that you had to go to Egypt it was like a journey of a lifetime you would go by ship You would cross the western Indian Ocean, Indian Ocean. You would go into uh let's go to the map right very quickly. Where is map? Here is map. So if you had to go to Egypt, you would cross the western Indian Ocean. You would go into the Gulf of Aen. You would go through the straight of the of Babal Mandib. You would then go up the Red Sea northwards and then you would end up in Egypt, which was this region. That's what you would do. So only traders would do that. Kings did not visit each other. In those days there was no state visit. Like right now Mr. Modi, our prime minister, he was in Japan yesterday, I believe, or day before today and right now he's in China. So world leaders today, they go on state visits and they visit each other and they know each other very well. Those days leaders, kings, emperors never visited each other unless they visited their wasals. That's a different story. It is possible that um it is likely that Chandra Gupta Mori our emperor would have met with Salucas Niketta the the emperor of the Seucid Empire. That's possible because that was a very unique set of circumstances. That is quite possible but in ordinary conditions you would never have a king meeting with another king especially from other parts of the world would not happen. Um so ancient Indian and Egyptian kings kings would not meet and and for example like like I said when kings met their vasals and carried out correspondence. Let me show you a great example from Egypt. Okay the Amarna letters let us go to our friend Google. Some people tell me why don't you use perplexity or something. Now I will use Google. So uh it's called Amar Amarna letters right? Yeah there we have it. So this uh the Amarna letters we'll go to Wikipedia. I showed you very very clearly how Wikipedia distorts Indian history but we can look at this. Okay. Uh Amarna letters. So this is this is diplomatic correspondence between uh the kings of Egypt and their various neighbors. This is very interesting. Akinatan and Tosharata Sharata was the king of the Mitani and he had extensive correspondence with with Akinatan. After akinatan dies, he has correspondence with Akinatan's widow and then he has correspondence with the next king as well. Very interesting uh correspondence that you see over here. Mitani King Tisharata Amen Hutep II. So Toshirata's sister was married to the Pharaoh of Egypt. Then his daughter was also married to the Pharaoh of Egypt. So you have this extensive correspondence and it's about golden statues and all and Tosharata is complaining a lot uh he has a a letter to the widow of the king also. So when you find this sort of thing it's it's really interesting and this still survives for Egypt but we kind of have lost uh all records of our history written records unfortunately. So the coming back to the main question, this was actually a digression that I did here because it's interesting. Always fun to think of something different. Yeah. But yeah, so there was trade contract between India and Egypt. You would have traders traveling to the two civilizations. You would have Egyptian traders coming to India. You would have Indian traders going in great numbers to Egypt. That sort of thing. It's very clear that around 2000 BC you had the presence of Indians in Egypt because you have the introgression of Indian cattle in Egypt. The zebu cattle that only live that only originated in India nowhere else. And was it indirectly through Mesopotamia? I would imagine it would have been direct contact not through Mesopotamia through a proxy. Why do you need a proxy? You trade with me Mesopotamia. You can also trade with Egypt directly. So it would have been direct trade. Kithan Desai says after the 7th century when the Arabs and Turks invaded India from the northwest many kingdoms fought them and stopped them from advancing towards India but history books give very little information about this period please tell us about this era and suggest a good book related to this era okay when it comes to books I don't know of any book nobody in India no historian has bothered to write a book about this era because then the truth will come out and then Indians will stop fighting each You see today what's happened is this between the 7th century when Muhammad bin Kasim in tries to invade Sind and then until and then about what when does Babar and all those all these individuals come to India that's many centuries later when Baba came to India India was still not under complete Turk occupation even north India was not completely under Turk occupation you still had a lot of resistance so let's quickly Google This I I I forget dates. Okay. So Google it. When did Baba invade India? Uh 1505. So 7th century. When did Bin Kasim When did Bin Kasim invade India? Uh 711 AD. 711 AD to 1505. How many? That's 800 years. 800 years India was still largely free. Why was India still largely free despite all the repeated invasions and attempts to expand the the Delhi Sun and all? Because Indians fought, Indian kings fought. But this entire period of history is whitewashed away from Indian history textbooks. Why? Because they want Indians to keep fighting each other. Who was it that fought the invaders at the time? It was the people we call the Rajputs. They fought, they bled, they died. You have no idea how many of them died. The women had to commit horrific ends to themselves. They have to even destroy their bodies while dying. You know, Johar that sort of thing. Horrific period of Indian history. Incredible bravery, incredible valor, incredible sacrifices. But no historian writes about this. So that today you have all these you know today if you go to social media you will find Indians fighting each other. It's always Baratas versus Rajput or somebody else versus this or this versus that or that always it's always someone trying to portray that me and my people were better and you people were losers and the other guys say you were losers and that sort of thing they the objective is to keep Indians fighting each other. Everybody contributed to to to fighting for India at different points in time. 711 AD is when bin Kasim tries to invade India and then there is this repeated wave after wave of invasions first by the Arabs then by the Turks. Continues continues for centuries. Eight centuries go. The Moguls then arrive in India. Babar and they they establish a small foothold in India and then it takes another couple of centuries until orb kind of you know creates this huge kingdom which in includes much of India 8 centuries who fought. If nobody fought then how did the Turks not not conquer the whole of India by that time? It was the Rajputs who fought. The Rajputs their their resistance was tremendous. Their bravery and their sacrifice was tremendous. But history books will give you very little information about this so that Indians can keep fighting each other. Indians don't know the contributions of those who fought for India. That's the point. My point is not to say that so and so is great and so and so is not great or whatever. Everybody fought for India different points in time after the Rajput flame was extinguished that happened when the the the Turk Empire became large and all the Rajputs were vitalized eventually that's when the Maratas took over and the Maratas defeated and destroyed the Turk Empire but because of infighting the British were able to overcome them. Long story that's how it goes. Uh is there any good book about that this period of history the first inv the first 800 years of invasions? I don't think so. I don't know of any. No Indian historian has bothered to write about this. There we have it. Judge Navalia says if hypothetically the indigenous people of Americas of the Americas did have immunity to old world infectious diseases like small pox etc. as much as the European colonizers had. Would the situation in the Americas be such that most people in the Americas today would be native genetically but mostly religiously Christian as is the situation in subsaharan Africa and papa New Guinea today? Ah interesting question interesting this is a hypothetical question but it's an interesting question. So once again we go back to the conquest of the Americas by the Spaniards. Brutal barbaric invasion of the Americas. First you have the Spanish conquest of the of the triple alliance. The triple alliance is in the Yucatan region, Mexico. Tenokitlan was their capital city. It is now called Mexico City. This is around 1519, 1520, 1521. And the perpetrator of the atrocities and barbarities was Heran Cortez. Hernan Cortez. He was this Spanish concistador who conquered the Triple Alliance with the help of natives of of locals. So the Spaniards come by ships, small number of Spaniards and they try they want to invade this kingdom and this kingdom is actually an empire. It's a it's an alliance of three states together and they obviously have a bunch of vasals because an empire has vasals. Now whenever you have vasals, was unhappy, right? They want to be free. So when a foreigner comes and say, "Oh, somebody has come from like god knows how many fire how many miles away, thousands of miles away. let's take their help and overthrow our overlords and then we'll be free then we'll get rid of the Spaniards. That's what they thought. So they allied with the Spaniards. The Spaniards marched onto Tanuktitlan the city with tens of thousands maybe hundreds of thousands of allies who were natives and at that same time there was this massive smallpox epidemic that was raging because of the Spanish presence in Mexico. It was the presence of it was the combination of two forces. First, the small pox epidemic and secondly the alliance of the Spanish with tens of thousands maybe hundreds of thousands of natives that led to the decline and fall to the defeat of the triple alliance. And then the Spaniards killed off the their allies also and they had no intention of going back and they colonized and Christianized everything. They destroyed all the temples. They burned all the books. They they killed the emperor. They did all kinds of horrific atrocities. Even today, the natives remember that. And yeah, they Christianized Mexico in the region. That's what happened. And then you have the conquest of the Inca Empire, which is western South America. Okay. Peru. No, what? Peru, Chile, that region, right? So that is a maybe a decade or so after the defeat the destruction of the triple alliance. So the conquest of the Inca Empire was done by another barbarian called Franchesco Pidaro. Okay 1530s early 1530s we're talking about and uh the Inca Emperor was Atawalpa and he was killed by the the Spaniards and similarly once again you had small pox and other horrific epidemics the Spaniards bought. So that is kind of how things happened. Now with that explained in tremendous detail, let me address the question. If hypothetically these indigenous people had immunity to these diseases, then what would have happened? Then they would have defeated the Spaniards and then Christianiz Christianization would not have happened. Even in North America, whether it's the French or the or the English, wherever they appeared, natives started dying out. because of uh the epidemics brought in the the the diseases they brought in. Um even the Spaniards who who explored Florida etc. they also wherever they passed you come back 20 years later there's no villages left. It was a thriving place tens of thousands of people suddenly nothing left. There's no villages nothing. So wherever these people went the Europeans diseases spread and that's how so many of the natives they died and the resistance was futile. They could not resist the the invaders and that's uh how things went and the invaders were not content with occupying the land and oppressing and subjugating the natives. They also destroyed their culture and imposed Christianity on the natives. Uh so if this immunity existed then most of the people in the Americas would not just be native genetically but they would also not be Christian. That's how I see it. Now comparing with subsaharan Africa. Subsaharan Africa was decimated by two foreign religions. One was Islam. Second was Christianity. So Africa if you look at it today there's very little indigenous religion left today. Most of it is either Islamic or Christian. But Africa is different from the Americas because Africa was much closer in proximity geographically to Europe and to the Islamic world. So it was very easy to invade. But when it comes to the Americas, they across a gigantic ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, very hard to invade. So that's why I I I I I would say that if this immunity had existed, the people would be genetically native and also they would still have their original culture and religion. They would not have been Christianized. That's how I think it would have gone. But it's obviously a hypothetical question because we know what's what's happened there. Shahas Sara says, "How did Shri Ching Khan know so much about war strategies, tactics, leaderships and other knowledge required to conquer and rule such an empire while growing up in a small tribe in Mongol wilderness?" Okay, good question. That's a question I may not have addressed before. How did he know all these things? He was the ruler of the of the largest empire ever, right? He conquered half of the known world of his time. How did he know so much about war strategies, tactics, leadership, administration, communication? How did he know all these things? Okay, here's the deal. Jungaskhan was born, he was name, his name was Tujin, birth name. He was born in a small tribe called the Bourjigan, the Borgjugan tribe, which is the blue wolves. His father was the was the chieftain of the small tribe. His name was Yasui. So his father dies when Teujin is about 8 or 9 years old and the tribe expels Teujin's family out of the tribe because some other guy because see once the father dies the son the eldest son must become the the next chieftain of the tribe but the butug's children were all kids so one of his lieutenants wanted to become the the chieftain but for that you have to get rid of the family. Now you can't kill the family of the of the previous king kind of. So you just abandon them in the wilderness and in Mongolia if you are abandoned in the wilderness it is guaranteed death because in Mongolia in winter the temperature goes to minus30° there's no food there's nothing so Timujin and his family were abandoned like that they were left to die but somehow they survived somehow through tremendous hardship they survived and Tuojin becomes well a young man and uh he spends his teens his 20s his 30s fighting. He starts creating his own tribe. He starts fighting the other tribes. And he lost many battles as a young man. He lost many battles. He had a lot of betrayals, lot of hardship, lot of heartbreak. He lost a lot. But he somehow survived. When you fight, sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. But if you have this, you will learn. You'll learn how to what tactics work. what tactics failed because I lost that battle. Why did I lose the battle? You analyze the the defeat. Then you realize what went wrong. Then you next time you don't do that. You do something else. You use a different set of tactics. That's how you learn strategy. That's how you learn how to handle people. That's called leadership. Then once you have a small number of people under you, you could you learn how to administer the whole thing. And once you start defeating more tribes and bringing them into your fold, your understanding of administration and leadership grows. So Chingish Khan finally Teujin finally unified Mongolia at the age of about 44, 45, 46, right? So he had about 30 plus years to learn all of this the hard way. He learned on the job. Nobody came and sat down with him beta, let me teach you strategy, let me teach you tactics, let me teach you leadership. No, he learned it the hard way. The very hard way. And that's why he was really good at it. Right. Amisha says, "Why is Julius Caesar so important? What makes him stand out in front of other Roman emperors or figures?" Oh, well, Julius Caesar. Yeah. Well, he was a pivotal figure. Why was it why was he a pivotal figure? Okay, let's go back to history to to the history of Rome. See Rome, the history of Rome has multiple phases, multiple periods. One period is the Roman kingdom which was established in the 8th century BC or something. Okay, so Rome used to be a kingdom, a small kingdom and they had many see in Italy Rome was is just a small region. Let's go to the map. Let me show you. Let us go to Rome. Let us go to Rome. All right. So we're talking about Rome which is Italy. So Rome is the city here and the kingdom of Rome was a small kingdom over here and they had many other neighbors of other kingdoms the Sabine kingdom and what whatever the names were they had a lot of kingdoms around them and that was the kingdom period of Rome. So Rome was a kingdom then Rome became a republic a ganatantra or ganarajia a republic. So in a republic you have uh essentially some participative form of government not exactly democracy when you have half the huge slave population and women can't vote and all it's not like that but you had a senate so Rome had a senate and and rich wealthy people could be elected to the senate and rich wealthy people could vote in the elections that sort of thing males only males so you had some very prominent wealthy families whose people would be in the Senate and the Senate would decide the affairs of Rome, how things would go and all and so on. So that was the period of the republic. The period of the Roman Republic was an extremely turbulent period. It was a period of expansion, slow expansion initially, but they fought a lot of wars. It was a per period that was characterized by constant warfare essentially. They the three Punic wars with Carthage eventually Carthage was defeated. Hannibal and all the other kingdoms in Italy, they were all destroyed, defeated, subjugated and absorbed. um and so on. So this was the the republican period of Rome in which the Senate had a tremendous amount of power. It was not power was not concentrated in one place. It was the Senate which had the power which is a whole bunch of people old guys wearing to okay that sort of thing. Then Julius Caesar emerges and he's a soldier and uh what Caesar did is that he was the bridge between the the republican period and the imperial period. He put an end to the republic essentially through his actions. How when Julius Caesar emerged on the scene, he was a soldier and and so on. He came from a well recent decently wealthy family, a noblyish kind of family. And once he became a soldier and a general, he launched the greatest conquests Rome had ever seen. First of all, he crossed the Alps and he went and conquered Gaul, which is present day France. Then he was not content with that. So he went and conquered Iberia which is it which is which is Spain. Not enough. That's not enough. So he went and conquered England. He conquered the British islands. Not the whole of the thing but his conquest of of Britain of some parts of Britain was the beginning of the Roman occupation of of the British islands. Then he's not happy enough with that. So he goes and conquers Greece. That's not enough. So he goes and conquers Egypt. Wherever he goes he conquers. So suddenly the Roman dominion expanded from this to huge huge huge huge and then when you conquer so much you will not be content be with being a mere senator right so Julius Caesar appointed himself dictator officially dictator okay not not he became a strong guy that's why we call him a dictator no his title was dictator of Rome and then he had this the alliance with Cleopatra, the Greek uh queen of Egypt and they had a son. So that's when the Senate become really really worried that now we're going to have a king. We have Julius Scissor who is who is in alliance with a queen and they have produced an offspring a male child and they are now going going to rule us and that's what eventually got him assassinated but that was the end of the republic because after that two of the people who were the closest associates of Julius Caesar Mark Anthony and Octavian Octavian was Julius Caesar's adoptive son and Mark Anthony was very closely associated with Julius Caesar his rightand man perhaps perhaps an adoptive son also. I'm not sure. Octavian was the here was the was the was the adop adoptive adoptive son. So Octaven and Mark Anthony they go to war and the winner of the war becomes the first emperor of Rome. No more so-called democracy, no more Senate. The Senate continued to exist but it was just well performative. It was just mostly ceremonial. the once Octavian became Augustus Caesar all the power in Rome was concentrated in the hands of one person. So Julius Caesar was the transition from the republican period to the imperial period and he made it inevitable that Rome will have an emperor even though he himself should have been that but the but that could not happen because he was assassinated but his adoptive son became the first emperor. Augustus Octavian became Augustus. So Caesar by by the dent of his enormous conquests made it impossible for Rome to remain a republic. He conquered more land than anybody else in the history of Rome. So essentially so that's why Caesar is so important. That's why the people still remember Caesar. That's why we have titles like Kaiser. The Kaiser was the you know you had emperors in in Europe who were called Kaiser. It means Caesar. What does tar mean? The Russian word sar it means Caesar. What does Kaiser a hind mean? It means Caesar of Hind and so on. That's why he is so important. I mean a pivotal personality in the history of of Europe in Rome. Feminist Slayer says, "Can you explain Cleopatra's relationships with Julius Caesar and Mark Anthony including the children from the these unions and how these alliances impacted Egyptian and Roman politics?" H interesting question. Cleopatra. Cleopatra was a Greek princess. She was um she belonged to the to the tomic dynasty. So Egypt used to be under Persian occupation. Okay. Persia had conquered Egypt. And then Alexander comes this way and he says, "Let me go and conquer Egypt." But he finds that the Egyptians are welcoming him. Please sir, please come liberate us from the Persians. So Alexander says, "Okay, no fighting required." He just comes and takes over Egypt. Essentially very little fighting required and he installed a governor in Egypt Alexander whose name was Tlemi. After Alexander died, Tlemi became the king of Egypt and that was the beginning of the Tmic dynasty. Ashok called him Tulamaya. There was a successor of the original Toll Tamaya. So uh Ashok is in our emperor Ashok. Um so you have the tomic dynasty which is a Greek dynasty in Egypt and Cleopatra belonged was a child of this dynasty and she was the queen of Egypt but Cleopatra had political problems in Egypt all the well going back to the day times times of the pharaohs um all the power was was concentrated in the hands of siblings. The Egyptians used to practice sibling marriage and all you know whatever. Anyway, so so Cleopatra had political problems. Her two brothers and sisters also wanted power. She had two brothers and she had a sister and they all coveted the power. They all wanted to be the the sole ruler of Egypt. So she faced that problem and and her ministers and counselors some of them they also played this game of political intrigue. So Cleopatra wanted to consolidate her position as the only sole queen of Egypt and nobody but there should be no political problems. There should be no challengers. So to do that she allied herself with Julius Caesar who had already essentially invaded and conquered Egypt. So she allied herself with him and this union produced a child Cesarian. Okay. And that created problems in Rome. So Cleopatra if I'm not mistaken she visited Rome and that frightened the the Roman senators because they saw that this guy the conqueror of half the world from their perspective it was half the world Julius Caesar who has conquered everything gold Iberia Britain uh Greece Egypt such a powerful guy the whole the entire military worships him now he is an alliance of the Egyptian queen and they have a child so now they're going to rule us and we will have a king we'll have to bow down at his feet and that's why they assassinated Julius Caesar So there was a there was a big problem for Cleopatra. So then Cleopatra later allied herself with Mark Anthony and uh Julius did not regard his son his son Cesarian as his legitimate heir for whatever reason. But Mark Anthony had two or three children with Cleopatra. I think three children. How many girls? How many boys? At least one girl. At least one boy. I don't remember who was a third. But Mark Anthony had three kids with Cleopatra. And Cleopatra allied with Mark Anthony and the objective was to consolidate her position, her political position in Egypt. And then what happens is that we have the war between Mark Anthony and Octavian. And Octaven wins. Mark Anthony meets his end at his own hands. And later Cleopatra also well not at her own hands but at the fangs of an asp which is an Egyptian serpent. Um and what happened to her children I think one of her children one of her daughters was married to King Juba I of Moritania which was a North African kingdom and they yeah and some other kids were married somewhere else that sort of thing. So that was a deal. So did the alliance impact Egyptian politics Roman politics to some extent. to some extent but not to a great extent. Egypt had lost sovereignty because of the conquest of Julius Caesar. So it was a vasal. It was a nation under occupation and Egypt did not ever go up again. It went it only went down after that. Okay. Next question. This is by Nirvana Shanks. Which single technological innovation before 1500 CE had the biggest immediate impact worldwide? So when you talk about technological innovations, you would think maybe it's something like a nuclear technology, nuclear weapons or aircraft or military tech technology something like that. I would say it is the printing press by Johannes Gutenberg somewhere in the 1400s. Why was it so important? Why did did it have such a big impact? We know that India was the civilization that invented education, which invented the the univers university system. We had universities all over the place. But we never had a printing press. Because of that, all the manuscripts in our university libraries were handwritten. They were painstakingly written by hand. Imagine how much effort went into writing a million manuscripts. Right? Because of that knowledge was concentrated in small centers of education. It was not widespread. But the Europeans once they invented the printing press they started printing everything. First was it was the Bible and whatnot. But eventually technical literature became available in print. And that's how ideas that the Arabs had taken from India and transmitted to Europe, they spread so fast in Europe. And that is what contributed to the very rapid industrialization and scientific progress and technological progress in Europe because these ideas were they were able to transmit so fast. You could just print could just print books, mass produce them and send it wherever you needed. Before that you had to write everything down and even making a copy would take months. Now we could mass-produce books and all this dangerous knowledge, technological knowledge, it spread like wildfire and that is what contributed to the Europeans ruling the world for the past 500 years and that still continues. So I would say it is the printing press by Johannes Gutenberg which was probably the most impactful technological innovation before 1500. Okay. Uh, Nitish Kumar Sharma says, "I think I've asked it before. Let me try again." Okay. I have been thinking a lot lately about this and would love to know your opinion. What who do you think had a bigger impact on human history, Lord Buddha or Lord Jesus Christ? Without falling into the euroentric worldview and simply based on historical facts, I know it touches religion with which is complex and personal matter. But without getting into the sensitive part of it, what do you think? Okay. Who was more impactful? Was it Lord Buddha, Sedartha Gotham? Or was it Mr. Jesus Christ? Okay, let's not get get into the whether so and so existed or not and all that. Let's say we had these two historical figures. Who was more impactful? So Buddhism both the dharma which is part of of of our dharmic umbrella, it became very prominent in the subcontinent for a few centuries. Almost everybody we all had Buddhist ancestors. We all have Buddhist ancestors who lived about 2,000 plus years ago. Our ancestors about around that time were Buddhists. Then once again you had a reversion to other forms of dharma and which we call Hinduism today. So and Buddhism was very easy to spread because it was simpler. It was not as philosophically challenging challenging conceptually challenging as as the other forms of of dharma. So who was it? Alan Watts who said I think it was that uh Buddhism is Hinduism stripped down for export. So it was very easily exported out of India and the whole of Southeast Asia at one point in time was even first Hindu and then Buddhist. So China was Buddhist, Japan was Buddhist, Mongolia was Buddhist, the whole of Southeast Asia, Thailand, Burma, everything was Buddhist at one point in time. So very impactful for sure. It spread it spread through people-to-people contacts, trade contacts and so on. That's how it spread. It had a vector property, a property that causes the spreading of the idea. But it was through human contact, people-to-people contact that the spread happened. When it comes to Christianity, today you have more Christians than Hindus or Buddhists or Hindus and Buddhists put together. So if you want, what is the metric we're looking at? What is the metric of impact? Is it the number of people affected? I mean I mean touched if that's the metric of impact Christianity has had a bigger impact because more people in today in today's world are Christian than Hindu plus Buddhist put together. Uh so Christianity had a different vector quality. It also was happy to spread by the sword by destroying uh cultures that existed by destroying them and replacing those cultures with with Christianity. Read that book the the darkening age by Katherine Nixie and you will see how Christianity spread in Europe by violently destroying existing cultures and religions and super superimposing itself on the people over there. So Christianity had a different kind of vector quality. It was it would it would spread not just by people-to-people contact and trade contracts but through violence. So it was more successful that way. So overall I would say Christianity has been more impactful which would mean that Lord Jesus Christ Jesus Christ was more impactful. If you look at it from today's perspective if you look at the impact today Jesus Christ has been more impactful than Lord Buddha. We are not going into who right who's wrong who's better who's worse. Impact how many people affected there we have it. Okay, we have crossed two hours. So, I will not take more questions. I will take questions from the live chat for the next 10 or so minutes. All right. Uh, Vladimir Putin says, "I have read the book. It's so horrible." Yeah. Well, yeah. I'm glad you have read it then. All right. Okay. Let's let's take some questions. If you have questions that you would like to ask me right now in the live chat, do ask me now and I'll take a few questions. Okay. YouTube P says pay who came up with the idea of the crusades and how did the conflict develop up to the ra rise of Saladin also who are the key kings of Jerusalem before glo and why did the war continue okay that's a very interesting specific set of questions okay first of all the the broader question is who came up with the idea of the crusades must have been the Vatican I don't know if any specific individual who decided Okay, we need to tell all the kings of Europe to go to Jerusalem and liberate Jerusalem. I don't know if who specifically would have come up with this, but it came from the church. The church was the driving force. So I would say it came from the Vatican. It came from Rome. But who specifically? I'm not sure. We we can look it up. But yeah, so it came from the Vatican. And then the Vatican was the overlord of Europe. Not just the spiritual overlord of Europe. It was the actual imperial force, the imperial power. All the kings in Europe were essentially vasals of the Vatican of Rome of the Roman church. Um and u and you just you did not merely have crusades for the so-called holy land which is the reclaiming of Jerusalem. You had the northern crusades which was crusades against against Europeans which was to spread Christian. I mean there are still Europeans who practice indigenous culture, the indigenous religion, polytheism, how dare they destroy them. So you had the northern crusades. It was King Charleman of of the Franks Francia or present day France who launched the northern crusades and and converted a lot of Europeans to Christianity by force by through brutal methods. But that's the northern crusades. You had two waves of crusades in in Utam, which is uh which is today's Israel region. One was around one around 1,000 AD or something around that time. Please don't ask for the dates. You can look it up. It was I think there were and there was one set of crusades uh and around the time of Saladin and and Richard the Lionhe Heart. Uh so it was it's it's because the the Islamic world had conquered Jerusalem and and what the Europeans considered to be the holy land where Lord Jesus Christ was was apparently born. So that's why they wanted to liberate this region and that's why the crusades happened. Who were the key kings of key kings of Jerusalem before Gus and how the why did the war continue? I don't remember the names of the kings. I I'll have to go back and delve into history. Don't remember. We had the Guzino and you had various other people. I don't remember the names right now. Okay. So that's what I can tell you. All right. Next. Uh okay. Hi Penguin says, "What's the history and significance of Burma and what was its relation with today's civil war of Myanmar?" History and significance of Burma. Well, that's a very ancient story. They were been around for hundreds thousands of years. Bhadesh. It was used to be a part of Surabumi essentially. Surabumi is what we call what used to be what is today Thailand. But Dharma was well uh history they they've had very powerful kings and empires. You have the Tongo kingdom which which uh with which Manipur had lots of conflicts over the years and so on. It's a it's a very very broad in broad question that you're asking history very long history been around for a very long time and they've had very powerful kingdoms there they came into conflict with Manipur like I said they had conflict conflicts with other kingdoms also in the region and initially they were Hindu they later they became Buddhist and today also they are Buddhist and then Burma came under British occupation around the same time that Manipur saw it sovereignty being eroded by the British And then Burma Burma became part of British India. In 1935 the Burmese voted to stay with India but the British forcibly separated Burma from India despite the vote for remaining with India be remaining unified with India and after the British left they left behind a military government and uh it was kind of isolated and that's why it was easy for other countries to play games there. India never wanted to be the big brother the the the provider of a security umbrella for Burma and that's why the the Chinese got involved in that and today the civil war that that's happening there is kind of a proxy war between the US and China in Burma in in uh in the north northeast part of Burma you have tremendous deposits of rare earths on the border with Yunan Chinese occupied Yunan and the Chinese they they they seek that they they they take that they buy it from the Burmese and the Americans want that they want those rare earths and that's kind of the deal right okay what else do we have what else do we have anonymous scientist says why are Hebrew and some other languages so different from the Indo-Uropean lang language family probably because the history is different because See the Indo-Uropean language family it originated in one place somewhere most likely India the Europeans will hate this when I say it but yeah Hebrew is not Indo-Uropean burner I saw you Hebrew is not Induropean it's a Semitic language it belongs to the Semitic language family and when you have different language families it means that their ancestors evolved separately from the other language families. So in the old days 20 30,000 years before today the world's population was very sparse human beings very sparse some people there was no communication there was no trains or aircraft so people if they lived in one part of the world they would live there for 10 20 3000 thousand years in isolation from everybody else so that's how language families developed and that's why Hebrew is different because it's part of the semitic language family Um, Polomi says Pali is just one of the prairits. Oh yeah, it is one of the upper branch languages which is the prairits. Pali that is correct. Um, Ladir Putin says Samodra Gupta or Napoleon will both existed both both were significant but Samudra Gupta was the the the unifier of India and Napoleon was the destroyer of Europe. So difference difference there. Um all right what else do we have what else do we have? Um I spoke about Rajut struggles of Rajut it'll take hours. So yeah I have this question by Aush Singh. Tell us about the struggles of Rajut. It's a very very long history and story and full of tragedy uh that that I can't explain in the next two three minutes. It's it's a very big topic but good question. Okay, I I'll take it this take it up hopefully some other time. Hi Penguin says is the okay hy penguin a lot. Is the influence of the Kushan Empire on today's India far greater than the influence or the influence of Roman Empire on today's Europe? I would say Rome on today's Europe. India whether it is the Kushan Empire or the Gupta Empire the influence is very less in India today because we have been completely westernized our entire system is western it's a colonial system the influence of whether it's the Kushan Empire or the Marata Empire or the Chola Empire or the Gupta Empire is minimal today minimal because we have completely colonized ourselves Ah look itachi space if I knew this this the answer to this question who are the real power holders behind the curtains could highlight their characteristics these things are supposed to remain secret right I I don't know really oh we have some super chats really okay we will take the super chats don't don't take any more super chats I don't have the time Rahul says do you think American experiment is failing. Do you would you agree that such an artificially created entity that makes no attempt to create a civilization connect in its population can ever succeed? Artificial entities are imperial entities. They're not civilizational entities. America is not a civilization. America is an empire. Is it failing? No. It's not doing as great as before, but it's still there. It can still rule the world for another 200 years if it gets things right. So, I don't think it's failing, but it's it's definitely declining. I mean living standards are declining the the the the quality of society is declining right there is visible decline in in in the United States so there is decline but it doesn't guarantee failure if they still get things right they can still rule uh Harshai says have you watched Tashkan files Kashmir files I haven't seen any of those so I'm sorry I I've not seen I don't know I haven't seen those I don't have have the time to watch movies I'm sure they're great movies I'm sure many people have spoken spoken about this but I haven't seen these. Uh now he's bringing Bengal fights also. My thoughts on these types of movies. I think uh we need to have movies like these movies that bring out the truth about what's really happened and it obviously will make a lot of people unhappy but you know it's a free country so they should come out. Ram Bodh says king who lost his kingdom built an army from the jungle fought and gained back his kingdom. Who's this this king and what's the story? King who lost his kingdom built an army from the jungle fought and didn't go gained back his kingdom that is Vanraj Chowa obviously I mean that's one example Vanraj Chaa uh Zuts says two-part question Q1 are there similarities between the old Greek and Hindu gods single source Q2 what baffles me is how the Greeks converted to Christianity so quickly without violence why can the same happen in India there was violence there was violence it looks like it there wasn't any violence Whereas the Greeks obviously did not want to give up their culture and religion. It was all forced out of them. It was done brutally, violently. Read that book, The Darkening Age by Katherine Nixie. You'll understand that Christianity was imposed on all the polytheistic cultures of Europe through brutality, through force. Are there similarities between the old Greek and Hindu gods? Okay, let me give you an example. Zeus. Zeus, right? Zeus is the god of thunder. Thunder. Zeus fights Typhen, a great sea monster, the sea monster Typhen. He has enveloped the entire world's oceans and he is with withholding the water from the world. So the world is under drought and Zeus the great god with his thunderbolt comes and defeats Typhen and frees the waters of the world. He he liberates the world's waters and that's how the world survives. Zeus That is Indra. That is also Thor, right? That is Indra. Indra is the god of Vajra. Vajra is a hammer. It's also a thunderbolt. He defeated Vitra, the great Assura, the great sea monster who who imprisoned the world's oceans and Indra defeated him and he's the god of the thunderbolt and the vajra and the hammer. That is Zeus. Zeus Peter. What is Zeus Peter? It is Dors Petro. Similarities, there are tremendous similarities. This is this is just one example. Godliness says historically republic India has faced the most brutal war in 1962 with China. Please explain the details and mistakes of the Indian political leadership and military leadership of the time. The leadership neglected and marginalized the army. If you want to have a strong country, you need to have a very powerful military. You need to give them give the military everything it wants. Give them all the arms, all the ammunition they need. Give them a tremendously powerful air force excellent fighter planes. Give them clothing that is that is suitable for high altitude combat. Give them snowshoes. Give them goggles. Give them everything. The Indian army was a rag deck army at the time. It was starved of everything it needed. Secondly, when the Chinese built a road through Oxai, Mr. did not know it for a few years and then we when he came to know he said but not a blade of grass grows there who cares about axin it's your territory there so many such such issues and then there was political issues and so much more so yeah and first of all why were was China allowed to invade and occupy Tibet Mr. Neu supplied the Chinese soldiers rice, Indian rice, they were starving. Without that, they would not even have conquered Tibet. So, so many so many problems. And this is the last question for today. Godliness says Sarasati Hindu civilization was roughly 3,300 BC. And many Indian historians believe there was also the time of Mahabharat. That was also the time of Mahabharat. What's my perspective on this? The Saraswati Sindu civilization that period of history starts around well the oldest archaeological site from this period of time is Birana 7,500 BC that's 9 and a half thousand years before today. So that is the initial phase of the Saraspati Hindu civilization that period of our history 3000 BC or so that's the mature phase that's when the civilization was at its peak peak fully industrialized fully urbanized extremely high prosperity living standards all that that's 3,000 BC 3,300 BC but the beginnings are an an example of the beginnings is Birana that is 7,500 BC when it was very rural sort of So that that's the deal first of all and secondly time time of Mahabharat I have no idea I am not getting into that fight that controversy what was the year of the Mahabharat which year did it happen uh clearly the Mahabharat if you look if you read the text it is it depicts a much more developed India compared to the Ramayan the Ramayan it kind of depicts a more more rural kind of India you do not have huge cities and all that during the time of the Ramayan Mahabharat yeah so it kind is consistent with uh the the kind of industrialization and and urbanization you had during the Saraspati Hindu period. So Mahabharat could be from that time period and the Rigveda it is a completely pastoral India completely rural India. Ramayan more developed Mahabharat extensively developed. So it is possible that the Mahabharat could be contemporaneous with the time of the Saraswati Hindu period of our history. All right, people. That brings me to the end of today's live stream. Good fun. Always great fun talking to you all. Great fun. Thank you so much for all the questions. And tomorrow we're going to have a geopolitics episode. So, I look forward to seeing you all there in case you're interested in geopolitics. Thank you so much. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards. And I will see you tomorrow. Good night. Bye-bye.