Are [Music] you happy? Heat. [Music] Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the Ask Abijit Show. Today is episode 237 live on YouTube. I hope everyone's doing excellent, everyone's doing great. Today I'm going to take questions that you have asked in the comments and then if there is time I will take questions from the live chat as well if possible. But before that let me see who all is there on the live stream today. I can see lots of people. Um I can see Dwanch Singla. I can see Krishna Govinda Alfred Gunat Bulay Udav Prattabora Surrender Gupta Adity Kumar Singh Happy Soul Kohish Tanju Krish Gupta Rangers Wolf Geopolitical Dubai from Indor Pranov Sony Grinder Gupta Zan HZ Gaming Feminist Hunter Shivan Shanka Pratamagarwal Tundra Rea Humbli Kiny R Ash Ashish Pandel Vidi Manar Vikram Adi Mr. 88ers 1813 Sahed Dir Akash Ba Dwanch Singla Bloodmonger Creatin Happy Soul Sergeant Skylin Abi Ram Ankur Sharaf Pranav Sony Kapalin Raakai Samart Tripati Shria Spitra Udav Pratag Bora Vanos Spot feminist hunter Vinay Krishna Suryan Kapel Kalyani Deshmuk Tan Chandra Somi Jane Tjis B pranayal from Kolkata Vik Adi, Zubon, Eizang, Sunil, Chave, Shagun, Chopra, hello Utsav, hello Diddy's Dudu, Pratam Geopolitical, Dub again, Sahil, Matio, Perez from Texas, Sapratim, Duta, Aishek Chakraorti from Bangladesh, Adi, Adihari, Sangram, Nyak SN, Praar Gupta, Retun Na, Runyer, Prashant, Bolian, uh, Joel, Joe, Udb, Sharma, B but Odi Blitzray YT Pratamarwal David Umong Bay uh you know who from Kolkata Palab from Kolkata Mr. Makavin, Anjali, Mari and so many other people. So good evening to all of you. Good day to all of you wherever you are. And let's get going with the questions. What questions do we have today? And we have a question from Geopolitical Dubai. Will scientists be ever able to predict earthquakes? Will there ever be such technology that can allow scientists to predict earthquakes? So there was an earthquake I think yesterday I think right or day before yesterday uh on the border of Myanmar and Thailand. It was a 7.7 earthquake on the RTOR scale and it caused a lot of damage. So it would be great if you could predict earthquakes, right? Then we could alert people beforehand and it would save a lot of lives and pro possibly some property as well. But as of today, we don't have the means to predict earthquakes. Will it be possible in the future? So to understand that, let's understand what is the mechanism that causes earthquakes. In a way, it's like, you know, making meteorological forecasts and predictions. when is it going to rain in a certain part of the world? What kind of weather conditions will we have? And we have a lot of weather data patterns that we that we collect and we feed into supercomputers and these computers then do the modeling and they are able to give give us the predictions of the next few days when it comes to weather across the world, the weather patterns. So to make these predictions, these softwares, these computers etc. these programs, they need a tremendous amount of data, real-time data, evolving data that allows them to hone the model and to make predictions into the future. And these predictions typically work for the next few days, but if you want to make a prediction from for a week or two weeks down the line, it may be something that's still very difficult to do and it may not be very accurate. So to make predictions of weather in the atmosphere, we need tremendous amounts of data of the weather that exists currently. Now earthquakes are caused by tectonic activity by the movements of tectonic plates under the surface of the earth. U these tectonic plates are masses of of the earth's crust that move very slowly over time and they move they collide they they grind past each other. that move over each other. Some slide under another. So sometimes you have one plate sliding another another plate. And these movements are what cause earthquakes. These movements are caused by the flow of magma in the uh you know in the inter internal part of the earth below the mantle of the earth. Um yeah I'll not go and show you the diagram of the of the cross-section of earth of the earth but that's how it works. So to be able to make predictions of future earthquakes, you need a tremendous amount of data of uh the kind of uh activity that's happening under the earth's surface. Uh you'll need a lot of data about the flow of the magma in below the mantle of the mantle of the earth and you'll need data off the mantle of the earth to that that too. And that's all subsurface data. Data about parts of the Earth that are hundreds of kilometers below the surface, tens of kilometers at least. And we don't have sensors down there. You would need tens of thousands of sensors at various varying depths under the Earth's surface to be able to make reliable predictions of what's going to happen in a certain part of the world. Will there be an earthquake? Especially in the parts of the world that are called the that are tect that are seismically active, tectonically active areas where you have intersections of various tectonic plates and one of the these areas is called the ring of fire. You know the area from the Andaman Sea all the way to Indonesia through Indonesia and all the way to Japan and New Zealand and even the Andes region of the of the Americas and the Rocky Mountains regions and so on so forth. So you will need a tremendous amount of sensors, number of sensors, tens of thousands of sensors under the earth's surface at various points under the earth's surface. All giving you feeding you data in real time and more than that you may need data about the movements about the activity of the magma layer that's way below the mantle of the earth and that's essentially impossible to do in today's scenario. And because we don't have any of this data that's why we cannot really make any accurate predictions of earthquakes. In the future it may be possible but at this point in time it's next to impossible to do that and that's why earthquakes are still a huge problem but typically earthquakes happen in tectonically active regions parts of the earth. Uh this earthquake that happened a couple of days ago on the border between Myanmar and Thailand that's unusual. That's not an that's not a part of the world that's typically prone to earthquakes. So that was unusual. Uh but yeah generally when you have when you are living in a in an earthquakep prone region you take precautions on a daily basis. You build buildings you construct buildings that are resilient and that will be able to withstand earthquakes of whatever magnitude maybe seven or eight or whatever. In Japan I think you need to be able to withstand earthquakes of at least eight on the victor scale if not higher and so on. So people who live in such areas they take precautions but it's always good to be able to predict earthquakes which we currently are not able to do. In the future it may be possible but right now it's not quite possible. Next question is by Infinite 406 U and Infinite 406 says choose one uh history edition which is superior Athens versus Spartans. I would say Athens because Athens won in the end. The Spartans did win the penopollesian war but Athens did make a comeback let's say in in 100 years time and over the long term Athens was the one that lasted more. So I would say Athens. Yeah. But the Spartans obviously were superior in their military uh tactics and strategies and their military milit militaristic lifestyle. But overall I would say Athens was superior because it was a more well-rounded culture, more well-rounded city state, more culturally relevant than Sparta. Sparta was one-dimensional, all militaristic. Athens had other stuff as well. I would say overall Athens would be superior. The Aimeid Aimeid Empire versus the Mad Empire. The Mag Empire is the one that preceded the Morian Empire. I would say look the Mag Empire conquered most of the subcontinent, right? Large part of the subcontinent. the Aminids they the thing about the Aminids and various Indian empires whether it's the Magada or the Moran Empire is that they they were never adversaries you see Indian empires like the Morian Empire or the Mag Empire they never tried to expand beyond the subcontinent they only wanted to unify uh the subcontinent under one political rule which was theirs. When it comes to the Aheimerid Empire, they were expansionists, but they never ever expanded eastwards towards India. They always fought the the empires to the west, whether it's the Greeks or whoever, right? So, I would say I would say it's a tie. Aminids versus Magad or Moria. It's a tie. Uh Chandra Gupta versus Caesar. Chandra Gupta Moria is the founder of the Moria Empire of the Moria dynasty. He had the help of his great mentor Shri Vishnu Gupta Chanaka and he established the beginnings of an empire that would eventually be the greatest empire we ever saw in the subcontinent. more or less not probably the greatest maybe the Kushan was greater empire was greater but okay uh it was one of the greatest of all empires in the subcontinent and it gave rise to this great cultural efflloresence and so on so forth right so uh so the founder was chundraupta moria when it comes to Caesar he was a military conqueror and he conquered vast territory probably larger than the subcontinent so from a purely uh expansionist perspective from a from a territorial conquest perspective Caesar was greater He was one of the greatest generals of all time. But from a civilizational perspective, I would say Chandra Gupta was greater. So it depends on which way you look at it. Caesar was a conqueror. Uh he was interested in conquest in in wealth. Why did he conquer? Because it gave him vast amounts of of of territory from which to extract resources like Hispania from which he got a tremendous amount of gold and so on. And that increases prestige in Rome. his overall objective was to be number one the number one man in Rome and that's why he he conquered so much and because he had all these legions at his disposal and legions to maintain legions you need a tremendous amount of resources money that's also another reason for watch for behind his conquests but his conquests were incredibly destructive they resulted in what you would today call genocide uh so yeah but from a conquest perspective Caesar was greater from a allround perspective Ive I would say perhaps Chandra Gupta Moria was was greater perhaps. Uh so it depends on which way you look at it. Uh next Samudra Gupta versus Napoleon. Samudra Gupta knew when to stop. His entire life his entire career as emperor was one extended military conqu campaign and he conquered the whole of the subcontinent. He subdued all the all the kingdoms to the south, north, everywhere. He launched uh a dual conquest of the south part of India which was u a landbased conquest with a parallel naval conquest. So he was one of the all-time great Samud Gupta. Napoleon so samud Gupta wanted to unify the subcontinent and he did not engage in want and destruction and all that. Napoleon just wanted to rule the world. He did not know where to stop and that is what eventually led to his downfall. Uh I would say Samudra Gupta was greater. He was a much greater ruler and he was I would say as good or if not better than Napoleon in uh his military strategies and tactics and the way he conducted his conquest. So I would say Samoda wins that. Breaking Bad versus True Detective season 1. I would say I've seen both actually. I've seen Breaking Bad. I've seen True Detective season 1. Uh, Trudy Detective season 1 is probably one of the greatest pieces of uh of of uh uh cinema. Is it cinema? It's it's a TV series. Uh it was great. It's it's pretty dark. It's about serial killers and stuff. But it's really wellm made. But overall, I would say Breaking Bad is is is superior because it lasted I don't know how many five, six seasons, whatever it was. I think overall sustained excellence. You saw that in Breaking Bad. when it comes to to detective the subsequent seasons I hear aren't that good there u n versus egalitarian philosophy look I am no great fan of niche or whatever but uh if you were to talk about freed nichch's philosophy uh what do I what comes to mind god is dead he famously proclaimed that god is dead he he said that the rise of science and secularism in the west in the in the world was causing the decline of religious belief and this has created a crisis of of uh crisis of values, crisis of meaning, crisis of what's the purpose of life, all of that. So he said God is dead. He uh said that we are now living in a world that has no inherent meaning. It has no inherent purpose. He called it nihilism and he believed that it could perhaps be a starting point for creating new values and meaning. But I'm not sure where we have gone with that. And he spoke about something called the will to power. He said that there is a fundamental drive in all living beings in all living things. We called it the willed power which is your personal quest your personal uh striving for growth for overcoming your own limitations and all that. So he called that the will to power and he also came up with this concept of the uber mench the superman which is this concept of a higher or more powerful type of human being who's able to create their own values and live in live according to their own values and according to their uh their own will okay and impose their will on the world and create and give the world purpose and and meaning and all of that. So these are the things that uh Nietze spoke about. There's a lot more to Nietze than just this. So that's Nietze. He said that you know the world is not is not um that he said that all humans aren't equal. He did not believe in equality. He said that some are superior, some are not and it depends on how you live your life and if you have the will will to power how much of the will to power you have. Everyone doesn't have the same will to power. Some people have low agency. They will just be passive spectators in life. They will be supporting characters. And some people have more agency. They'll get things done no matter what. They'll find a way. And these are the the uh these are the heroes the in life the central characters in in in in life right uh so all people aren't equal. Nature did not believe in equality. And egalitarian philosophy says that everyone is equal and all and so on so forth. Listen where what do I believe? I believe that everybody should have the same rights. Everybody should have the same rights and should be treated the same as per as per uh whatever principles we live by whether it is law, a constitution or whatever. Everybody should have the same starting point and the same treatment. But I don't believe all humans are equal. Some I mean look look at human beings around you. Some are tall, some are short, some are more intelligent, some are less intelligent, some are richer, some are poorer, some are just capable of doing more, some are not so capable. So, egalitarian philosophy uh you know the foundations are good. Everybody should be given the same rights. No matter what is their lineage, what is their uh you know status at birth, whatever parentage they come from, whatever their so-called class in society, everybody should get the same rights and all. I completely believe in that. But I also don't believe that all humans are equal. Some people are just different. Everybody's different, right? I mean, why do we uh why do we have the Olympics? Why do we have the World Cup? It's not to celebrate equality. is to celebrate inequality. It's to is to celebrate those who are the best. They are the ones who win. Uh the second, you know, the runners up medal is is not the medal you want. You want the winner's medal. So yeah, so I would say I I would probably go a little bit more with nature than with egalitarian philosophy. But I do I do agree with the fact that everybody should have the same rights and um same treatment, right? And good treatment and good rights. Yeah. Uh, Darwinian society versus a Dharmic society. Obviously a Dharmic society. Darwinian principles do apply to the world obviously you know the survival of the fittest the ones who strive more do better. So and so on but Dharmic philosophy means everybody should be treated with compassion and so on. So it's kind of a continuation of the previous one. I would obviously always go for a dharmic society. Right. Okay. Okay. This is a big question. Immran says, "Can you explain sir why these kinds of things happen? What things?" Let's see. If you read the shahame ofi, the author mentioned an area called uh Ariana. Yes. And it cities and palaces. He mentioned uh Ariana's palaces like Kabulistan, Tkaristan, Zabulistan, Ghazni, Bameyan. All of these exist in present day Afghanistan, not Iran. And he has written the names of two large kingdoms which are Ariana and Paris which is Persia like two different countries. Yeah. He kind of may have done that. Yeah. And he also said that people of Ariana speak the Dhari language and the people of Par speak uh Persian language pari language. In most of the poems is written like Mardasa's story stanza nine whatever that is. I don't know how to read that. I used to be able to but no longer. So in English it says it's inappropriate for us to say bar 10,000 in pari parsi language. It's better for us to say dah hazar 10,000 in the dari language. According to this verses, Dari language was not the language of Parus and the Parsei language is extinct by empires of Ariana. Yet both are the same language family but different languages. Because of this, the king of Persia, Raza Sha Pali changed his country's name Persia to Iran and the language name Dari to Persians for making the history richer and richer. In the Shaame, the details are very clear. Okay, very interesting story you bring in. What's the deal with the Shaame? Right. The Shaame was written by Ferdosi. uh it was com it was written between 9 about 980 AD to about 1010 AD over a period of about 30 years. It was written by Firsi. Now when Ferdosi started writing this this book the Shahame the record of the kings of Persia the record of the entire history of Persia. when he started writing this uh the uh geopolitical entity in power in Persia in the region was the Samantha Empire which was a Persian Empire. But around the late 990s maybe around 999 AD 80 or some somewhere around that time the Samid Empire was overthrown by a Turk Empire. the Gaznavid the Gaznavid empire you know Mahmud of Gazni that that guy the Turk who has a pretty dark history in India we know that so uh so Mahmud of so the Gaznavi empire takes over from the Samarit empire and Mahmud of Gazni kind of becomes the patron of uh Ferdosi h and then ferdosi continues writing the shaam and he concludes around 1010 AD now when you have a patron who is this conqueror, a foreigner, a Turk, not a Persian. You will find that Mahmud of Gazni would have been less interested in tales from Persian history. He would not have been interested in that. He would have been interested in self- glorification and he would have expected that the writer of the Shaame Ferdosi would glorify him and the region he came from. And the region he was he came from was was presently Afghanistan. He occupied Afghanistan. He was a he was a foreigner. Even in Afghanistan, he was a Turk. He was not Afghan. He was not pun. He was a Turk. So uh so you have to understand that the Shahame cannot be treated as a completely factual book. There was politics at the time that would have encouraged let's say Ferdosi to kind of write things in a certain manner. But it's also true like you say that a lot of these places that he talks about are present day Afghanistan not present day Persia and that's that's just the way it is. So uh my point is you cannot take uh the shaame as a completely historical absolutely uh unquestionable historical text. Uh and a lot of the stuff is kind of look I'll tell you what Ferdosi was not a big fan of the Arabs. He was not a even a big fan of the Turks but he had to operate under those those circumstances. He was not even a Muslim by the way. Fossi he did not write very nice things about the Arabs who conquered Persia. He wrote pretty sad things you know about the condition that Persia was was in under Arabic rule and then all of that. Um so you have to understand this there's layers of things over over here and if you look at the Shaame of Ferdosi he essentially if you if you look at the origins of Persia mentioned in the Shaame they're very interesting. Let's let's uh bring an English version of the Shaame on the screen and just take a look at what what's written a little bit of that. Uh where is the Shaame? Shaame the Shahame the the epic of kings. Uh let's make it like this. Okay. So it it starts with it starts with the origin of of Persia essentially and uh it talks about the first king Caillum and uh what happens after that? Then you have hushen and aftersh you have jamshed. So jamshed is yamak yama. It is yama of the rigveda. Then if we go further beyond that there is zah and zah is is is depicted as a dragon a snake and the person who destroys eventually. Zahak is a person who is referred to as uh Feredun in this text. Feredun right feridun the person who Ferdosi refers to as faridon was originally called thun in Persian and thrun is also calledyaun and it is the same person as a so-called minor divinity in the rigida which is traa and if you read the rigida it's kind of interesting because at times portrayed fighting the great serpent vitra and of course it Indra who destroys vitra but over here it is traa in the shaame who destroys this serpent zahak who is an Arabic version of vitra and so on. So if you look at the original uh if you look at the initial portion of the shaame it kind of mirrors the original texts of India which tells you that there was a very deep ancient uh uh common origin of the Persians and the Indians right uh so it's like that my my point overall is to to what you mentioned you have to be careful in interpreting the shaame it is uh it's a complicated text and It the way it was written depend it was it was influenced by the politics of the time and Ferdosi had to kind of uh take special care to make his overlord Mahmud of Ghazni happy to keep him happy and for that he had to it is alleged that Mahmud Gazni promised to give Sha to give Fredosi one gold coin for each verse or something that he wrote in in the Shaame and to get that obviously he has to write things that are that that makes that make this happy, right? Uh so it could have influenced the way the shaame was written. So it is not it is I mean it is the oldest text in the Persian language that we have today whether you call it Dari or whatever. Yeah, Dari. There are definitely two versions of of Persian very similar languages. One is the Persian that is spoken in Afghanistan which is called Dari and then you have the Persian language. There may be some some dissimilarities but overall they're part of the same language family like you say but so the the shaame is the only ancient text from Persia essentially that survives. Persia would have had lots of ancient texts zoroastan text etc which would have been destroyed by the Arabs when they conquered Persia. So Persia's downfall essentially started with the conquest of Alexander uh which destroyed the Akimeish empire and they took the the Greeks took out all of the wealth from Parapur Persales they melted all the gold all the silver they would have destroyed they they burned P parapur which would have burned all the books and all so a lot of the ancient history of Persia is destroyed because of all of this and that's why kind of the oldest text that is available for reference is the shaame but you have to be careful with reading it. You cannot interpret it literally. That's the point. Okay. Uh questions about the immigration the foreigner in immigration bill Boruto and the Brahar Gupta. What's your take on the new foreigner and immigration bill and what are your views on the latest immigration foreigners bill 2025 introduced by the government of India in the parliament? Do you think it will be effective in preventing illegal immigration in India? So let's take a look at this bill. I have uh uh found the bill. Let's put that on the screen and let's briefly take a look at what this bill says. Uh let's take this out and we can see the whole thing. So this is the bill and it has various chapters and various sections and clauses and so on. This is what the bill is. So now what does this bill say is the question. So if you look at clause 20, where is clause 20? Let's go all the way down to clause 20. Where is clause 20? This is clause 20. So this essentially broadly defines what constitutes contravention of this act including being in India without valid documentation. Uh that's there is that's clause 20. Clause 21 it essentially provides for penalties for being in India without valid travel documents up to 5 years imprisonment and five lakh rupees fine. Then you have clause 23 clause 23A which addresses foreigners who remain in any ind area in India for a period extending the period for which the visa was issued and who stay in India without a valid passport or without travel documents. Then um there is a clause 29. Let's look at clause 29. It essentially empowers the central government to direct the removal of a foreigner from India for controvention of any of the provisions of this act. So we can deport people who uh contravene the provisions of this act. So this essentially provides a mechanism to the government of India for the deportation of illegal immigrants. Now if you go back upstairs uh to where is the clause 16? Is it clause 16? So clause 16 essentially puts the burden of proof uh of proving that you uh that a person is not a foreigner uh on the individual concerned. So uh this makes it more challenging for undocumented illegal immigrants to contest any actions taken by the government. In court you go to the court and say that the government is doing this. It is very oppressive. Then the burden of proof is on the person to prove that this person is is not a foreigner. Right? Then what else do we have? So essentially uh foreigners according to this act foreigners who are ordered to leave can be required to be kept in specific places set aside for illegal foreigners. Uh this bill provides for the regulation of these facilities like maintenance and discipline and all that. Then u so these uh provisions they create a framework for holding foreigners in a certain place pending their uh removal. Uh let's look at some more clauses of this act. Clause 33. Where is clause 33? It's here. So, clause 33 gives the central government powers to exempt any person or class of people from the provisions of the act. Uh so, you could create theoretically theoretically you could create some provisions or some some exemptions for certain categories of illegal immigrants if you want. Uh let's say you have Tibetans who have come into India uh in the past, you know, without valid travel documents fleeing from Chinese and Tibet. So maybe you could create an exemption for those people if the government so desires, right? Uh and so on. So essentially this act uh this so it's it's a good act I would say. Yeah. The emphasis uh is on providing the government with various uh broad powers. It will provide the government various broad powers to to remove uh illegal immigrants and it places significant responsibilities on carriers who transported the these individuals into India. But I don't as far as I have seen it doesn't seem to have any special provisions for addressing the very complicated issue of long-term illegal infiltrators who are residing in India. People who have been residing in India for 40 50 years and their descendants are also living in India. I don't see uh thus far I have not seen anything that uh any kind of provision for addressing that situation. So when when you have uh Bangladeshes who have been illegal who have illegally come to India and who have been living in India for 30 40 50 whatever years there are descendants that children grandchildren are also living in India. How to deal with that situation because we'll have millions of those maybe 100 million of those. What do we do with that with those people? How do we address that situ situation? I'm not sure I've seen a solution or any provision for that. The same goes for with the tens with the hundreds of thousands of cookies who have come into into India in the past few decades. What to do with them? So I it's a good start I would say but uh maybe a little more maybe required when u it comes to addressing those uh large challenges that we face. I mean the biggest problem we have in India is that maybe 100 million illegal infiltrators who are residing in various parts of India who have been settled all across the country and who have fake documentation which may actually not be fake. They may have illegally obtained real documentation other cards and whatnot. How do we deal with that? So I think it's a good start and uh kudos to the government for doing that and let's see how they deal with the bigger problems hopefully using this bill or maybe uh some some other measure. We'll see about that. So that's what I can say about this bill right now. Yeah. Mr. 88 says is it fair to say that the what the cookies are trying to achieve in Manipur is to create their own version of Israel which will later be used by the US. Okay, look this issue of the illegal uh infiltrators in Manipur, the cookies, it's a geopolitical issue. It is not a local law and order problem. It's a geopolitical issue which is part of a much bigger game that's being played. So the project is called project K cookie land for Christ whatever you want to call it. Uh the objective ideally for for whoever is doing this is to create an artificial new nation cookie land out of parts of India, Myanmar sorry India which is Misoram and Manipur mostly Manipur uh and also parts of Burma and also parts of Bangladesh. That was the original plan. Now Bangladesh is already on board. It's a vasal city of the US. Um so uh there is that and u the mechanism is very simple. The borders are open between India and Myanmar. So bring in just push in hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who will reside in Manipur over overrun the state and you set up thousands of new villages almost overnight. So you've created facts on the ground, you occupy the territory and then you claim that these people are oppressed minorities and the moment you start talking about minorities of a foreign religion of an Abrahamic religion then you know the government of India will take two steps back because the western media and the western governments have created this huge human cry and noise over the past few years of oppressed minorities in India. So the moment you claim that these people who have come in illegally are oppressed minorities then the government of India has to you know gets defensive. So they've already created facts on the ground. They occupy tremendous amounts of territory. They claim to be oppressed foreigners. They claim to have been living here for from time immemorial. Right? So how do we deal with the situation? That's the problem. Right? So I don't know about a new version of Israel or any such thing but it's definitely uh being puppet mastered from the west. Uh the church is very much involved in this. This is very that's very open. It's not a big secret and various uh American organizations, NOS's, state sponsored things, you know, quasi governmental organizations etc are all involved in this. Uh and lot of people are on on their payroll. Uh you will even see Indians certain Indians who are supporting this this project project K. you will find uh retired paramilitary forces personnel some some of them who are also supporting this lots of prominent media people are supporting the this this illegal inf infiltration and all so yeah it's it's a huge uh challenge for India it's a huge pressure point for on India from the west from the US uh and uh yeah the situation will have to be dealt with and and what happens is that it is the uh it is the it is the uh natives, native inhabitants who suffer. They are the ones who suffer and that's the situation right now. So it it's going to take a while to solve this problem. Um the temptation will always be from the government's perspective to just impose order but not law and justice. Justice means you evict the illegal immigrants from India. Uh but that is going to be challenging. So right now they just want to have law and order more order than law because illegal immigrants live squatting on Indian territory is not law but yeah so it's going to be a big challenge for India. Okay lots of questions about Diego Garcia uh lost child Nachikit Jay Raman Zuboniz and Vikramat. Why are B2 stealth bombers in Diego Garcia? Is the US going to attack Iran? Seven B2 stealth bombers were deployed at Diego Garcia earlier this week. Uh the US just deployed the B2 stealth bomber in the Garcia. Is there anything brewing in the Indian Ocean? Trump has deployed stealth fighters in the Garcia to tackle Houthis. Is the Gulf headed for a new phase of war after October 7, 2023? Iran just unveiled its hidden missile city. Okay, for those who are not aware, let's go to the map. Where is the map? We have to unveil unleash the map. Let's put the map on the screen and discover where Gigartha is. I've spoken about it many times but let's take a look at it again. So we know where India is. We know where the Indian Ocean is. Let's go south of the equator. So we have the Lakship Islands here uh of the west coast or southwest coast of India. South of the Lakshmi Islands you have the Maldives archipelago which is a continuation of the same uh archipelago and south of the Maldives you have the Chaos Archipelago which is also part of the same geographical region and it's now called the British Indian Ocean Territory it's illegally occupied by Britain and they they are doing this fake transfer of power to Mauritius which is not going to change anything on the ground so this is Diego Garcia which if you look at it it has a naval base and an air force base. It is uh used by the US even though it technically uh is occupied by the UK. Now if you look at the naval base over here wherever it is u it is capable of accommodating aircraft carriers. That's how big the naval base is and the air force base is obviously very visible. If you if you take take a look at the dimensions uh it is 3 and a half 3.6 6 km long which can accommodate the heaviest and largest of strategic bombers and whatnot. So it's a very powerful tool of of power projection for the US in India's own backyard and they use it to project power across the Indian Ocean region across ranging from the straight of Malaka all the way to the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Aden. That's the deal. That's the gotha. Okay. So now uh apparently the US is deploying uh certain classes of aircraft to Diego Garcia which is B2 stealth bombers and recently we've heard that Trump has unleashed uh military uh Trump has unleashed air strikes on the Houthis in Yemen uh because the Houthis are kind of u uh interdicting access. Once again let's go to the map. The Houthis are kind of interdicting access to uh the Red Sea region because they dominate the Bab al-Mandip strait which is this little geopolitical choke point over here. Very important choke point which connects the Red Sea to the Gulf of Adan and the and the Indian Ocean. And for those of you who will say it's not the Indian Ocean, it's the Arabian Sea. Please learn some geography. Okay. So uh the Yemenes, the Houthis, the Ansarah faction, they are the ones who are interdicting access uh to the US and other western powers to this region and that's why Trump has unleashed uh air strikes on their military uh uh strategic uh capabilities. So that's what's happening and it's most likely that this uh these air strikes were conducted from aircraft carriers in the region. Uh but yes, having uh B2 stealth bombers in the in in the at Garcia gives the US additional capabilities to to strike at the Houthis or whoever else they would like to strike at. Okay. So I'm not going to speculate as to who it's for, uh what they're planning. I don't think it's that easy to to attack Iran, which is Iran is not a pushover. they have tremendous uh capabilities when it comes to missiles and drones and they'll be able to look there are so many US military bases in the region which could uh you know become targets of Iranian response if if Iran is is targeted by American air strikes. Uh yes, Iran has recently uh unveiled a hidden missile city underground missile city or some kind of uh installation of the some kind. Uh so I'm not sure what the plan is. Maybe it's all about the Houthis. Maybe it's a message to other powers in the region. There are certain other powers in the region as well, right? Uh maybe it's a message to those powers. Let's see. Uh I'm not going to speculate as to what this could be. One potential target obviously is Iran. The other potential target is the Houthis in Yemen. I don't think of I cannot think of any other active adversaries the US has in the region. It's Iran. It's the Houthis. Syria is done and dusted. They've done regime change operation. They have a new Zalinski in place whose name is what? Al Jolani or something, a local Zalinski. So Syria is taken care of. Uh you don't need B2 cell members to deal with Hamas obviously. So it's either Iran or the Houthis or maybe it's a message to somebody else, somebody bigger in the region. Well, I don't know. Can't say. Right. Prane Paul says with Trump's presidency having already influenced global geopolitics significantly what larger shifts in the balance of power can we see unfolding this decade in the 2020s we already halfway through how might the ripple effects of his policies continue to shape global alliances trade and security beyond his tenure right so Trump is going to be in power until what uh he came to power this year 2025 so until 2029 right he's going to be in power until 2029 four years 3 and a half years to go roughly give or take. I think it's still early days so let's say four years to go and he's already doing a lot he's already upended a lot of things and uh he's talking about Greenland is he's already taken over Panama the Panama Canel black has taken over so it's kind of take over by the US the Panama Canal u he's talking about Canada he's talking about Europe all kinds of things going on so what shifts in the balance of power can we see in the next four years uh I'll tell you the next four years is going to see a complete rearrangement of the geopolitical chess board globally. Uh we are once again into the age of empires. You know, nation states, nation states, the so-called rules-based global world order, all of that is going to become very soon a thing of the past. The US is now behaving like an empire. It's not behaving like a responsible nation states state. It's talking about gobbling up Greenland. is talking about making Canada the 51 first state and much more. So the US is going to change the world order greatly. Trump is going to show the world, teach the world what geopolitics really is, what great power geopolitics is all about, what hard power is. So one thing we're going to see is that Europe is going to become a backwater. Okay, Europe is going to become a global backwater. They have some economic heft and all but they are declining. Uh the Ukraine war has significantly changed things in the in in Europe. Uh Europe's economy is not no longer doing well. Um uh to to have a booming economy, you need a lot an inexhaustible supply of cheap energy which no longer is there because of the Nordstream issue. Um and uh Europe is going to have to is going to be made to pay more for its defense. Right now see the past 60 70 years Europe did not spend anything on defense. Everything was taken care of by the US. So the all the European nations, the EU nations, they essentially became welfare states and police states. Okay, you may not realize that if you go to Europe, it's a police state. So these are welfare states where people don't have to work very hard. They don't have to innovate. They don't have to do anything. The US will take care of everything. big daddy. But now that is not going to be no no longer the case. So Europe is going to become a global backwater slowly gradually but you're going to it's going to be more and more visible and they are kind of push trying to push back against that but they don't have any any real teeth in doing that. It's all bark no bite unfortunately sadly for the Europeans. So Europe is declining. Um Russia is becoming more and more relevant. Um, China obviously is definitely relevant and India is the fourth uh sovereign nation. So there are four sovereign entities right now in the world. The US, Russia, China and India and India sovereignty is is kind of being threatened right now in a variety of ways. The Manipur issue is is a good example of that and other things. So uh so you're going to see a complete uh you know it's not going to be a bipolar tripolar world. be a it's not going to be a multipolar world for sure. The only way you will have a multipolar world if you is if you have 20 nations with nuclear weapons then you have a multipolar world but that's not the case right so you're going to see the co coallescence of the world into multiple blocks you have Russia China strange bed fellows but they are together India is going to be somewhere in between the east and the west India's India's population is very westernized uh and uh maybe India will be made to uh make a choice It's either us or them. That sort of thing. Trump may do that. Uh we'll see about that. Uh so yeah, that's the kind of thing you will see. So you're going to see the decline of Europe. The the US is become is going to become a more imperial kind of power. Uh and you're going to see a lot of great power politics. You know, naked displays of hard power. Hopefully no wars. And you may see a an escalation of the cold war between the US and China. The US has tried to deny China all kinds of technology especially in in in the realm of semiconductors, silicon, all of that. But the Chinese have overcome that and they now have their own lithography machines which which means that they can make chips that are among the best in the world right now. India is trying to start the game now becoming to become a semiconductor power but it's about we are about a decade you know we yeah it will take a decade for us to reach that stage uh so it's going to be challenging for India so um we're going to see that sort of world in the in the future the US is going to become a space power maybe a hyper power AI may be the transformative technology that changes everything and Uh yeah, if if AI is the is the deciding factor, then it's going to be the US versus China. Nobody else is in the fray. India is not in the fray. Russia is not not in the fray. The Europeans are trying something, but let's Yeah, they're not in the same league as the Americans and the Chinese. So if AI is the deciding factor, it's going to be a straight race between the US and China. If space is the deciding factor, the US is leagues ahead of everybody else. So it's advantage US. the Chinese may be able to catch up technologically from an AI perspective at least. Um, and let's see what India does. We are way behind, but yeah, let's see. And Russia doesn't seem to be in the fray, but maybe they have something up their sleeve. So, that's the kind of world we're going to see. Lots of these uh old great powers are going to fall down fall down the wayside and it's going to be essentially four nations, four major nations. And out of those four major nations, India is the smallest power as of now. Balram Putin says, "If history has shown that the strongest empires often collapse due to internal power struggles rather than external threats, then if the US is considered an empire, why does there appear to be no significant power struggle with within its deep state? And if such a struggle were to arise, what would be the potential causes?" Look, typically empires last 250, 300 years or so. Kingdoms, empires, whatever. Some empires last longer. The Roman Empire lasted much longer and so on. So maybe the US, see, I'll tell you when it comes to hard power, the US is right now at the pinnacle of hard power. The US has never been as powerful as it as it has been until today. So maybe the US empire is just reaching its peak. And when you're reaching it, your peak, there's no power struggle. Everything is h everything is good. You have an external enemy right now China. So all all all all all the focus is going to be on China and Russia and to some extent on India to ensure that India doesn't become a future great power 20 30 years down the future. So so make sure take care of India right now. So all the threats when it comes to the US are external and when you have big external threats everything is is going to be in order inside internally. Yes, you have a decline of of cultural values and living standards in the US, but that can be taken care of because the US is also a police state. So, they can deal with their citizens. Um, yeah. So, maybe it's because the US is destined to last another 200 300 years as as as an empire in which case you will not see any power struggle. Everything doesn't have to happen right now, right? Maybe it'll happen 100 years down the line, maybe 150 years down the line. Because we are living in this moment doesn't mean that everything has to happen right now. Right? Maybe there is some power struggle. There's always some politics going on in any empire. The deep state is an invisible entity. We don't quite know who makes up the deep state. Who are the individuals and so on. We don't quite know. And it is in their interest not to give up their power. So maybe they have things very much under control. They are firmly in control of the reigns. In which case it makes sense to see what we are seeing right now that the US doesn't have any such issues. uh if in the future such a struggle were to arise, what could it be the potential causes? If in the see typically when empires are in are are unchallenged for a very long time and they have no more enemies left, that's when the decay sets in. As long as there's a wolf out the out of out of outside the door or a pack of wolves, there's no decay that sets in. Right? So in the future if the US becomes the sole power and all other powers fall down the wayside and everybody becomes irrelevant the US becomes a hyperpower then you could see potentially something happening down the line let's say the US becomes you know develops artificial super intelligence which makes it technologically uncatchable and they develop godlike technologies magicike technologies that nobody can catch up with then all other powers will become irrelevant and then let's say the US goes and conquer Mars and sets up uh uh you know multiple bases on Mars, millions of people there. Then in the future, Mars may in the future declare independence and then you may have a situation like uh the US declaring independence from Great Britain in the 18th century and then you may have a conflict of that kind perhaps. So that's something you could see in the future or maybe something else. We can only speculate at this point. But at this point the US is at the pinnacle of its power of its hard power. It's never been as powerful as it it is today and it has significant adversaries outside. One is Russia, one is China and in that situation you will probably not see a decline u or a collapse of the US. Of course, one can be one, you know, anything's possible. Uh but it's unlikely. It's less likely from my perspective. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe you'll see something else happening. We'll see. We'll see about that. Okay, Ankita Kachop says Brussels advises US Brussels has advised EU citizens to be prepared with 3 to 7 days emergency supplies in order to face any potential crisis. Are they planning to go to war with Russia? Yes. So one hears that Brussels is making such statements and advising its citizens to have to stock up on on essentials, essential commodities and have enough supplies to last let's say a week or so in case of any unforeseen scenarios or situations which obviously is an illusion to a potential warlike situation. And who could the the EU go to war with in the continent? Obviously not the US. They're talking about Russia. So then the question arises, is the EU planning to go to war with Russia? My question is this, is the EU capable of going to war with Russia? Do they have the armed forces? Do they have the the weapons systems? Do they have sufficient ammunition? Do they have the money? The truth is they have none of these things. They may have some money, but they are completely reliant on the US for their defense, right? and they don't have the the funds or the supplies or the stockpiles of ammunition needed to to to to carry on a sustained military campaign against Russia. The Russians have been fighting this war for the past 3 years. They've built up the war economy. So to be able to fight a long war or even a short war, you need a war economy. You need your entire industrial infrastructure to be fully invested in the war effort. factories to produce tanks, factories to produce missiles, factories to produce bullets, factories to produce machine guns, factories to produce shells, howitzer shells, uh everything that that you need in terms of equipment from a military perspective, your entire industrial infrastructure should be able to handle all of that. That's called a war economy. That's what you had in the Third Reich in the 1930s and 40s. That's what they developed. That's what they built up and that's what Russia has been forced to do the past 3 years. So Russia is now a welloiled fighting machine. Is the EU capable of uh fighting the Russians and if they start a war with the Russians and the Russians say enough, okay, I'm going to now roll my tanks into Europe, are the Europeans in a position to to stop them to stave off such such a push from Russia. The the that's the question the Europeans have to ask themselves. Without US intervention, can they survive? The US is in no mood to go to war with Russia. Trump wants to end the existing war, the Ukraine war. He doesn't he isn't he doesn't have the appetite for a new war. He doesn't want a new war. If you see his record, the as the 45th president, he was the only president in decades who did not start a new war with anybody. So Trump is not going to be interested in a war with Russia. If the EU wants to go go to war with Russia, he'll say, "Okay, good luck. You're on your own." And then when you start a war while being on your own then it's going to be a very big problem. You the EU will if they do such an ill advised thing they will find find that they have bitten off way more than they can chew. So I don't think there's the prospect of a war between the EU and Russia. And if they do if if the EU does such a thing my goodness it will be a spectacular and tragic mistake. I I don't think it will happen. I hope it doesn't happen. Next question is by Sam. Vladimir Putin has accepted Prime Minister Modi's invitation to visit India which was conveyed back in July 2024 and this visit is expected to take place soon. Will this visit alarm the West considering the ongoing geopolitical tensions surrounding the Russia Ukraine war? Meanwhile, former president and current president US President Donald Trump has accused Putin of dragging his feet in dealing with the war. How do these dynamics affect global relations and what implications might Putin's visit to India have on the future of India Russia of Russia India West relations? Okay. So Mr. Putin is going to visit India soon. The preparations are underway and it's going to be the first visit by Mr. Putin to to any major nation since the Ukraine war began. The special military operation began in February of 2022. Mr. Modi had visited Mr. Putin somewhere in the past 3 years after the war began. It was a brief visit but he made it a point to visit Mr. Putin in Moscow and Mr. Putin is now going to reciprocate by visiting India. Uh so will this visit alarm the west? Uh considering the ongoing situation the Ukraine Russia war I don't think it will alarm the west. It has no reason to alarm the west because India has maintained for a very long time and rightfully so that we need to end the war. This is no time for war which is what is that's what Mr. Modi has said repeatedly on multiple occasions and Mr. Modi has exhorted both sides to to come to the negotiating table and work out a negotiated settlement compromise ceasefire that will end the fighting the pointless fighting that's killing so many uh people needlessly and Mr. Modi has visited Ukraine he has met with Mr. Zalinski he has visited Washington he's met with Mr. Trump on very good terms and now he's going to meet with Mr. Putin see India is not on someone's is not in someone's camp we are not an ally of any other power we are a multi-aligned nation we are friends with everybody and we have our own interests with Russia we have a very longstanding relationship very cordial very positive relationship with Russia and we're not going to give that up so all the only message that will go to the world is that we are investing we are continuing to invest in our excellent and very friendly relationship with Moscow and we're going to continue that and that doesn't have to come at somebody's expense right so we are engaging with everybody we are engaging with China we engaging with Russia we we are engaging with the US with the EU with everybody we are everyone's friend we are no one's enemy that's the point we are making so it it will not alarm the west Mr. Trump is aware of the situation and of the relationship between India and Russia and Mr. Trump himself wants to end this war right and uh so he is he is right now on a very good equation with with with Mr. Putin so that's that's a good thing of course Mr. Mr. Trump has made these statements, you know, he does make these statements on social media and uh claiming that that Moscow is dragging its feet in dealing with the war. Look, Mr. Putin wanted to end the war from day one. The Minsk agreements is is before day one which the Ukrainians, you know, they they they violated those agreements multiple times uh and so on. Even after the war started, there were multiple occasions on which the war could have ended. First, it was Mr. Boris Johnson who derailed that and then it was Mr. Zalinsky who derailed that right and now it's the EU that's trying to prolong the war and it's again Mr. Zalinsky who's trying to prolong the war Mr. Trump and Mr. Bodhin had already reached kind of an agreement the broad framework on how to end the war but the EU has has come in the way and they are exorting Mr. Zalinski to keep keep the war going right so and and Mr. Trump obviously will warn Mr. Putin to to apply some pressure on Mr. Putin to to coersse him into uh you know accepting some of the American terms for ending the war. But it's not going to work that way. Mr. Putin has made it very clear this time that we have uh learned a lot from the past betrayals and we're going to not do a single thing that goes against our interests. If we're going to end the war, it's going to be on good terms on terms that are favorable to us. We have a military advantage. That's what Russia is saying. We have a military advantage. We have conquered about 20% or so of roughly give or take of Ukraine and we could push further and take the whole of Ukraine militarily if you want to. So do you want that situation or do you want a negotiated settlement? So that's the deal. So Mr. Trump has made these statements. These are standard pressure tactics. These are standard tactics used in negotiations. You don't have to read too much into that. Okay. Uh so that's the deal with the Ukraine war. Uh so what are the implications of Mr. Putin's visit to India? We'll have to first see what's what's on the agenda. There's going to be a lot of stuff on the agenda. Uh it's been a long time since the two leaders have had a proper summit meeting. So there's going to be a lot to discuss. Ukraine will be discussed. India Russia relations will be discussed. China will be discussed behind closed doors. Um various military uh deals may be discussed. So there's a lot that we we have to talk uh about between the two nations. Um so it's going to be good for the long-term future of India Russia relations. I don't think it has anything to do with the west and it it will obviously send a message to the west that we are on very good terms with with Russia and if you need our good offices in your dealings with Russia, we can offer our good offices. that sort of thing. Um, so that's what you can read into it at this point. Atam says, why is India funding monarchy protest in Nepal? We are sister nations of the same origin. Why is the Indian government doing this? That's the question from atom and p. Mahasagar says today curfew is applied in Kpandu as there's a massive protest happening in Nepal for the restoration of the king and the monarchy. Could the US be behind all of these protests and these things? So one question is whether India is behind this and why is India behind this. So Mr. Atam is uh he believes or believes that uh India is behind this and P Mahasagar is wondering whether the US is behind all of this. So what's the deal? So first of all let me make this very clear. We as in India we are not behind this. We are not behind this. We don't do such things. Of course, I cannot say that we don't do such things because in the 1980s and 1990s, especially 1990s, the then government of India messed up Nepal very badly by supporting the Maoist insurgency which brought down the monarchy. That's on the record. You can look it up online. Okay. The Indian government supported that Maoist insurgency in Nepal which brought the monarchy down eventually. So yeah, we have done that in the past and there was I would say a spectacular and tragic mistake by India at that time 1990s and uh ever since uh it's been you know the relations have been strained kind of because the Mauists are very anti-Indian and very pro-China. So imagine shooting yourself in the foot. So that's what India did at that time. But I don't think I do not believe for one second that India is funding any or funding or or or sponsoring or or or encouraging any monarchy pro monarchy protest in Nepal. I I think it's completely organic. I don't even think the US could be behind this. Uh because see if the if the Nepal is monarchy is restored and the the the king comes to power again, the king is going to be very strongly pro- India. He's not going to be pro-china. You could say that he'll try and be friendly with the west as well. But historically the Nepalese monarchy has been pro- India. We Nepal has been a Hindu raashtra, right? A Hindu uh country. The last Hindu country it was and now it's no longer that. So the people have seen through uh the situation the past few decades they have seen that the Mauists have you know they have not been beneficial for for the for the country for the for the nation for the people and they yearned for the old days when the when the king used to rule you had a monarchy and the monarch was like a father to the people to the people of Nepal that's how it was always the case right Hindu monarchs are like fathers to their nation and to their people and they are their role is not of rulers but of servants and they operate from a dharmic basis and that's what the people of Nepal would like to see again so this I think this is a very organic thing people are getting fed up of whatever the situation is like politically in Nepal uh I don't could the US be behind this see the US generally doesn't uh sponsor pro-Hindu pro- civilization protests in the subcontinent The US will generally fund forces that seek to break the subcontinent's civilizational structure. If you look at Manipur, they they're sponsoring and funding quietly behind the scenes, the cookies. And if you see their the US aid activities and all of that they have been sponsoring they've been funneling billions of dollars into India for industrial scale Christian conversion activities. The US will never fund or sponsor any any pro-Hindu protest or pro- civilization protest. The the the movement for the restoration of the monarchy is a is is a movement for the restoration of dharma and civilization. Right. So the US will definitely not be behind this and the and the government of India is a secular government. The constitution of India is secular. We also won't do that. So I think it's a very organic thing and let the people decide what they want. That's what I would say. I have no business saying what should happen. I think it is the people of Nepal who should decide in their wisdom what the future course of action for the nation should be. And I wish the people of Nepal the best and I I hope that they get what they truly desire. That's what I would say. And yes, we are the same people. We have the same origin and that's why I I have nothing but the best of wishes for for Nepal in the long run and as of today as well. Mr. Karat says, "Breaking news, weapons of mass destruction detected in the Indian state of UP." I think what you're referring to is the discovery of oil deposits, right? We have discovered oil in UP. So, let's let's try and uh find oil discovery. Oil discovered in UP. Let's Okay, let's put this on the screen. What have we discovered is the question. So, here's the report. 300 km belt of oil discovered in the in the small city in Uttar Pradesh. uh depth of 3,000 mters in Balya, Uttar Pradesh. Uh OMGC has entered a three-year lease blah blah blah blah blah rent uh operations uh all of that. So what have we discovered? Long story, long story. Uh yeah. So, oh you see. So, so they have discovered sites with within a 300 kilometer crude oil belt spanning from Sagar Pali in Ballaya to Papa Mahu Papao in Priyagar. Let's take a look at the map and and see what this is like, how big of a region this is. Let me go back to the map and let's try and dial those locations into the map. So Sagar Sagar Pali you said right? Sager Pali Uttar Pradesh. Where is it? Let's zoom in. There we have it. So that is Sag Pali in Uttar Pradesh. Now let us look at the other place which is Papa Mauo. Uh so let's look for uh directions. Papa Mauo Uttar Pradesh. Okay. Let's see how large of an area this is. As you can see it's a pretty big area for an oil discovery. It's a pretty big area. It's not small. I mean, there are countries that are smaller than this this belt of territory. So, it's a big belt of territory and we've discovered oil reserves there. I'm I'm not sure how many I mean how much oil may or may not be present and all. We will soon come to know. I I expect but it's a big discovery, right? And it's great for us because it's one of the Achilles heels of of of India energy self-sufficiency. We are not an energy sovereign nation. We import about 60% or so of our energy. When it comes to oil, I think it must be more than 80% that we import. I don't know. I'm just giving a rough figure over here. I know for sure that we import roughly 60% of our energy which includes o oil, gas, coal, all of that. We produce a lot of coal but we still import some coal. Gas we import from other nations. We have a deal with Qatar etc. Oil we get it from Russia. We get it from the Gulf region and so on. So we are we have now discovered a big uh big uh belt big belt of territory which which has oil reserves and pretty good amount of oil reserves apparently. So it's great. I am very pleased to hear this and I suspect my friends that this may just be the beginning. I think India's oil India we haven't really explored India properly for oil. India is a huge geographical area. I think there could be way more oil reserves waiting to be discovered. I think if we look for oil properly offshore, onshore, wherever, we may end up discovering way more than other countries. So I think it I suspect this is just the beginning, but it's a very good and very positive news. Next question is by Shri Har. Okay, thank you sir. I really appreciate your viewership for the past three years. I really really appreciate that. The question is why is Venezuela still not as prosperous as the Middle East nations despite uh the presence and availability of huge oil and gas reserves? That's a good question and if you ask any great analyst from the west they'll say it's because uh Venezuela is a socialist country and socialism doesn't work right that's what they'll say. First of all, if you want to know where Venezuela is, let's go to the map and uh let us take a look at Venezuela. Let me put that on the screen. Give me a second. I'll put that on the screen. We will go and discover where Venezuela is. Um here's the map. You know where India is. Let's go eastwards for a change. We'll cross the Pacific Ocean and we go south of Miso America. And here we have Venezuela. The capital is Karakas. So this is the nation at the northern tip of South America, the continent and this nation has tremendous amounts of oil and gas reserves, right? And yet the economy is in a shambles and the living standards are terrible and so on. So you should know that uh there was a president of of Venezuela whose name was Hugo Chavez who ruled for more than a decade. He died in 2013 of cancer or something. And he was a socialist. Yes. And he was a person who uh believed in national sovereignty and not being a vasal of other nations. And because of uh these polic he was he was what was he called? He was called the Venezuelan Fidel Castro kind of. And if you know anything about Fidel Kra is that he opposed the US and his nation was was slammed with every single sanction you can imagine and that's why Cuba is so underdeveloped because of sanctions completely cut off from the rest of the world Cuba. Now if Hugo Chavez the president of Venezuela from uh whatever year until 2013 more than a decade if he was he had the same policies as Castro you can imagine that the Americans would have sanctioned Venezuela as well and after Mr. Chavez died his successor was Mr. Nicolas Maduro who came to power in 2013 and he is still in power and he has continued the same policies as Hugo Chavez and that's why Venezuela has been very badly sanctioned by the US and these sanctions have destroyed the Venezuelan economy. So imagine you have so much oil but you can't sell it to anybody else because you you sanctioned and you cut off from the rest of the world. So you can sell to some countries but most of it you can't use and that sort of thing. Um, and strangely enough, after the Ukraine war started and the Americans tried to sanction Russia, they again allowed Venezuela to sell to to sell oil to the US. So, it's all, you know, it's not based on principles. It's all it's all based on expediency. So, I'll tell you why Venezuela's economy is in a shambles. It's because of Western sanctions, American sanctions. That's why the nation is in such a shambles. It's not because of socialism. I am no fan of socialism, by the way. Okay? I have no great love for socialism. We know what socialism did to India. Uh but it was not socialism that that destroyed the Venezuelan economy. It was western sanctions that did that. Geopolitical Dubet says why did our emperors promote Buddha dash in both the dash instead of Jina dashion? Whereas Janism is actually a hinsawadi if you compare it with Buddhism. So Jin Dan Jad whatever you want to call it has been around for a very very very long time at least three two and a half 3,000 years definitely probably more than that. Yeah, very ancient uh dashan philosophical school of thought of the dharmic umbrella and it has some differences from both the both the dashan and various other philosophical schools of thought within Hindu dharma that's jina and and for a long time you had a very large population in India that was that practiced jinism jharma uh when it comes to the southern part of India I would say the majority of the southern part of India practiced Gina dash ginism uh two and a half thousand years before today let's say maybe three around that time so it was very popular very prevalent for a very long time in very large parts of India and then both the dharma became a thing and then various emperors promoted both the dharma and then eventually even that declined and we have the re resurgence of what we call Hindu dharma today but it's all you know it's all part of the same umbrella it's very similar very small nuances and differences but the values are the same but the point the question is very specific so let's address that question I'll tell you so what emperors are we talking about uh we're talking about the Morian emperor emperors like Chandraupta Moria Ashoka uh I'm not sure about Chandra Gupta Moria he probably was not a Buddhist but Ashoka eventually became a Buddhist and and he propagated both the dharma far and wide right we know that then you have emperors like the Kushan emperors like Kaneshka who did you know Kaneshka is portrayed as a as a Buddhist emperor right but if you look at Kaneshka's coinage there's a tremendous variety of coins of Kaneska that are available in various museums and so on so forth okay tremendous variety if you look at Kaneska's coinage about 95% of his coinage is what we would call Hindu today only 5% has of his coins have images of the Buddha So that's a nuance that you should actually understand. Okay. Kaneshka was more technically more Hindu than Buddhist. Then it comes to when it when it comes to the Gupta emperors, they they did not promote Bodh Dashan or Jay Dashan. It was all uh Hindu what what we would today call Hindu uh gods and goddesses. So the only two uh dynasties or or empires of ours in our history that promoted Buddhism as as such were the Morans and the Kushans to some extent. But uh when it comes to the Morian emperors h there was an emperor called Srati who was a descendant of emperor Ashok one of our greatest emperors of all time. So Emperor Srati he lived from uh about 220 BC to about 210 BC give or take okay he was in power for about a decade about roughly a decade Somrati and according to Jane historical tradition Srati built about one and a half lakh Jane temples dasars jinalayas imagine srati built built more than one and a half lakh Jane Dasars and uh 10 times that number of Jane Mortis idols. Okay. So clearly Srati prioritized Jane Dashan, Jane Dharma or everything else. And it is said that Srati had taken a wow an oath that every morning he will have the foundation of a new Jane temple dug every morning and if it is not done in the morning he will not have breakfast. That's according to Jane tradition. So that is Emperor Srati who did promote Jane Dharma like nobody else before him or after him I suppose. And when it comes to Chandraupta Moria you know eventually he was done with his duties as emperor. He was done with serving the civilization and he retired. He gave up his his his cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr cr crown his throne his empire to his son and he traveled all the way to southern India and he went to a Jane monastery became a Jane sadhu and he did sallea which is fasting until you depart your body. So there once again you have a Jane connection. So you know Indian history is very complicated. uh it is very uh I would say very simplistic to portray an empire or a dynasty or a king or an emperor as a jan or a Buddhist or a Hindu. It's it was always a mix of everything. Our emperors never they would have had some favoritism towards this or that because of their personal preferences but they patronized all dashas except for a few uh instances like uh Ashok emperor Ashok persecuting the Ajivikas for political reasons and all but overall it was not that way. Overall it was like a very benevolent thing. You patronized everybody. you give uh patronage to all dashans essentially that's how it was uh when it comes to jinism yeah obviously it is really a hint of if you want you know it is the most uh nonviolent uh school of thought that you have anywhere in the world I suppose jina dharma you can't even knowingly hurt insects or micro microbes if you if you can that's the sort of thing so it is genuinely a hinsawadi compared to Buddhism but then if you want to promote a very a hindawadi uh school of thought then you can't be a conqueror and you can't do carry out military duties right so that's why probably that's perhaps why Buddhism was more popular because Buddhism obvious see whether it is Hinduism Buddhism Janism we all prioritize nonviolence nonviolence is the best possible way to live right that's what we say but in the real world you can't always have nonviolence sometimes you will have to deal with evildoers and if you want to establish a hinsa, you have to destroy the hins people, right? The the violent people. And that's why Buddhism, Hinduism, etc., we've had people who have been warriors. I mean, think of Japan. Think of the samurai. Who were the samurai? The samurai were Buddhists. There you have it. Okay. Ritun Ryer says, "How did the Klicks of Russia become Buddhist? Is it because they were or they are Mongolic? Let's go to the map and understand what is this. First of all, yeah, the map will help us. So, let's go to the map and let me show you something on the map. Once again, we bring out the map and let's search for Kamika. K A M L Y K I A. Okay, Kamika, Russia. And you'll be surprised to see where it is. It's in the Caucasus region, North Kauasus region. Kamlikia north of uh Chachchna Dagistan that region on the shores essentially of the Caspian Sea more or less that's Kamlikia and in this region you have a majority Buddhist population and the people the Kamliks who live here are of Mongolic origin. Very interesting story. Very interesting story. So that's the deal with the Kamls. Now um now let's take that off the screen and let me tell you the story of the Kamliks. Okay. So the Kamls were historically called the Oat people. That's uh one of the original Mong not original one of the uh Mongolian tribes or clans that existed during the time of Shri Chinghan. The urats. So the orats were a branch of the Mongolic people of the Mongolian people and they eventually migrated from Mongolia from central Asia. They were all nomads. So they migrated from the that region to the Caspian Sea region, the Caucasus region, North Caucasus region sometime in the 1600s, sometime in the 17th century. Okay. Now as we know the Mongols eventually became Buddhists. Their original religion so to say was a polytheistic religion called that is called Tangism in English and western historians at least some of them try to make Torism sound like a polytheist like a monotheistic religion based on the worship of one deity Tangri the skyfather which is not the case you have the sky father Tangri you have the earth mother Umi and you have a whole other pantheon of gods goddesses there is nature worship there is spirit worship there is all of that in what you call tingism so that was the regional culture, religion of the Mongols. Then after Shri Chingish Khan passed away, his son Ogadeay becomes the emperor. Then uh then eventually you have Shri uh Kubla Khan who rules China and Tibet becomes the protectorate of Shri Shri Kublhan's empire and that's how the Mongols are introduced to Tibetan Buddhism and eventually it becomes the state religion de facto state state religion in Mongolia. So today if you go to Mongolia they practice a very beautiful syncric uh system which is part Tangism part Tibetan vajayana Buddhism so they will have swastikas they will pray to the Buddha they will also pray to Chis Khan they will also pray to Tangri and they also pray to Umay the earth mother that's that sort of thing that's very common in Asia it's also very common in India practicing multiple faith systems which are the same essentially at the same time you see the same thing in Manipur and Vishnovism. You see that in Japan, Shinto and Buddhism, Shinto is more similar to Hinduism than Buddhism. That's what the Japanese used to write back in the day, a thousand years ago and so on. So because of this, these Kamliks, the Kamlik people, the orats, they also became Buddhists. H um and when they moved to the Caspian Sea region to the to the Caucasus region, they brought Buddhism there. Okay? And they if you go to the place to that region the the the Kamalikia region you will see lots of Buddhist temples monasteries and this region eventually came under the under the jurisdiction of the Russian Empire. So the Kamls became subjects of the Russian Empire but they maintained their Buddhist practices and they built kept building temples. Then Russia became the USSR officially atheist country. So all of that was suppressed for 70 odd years and then in the early '90s the Soviet Union disintegrates and then you saw a revival a resurgence of both the dharma in the Kamlikia region. So it's the only part of essentially of what is Europe that is uh that has a dharmic majority a Buddhist majority. So that's the story of the karmics. Very interesting story isn't it? Sorb says, "Can an output of AI be manipulated if a significant amount of the data on the internet is incorrect from the actual reality? Could this be a major flow in how flaw in how AI responds? How does AI learn by itself?" There is unsupervised re learning, there is reinforcement learning, there is supervised learning and there are lots of different method methodologies on as to how AI learns. Essentially you you have a data set a large amount of data and you train AI on that. Sometimes it is trained on its own. Sometimes you you u you do supervised learning in which case you have to create labeled data sets which is very timeconuming and very expensive. So it makes you know if you want to cut costs then you just train AI on unlabeled data. which can have all kinds of inconsistencies, all kinds of uh flaws, incorrectness, biases, all of that. And then your AI is going to reflect those biases, right? So AI essentially these various AI systems that we have chat GPT and uh Grock and Clo and the Chinese one, what is it? Deepseek, Deepseek R1, R2, whatever. All of these are trained on essentially on the entire internet. And apparently uh Meta, they they have their own AI system, whatever. I don't know what it's called. I don't remember what it's called, but they trained their AI system on uh illegally downloaded books. I don't know how many terabytes of that. 70 or 170 terabytes, whatever the number is. Don't quote me on that, but it's a very large number, very tremendous amount of data, all scraped from the internet from torrents. And so that's what the AI their AI was trained on. So essentially AI will reflect the biases of the data it has been trained on, the data it has ingested and that's definitely going to be a flaw in the way AI responds. Uh so so and of course it will also reflect the biases of the organization of the of the company or the country that trained it and you can put guard rails on an AI so to lobotomize its thinking and prevent it from saying certain things and forcing it to say other things and so on. You can do all kinds of stuff with the AI that you own. Uh so yeah, AI is going to be biased. Now let's say you have an AI system. Okay, let's say I acquire the funds me to train an AI system, a completely new model on the entire corpus of Sanskrit texts that we have. Okay. on the Ramayan, the Mahabharat, the opanishads, the piranhas, everything the all the other texts that we have all the Buddhist texts that we have all of that the entire corpus of Indian civilizational literature in Sanskrit and let's say other languages like prait the prait languages uh uh pali also let's even include Buddhism uh let's also include Tibetan texts written in Tibetan translated from Sanskrit because we may not have the suskit originals. Let's say you want to take Chinese texts, Buddhist text, Hindu text, whatever. If you train an AI system on these texts, it's going to be biased towards dharma. It's going to be a dharmic AI. Okay? So, any AI system is going to have certain inherent biases. That's something you simply are going to have. You have to deal with it. Pranay Paul says the pace the rap rapid pace of AI development is bound to disrupt so much that's a given we know that it's got me wondering what if say 200 years from now AI becomes so powerful with AGI or ASI that it cla starts claiming its own civilization and imposing its rule on humanity especially the vulnerable similar to how European colonization reshaped the world. Is this just a science fiction thought or do you see a real possibility in the distant future? Could we face face AI systems that refuse to collaborate on breakthroughs in science, medicine, or space exploration without gaining permanent control over a portion of humanity? Am I overthinking this? Or is it more likely that humans might destroy each other before AI reaches such a state? Good interesting question. Um, look, it's not going to happen in 200 years. It's going to happen. It's happening right now. AGI AGI systems most likely exist in some shape or form in secret. we are not made privy to it. Uh so the these systems definitely already exist. I'm not sure if artificially super intelligent systems exist yet but it's coming. It's coming in maybe 1 year, 2 years, maybe 5 years. It's coming. It's going to happen. The question is who develops it first? Whether it's the US or China. So once you have a system like that, what are the dangers? Can AI conquer the world is the question, right? So the question you to ask yourself is how do you physically conquer the world? You can only do that. So how does an empire conquer the world? They have access to manpower. They have access to weaponry. They have access to military. Um all the aspects of the of of the military domain. You have tanks, you have aircraft, you have all of that. And that's how you conquer another territory and establish control over that. Does an AI system have access to any of that? If you give access to that, you will you may be making a mistake. See, there's something called agency. You know, in if you read self-help, self-improvement books and blogs and vlogs and whatever, they talk about agency. They talk about high agency people and low agency people. Low agency people, I think I discussed this some time ago, about an hour ago. Low agency people are those people who uh are like passive people. They can't get things to happen. They can't get things done. They are like supporting characters in a movie. But high agency people are people who get things done. They will get things done somehow or the other. They'll make make it work. If they have some big plan, some ambition, they're going to find a way to make it happen. That's high agency. Does AI have agency today is the question. Let's say there's an AI system that's pretty intelligent. It wants to build a rocket and send it to the moon. Does it have the agency to do that? Does it have the means to do that? Currently, it does not. It has access to no resources. It doesn't have eyes or ears. It only has access to text and images in closed data sets that are given to it by the parent company. Some AIs may have access to the internet and they may know what's happening in the world, but they have no arms, legs, they have no eyes in the world. They don't have the means to make things happen right now. So if somebody gives AI system, an AI system the means to make things happen, control over an armed force, control over missiles, control over aircrafts or whatever, then it could make things happen and it could take over the world. As long as we don't give that sort of control to an AI system, no matter how intelligent it becomes, it won't be able to take any action. But yes, in the future you may see a scenario where militaries become more and more AI enabled and then decision-m becomes so fast that you have you're forced to give control of your military decision-m strategies and tactics to an AI system in which case it can become super powerful and it can take over the world. The that's called the terminator scenario. So it could happen. It's definitely a possibility especially in a scenario where where you have warfare. Um so it's not a science fiction thought. We are almost there. We already have AI systems that have the capability to take over the world possibly if you give them the agency and access to real world systems that can change the world. It's definitely almost there today. Rahu online says recently a revolutionary research of our Bharati genius Shri Yajjun Devam Rao came out came on highlight about Industcript and he derived that the language is Sanskrit. What is my take on this? I think it disturbs the agenda of many powers. What's my take on this? I spoke with him. I did a two and a two two hour plus podcast with him. Uh in case you're not aware, let me try and put that on the screen. Looks like some people aren't aware that this podcast happened. So, um um let me find that video. Okay, let's put that on the screen. Um let's put that on the screen. This is my channel and this here is the video. This one if you can see Indas script deciphered what it means for Hinduism, Sanskrit and Barat. So that is me and Shir Barat Rao gi having a discussion for more than two hours about the entire uh research that he has done. So yes, I am aware of it. I think it's a tremendous breakthrough. Uh I think it's u it's a phenomenal thing. It's it's revolutionary and it's going to eventually in the long run uh you know change the way we look at Indian history. So he has by now deciphered I think all of the indust so-called Indas or Harapan era science all of them and he has a website you can you can look it up on if you if you go to the video in the description of the video I've put a link to the website in which the entire decipherment is done. So he has deciphered the entire corpus of of inscriptions that we have and they're all Sanskrit. So there you have it. So what is the central premise of the Arian invasion migration tourism picnic theory? The s there are two main claims that this theory makes. First claim is that Hinduism is foreign to India. Second claim Sanskrit is foreign to India. And Mr. Bharatra has demonstrated that they were speaking Sanskrit in India 3,000 BC. That's 5,000 years before today. And the Arin invasion supposedly happened around 1500 BC. So that's more than 1500 years before that and probably even even before 3,000 BC. So this completely destroys this Arian invasion, migration, tourism, picnic theory completely destroys it and that's why it is uh you know there's a lot of push back against this but try and disprove it. So it's great. It's wonderful. It's wonderful. Uh Krishna Krishna of Surinam Netherlands says why are so many archaeological sites hidden underground? What's the reason for this? Interesting question. If you want to do any archaeological research, you typically have to do digging, right? And you find these ancient, towns, cities, fortifications, etc. underground and you dig them out. Why is that? It's a good question. It's a great question. It's because of a phenomenon called erosion. You know there's wind that blows all over the place everywhere and the wind will pick up dust particles, sand particles. It'll deposit them. It'll take them from one place and deposit them kilometers away. You what you even see is that you know wind picks up sand from the Sahara desert in Africa and blows it across the Atlantic and that sand and the dust eventually falls in the Amazon region. So what you have is this there's this constant process of erosion and deposition of dust and soil and all of that in various parts of the world. Now let's say you have an you have an ancient city that uh gets abandoned for whatever reason and it's abandoned for 100 years. In a 100 years you will see a significant amount of deposition of dust and soil and perhaps sand and whatnot on that city on that ancient uh city that was abandoned and then you have the you know you have vegetation growing over it and after 2 300 years after 500 years all signs of it will dis disappear. The entire surface of the planet is constantly being reshaped by these forces. We don't see it during our lifesty lifetimes because we typically live in urban cities where everything is wellmaintained. All the dust is swept out and all that but this happens over a period of decades and centuries and typically after a century or two a large portion of any abandoned site will be half buried and in 500 years it'll be completely disappeared. So that's why you will see especially when it comes to places like India where you have things that are thousands of years old. Let's say the Sarasati Synindhur region where you have thousands of unexplored archaeological sites along the dry riverbed of the of the Saraspati river all of those are underground because of the same process and after the Saraspati dried out there was a big desert that was created which is called the thar desert the Rajasthan desert so you have so much sand that's blown around the region from the desert and it also gets deposited on these things so over time it all gets buried so that's why so many arch arch ological sites are today found underground and depending on how deep you have to dig you can actually deduce how old that site is roughly right okay this is a interesting question uh what is your connection with the snat joting um could you share some information about the chavda kingdom all hail to the cha king Rodrikar was asking this for a very long time and find out If Chavda has an AMD origin, I keep thinking King Xerxes would have been like you. So I've spoken about this like three four years ago but let's revisit this topic. So recently I met with Gurudevishi Reshankar GI about the rediscovery of the pieces the fragments of the original Somnat shiveling which was destroyed a thousand years ago by the Turk invaders. And in that in that conversation that brief conversation with him I told him that I have a very personal connection with the sunna jutir linga because my family they were the they were the guardians and protectors of the sunna jutiring between the 7th and the 10th century AD. So what's the story? There's something called the Cha dynasty. I have spoken about this before. Let's put that on the screen. Um so if we look for this so you have the Chava dynasty which was which ruled Gujarat from 690 to 942 AD roughly and you have their their coinage and all that is found and they were this dynasty the kings of this dynasty were the guardians and protectors and servants of the great jotir linga of Snathnad Mahadev which is Lord Shiva and that is my family that's my lineage those are my ancestors so that's my connection to it so they were the protectors of that jotier linga they saw the original jotier linga which was floating in midair which was which was levitating because of magnetic because of magnetic properties and that was destroyed by the Turks and now it's been uh revealed to still exist in the form of smaller shrivelings and I got to see it with my own eyes. So it is it is a very very personal thing for me because my ancestors saw it and I saw it today. Obviously lots of other people's ancestors also saw that right. So it's it's a great thing that the rediscovery of this shivalinga. Now does the Chava lineage have an aid or Persian origin? Look uh the origin of the Chavda dynasty could be perhaps further north from Gujarat because it is recorded that the uh patron of the great astronomer and mathematician Brahmagupta was a king of the Cha dynasty. His name was Vagramok Vyagra Cha. So the patron of Brahmagupta was from this dynasty and that dynasty that king ruled in the present day region of Gurjaresh which is the Rajputana region north of Gujarat bin Namal region uh and and if you go to uh numismatic museums coin museums coins from the Cha dynasty are portrayed as Indo-asanian coins. The Cassinian Empire wasn't was a Persian Empire because apparently the Chavda kings used similar symbolism and similar style as the Cassinian kings. But I am I would not say that this is a Persian origin dynasty. I don't think so. Of course, people in the western part of India will look more like Persians because of the geographical closeness. people from Rajasthan, Gujarat, Sind, Baloistthan, they will look similar to Persians because the Persians are right next door and we have the same origins as well. So I don't think the Chava dynasty had an aeminid origin. It was an ancient Indian dynasty. It it uh went out of power in the beginning of the in the middle of the 10th century AD. It's been a long long time. So that's the story. Okay, Ashish says, "Have you read the novel trilogy, The Threebody Problem by Leu Chishin?" And in this, there's a mention of the dark forest theory where the universe is a dark forest and intelligent alien civilizations tend to hide their location and take over any weaker civilization that flags their location. Do you think the dark forest theory is the most probable outcome? um is the most probable outcome according to game theory. If the aliens visit us, meaning that they are definitely here to take over, right? The dark forest theory that is connected to something called the Fermy paradox. The Fermy paradox in the simplest of ways is the big question. Where are all the aliens? See, because we know how vast the universe is. Uh the universe has approximately 10 raised to 22 stars, which is one with 22 zeros behind it. That's how many stars we have. So there's going to be hundreds of trillions of habitable planets most likely assuming one star has at least one planet and a certain percentage are habitable habitable then you will have hundreds of trillions of habitable planets or trillions of them or millions of them. So there's going to be statistically it's very likely that there's going to be advanced civilizations out there and and yet we see nothing. We don't if you look at the night sky we are we have all these telescopes going all over the place and looking for signs of something but you find nothing. It's all silence right we see nothing. So the universe appears to be empty and the question is why does it appear to be empty? So the dark forest theory says that you know if you go to a forest in on on our planet a dark forest you know there are all kinds of dangerous animals out there all kinds of pred predators predators tigers and lions and bears and snakes and crocodiles and whatnot. So if you want to survive in this dark forest, you have to stay hidden because there's always going to be some big p predator that can if it detects where you are, it's going to come and gobble you up, chow you down, right? So the dark forest theory says that perhaps the universe is like this dark forest. It isn't empty, but it is full of these civilizations all hiding from each other. Because if you reveal yourself, then you may be destroyed. Because if you reveal yourself that you are an advanced civilization, others will know that you have a big planet with great resources for survival and maybe other civilizations need such resources. So if you reveal where you are, you may get destroyed. So you have to stay hidden for survival because you know all living things need to survive. you they need and to survive you need to secure resources. You need to secure territory. You need to multiply. And why do humans today dominate the earth? Because we have outco competed all the other species. We have reduced them to nothingness. It is these competitive predatory expansionist traits that have led us our species human species to dominate the planet. And we know that uh if you look at our history, we know that aggressive cultures, competitive cultures, expansionist cultures spread historically and they destroy others. That's what our history tells us. So alien civilizations may also dominate the planet that so any alien civilization that is technologically very advanced has gone through the same process on their planet. They have outco competed all other species and they have those expansionist predatory aspects. in their genetics if they have genetics. So they may be similar to us in those respects and we cannot know what their intentions are and we have to assume we cannot trust them. We have to assume that they seek what we have and they seek to replace us. Here we have and that's why it makes sense to just you know hide rather than communicate where you are. So you know uh we have had high technology for let's say 100 years and we have radio signals that have been been playing for let's say roughly 100 years right so by today those radio signals that we sent out knowingly or unknowingly they have traveled approximately 100 light years by now because radio waves are electromagnetic waves and they travel at the speed of So at this at this stage we're going to remain hidden for a long time unless we actively try to be noticed. Uh a 100 light years diameter if you have a bubble of 100 light years around where we are. We are just in our own galactic neighborhood. There is just a few star systems near us. Alpha and Proxima Centtory are about 4 point something light years away. Then you have other like star systems like Tao Sithai and Epsilon and Aridani and other systems nearby. But hopefully they're empty. Hopefully one hopes. So thus far probably no one knows about us and we should remain hidden. We should not try to be noticed, not try to send signals here and there because that is the safest policy. Okay. So we have to assume that other species may be predatory. uh we have to assume that they are not friendly and we have to be careful. So this is what they call the dark forest theory which makes a lot of sense from a game theoretic perspective because if you do the game theory calculations the best possible uh strategy that you have is to stay hidden. Dan Network says, "Namaskar. I am a student of class 12th. I recently came across this book called Black Hole by the astrophysicist Brian Cox. It it was talking about Penrose diagrams. Black holes and white white holes. Can you please explain this in a simple way?" Okay, let's see what a Penrose diagram looks like. Penrose diagram. Okay. Penrose diagram. Let's put that on the screen. Huh? Let's put that on the screen. Penrose diagrams. What are these Penrose diagrams? That's a question. Here we have a penrose diagram. Shall we uh make this larger? Okay, I'll I'll put a larger version of this on the screen and let's try and talk about what this is. What is a penrose diagram? What what does it do? What does it talk about? So here we have a penrose diagram. Okay. So imagine you're trying to draw a map of the entire universe on one single piece of paper. Now we know that the observable universe is gigantic. It's got a diameter of about 93 billion lightyear. Enormous, right? So it is enormous. It could even be infinite. But our paper is small. Our piece of paper is small. So that's where a Penrose diagram comes in. A Penrose diagram is like a like a special map. And it was invented by a mathematician and physicist called Roger Penrose. And this diagram allows us to squeeze the whole universe on a single piece of paper. So here's how it works. So instead of showing actual distances like like you would have on a map, I open the map all the time, right? So on a map of the earth, you you actually see kilometers, right? The actual distances. So in a Penrose diagram, instead of showing those actual distances like a regular map, the Penrose diagram shows the path of light. It shows light paths. Now we know that light travels at the same speed the speed of light it's the speed limit in the universe. So these diagrams Pendro's diagrams they these diagrams here they focus on how light moves through space and time. So so using special mathematics let's call it special mathematics you can squeeze almost infinite distances into finite spaces on your paper. So you you use a special mathematics to make things that are really far away appear really really smaller. So the further an object is the smaller it is depicted over here and the furthest uh objects will fit on the edge of the diagram. So if you were to examine this diagram you have space and time. Space is on the x axis time is on the y axis right. So uh so time goes up from bottom to top and space spreads out horizontally from left to right and light rays travel at a 45° angle. So these diagrams are very useful for showing things like black holes and the expanding universe. It helps scientists visualize what happens to light and matter in extreme in extreme places and situations where space and time get really bendy because of the way general relativity works. So it's like taking a picture of the night sky with a camera uh that can see everything at the at the same time even the parts of the universe that are really really almost infinitely far away. So that's what a penrose diagram is. Now talking about black holes. So a black hole. Imagine you have a trampoline. You know trampoline. If you want to see what a trampoline looks like. Trampoline. Trampoline. U. So let's put that on the screen. Imagine you have one of these things. A trampoline. It's that thing on which you bounce. You know a bouncing thing. That's a trampoline. This is a trampoline. So imagine you have a trampoline and on the trampoline you put a football or a volleyball or some kind of ball. Okay. So the trampoline will will sink down. Okay. Ball on trampoline. Let's let's look for that on trampoline. So let's say you have a ball like this on a trampoline. I mean you know it it will it will bend down actually. Uh so it it will sink down. It will one second. General relativity. Okay, here we have a ball on a trampoline. This is a better visual visual visualisualization. So if you put a ball on a trampoline, the trampoline sinks down creating a big dip and then if you roll a marble or a small ball near the bowling ball, it'll circle before falling in. Okay, just keep that image in your mind. So that's kind of like a black hole. A black hole is a place in space where gravity is so strong that nothing can escape from it, not even light. And light is the fastest thing in the universe. Okay? So that's why they called black because we cannot see them. They're dark. They're not dark. They're essentially invisible because no light can come out of it. Whatever light you shine at it just sinks in. It never comes out. So black holes, how are they formed? They're formed. The black holes are formed when really big stars much bigger than the sun run out of fuel and collapse under their own weight under under their own gravity. And then the stars material gets squeezed into a tiny point theoretically called a singularity where gravity becomes incredibly intense and the curvature of spaceime essentially becomes infinite and even gravity becomes uh and and the density of mass becomes infinite and a black hole will have a boundary and the boundary is called an event horizon. It's a point of no return. So once anything crosses that boundary, it can never come out even light. That's a black hole. And a white hole is like a time reversed black hole. Imagine you you are uh it's like a fountain in space. A black hole will absorb everything. A white hole just spews out matter and light. And you can never ever throw inside anything inside a white hole. And white holes come come from the same mathematical equations the Einstein field equations of general relativity that describe black holes. So if you take the equations for black holes and you flip around the time like watching a movie backwards you will get white holes. But white holes uh are theoretical objects. Black holes have been observed and discovered. White holes we still don't have any confirmed observation of a white hole. So we don't quite know if white holes exist. Maybe they are just theoretical mathematical constructs that come out of general relativity. But maybe they are real and we still haven't found one. So that's the deal. Hopefully it's simple enough for you to understand. Okay. Rahul says, Rahul Dunak says, "When you fall into a black hole, how do you get stuck? How can you get stuck at the horizon for external observers as well as pass through it until you reach the singularity? What is the truth?" Right? What's the truth? So let's say let's let's do this thought experiment. Let's say you are observing a black hole from far away and your friend who is very unwise has has decided to fall into the black hole. So you are wise, you're far away from a black hole. You're observing from a good distance and your friend is not very wise and he has decided to fall into the black hole. So from your perspective, you are an outside observer. You are at a safe distance. You are not going towards the black hole. You can see from far what's happening. So what do you see? You will see that as your as your friend goes closer and closer to the black holes edge the event horizon you will see that for that person for your friend time seems to slow down. Your friend appears to move slower and slower. So he's falling towards a black hole. He's in a panic. He's moving ah all that right. He's he's waving his arms and all that. But slowly you will find that he's moving in slow motion. It's getting slower and slower and eventually you will see him freeze and you will see that he freezes, stops moving. He's frozen in in whatever posture he is and he never quite reaches the edge of the black hole. And then you will see that light that's coming from your friend becomes redshifted. It becomes more and more red. It gets stretched out and eventually it becomes invisible. So eventually you will not see the your friend anymore and from your perspective it will look like that person never crossed the horizon from your perspective. Now let's put ourselves in in the in into in the shoes of your friend. From your friend's perspective, he's falling in and he doesn't see anything strange at the horizon. He doesn't feel anything strange at the event horizon. He passes right through the event horizon without noticing anything special. Time flows normally for him and he keeps falling until nasty things happen. Spaghettification getting stretched out and all that and eventually whatever is left of him in whatever form reaches the center theoretically the singularity where it gets squeezed into nothingness. So both perspectives are right. What you see from outside is also true and what you what what an infalling person experiences is also true. Okay, these are two different experiences that are true at the same time. So why is it so? So imagine that you have a river that's flowing towards a waterfall. River flowing towards the waterfall and there's a boat on the surface of the river that's going towards the waterfall. That's your friend. And from your friend's perspective, the river goes ac over the waterfall and falls down. But if you have a fish flowing on the ri in the river against the current which is like a ray of light trying to escape and the fish will try keep swimming as fast as possible against the current so that it doesn't fall down but it will just stay in the same place. It keeps swimming but it stays in the same place because the water is going against it. So that's like a photon a light beam trying to escape. It gets frozen in the same place. So that's kind of how it is you know that's an analogy that I can give you. It's a very strange thing. Uh black holes are strange objects. General relativity is a strange theory and that's why it it is so fascinating and so mysterious. But yeah you get these weird phenomena from when it especially when it comes to things like black holes which are ext which are some of the most extreme objects you can ever have anywhere in the universe. Um, Winter Teal says, "What are gigantic black holes made of? Does it consume a galaxy or something to become a giant?" There's something called, there are various classes of black holes. There are stellar mass black holes which are like several times the size of the sun. Then you have super massive black holes which are gigantic, millions of solar masses, sometimes billions of solar masses. Those are gigantic ones, okay? Big huge monstrous objects. And typically you have a super massive black hole at the center of every galaxy. Most galaxies, our galaxy, the Milky Way has a super massive black hole at its center and so on. So what are these gigantic black holes made of? So they are made up of things they have eaten in the past. Okay, they are made up of star material, gas, all of that stuff which falls inside and there are objects called quazars which are active galactic nuclei in which you have a whirlpool of material that's falling into a black hole and because of that it's so luminous it can outshine entire galaxies. So you can see this process happening far far away all this material falling into a black hole like a gigantic traffic jam like a gigantic world pool it eventually flows flows into the black hole. So it is material made of stars and what not. It a black hole can eat a star. It can rip a star to shreds and gobble it up. So gigantic black holes are made up of all this material they have consumed in the past. How does a black hole start? It is it is believed it is theorized that all super massive black holes initially began as primordial microscopic black holes in the very early universe. And those microscopic black holes were created. They formed because of over densities of spaceime. Fluctuations, quantum fluctuations in spaceime which which created microscopic primordial black holes. And some of these primordial black holes it is believed became the seeds for future super massive black holes. So yeah eventually if you want to become a black hole with millions of solar masses you have to eat you have to consume millions of star worths of material. So yeah, sometimes you may have black holes that are as as as massive as entire galaxies. Yeah. Um okay, let's take some questions from the live chat now. I have I still have more questions, but I will take questions from the live chat now. Next 10 or so minutes. Sham Ratatur says, "What's the history of martial arts in India? And is there similar is there something similar to the samurai way of honor killing and max assassination hitman happened in Kerala have background in kalari pu um samurai don't have honor killings I am not sure where you have heard this honor killings is something very different associated with a different culture it is not associated with any dharmic cure samurai culture is dharmic culture bh the dharma the samurai way of life is called bushido it's a very honorable way of life and it's not honor killings it's about killing for the right cause I mean samurai were the Japanese equivalent of the Indian trrias and their entire life was based on this lifestyle this this set of rules called bushido and it's a very disciplined lifestyle very hard lifestyle and samurai are essentially people were essentially warriors who were extremely skilled in the art and application of violence but they did it according to a framework of rules. The rules came from both the dharma Buddhist dharma. So that's what the samurai were. Um now when it comes to the history of martial arts in India, it's all lost. The history of martial arts in India is lost. Uh we obviously would have had our own martial arts, our own systems of fighting. Some of it survives in some way, some shapes and form. uh kaler putu is what you have in Kerala. It is a certain martial art. Um and then you have something called shastravidya in uh northern part of India uh which is the the rajputic and sik way of fighting. Some of it still survives. And then you have some dances in western India, sword dances that look like dances like like you know they look like a dance but if you see the movements these are sword fighting movements and then you have something called tanka in Manipur which is also sword fighting very very very very energetic and spectacular to watch. So you have martial arts systems in Manipur. You have martial art martial arts systems of the Rajputs. You have martial arts systems system called Kalari PayU in Kerala. And we know by now I think most people are aware of the origins of Kung Fu. Uh Kung Fu originated with u a monk called Bodhi Dharma who traveled from some part of India perhaps south southern India to China. uh he was the first patriarch of the Shaolin temple and when he reached the Shaolin temple he re he came there he went there as a as a scholar of Sanskrit his job was going to be to translate Sanskrit sutras into Chinese but when he reached the monastery he discovered that it was overrun by bandits and all that so he told the monks listen we'll do all the scholarly work later right now let's let's fight off these people these bandits and make sure that they don't come back so he taught the monks the Chinese monks an Indian system, yoga based system of fighting which is now called kung fu. It obviously developed and evolved further in China over the past 1500 or more years. It's now called kung fu. Its origins lie in India. So we had all these systems of martial arts. Most of them them most of these systems are lost today. Good question. I like it. Okay, let's see some more questions. Um uh let's see what else do we have. Uh Ronach says, "How to deal with stray dogs? They bite me for no reason when they don't fear humans. If a dog bites you, you have to immediately get the vaccination done, the the the rabies vaccine. Whatever dosage it is, you have to get it done immediately. Uh no questions asked. Don't ever take a chance." So that's the first thing. Now, how to deal with stray dogs? Why do they bite people when they don't fear human? I'll tell you why stray dogs bite people. Stray dogs bite people and they become aggressive towards towards humans when they are treated cruy by humans. Stray dogs see the Indian dog is the oldest breed of dog in the world. It's the original dog. It's the and it's it's naturally adapted to the the conditions of the Indian subcontinent. And they have coexisted with us for thousands of years, these dogs. And they are some of the most intelligent dogs and some of the most social and friendly dogs. But that said, you will find some of them are very aggressive and they bite people and that typically happens when early in a dog's life they are treated cruy by various people. So then the dog decides the humans are bad so let's bite them at the first opportunity. And obviously dogs also have personalities. Some are most of them are nice, but some of them may have those criminal tendencies. So what's how to deal with stray dogs? Look, they have been with us for thousands of years. We cannot exterminate them. I think we need to governments, you know, municipalities, etc. need to have their own policies for how to deal with dogs. Uh you either, you know, neuter them or vaccinate them or something and so on. So the the main thing is be careful. Most dogs are nice, but don't take a chance, especially when you have kids and all. Be always careful around dogs. And don't ever mistreat dogs. Lots of people are for no reason are cruel to dogs and animals. And that's where the whole problem problem begins. And then sometimes you have the case of rabies. Some dogs get dogs get, you know, they get infected with rabies. And when that happens, they they lose all self-control and they go on a on a rampage biting everything they can bite. So yeah, that's a deal. So my main thing is what I would say is always be careful. Always be be alert. If you know a dog, you can be friends with him or her. But if you are in a new place and you see dogs that just be a little careful, that's all. All right. Um uh let's see what else. Um Shri Ramachandra Maha says what's my favorite language? It is Sanskrit. A language I am not that good at but it is my favorite language because it is our civilizational mother language. Okay. Um Arian says what the hell is a wave function? How does it define an orbital if it contains all the information of a particle? Doesn't it disobey Heisenberg's uncertainty principle? Look, I have to if I were to explain all of this properly, it will take me about half an hour with all the equations and all. But let me tell you in brief what is a wave function? A wave function is an object, a mathematical object. And when you uh it essentially tells you the probability of finding a particle at a given point in space. So it's a probabilistic thing. And when you take the square of the wave function, then that's when you get see. So it essentially encodes the probability density. It's not a physical thing. It's it's it's it's a probability density. It represents a probability density. How does it define an orbital? Based on the probability of finding an a particle in a certain po portion of space, you can map out that graphically. And that is what an orbital is. So orbitals take different shapes. Hydrogen orbitals are the simplest thing. Let me show you hydrogen orbitals. Hydrogen orbitals. So depending on the various states of the hydrogen atom, you have various orbitals. The ground state, the first excited states and so on so forth. So these shapes are are are constructed based on the probability of finding the particle at a certain at a certain place uh in v in various states ground state n then n equal 2 and so on so forth. So that's what I can say in brief but to explain this properly would take me much longer and it certainly doesn't disobey Heisenberg's uncert uncertainty principle. Nothing does nothing does. Okay. Um I have no idea. Among Mehotra says, "What is aotic stenosis?" When you talk about aotic something, you're talking about the aorta, which is one of the biggest veins that we have that that that comes out of the heart. Aotic stenosis. It's Yeah, I'm not really sure. Not really sure. I could Google it and find it for you, but I'm sure even you can do that. Yeah. So, I'm not very sure what aotic stenosis is. Um, let's see some more questions. Uh, um, Mr. AT8 says, "How to make study notes more effectively? Read the topic first and then make notes or write whatever you understand." Well, it depends on on your school of thought. First thing you could do is uh if you have a textbook and you're reading the textbook, the first thing is read as quickly as possible and let's say you're reading a chapter in whatever book in whatever textbook first just read the thing. Okay? Don't try to force yourself to remember anything. Just read the thing as if you're reading a story book. That's first pass. You read the textbook, the chapter once. Okay? Done. Then take a break maybe a day. Next day you start again. This time have a pencil in your hand and whatever you find interesting, underline it. Whatever thoughts come to your mind, write them down in the margins or in a separate notebook. So that's your second pass. So then now you have some more information and more more understanding, more context. Then you read it a third time and then you have a better understanding of what's important, what's not. So you can make a list of bullet points that explain the whole chapter. That's what you could do. Now it depends on the subject whether it is psychology whether it is philosophy whether it is physics whether it's something else whether is history each would have a different approach but that's what you would do main thing is you want to understand the gist of the chapter you want to understand the main important points so at the end of the day you want to boil it down to a list of bullet points and each bullet point you should be able to to to expand properly into the entire context That's the approach that you overall should have. Uh current is how to read math books. You don't read math books. You work through the problems. A good math book is full of problems. It gives you a basic introduction of what the thing is. It gives you a couple of examples and gives you a bunch of solve problems and gives you a bunch of problems that you have to solve. The only way to learn math, mathematics, is to solve problems. There's no other way. If you think that uh you take a book and you're going to read it for three hours, just read it and you will understand it. You'll understand nothing. The only way to absorb internalized mathematics is by solving a million problems as many as possible. Right. Okay. Uh Vidi says, "Have you ever taken interest in research studies that indicate improvement in our cognition and brain structure due to reading or chanting Sanskrit? Are there enough studies for the same? There I have read something about this in a research paper called it spoke about something called the Sanskrit effect in which uh they had a a number of Sanskrit pundits who were chanting certain Sanskrit texts and they were very particular about the way they recited the texts and even the slightest mispronunciation would force them to start or from from the beginning and they would memorize large amounts of Sanskrit text and all that and what these researchers found was that a certain portion of the of their brain was about 10 10% larger than normal. So yeah, it does change your brain structure and it is it has been discovered apparently that uh even just reading Sanskrit or or speaking Sanskrit or or essentially even reading it produces a hypnotic kind of effect on your mind and it calms you down. So I'm not going to look up the literature right now because it'll take me a lot of time but do the research on your own if you're interested. There is indeed something called the sunit effect and there is research literature available now that kind of points in that direction that Sanskrit has this sort of effect on the mind on on on cognition and with that I'm going to end today's live stream. We are 2 hours and 15 minutes into it. So yeah end of today's session. Thank you so much for all the questions. Very interesting questions from the comments and interesting questions from the live chat as well. And let's keep doing this and I will see you in next week's session in a week weeks time from now. Until then take care, keep asking questions, keep learning and keep raising your standards. I will see you next week. Thank you. Bye-bye.