[Music] Heat. Hey. Hey. Hey. [Music] Heat. [Music] Heat. Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask a Bidget show. I hope everyone's doing great. Uh today we're going to discuss history. I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the live uh in in the in the comments. So I'm going to take a bunch of those. I've chosen a number of questions. I'll answer as many of these as possible and if there is still time I will take some questions from the live chat after that. So let's see who is there on the live chat with us. I can see Daksh. I can see Nikkesh Dahal Shrihari Nay Capish Agarwal Netisen random shots Vladimir Putin Ojasit Kumar Canel geopolitical dub from indor Aayush Singh namaste rational thinker Vikash PJ Pratik Vorasomi Jane Hensy Penguin Namaskarum Rayan freedom from outcome from Canada good morning sir chat DSP I'm random shots Latangi Suresh Netizen Vikash PJ Vladimir Putin Archan uh Dutch rational thinker Nikil Barhavi Nikesh Dahal Rudra Narayan Geopolitical again Bruce Wayne is here. Sahil Kala mobile manism. Hello. Um Richard is here. Nick Hill ashwani tushar kasana canel langi surv durya anahita salutations. Aayush Yadav Shirhari Nayar Aush once again Rahul G Hershel Patel Suraj Satellite Sineka Duv Sharma Shiv Brody Aniri Hershel Patel and everyone else St. Crocodile St. crocodile and mites Mitra from Moscow. Well, hello. Hello. Uh, and everyone else. All right, people. So good to have you all. Thank you so much for being on this live stream. And now, let's get going with as many questions as we can take today. All right, so let's do that. What's the first question that we have for today? One second. Let me find the questions. Here we are. Here we are. Rahul Dunak asks a question that seems to be a question about science. But how about we turn that into a history question? We can always do that, can't we? So the question is, do black holes lose mass in the form of Hawking radiation? Can the mass of can the loss of mass trigger the black hole to become a neutron star after its mass becomes less than 1.4 solar masses? The Chundra Shakhar limit. So let's talk about the Chundra Shakhar limit. Who was Chundra? Why is it called the Chundra Shakhar limit? Who was who is it named after? this this physics phenomenon or physics this law of nature right Chundra Shakhar so it's named after Subramanyam Chundrahar Subramany Chandra Shakhar was the first ever astrophysicist to win a Nobel Prize in physics not just the first Indian first ever Indian astrophysicist but the first astrophysicist from any country to win a Nobel prize and it's named after him and Chandra Shakhar was born in well he was born in Lahore I think in the 19 what 20s or something or 1910s I don't remember which exact year it was it was during the British occupation of India and he was from a Tamil Brahman family and uh at the age of 15 he he wrote a physics paper and by the age of 19 he was on his way to London on an Indian government scholarship uh he was he was on his way to Cambridge and that's where and and on the journey to Cambridge on the ship. The ship voyage took about 18 days. And on that voyage, he did some calculations that essentially turned the world of astrophysics around. And he he discovered that there is a mass a maximum mass that a neutron star can have. After a after a star dies, when a star is dying, what is left behind is a neutron star. But only stars of only a certain mass can become a neutron star. Beyond that the star implodes into something else. Sorry not not neutron star white dwarf. Neutrons were not known at the time. So what is the maximum mass of a star such that it can be become a white dwarf. So our sun the sun that we have is going to be a white dwarf someday in maybe 5 billion years or something. But if it was greater in mass greater than 1.44 solar masses then it would not become a white dwarf. would implode and it would become a a neutron star which is now known now but what if its mass is such that it can't even become a neutron star then it becomes a black hole so Chandra Shakha's work was all about what happens to stellar collapse what's the eventual fate of stars of dying stars so that's what this was about and he was a great Indian astrophysicist but he never worked in India by the age of 19 he left India because there was no there were no opportunities in India and he had a scholarship he was brilliant so he went to London and in London. His work conflicted with the work of Arthur Edington, the greatest astrophysicist of that time. Sir Arthur Edington, right? And Arthur Edington was kind of a mentor to Chandra Shakhar. So Chandra Shakhar published his paper which kind of extended the work of Raf Fowler who was his PhD guide essentially. But uh General Shaka's work was in was in conflict with Edington's work and Edington was the greatest astrophysicist of the time and Edington believed that you know these these uh black holes are are disgusting things. There should be a law of nature that prevents nature from behaving in such manner and this is what stellar buffoonry and all that. So one day when Chandra Shikhar presented his his paper his his research in the Royal Astronomical Society Edington ambushed him and he arranged such that his talk will be right after Chandra Shakhar's talk and Chandra Shakerhar presented everything properly with all the equations all the mathematics all the calculations and after he was done Edington started to talk and he unleashed a brutal verbal assault on Chandra Shakhar the kind of assault you don't do in polite society he turned what Chandra Shakha was doing stellar buffoonry and he completely disparaged Chundra Shakhar without showing any mathematical proof that Chundra Shakhar was wrong because Chandra Shakhar was never wrong but he turned Chundra Shakhar into into essentially an outcast and because of that Chundra Shakhar had to leave England and he had to go to the United States and he spent the rest of his life in teaching at the University of Chicago. His first job in the US was at Yurik's observatory. So a great son of India who who could never be an Indian because there are no opportunities in India and for for 30 years he stayed out of the topic of black holes. He stayed away from black holes. That's how traumatized he was by Edington's assault on him. And eventually slowly came back into the physics of black holes 20 years after Edington died. And eventually Chandra Shakhar wrote the greatest book on black holes and on his on his 73rd birthday I think he got the phone call from Stockholm we you are awarded the Nobel Prize. So that's the story of Subramanyam Chandra Shakhar and uh so yeah and then to answer Rahul's question does a black hole lose mass in the form of rocking radiation yes it does it does but can the loss of mass trigger the black hole to become a neutron star never not possible according to the laws of physics so that's the answer and anyway if you want to understand the story of Chundra Shaker I would recommend you read my new book called the Chundra Shakerher limit which is available on Amazon the links will be in the description I think the link is right now not in the description I'll add it to the descript description. Check it out. It's a great read and it's it's the story of a great son of India who was one of the greatest physicists of all time. It discovered a fundamental law of nature. So please check out this this here book the Chundra Shakhar limit which has just come out which I've just released. All right, next question is by Shub. What did ancient Indians call our land? Today we call it Bharat Mata. Also, how did the term bharat mata emerge during the freedom struggle? Yeah, good question. Good question. All right. So, what did ancient Indians, what did our ancestors call our land? So, the land has been called by different names, different terms. So um one of the terms that has been used was jamudep which was applied to the entire Indian subcontinent the land that's essentially south of the Himalayas. All of that is Jamu which extends all the way to Gandhara and the borders of Persia and eastwards to the borders of of the borders of Surabumi essentially which is Southeast Asia and south all the way to Lanka. So that essentially all of it is is surumi uh I'm I'm sorry what it is Jammu Jamudip that's the subcontinent or the continent of India. Another term that was used for India was Arya which is the land of the Arya people the noble people that's us all of us no matter what are the skill whatever skin color we are all Arya people. Uh the British and the Europeans have tried to appropriate the terminology of Arya. they now you so the the the common understanding today is that aran means white people which is a lie means us not the white people the white people are an area they are not arians they're not Arya people we are the Arya people the Indians and the Persians the original Persians probably not today's Persians so that was the the Arya people and our land was called Arya the Persians had their own term Aryan Vijay or something like that. So, Jambudip, Aryawa and of course Bhat. So, how does this term bat? Where did it come from? So, one of the ancient clans in India, the one of the ancient Rigidic clans was the Barata people and they were the well their king was called Diwodas. I think it was his son Sudas who was at the receiving end of this coalition confederation of more than 10 clans. the battle of the 10 kings and Sudas came out on top. He defeated the entire coalition with the help of Lord Indra. Of course, you have to praise Lord Indrat. So, Sudas and and his father Diwas, they were kings of the Barata clan of our ancestors and the land is named after them. And there's also King Barat of course the the son of Shakuntala and Duchant. King Dusant and his wife Shakuntala they produced that union produced this this child called Bharat and he was the ancestor of the of the Korovas and the Pandavas wasn't he? So that's another Bat. So yeah that's that's the different names that our land has been called by our ancestors. Today we call it Bat. Some people call it Bhat Mata. Well let me tell you that Bat is a masculine name. Okay. uh Barat was not the the the name of uh Duchant and Shakumala's daughter. It was the name of their son. It's a masculine name. I don't know how this term bharat mata came about but maybe it emerged during the independence the freedom struggle the struggle against British occupation uh possibly. So I have not looked into how the term emerged bat mata but it's something that everyone uses today. The prime minister likes to say that well it's good it's something that unifies India and it's it's something that resonates with a lot of lot of Indians so it's fine even if it's contradictory bat is a masculine name and you're terming that as mata well it means motherland of course right motherland which is fine which is good because the land is our motherland arry jamudip bat or you want to call it bat mata you can also call it arrya mata or jamudip mata if you Nothing wrong with that I would say if you want to call it bat mata perfectly fine I think that's the commonly used term today so yeah that's kind of the history but the original terms where jamudep and ariat and bharat the Chinese called India tanju tanju means the center of heaven or the he the heavenly land the the abode of heaven so that's what the Chinese called uh our land and various Other other people had different uh names for the land. Okay. Feminist Slayer says, "What was the significance of the Louisiana purchase in expanding the United States?" Very interesting question. Not sure we have taken this question before. So, let's take it. Let's first go to the map because the answer to many of our questions can be found in the map. So, I'm going to show you something for reference and then we'll see something else. So, right now we go uh please. Now, we go westwards and we take a look at the map of the United States. These United States of America, right? This one here. As you can see, it's it's essentially half of a continent, right? The mercantar projection kind of shows Canada as a gigantic nation compared to the US. It's it's similar in size actually. So the United States, as you can see, it's it's half of a continent. Now, let me show you the map of the United States in 1800. Okay, let's let's go to Google and let's find out map of the United States 1800. Map of the USA 1800. Let us see. Okay, check this out. I'm going to Okay, I'll I'll expand this on a different screen so that it'll be easier to see. Here we have it. Okay, check this out. Um, so over here, if you can see, um, the the portion on the right, the green and the orange and the yellow, all of that was the United States. only that to the west you have something called the colony of Louisiana which belonged to France as you can see in the in the center of the screen the colony of Louisiana which belonged to France can you see how large it is it was essentially almost as large as as the existing United States and then you had the vice royalty of New Spain which belonged to Spain and then you had so-called unclaimed territory which was which which on is shown is empty on the map because nothing existed there. No humans, nothing or if humans existed, they did not they did not classify as humans possibly according to the the the people of the United States. So the United States was was significantly smaller than the United States you imagine today, wasn't it? So you had Connecticut, you had Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, which was the original United States. Virginia was um the place where uh Jamestown was founded. The the you the Americans want to forget about Jamestown. It's it's an inconvenient story. And then you have Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, all that. And you had the western Connecticut western reserve and you have the Northwest Territory, all that. So that's all the United States was. and Louisiana. As you can see, this large large piece of territory that extends all the way from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, Gulf of Mexico, this gigantic territory belonged to France. So that's the that's the background. Okay, that's what you have to understand before we have this discussion. Now let's have the discussion. So the United States was was this small piece of territory comparatively uh to today's map. small piece of territory to the west. You had this huge piece of territory as almost as large as the existing US which belonged to France. Uh and the Louisiana purchase happened in 1803 at at which time France was ruled by Shri Napoleon Bonapart Napoleon and the foreign minister was Mishu Talleon. Now the Americans they were interested in not in the entire territory of Louisiana but they were interested in one city. Let me show you once again by going to the map which city it was here is map. Yes. So the United States which was only confined to the west the eastern part of the map it was interested in a city called Noel Oron New Orleans. It's the city where the Mississippi River drains into the Gulf of Mexico. And the Mississippi River starts all the way up north, by the way. All the way up north. Gig. It's the largest river system in the world. So, New Orleans was an extremely important port. And the United States wanted to purchase this port from the French. This fort belonged to France. It was a French city. Even today if you go to New Orleans, there's a French quarter which is the more cultural side of the city and so on. That's a that's a digression. So New Orleans is something that the Americans coveted. They wanted this port and they sent uh so you have Thomas Jefferson who was the president of the US at this time. Okay. and uh he sent uh a couple of negotiators, a team of negotiators, a team of diplomats to Paris, to France, to Paris to uh negotiate with the French government for the purchase of New Orleans, this one city, this one port. And the Americans were willing to pay $10 million for this one city. We'll pay you $10 million. you give you you transfer the city to us. That was the objective of the mission of this diplomatic mission to acquire New Orleans. The maximum price they were willing to give as instructed by the president was $10 million. Now, Louisiana, this huge territory that belonged to France, did France actually control it? Well, not really. France did not did not have any control over much of the territory. Only some parts of the territory were controlled by France. But on paper, it owned the territory. Much of the territory was was was well inhabited. All of it was inhabited by the native Americans and they were the true owners of the land. But on paper, France owned it, but France controlled just a little portion of it. So the Americans just wanted New Orleans. They and the Napoleonic wars and all that is happening in Europe. So the American diplomats reach France and they are willing to negotiate hard. Maximum we will give you is $10 million. Give us New Orleans. They go to Paris and Mu Talon the French foreign minister tells them you know what we would like to offer uh we would like to offer uh Louisiana for $15 million. 15. And the Americans are shocked. They're stunned. There's no telephone. There's no telecommunications. There's no email. There's no WhatsApp. There's nothing. Washington and Paris, they're separated by the Atlantic Ocean. Takes God knows how much time to travel. There's no time. And the Americans were worried that if you don't take the offer right now, Napoleon may take the offer off the table and we may lose New Orleans. So instead of paying $10 million for one city, the negotiators without consulting the president of the US, they agreed to pay $15 million for the entire territory of Louisiana and the papers were signed and it happened. And Thomas Jefferson was fine with that. So the negotiators, his diplomats, they correctly assess that the president, even though he has given us a hard limit of $10 million for one city, he'll be okay to purchase the whole of Louisiana for $15 million. which is shocking which is like what 8 12 like $15 per square kilometer or something per square mile less than that it's a shocking it's a throwaway price so that's what happened and that instantly doubled the the territory of the US in size and the Americans finally felt that we are a first rate world power now or we have the potential to be a first rate world power we're not some little outpost on the Atlantic bank of this continent We now own half the continent and we're going to get rid of the goddamn natives, the savage natives, the savages. The goddamn savages. We shall exterminate them and we shall turn this into the land of the whatever it is, whatever it is, right? So that's that's what happened. So it was significant. It was hugely significant. It doubled the size of the United States. So we we took a look at the map of the US in 1800. Right? Let's once again revisit this. The map of the United States 1800. Now let's say 1805. See what happens. Boom. Double. You see that? Double the size. Look. Back and forth. Back forth. Back forth. It doubled the territory of the United States. It was massively important for the US. So very significant. Louisiana purchase Nirvana Shanks says what was the treaty of Westfallia how did it change the way countries dealt with each other and what's the principle of sovereignty then thank you for your attention to the question okay so the treaty of west falia it was a treaty that was signed in the 1600 1647 1648 around 1650 okay and this treaty marked the the end of a significant period of warfare in Europe. The 30 years war in the ro in the Holy Roman Empire, the 80 years war between Spain and uh the Dutch and that sort of thing. All kinds of warfare was going on forever in the in in Europe. Europe is full of these tribal tribalistic little kingdoms and all that. Some are big, some are small. If you look at Germany though, Germany of the time, my goodness, you will have a heart attack or Yeah. That sort of thing. So Europe was was marred by tribal warfare. Yeah. are these kings and principalities and empires. A little thing is called an empire if it's in Europe. That sort of thing. So you had the 30 years war. You had the war between Spain and and the Dutch which which went on for 80 years and all that. And finally they said that okay let's let's agree to a set of principles and we're going to call it the treaty of Westfallia. So the treaty of Westfallia was not a single treaty that you sit down and sign on one paper. It was a series of agreements or series of treaties that ended this this entire period of decades decades of of warfare. So you had political conflict, you had uh religious conflict, all kinds of conflicts layered together we woven together which was just going on throughout Europe. So finally uh this this series of treaties was agreed upon and it established a set of principles in Europe which and these principles were then applied to the rest of the world because European values are are universal values right that sort of thing. So uh the first principle is that we'll talk about sovereignty. Yeah, we will talk about sovereignty but the first principle in Europe which was established as per the treaty of Westfallia was that each state each kingdom so to say or each state let's say each political state could independently determine its own official religion. Now what are we talking about only one religion right? Christianity. No, but within Christianity, you had schisms, you had factions. You had the Protestants, you had the Calvinists, you had the Hugenauts, you had the Lutherans, you had God knows what else, right? So each state could determine what will be its official religion with within Christianity. You go beyond Christianity, we're going to kill you all. But if you as long as you stay within Christianity and what form of Christianity you want to adopt. All right, sir. So that is what they call religious tolerance. Okay? So we're going to treat Catholics and Protestants alike. You decide what your religion will be. I'll decide what my religion will be. You can be a Catholic guy. You I'll be I'll be I'll be Protestant or whatever vice versa, whatever. And we will call this tolerance. We shall not tolerate anything except for Christianity. But we'll call this tolerance. Okay? So that's the first thing that each state could determine its own official religion and that's called religious tolerance. Second, importantly, each state is legally equal. So you may be a thousand square kilmters, I may be 10,000 square km, that guy may be 100 square km, but as long as you are a state, we are all equal, legally equal. So it's like a nation with a population of 1 million having the same exact vote is a nation with a population of 100 million. That sort of thing, right? All states are equal. In India all states are equal whether it is a state with 3 million population or or 300 thou 300 million population up is equal to money manipur right in the in the in the parliament that sort of thing or or in in in Indian federalism you get the same amount of of weight legal weight legal so you have legal equality so that sort of thing that principle was a was it became a thing because of the treaty of west failure the legal equality of state I don't care what your size is I don't care what your power is we're going to be legally equal. And then there was the principle of non-inference in internal affairs. So you do what you want in your in your country. I I'll I'll look into it. I may look at it. I may I may see what's happening, but I will not interfere and I'll do what I want in my country. You stay out of it. All right. Non-inference. It became a bench. I mean it became a a principle of international relations. And then they they normalized diplomacy and and treaties to resolve conflicts that became more prominent. So that essentially laid the groundwork for uh the international system that we have today. So we don't go to war. We do diplomatic negotiations. We arm twist each other diplomatically. We see who has more leverage. We do we issue threats behind closed doors. But we don't actually go to war. We use e economic means. We use other means. We don't go to war. So essentially international organizations came as a came out uh emerged as a consequence of this because if each state has equal equal legal weight because there is legal equality then coalitions become important. So I have 10 members in my coalition. How many you have? Oh you only have four. Ah we outnumber you. We are legally uh a bigger power compared to you. That sort of thing right? And one more thing is the end of uh religious authority. So the pope was very influential. The Vatican was super influential, right? And uh that was ended. So the interference of of the Vatican in the internal affairs of of various nations of various kingdoms that was ended and there was this gradual as a consequence a gradual shift towards what they call secular governance. secularism, the the the the distinction between the separation of church and state that came out of the treaty of West Valia and the concept of balance of power also came out of this because now that the the the the church is no longer interfering and each uh state has legal equality. So wherever you have coalitions, we will see how many states are in which coalition and how many we have on which side and that that creates a balance of power, right? that sort of thing. So all of this introduced the various key principles that underpin today's u international system or or supposedly underpin today's international system. State sovereignty that each state determines its the way it's going to be run its laws its p its policies its practices and it this so each state determines what happens in the state and it's going to be free from external interference external influence non-intervention. You stay out of my affairs I stay out of your affairs. legal equality. All states have the same u uh equal rights in international uh in the international realm in international relations and religious pluris pluralism as long as it is Christianity that sort of thing. So that is the treaty of Westfallia and that has that essentially under underpins the international order today. the Atlantic Charter, which is the US-based the US uh the American um application of this the the the supposed universality of Western uh western principles, western whatever it is. Uh that's the that's the that started with the Atlantic Charter. It's kind of an extension of this you could say and it it uh gave America the pretext of the the the illusion of of moral superiority over the world the US and England as well Britain. So the English speaking world our they said that our values will now be the universal values which have to be you know applied everywhere and every nation must uphold these values. That's sort of nonsense. So anyway that's the treaty of Westfallia. It did change the way countries deal with with each other once it was applied to the entire world. Math and okay I can't pronounce the name but let's take the question. How did dynasty after dynasty of Turic origin like the Seljuks, the mash, the Timurids, the Safavidits, the Ashar, the Kajars etc. How did they all become Persianized over time in Iran? but did not become indicized in India like the Turks of the Delhi Sultame Sultanat and the Gurani muggals. Huh? Why is that? So interesting question. Interesting question. Cause and effect. Let's look at cause and effect. I mean they should teach these things in history classes. I'm not sure if they do. So the Turks, we we should actually take the question of how do how do the Turks become Muslim? But we'll take that question after this question. I've also selected that question. So now how did so we know that after a certain point in time after a certain period of history in history the Turks were all Muslims right all Turks were Muslims and the Turks they served in various u some Turks acted as as as mercenaries in various armies whether it is the Abbasid army uh of the Abbasid Khalif or various Persian armies or whatever and the Persians were the first non-Arabic people essentially the first major non-Arabic civilization to become essentially almost entirely Islamized right so the Persians were Muslims by the time the Turks had become Muslim the Persians were already Muslim and the Persian in so the Persians were part of the Islamic world. Correct. Now in the Islamic world, the Persian culture, their literature, their architecture, their language, all of this was held in high regard in high esteem. It was considered to be superior superior culture superior manifest manifestation manifestation of Islamic culture perhaps even superior to the Arabic uh perhaps perhaps superior to the Arabic culture maybe some people would regard it as that um so that's why so because Persia was regarded as kind of the epitome of Islamic culture that's why everyone wanted to copy th those that culture obviously right So the barrier it doesn't exist that it's it's a non-Islamic culture. So it's okay to adopt that because they're also Muslims and they they they practice this culture which is regarded very highly in the entire Islamic world. Let's let's copy that. Let's become like them. Let's start using that sort of uh language. Let's perhaps use Persian as the court language. Yes. all the and we can hire some Persian bureaucrats and have them create keep records for us because Persian is clearly a better language for keeping for record keeping and bookkeeping than the Turk language that that sort of thing. So that's why Turks became Persianized and obviously Turks they later ruled Persia as we know that that Bardarian Nadesha was not Persian it was Turkic anyhow. So that's how the Turks gradually became Persianized because of the great uh uh prominence that that Persian culture had in the Islamic world. Now the Turks also they they ruled Persia. They conquered and ruled Persia. They also conquered and ruled India eventually parts of India at least didn't they? And the Turks never became Indianized. I mean the the Muggal dynasty some of those those kings they married Indian ladies but there so by the time you have someone like who uh for example Akbar married various Indian ladies Akbar's mother was not Indian. His mother was Turk or whatever she was but he married an Indian lady. show. So his his successor was who was it? Saleem Jihenir. So Jihanger was half Indian. Now I suppose if Jenir married an Indian lady, his son Shah Jan would be threequarters Indian. So he would look more Indian than Turk. And so many of the Muggal emperors had kings had Indian wives but they never became culturally Indian. They may have started looking Indian as the generations went by but they culturally remained Turkey. Why is that? That's a big question. Why is that? And why? Since they adopted Persian so so readily, why didn't they adopt Indian culture the same way? Because there's a barrier. Indian culture isn't Islamic. You can't adopt a non-Islamic culture. Persian Persian was already the Persian culture was already Islamic. It was already a part of the Islamic world. So see what happened in Persia is that Persia got Islamized in a matter of years. India was various parts of India were under Turk occupation, Arabic occupation whatever for like close to a millennium some parts of India those never became u Islamized completely except for Gandhar except for Gandhar and even in Gandhar which is Afghanistan today you still had Hindus and and and Afghans until until the end of the 20th century you still have some some some sorry not Afghan six you still possibly have sick people in in Gandha in Afghanistan today. I'm not sure if there are still any but u even in the 21st century you had sick people who lived in Afghan in Afghanistan and they were not Indian Afghans they were Afghan Indian six there were Afghan six there were pon six right u so India never islamized the way Persia Islamized which is why Indian culture was always regarded as a non-Islamic culture right as an infidel culture and that's why the the muggles even though many of them were of Indian Indian ancestry largely they still could not see Indian culture as their culture because we are Turks and and Indian culture is non-Islamic so how can we adopt Indian culture so Indian culture did creep in everywhere yeah it did creep in but officially they remained non-Indian which is why I do not consider any of the Muggal kings or emperors as Indians Kaneshka was Indian Akbar was not Indian he was not Okay, that's that's my opinion. You may not agree with me. That's okay. You have the right to your opinion. I do not see Akbar or Jalaludin. His name was Jalaludin, right? Yeah. Zahirin Babar and Hayun and then you have Jalaludin Akbar which is very strange because there was another Jalaludin Jalaludin the coward who Ching Khan was pursuing all the way to India. So, so, so none of the muggle kings were Indian because they never adopted Indian culture. They never became Indian. They remained even if they may have been born in India, even if generations of muggles were born in India, they still remained outsiders. They considered themselves to be foreigners. So you so it is not right to call them Indians. Just being born in in a land doesn't make you a person who belongs to the land, right? Right, there you have it. Okay, next question. Maybe this question should have been taken first. Anyhow, that's fine. So, Sharma 108x says, "How and why did the Turks become Muslim? And why didn't the Mongols?" Good question. Interesting question. Comparative history. The Turks and the Mongols, first of all, what are their origins? So the Turks their origin is the Hunik peoples. I mean for example if you look at our history Indian history uh the Huns attempted multiple invasions of India wave after wave of invasion of India during the second half of the time period of the Gupta Empire. uh and they were called the white huns the schwa hunas and the huns were attempting this invasion of India at the same time when they were invading Rome so that's how widespread the the huns were and what was the origin of the huns the origin of the huns was in the land that we now call Mongolia so the Mongol people and the hunik people are essentially they have the same ancestry the same origin what's the word for human being in the Mongol language today hunu Okay. Or who? So, so there is that. So, the Mongols and the Hones had the same ancestry. But the Mongols, they stayed, they remained in Mongolia. The Hones went wandering around the world. They became nomads. And eventually the Horns some they conquered some parts of India. Some of their kings were utterly nasty like what's his name? Toramana or was it Mihir? Mhir. No, Toraman was okay. He built the Bameyian Buddhas. Good guy. Good. He approves. But Mihir was an absolute barbarian. No one liked him. The Buddhists hated him. The Hindus hated him. Everyone hated him. He was an absolute atheist and a complete uh barbarian. So Nhir was was nasty. But the other Hunik kings were were they became Indian. Of course. For example, the patron of Brahagupta was a Hunik king. Okay. His name was Vagrauk. So the patron of the great Indian astronomer Brahmagupta. Now anyway coming back to the Turks. The Turks the Horns eventually became the Turks. So how did they became Muslim is the question. H so over time because of their presence in central Asia the the Turks the Turks let's call them Turks now they came in contact with the Abbasid caliphate and the the the Turks were nomads and they were very tough hardy people because they live in such extreme conditions so they are naturally going to be good warriors and they had this practice of raiding and all that so they were good warriors so some of The Turks became mercenaries. They became employed by the Abbasid caliphate. They became soldiers in the Abbasad armies and so on. And that's how they they discovered Islam. And some of them because they were employed there and maybe they had children there. They may have married some local ladies or whatever, they eventually became Islamized. And uh somehow that kind of that's kind of the process by which Islam spread among the Turks. The Turks were never conquered by the Arabs. The Turks seem to have adopted Islam voluntarily. That's that's as far as I can see. Maybe I'm wrong. I have not studied the the history in great detail. But there was contact between the Turks and the Abbasid Empire or or Caliphate. The Abbasid caliphate was from 750 AD to about 1258. 1258 is when the Mongols put a full stop to the Abbasid Caliphate. Shri Hooligu Khan. But we that's a different story. So um he was Shri Ching Khan's descendant. But that's a different different story. So 750 AD to to 12508 AD is the Abbasid caliphate and that's the time when you had significant interaction between the Turks and the Abbassads and that's how the Turks somehow became Islamic. So the the Turks became Muslim. Now why didn't the Mongols become Muslim? Because they're the same. They're the same people, same ancestry, same heritage kind of, right? Well, first of all, the Abbasads never reached Mongolia. They never did. Mongolia was was way far away, way to the east. So there was no Islamic presence anywhere near Mongolia. I mean around 1000 AD for example. No nothing. No nothing at all. No nothing at all. And the Turks they practiced originally the same religion the polytheistic religion as the Mongols which is in English called Tingism which is a polytheistic religion which with with multiple deities. The two principal deities are uh Tangri the skyfather and Umay the earth mother. But here we have other deities also deities also in what do you call Tangorism. It's not monotheistic by any means. Some people try to mischaracterize Tangism as monotheistic which is li which is a lie. So the Turks were polytheists. The Mongols were also polytheist. Same same religion. The Mongol the Turks became Muslims. The Mongols somehow were more resistant than the Turks. Eventually you had um so eventually what happened is that the Mongol Empire became so vast, so gigantic after a generation or two after Chingish Khan that the western Mongol Empire, the the the Golden Horde, the the Ilhan etc. they became Turkishized and they became Islamized slowly gradually by intermaring and and and and by by ruling over so many Muslims it made sense for them to become Muslim. Um so that's how the western Mongol western expanses of the Mongol Empire became Muslim and they became Turkic. Then you can no longer call them Mongols. They became Turks. But in the Mongol Empire itself um Islam never made made any inroads. Why is that? There seems to have been some significant resistance to Islam in Mongolia among the Mongols. uh for example we know that Shir Ching Khan has the well he conquered half the world and he launched his conquests because of a sense of justice that I was wronged and I need to u no one's going to give me justice I need to go and get justice myself so he had sent an embassy to the shua the sha of karaz karazma he wanted Mongolia to trade with karazma but the sha Farasma had the embassy killed. He had them beheaded. And then Chasan sends a second embassy asking for justice. And the Muslim guy who was part of the embassy because you're dealing with Muslims. He was beheaded and the others were their heads were shaved and sent back. So then Chinghan said, "Okay, I'm going to go to war with you. I'm going to smash you out of existence." And that's what it did. So Chinghan has the record the Islamic world hates Chingghistan because Chingghistan killed more Muslims than anybody has ever done in history. Okay. Um, so maybe Chingis Khan got developed some aversion perhaps to Islam during his conquests of the Islamic world. Okay. Maybe he did not like something about it. I don't know what it is. But uh the Chingis kind of had this policy of of what you call religious tolerance. He had a gigantic empire with subjects who practiced all kinds of religions. You obviously had Tangism which is the Mongol religion. You had Buddhism. You had Tibet which is part of the Mongol Empire. You had northern India which would have some parts of northern India where you have would have had Hindus also and you had a gigantic Muslim population in the western Mongol Empire. So Changaskhan had given everybody the freedom to practice the religion. You do whatever you want. I'm not going to interfere. There's only one thing he had banned. Only one thing he had banned. And Shri Kubla Khan also continued this. He had banned halal slaughter. So there was something I don't know what it was. So Changaskhan started this practice that I will not allow halal slaughter and Kubla Khan also continued that. So by the time of Kubla Khan Buddhism had become the de facto state religion. Not officially but unofficially it was the state religion. Um but this practice started with Chingish Khan not with Kubla Khan. So even during Kubla Khan's time he was the emperor of China by the way Kubla Khan Chingish Khan's grandson. So even during Kublhan's time everything was allowed. You could practice anything you want any religion but the practice of halal slaughter was not allowed. So I don't know the reason the cause for that but the Mongols did not allow that and uh yeah so they had a much more vigorous resistance to Islam compared to the Turks who readily ab adopted it. You won't find Islam in Mongolia today except for some people who are not Mongols who may practice it. a small minority of people like the Kazaks or whatever but you won't find Mongols practicing Islam. Mongols will practice practice a syncratic religion which is a mixture a combination of Tangism and Buddhism. That's what you what Mongols practice today. Rahul Dunak says historically Indian swordsmen used a curved sword the Talvar sword right from the Mahabharat times to Chhatraati. We don't know about Babar at times how the kind of what kind of swords we had. But Chhatrapati Shivaji's time. Yes. Of course. Yeah. Uh the Japanese samurai swords, the katanas are also slightly curved. But the Roman sword, the medieval, the swords that medieval European warriors used, these were straight swords like a Christian cross. Which among them were the best considering the sharpness, weight, type of metal and balance? Okay. Interesting question. Really interesting question. So if you look at the Rajput swords, the Marata swords, these are curved blades. Talvars, right? Talvwar swords, curved say, curved blades. Even if you look at um the Japanese katana, the Japanese katana is doesn't have the exact same curvature as the Indian Talwar sword. It's slightly longer. It's slightly thinner and it's got a more subtle curvature. It's a slightly curved sword. It's not a significantly curved curved sword and the metal is also different. So the Indian swords they use carbon steel which is what the west now calls Damascus steel but the Damascus steel was imported from India by the way. So it's Indian steel. So it's it's a high quality steel and the curvature of the sword is designed for slashing motions. slashing, not poking, not that, but slash slash especially from horseback. So these curved swords swords were great for slashing from horseback, slashing at infantry, for example, or maybe even other horsemen, that sort of thing. And the Indian swords were pretty light actually, the Talvwar swords, 1 kilo, 1.2 kilos, around that that kind of weight. Not heavy at all. So it's I mean yeah when you're fighting for like 3 hours 4 hours straight 1 kilo becomes 100 kilos but that's why you have to be a warrior it's not for everyone so the the swords are pretty light 1 kilo 1.2 2 kilo. If you go to museums and you see the swords, okay, you you can go to a museum and find those talwar swords there. The first thing when I saw that saw examples of these swords was how small the hilts were. It's like people were the smaller at the time. Like my hand won't fit in. I mean, I don't know if the swords that I saw in that m the museum were were display pieces of what it was, but it's like how on earth do you grip that? You can't put your hand in there. Uh anyway, so the swords were pretty light, 1 kilo to 1.2 kilos. And uh the Japanese katana is about 1.2 to 1.5 kilos. So it's kind of somewhat heavier like 20 30% heavier than the Indian talvar sword, but it's got such kind of such a balance that it feels very light. So it kind of feels lighter than what it actually is. That's that's the the thing about the Japanese katana. Okay. Uh and the Japanese katana is also used for for slashing motions. Slashing motions, not for poking motions. U that sort of thing. So that's the Japanese katana. That sort of slashing thing. Even the English uh even the Indian talvar slashing motions. When it comes to the Roman sword, the Roman sword is called the gladius. The gladius. And what do you call someone who uses a gladius? A gladiator. Do you understand the origin of the term gladiator? A person who wields the gladius. So the Roman sword was perfectly straight. Straight. And it was used the Romans used the the the thrusting motion, not the slashing motion. Of of course it was a double-bladed sword. So you could use it with slashing motions. But the primary means of using the primary way of using the sword, the gladius was the thrusting motion. And that's something each each Roman soldier was trained at, you know, how to thrust. Uh, and that's what differentiated the Romans from other uh the Roman soldiers from from other warriors and various other swords in Europe. They kind of have continued the tradition of the gladius, the gladius, that sort of thing. So yeah, and and and they were all made from different steel. So they all were used in different ways. So the gladius, the gladius was used for fighting face to face, hand-to-hand fighting, fighting in close combat, not from horseback. That's what the Gladius was was used for. And the the British long sword was used by knights on horseback and that they used it kind of like u kind of like a lance like like a javelin or sometimes you could use it use it two-handed sort of thing. But it was not something that was agile like the French AP for example. The French AP is super light. It's something that you use in in u that Olympic sore, right? Uh the Olympics sport called fencing. That's the French AP. It's a super flexible kind of thing. Well, today's today's AP is is that way, super flexible. Historically, it wasn't that that flexible. So, each of these weapons served a different purpose. Some were more flexible, some had better balance, some had more resilience, and some were lighter, some were heavier, and so on. Uh but we have to remember that the sword is like the sword is the equivalent of of the guitar in music. What do I mean by that? People think of music as something that you need the guitar for, right? But there's so much music that doesn't involve any guitars. But the guitar is the cool instrument in music right now. Similarly, the sword seems to be the cool instrument. Like without a sword, you can't fight. But it's not like it's the only weapon that soldiers carry. Many soldiers never carried swords. Some of their some of them carried spears, some of them carried daggers. Some of them carried, if you look at the Japanese, the shuriken, that's a ninja weapon, of course. U some people carried axes. We called it the parachu in Sanskrit, the axe, right? There's the bow and arrow. That's another great weapon, right? So, it's not like the sword is the only weapon that can be used in warfare. You can have soldiers who have never touched the sword and they are great, great soldiers, great warriors. Uh so that's something you have to keep in mind. That's the that's larger context that we have to think about in warfare. And of course in today's warfare no one carries swords because obsolete now aren't they? Right. Next question. Hy penguin says why did a naser send lowquality copper? [Music] Who is a nasir? Yeah. So what hensing is talking about is the world's the world's oldest recorded customer complaint. Let me show you what I mean by that. I will not mention a naser but I shall put this on the screen and I'll I'll Google for world's oldest customer complaint. World's oldest customer complaint. So the compla the person who has written the complaint his name is Nani. He is an ancient Mesopotamian customer and he and he has done a I mean he's he's purchased copper from a merchant called Ayanasir and this goes back to about 1750 BC. So there's this complaint tablet to Aasir that was excavated in the city of Ur. It's it was written around 1750 BC. As always, a statutoic uh warning. Wikipedia is not necessarily a good source of knowledge information especially for Indian topics. But this is fine. So this is the complaint letter. It's a small letter. It's not huge. It's not something that you to carry on horseback. It's a small small thing. Yeah. This sort of thing. And this is a customer complaint. So Nani the customer he had sent his servant to meet this merchant called Ayanasir and u he had sent money with his servant and uh the servant handed over the money to Ayanasir and u the deal was that Ayanasir will then take the money and sent and send a consignment of highquality copper ingots copper metal pieces to Nani. So Nani sent his sent his servant his his guy his his minion to go and hand over the money and formalize the the the sale. So what happened eventually is that Ayan Nasir who was a copper merchant he sent a consignment of copper to Nani but there was lowgrade copper their agreement was high quality copper but took the money and sent the say the the agreed upon quantity of lowgrade copper not not high-grade copper the quantity was correct but the grade was poor so so Nani is upset of course and uh he writes a letter this is the letter that I showed you. He writes a letter and he complains in the letter that first of all you were rude to my to my servant. There was no need for that. What was the need? Why do you to be rude to my guy? Secondly, you took the money and you gave me inferior grade copper. I have no use for it. I need high quality copper for my business. So, I have we have I have given you the money, but the sale is not concluded. That's what he is saying. You're going to take this back. You're going to send me the right the right quality of copper. That's what this letter is all about. It's a dispute. It's a complaint. He's complaining about the poor treatment of his servant and is complaining about the poor grade of the copper he received. And he's saying that this sale is not complete. I have given you the money, but I've not received what I've paid for. So, you've got to do what? You've got to send me the right grade of copper. After that, what happened? We have no idea. We have no idea because we don't have a follow-up. We don't have a follow-up any any follow-up to this. I mean it's not an email thread, email email uh thread or whatever you call it right that you can see what happened at various dates. So we don't know how this matter was resolved or not whether it was resolved or not and how it was resolved but it's the oldest known customer complaint. It's in the city of Ur in Mesopotamia around the year 1750 BC. Very interesting. So why did send lowquality copper? Maybe he was a crook. Maybe he was trying to to cut corners, you know. Maybe maybe Nani lived far far away and that's why he had to send a servant. Maybe they're not in the same city, so it doesn't matter. Maybe he lives in a different kingdom. My kingdom is a is a supplier of copper and maybe he he lives in a kingdom where there's less copper. So they need to buy it from me. Then what you going to do now? You're going to send your king with an army. Why are you looking to that? He's on good terms with my king. That sort of thing. So we don't know what happened at the end. But yeah, very interesting. kind of funny if you read it now. It must be really infuriating when it happened. It would not be funny at all when it happened. But today, we can all have a laugh at these people's expense, especially poor Nani. He sent the money, he did everything right, and he got low quality copper. Obviously, he'll be upset about that, right? So, the the villain of the story is this this guy Anasir. Okay. Okay, Amish Aisha says um why did Zoroastrianism, ancient Egyptian religions, ancient Greek/ Roman religions and old Norse religions almost get totally destroyed but why not Judaism? Interesting question. Uh it is true that ancient Zoroastriism I mean not ancient but Zoroastrianm itself almost got wiped out. Today you have a few Zoroastrians who still survive in Persia in in Iran and you have a larger but declining population of Zoroastrians who live in India who have been in India for about 1100 years or so more than a thousand years uh and their ancestors came from Persia about a thousand plus years ago. Oh, and and and and you also have newer Zorastians who came about a couple of centuries ago from to India after they discovered that that older Zorashians have been staying in India for a thousand years. The some more Zorastians came in recently like in the past couple of hundred years or something. The Iranian cafes and all those people they they are the newer migrants to India, Paris, Zoroastrians. So, Zoroastrianism is almost wiped out right in its in its original homeland Persia. Ancient Egyptian religion entirely gone. Not a trace survival. No one practices it today. Completely wiped out of existence. The ancient Greek religion completely gone. Nothing survives. Ancient Roman religion, absolutely nothing survives whatsoever. No one practices it today. Old Norse religion, well, it was wiped out more recently. No one practices the old Norse religion today. But people are kind of trying Nordic revival religions like Asatro which kind of worships the old gods Thor, Odin and and so on but they do it in a kind of modern way. It's not the old Norse religion. It's a revival religion. It's not a continuation of the old Norse religion. So all these religions were always were wiped out apart from zostinism which kind of still survives in small number in small populations. So why did all these religions get obliterated? Zoros religion not quite but still. But why not Judaism? Why did Judaism survive is the question. Well, you to ask yourself what obliterated these religions. These are all polytheistic religions by the way. And now some some very intelligent people are going to say yeah this Abhijit always lies. Now he's claiming Zoroastinism is polytheistic. See another lie of Cha is caught. That what that's what they will say. Let me show you something. There are many people who try to portray Zoroastrianism as u um a monotheistic religion. Let's see what the the Wikipedia itself has to say. Wikipedia is not a reliable source of information. Right? Let's see what it says. Zoroastrianism. Let us see what Wikipedia has to say about Zoroastrianism. All right. Um Darosi etc. Zoratosama. No first. No that's okay. That's all right. So opinions vary among scholars as to whether Zorostism is monotheistic, polytheistic, kenotheistic or combination of all three. That's fine. Okay. I don't care about someone's opinions. Let's look at the facts. So let's go down. Ethmology, theology, nature of the divine. Okay. Look here. Look at what what Wikipedia says. Zoroastronism contains multiple classes of divine beings. What is a divine being? It's a god, right? Multiple classes of gods who are typically organized into tiers and spheres of influence. The ahuras, they are a class of gods inherited by zostinism from the prehistoric Indo-Iranian religion. What was this prehistoric indooran religion in the rigida? Oh, the book one of the books of this prehistoric Indo-aranian religion was a rigida. I see the ancient religion of Persia was Hinduism. Okay. They are they they are forced to accept it in Wikipedia. Um where here here indirectly indirectly they are not saying that they they're calling it the prehistoric Indo-Iranian religion. What prehistoric means before 1 AD right? Even Zorost is is prehistoric then and and then they're mentioning the rigida because that's the only source of knowledge they have now right so in the riged assura denotes the older gods and and vitra mitra veruna etc they are assuras yes so the assuras are a class of gods in zoroastranism then you have the greatest of the assuras the ahuram mazda right of course then you have auroritra or mitra mitra vun come on mitra then you have the yazatas divine beings worshiped by song and sacri sacrifice. What were the so-called sacrifices? Yasnas which is the same as our yajnas. All right. So zor zoroastrinism is not a a monotheistic religion. Here Wikipedia itself is saying that they have different class of divine beings but they are using the term divine being so that they don't have to use the word god because if you use the word god then you're taking a stance. They are saying it's polytheistic. We want to keep it vague deliberately vague. So we'll say various classes of divine beings. Now in Christianity they will say there also there are divine beings. There are angels and demons. There's Lucifer the bringer of light and demons may be evil but angels are good right but they're not god. They only slightly divine beings. So that way in zash also also you have auras assuras and all. They're like angels. They're not really gods. That's the kind of obfiscation these people will do. The fact is very clear. Zoroastrianism is a polytheistic religion. And today even Zoroastrianism Zoroastrians themselves will will oppose this. Some of them. No no no no no. We only believe in aura mazda and angramen and all these ahuras and zatas and all they're like they're like spirits or or angels in Christianity. It's it's monotheistic. Many Zoroastrian Zoroastrians themselves do this. Now I have no idea why. Whatever the fact is that Zoroastrianism is a polytheistic religion. So was ancient Egyptian religion. So was ancient Greek religion. So was ancient Roman religion. So was the old Norse religion. So was entire Europe's culture. And all of that was destroyed by what? by one out of two by either of the two major Abrahamic religions, Islam or Christianity. So, Zoro Zoroastrianism, what a complicated thing to say, tongue twister for me. My tongue doesn't work fine. Zoroastrianism was wiped out by Islam to a large extent. Um, ancient Egyptian religion was wiped out by Islam to a to a complete extent. It was obliterated. Ancient Greek religion was wiped out by Christianity. Ancient Eg Roman religion was wiped out by Christianity. Ancient Nordic religion was wiped out by Christianity. It's one of the two Abrahamic religions that has wiped out a polytheistic religion. Judaism is the original Abrahamic religion. So that won't be wiped out. Right? Of course, today you have a conflict between the the the Jews and the Muslims. That's that's a whole different story. And apparently it is it is said that the prophet of the Muslims had some animosity perhaps towards the Jews. I'm not sure I don't know about the history in any detail but that's kind of the sense that I get. Uh so yeah so Judaism is not a polytheistic religion. It's the original Abrahamic religion and that's why you can't wipe that out, right? You can't polytheistic cultures and religions. It's okay. Fair game. All right. Uh okay two questions about essentially the same topic. Rudra Gulba says it is said that humans contain some amount of genes from Neanderthalss. Is there a chance of some interbreeding that might have happened and why? And Amisha says why are homo sapiens and Neanderthals Neanderthalss considered to be separate species? What could be the reason that the Neanderthal DNA is found in modern humans? Do did humans and Neanderthalss interbreed with each other? Does Neanderthal DNA come from both males and females? Very interesting questions. First of all, uh many people believe that humans and Neanderthalss are separate species. So I can understand the confusion completely. The fact is that we are subspecies. We are not different species. We are subspecies. Now I'm going to compare it with other species. And if it um upsets somebody, don't be upset. Okay? So for example, I love to talk about other species as a comparative measure. So don't be upset that I'm comparing humans humans with animals. It's just a comparison for illustrative purposes. This is a scientific discussion. All right? So think about man's best friend, the dog, and think about his cousin, the wolf. We have so many species. I mean so many different kinds of wolves on the planet. We have the Indian wolf, right? Uh what's the what's the wolf's name in in the jungle book? Aa, right? Mowgli's Mowgli's clan or whatever. Aa wolf wolf clan. So we have the Indian wolf, we have the Himalayan wolf, we have the European wolf, we have the So wolf wolf is a is a it's a species of of animal, right? And the dog the dog is a subspecies of the wolf. It's not a separate species. The dog and the wolf are the same species but different subspecies. So the dog and the wolf can interbreed and they can have children offspring which are the same species once again. So the dog and the wolf are the same species. Similarly humans and near the homo sapiens and near the tiles we're also the same species but different subspecies. Okay. So for example, lion and tiger, they are different species. They can interbreed, but I'm not sure if their offspring are are fertile. Maybe they are sterile. I'm not sure. Horse and donkey can interbreed, but their offspring is mule, which I think is sterile. It's not fertile. It can't have offspring of its own. Uh but humans and neanderals uh they did interbreed and their offspring were not sterile. They were they fertile. They were able to pass on their genes which means that humans and neanderals were genetically very very close. Same species maybe separate subspecies. Uh so yes interbing did happen. Now don't ask me why. That's that's a choice. It's a pref personal choice. People have choices and people make choices as to what kind of partner you want to have and don't question the choices. Same species, you can do it. Okay. Okay. This is a really funny topic somehow. So why it happened? Don't ask me why. I don't know the motivations. But uh our ancestors, human, I mean homo sapiens ancestors, they came out of Africa about 80,000 years ago. Maybe 85,000 years ago, maybe 60,000 years ago. We don't know exactly when the out of Africa migration happened but that's the best uh theory that we have that there was an out of Africa migration that gave rise to the modern homo sapiens population. So when this out of Africa migration happened, you had Neanderthalss who already lived in Eurasia and they may have emerged out of Africa maybe maybe half a million years before homo sapiens, maybe 700,000 years before homo sapiens, but we were still still sufficiently close enough genetically that we are we were still the same species. So if you look at depictions of of Neanderthals, they are depicted as really ugly and hideous creatures. Maybe they were not that ugly and hideous. Maybe they were good-looking people. Who knows? Uh so there was some kind some to some extent there was inbreeding interbreeding. Sorry, not inbreeding, interbreeding between homo sapiens and Neanderthalss. Uh do we carry? So the consequence of that is that even though the Neanderthalss have ceased to exist as a separate subspecies, they haven't gone entirely extinct because most non-African people carry some Neanderthal DNA which means most non-African people have some Neanderthal ancestry which means that there is some Neanderthal blood in you. It means that nanatal DNA is not extinct. So what's the percentage of DNA? Maybe around 4% 5%. It's like having one great if if one parent is nandal 50, right? 50%. If one grandparent it's 25. If one great grandparents it's 12.5. If one great great grandparents it's so it's about having like one great great grandparent who was nanderthal. it. So it's it's not going to be really visible that you will not have bigger bones or bigger brows or like whatever but it's going to be subtle. So all the all the good uh traits beneficial traits that would be beneficial for survival you will have absorbed them and you would carry them without knowing that it's nandal DNA. Um yeah so and it is said that in India now this is the funny part out of all the non-African humans Indians I believe as uh from what I know carry the least amount of nandthal DNA why I don't know maybe why maybe I can tell you why let's go to the map okay let me open the map and let's let's examine the map to understand why Indians carry the least amount of neanderal DNA in all the non-African humans. Why is that? Let's let's find out once again. Uh let me uh hide the question for a second. Let us embigen this. Uh this is better. Yeah. So the out of Africa migration probably happened around here here the straight of Bab al-Mandde. Okay. Okay. So they crossed over here the African ancestors of all non-African humans and then right now it's all desert everywhere Yemen, Oman but at that time whenever this this this uh migration happened along the coastline you would see green. You can see some small patches of green here right? Some small patches of green. Little bit of vegetation is there. If you look at the satellite image you can see some vegetation. So at that time the entire coastline like this was just barely green to be able to somehow support a small number of people. So they traveled all the way northwards along the Arabian Peninsula and probably somewhere here they crossed again the straight of Hormuz and then the further over here also you probably had greenery along the coastline. So they so they kept on following the greenery until they reached the Indian subcontinent which was entirely green super fertile it could it could support any kind of human population in the millions if you needed so that's where homo sapiens first settled down and eventually when they were all rested after a few thousand years and all they said okay let's go wandering because that's the nature of homo sapiens and from here from India from the subcontinent they spread out in all directions and during This journey from Bab al- Mandeb along the the coast of Arabia after crossing the straight of Hormos and going eastwards there were no Neanderthalss in that region. Neandthals are found in present day Israel in present day Anatolia in yeah the western part of Eurasia but not really in the subcontinent or or near the subcontinent which is why before they came to India they did not en encounter any Neanderthalss but only when they expanded out of India at a later date and went westwards that's when they encountered Neanderthalss and interbred with Neanderthalss which is why people who live in the western regions they have like 4% or something Neanderthal ancestry while Indians have negligible Neanderthal ancestry. So unless for example if you take me my ancestry is mainly from western India which means that I would most likely not have any Neanderthal ancestry unless I have ancestors who are Arian invaders. So the only way I can have nearal ancestry if is if my ancestors were the evil white-skinned Arian invaders. Yeah. And some people tell me I look like an arian invader. So maybe so anyway. So that's the deal with the Neanderthals, right? Uh does last question by Amisha is that does Neianderal DNA um come from both males or females? I'm not sure I know the answer to that. That's an interesting question. I suppose it would come from both. Uh do we have um is it is it like what kind of DNA do we have? Is it autotosomal DNA? Is it somatic DNA? Is it is it sex chromosome DNA? Not sure about that. I'll have to look into that. That's an interesting question. Right. Next. Amisha says, "What's the difference between race and ethnicity?" Okay, race and ethnicity. Look um see first of all race and ethnicity these are not scientific terms. You can't define these two terms precisely but they are used in different contexts. For example when you talk about race okay the race race is is a is a western uh concept. The westerners after they became all powerful in the past 500 years they created the idea of like four five six races. the the Caucasian race, the the African race, the the Mongolian race, the Oustraloid race, and um I don't know, I I'm not sure what other races may exist. Uh so that's race. It's based on just broad skin color. uh so someone like me they would consider me to be somewhere on the intersection in the ven diagram of the oustrloid and and coccasian race uh if if it's somebody from from Sweden or whatever they would consider them to be pure coauasin if it's somebody from for example an Australian aboriginal people they'll say you are you're Oustraloid if it is somebody from Mongolia or China they will say you are Mongaloid but if it's somebody from Indonesia they'll say you a mixture of oustraloid and mongaloid and that sort of thing you know so and if you if you're from Africa they'll say you're you're what yeah it was the nword negroid which was the term that they used to use the racist Europeans not we them uh so that is race that's based on very broad skin color classifications and there were some other nuances like prenology uh study of brain size and shape and no skull size and shape and god knows what else that is race. Okay, there is no such thing as race or pure race or anything. There's no such thing even as a pure species actually, but that's a different story. Now, what is ethnicity? Ethnicity is like a more granular perception of race. So, if you look at the Balkan region, the Balkans in Europe for example, this is the Balkan region. We'll we'll go go there. This region here, if you find Greece, then go northwest of Greece. Northwest. So this region here, Serbia, Bosnia, Herzuggavina, U, Croatia, Slovenia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Kosovo. Okay, we will not discuss Kosovo. It's controversial. Albania, North Macedonia, and so on. Bulgaria. Okay, not Bulgaria, but all of this is is a Balkans region. Okay, now I suppose the people of the Balkans consider themselves to have different ethnicities. Maybe they're all the white race perhaps, but different ethnicities. I am not a Serb. I am a Kosovar. No, I am not Serb. I am Montenegron. I am not Montenegron. I am Bosnian. No, I'm not Bosnjak. I'm Croatian. Croatian. You Croatians, I am Slovenian. Now, all of you are are wrong. We the Albanians are number one and so on. These are different ethnicities. Same people overall, the same race so to say, white people, but different ethnicities. The Greeks in Greece they are they have Greek ethnicity. We are not Balkans. No, we are not like you and we are not Turks. The Turks are like no we not Greeks. The Turks are extremely allergic to Greece because the Turks have Greek ancestry, don't they? But they consider themselves to have different ethnicity. We are the Turk people. So ethnicity is more granular compared to race. Uh if you look at the subcontinent for example uh if you disregard the arian dravidian nonsense then Indians are one ethnicity which would include the Pakistanis, Bangladeshies and there'll be some people who will disagree no they'll say no no no everybody is different ethnicity the gujaratis are different ethnicity from the Assam the Bengalis are different ethnicity from the udyas so whichever way say there is no definition you see you can Make it as complicated as you want or as simple as you want. But the ethnicity is generally something that's that's based on nations and and smaller cultural divisions compared to something as vast as race. Okay. Uh Praband Das says big fan. Thank you sir. Read two recent books. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. They were tremendously good. Oh thank you so much even more. My question is can nuclear weapons be destroyed making them unimpactful? Now you all may ask me how is this a historical question? Well, I'll I'll bring history into this. Very simple. Have nuclear weapons been destroyed in the past? Let's say in the 20th century, if we discuss 20th century, we're discussing history now. Right. Right. So, have nuclear weapons been destroyed in the past? I recently, maybe a week ago or so, I don't know when it was, I did an 8 hour live stream after which I forgot everything I did in the past. It wiped my memory clean. So I don't remember when I discussed this but uh I recently kind of remembered that I spoke about the Cuban missile crisis and I had mentioned at the time that during the Cuban missile crisis which happened in 1962 the United States had about 25,000 nuclear warheads. How many? 25,000 nuclear warheads. How many did the USSR have? About 3 three and a half thousand. three three and a half thousand nuclear warheads the USSR had at the time. Then today if you look at the the balance the Americans have 5,000 something and the Russians have about 500 or thousand more. So today it is much lower than those thresholds. So what happened to those 25,000 nuclear warheads? Something was done to them. Right? For example, in 19, excuse me, which year was it? Was it 1991? You had something called the start treaty. Start strategic arms reduction treaty. Let's Google, let's Google it. So I believe in 1985 there was a summit between um Reagan Reagan Gore Gorbachev summit summit in Geneva 85. Yes I know because I was there at the time. So this was a summit that happened in Geneva because they wanted a neutral venue. Mr. Gurbach had just become the leader of Russia and they had a summit over if I recall correctly two days or two days they had a summit and they had some discussions where you had a whole bunch of minions present and they had some discussions where you did not have anyone except for the two of them and this was the beginning of the u you could say the between the two countries to some extent and one of the consequences of this uh summit that they had was the 1991 it took five six years 1991 Start treaty start start one treaty the first treaty to require the reduction of strategic nuclear weapons was signed in 1991 by the US and the USSR reducing each country's stockpile by a third. The treaty was a result of nine years of negotiation. So the Gorbachev Reagan summit in Geneva was part of that and they established a framework comprehensive framework for the reduction deep region reduction and strategic arms. U so uh the start treaty if you look at the the essence of essence of the treaty the treaty barred its signaries from deploying more than 6,000 nuclear warheads and a total of 1,600 ICBMs and bombers. Okay, so that was a start treaty. So, the Americans went from 25,000 plus nuclear warheads to about 5,000 something today. If they if they are telling the truth, I suppose they are. So, what happened to those nuclear weapons? Those nuclear warheads, what happened to them? Obviously, they were dismantled, right? They were totally dismantled. So, how do you dismantle a nuclear warhead? A nuclear warhead is essentially it has it has a design. It has components. For example, you have the design the teller teller ulum design. What is it? Let's see. Let's hydro that's a hydrogen bomb design. Thermonuclear ulam. Yeah, teller ulum design. It's an implosion design. There is trium. Is it what was it? Uh boosted fusion primary and then there's a secondary fusion secondary. This is spark fishable spark plug. So as you can see you have facile material that is arranged in a certain way and kept in specific parts of the warhead. All you have to do is open up the warhead and take out the facile material very carefully and ensure it never comes in contact and never uh becomes uh critical mass or it never goes critical or supercritical. That's it. Then you can dismantle the whole thing and it becomes completely harmless. So it's it's absolutely feasible. It can be done. Okay, there you have it. Swapnil Mishra says, "How did Robert Mugab's policies towards Zimbabwe's white population affect the country's economy? And in what ways were his actions comparable to Idi Amin's treatment of foreigners in Uganda?" Interesting comparison. Idi Amin Robert Mugab. Idi Amin 1960s 1970s. Robert Mugabe late 80s all the way to the n to the 2010s I think Robert Mugabe was deposed in 2017 2018 2019 around that time pretty recent but he came to power I mean he he was a big deal in the 1970s but he became the president in 1980 something maybe 85 87 around that time okay so if you want to look at I mean if you want to see what the two gentleman's looked like uh you have Robert Mugabe Mugabe. Robert Mugab. So that's Mr. Robert Mugab. He was the president for a very long time. He's passed away now I believe. And then you have the other great gentleman Idyiamin. There is Mr. Idi Amin. So they both had kind of similar policies but they had different ideologies. uh Idi Amin was not a communist. Robert Mugabi was a communist, socialist, whatever you want to call him. Uh so what so first of all let's talk about Uganda and Idyamin. What is Uganda? We go to we go to Africa. Yes. And we go to Eastern Africa, Lake Victoria. That's where we will find Enbe and Uganda. So let's do it. Here is the map. Now we are in India. Yes. So we go to the south of India. We cross the equator. We go into the Indian Ocean. Then we go westwards and we reach east Africa. In East Africa at the Horn of Africa we have Somalia. We go south. We have Kenya. Nice country. We go further south Tanzania. And then we go northwest of Tanzania. In east of Kenya where you have Uganda, you have Kala, you have Enbe. So this is the country where Shri Robert Shri Idi Amin dada uh that's the country he ruled and the terrible thing he did is that he expelled the Indians from Uganda I think around 197172 I think it was the year after the Bangladesh war which which makes it 1972 so it is in 1972 that I am a expelled all Indians from Uganda he said that these people are parasites they have captured our entire economy. We need to liberate our economy from these parasites and give the jobs, give give the businesses back to Africans. Why was was he saying this? So in 197172 Indians were about 1% of Uganda's population. Indians have had a presence in Eastern Africa for thousands of years. Okay? mainly people from Gujarat and western India who were trading with u the various kingdoms in East Africa. Uh I'll not go into detail in that. So Uganda you had about 1% Indian population. I don't know what the population of Uganda was was at the time but 1% of that was Indians. Very small number of Indians. But here's the deal. And by the way, Indians owned 90% of Uganda's businesses and they paid 90% of Uganda's tax. So then the logic went is that these people have captured everything. They have deprived ordinary Ugandans of any opportunity. This 1% micro minuscule minority, they have taken over everything because they are so violent, right? And Indians violent really. So but Indians owned 90% of the businesses and paid 90% of the tax. So Idi expelled Indians from Uganda. What was the consequence? So after expelling Indians from Uganda, he handed over all these businesses that were owned by Indians to native Ugandans, not Indians, not Indian origin people, but native Ugandans. And the consequence of that was that all the businesses crashed. The native Ugandans for whatever reason did not did not have the ability to run the businesses. So all the businesses failed. Uganda went into a went into a recession. The economy crashed. Inflation rose and u Uganda's manufacturing sector disappeared because Indians were doing manufacturing. So it was a disaster for Uganda's economy. The Indians were not depriving the natives of of business of business opportunities. The Indians were the only ones who knew how to run the businesses and that's why they were running all the businesses. They were not Indians were not invaders who came with arms, right? They came peacefully and established themselves and created these industries and businesses. Indians created these industries and businesses. But after a few generations, nobody remembers that the Indians have created this. Now they will be they will say that you stole it from us. So the Indians were expelled and the Ugandan economy crashed. The Ugandan Ugandan manufacturing sector crashed and it's never really recovered from that. Afterwards, the Indians were brought back. They were allowed back. But I'm not sure if it made a huge difference after uh later on. So that's the example of Uganda. Okay, it was a disaster for the country, for its economy, for its manufacturing sector. Now when Mr. Robert Mugab became the dictator, so both are dictators. Okay. So Mr. Mugabi became director of Zimbabwe. Zim where is Zimbabwe. We look at Zimbabwe now. Yes. So we were looking at Uganda. Yes. So now so we were here on the northern shore of this lake that they call in Lake Victoria. And there's a lake Albert also. Uh anyway you you come back s further south. You go south of Tanzania. You go south of Malawi Mambique. Zambia and we have Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe is a country that's that has a shared border with South Africa. Now all Indians know where South Africa is. So now we can locate it. This is Zimbabwe. So Mr. uh Robert Mugab became the dictator of Zimbabwe around 1980 something 87 perhaps and he ruled the country with an iron fist for until what 2018 2019 2017 somewhere around that time. So it's a 30 40 years whatever it is 30 years. So now Zimbabwe used to be ruled by British origin white people. It was called Rhdesia. It was named after Cecil Roads, a notorious uh colonialist colonial colonial colonialist who did all kinds of horrific things to Africa. Anyway, the country was called Rudesia. It was named after Cecil Roads and eventually it became independent and event and there was a m there was a gentleman called Mr. Banana who was the leader of Zimbabwe before Mr. Mugab. His name was Mr. Banana. I forget his first name. A very biblical name. Let's let's let's look it up, shall we? Let's have some fun, right? Let's not always be serious about learning. I think you should have fun. So, who was Robert Mugab's predecessor? First of all, let's let's Google Robert Mugabe. Let's go to his Wikipedia entry and we will look into his predecessor. Who was his predecessor? It's a guy called Mr. Banana with a biblical name preceded by not Muzura, preceded by not Chita Pochipo. Uh who was okay of Zimbabwe? Who was the first president? Okay, so Mugabi was the first president. Emerson Mangamak. Okay, but who who was before Robert Mugab, leader of Zimbabwe before Mugabi? Let me just look search for banana. Ah okay. He was preceded by Kanan Banana. Cananan. Uh that is why is it a small small image anyhow? So that is Mr. Banana who was the gentleman who preceded Mr. Mugabe and Mr. Mugabi becomes the president of Zimbabwe and he what he did was he disempowered the whites and after the year I think 2000 he took away he forcibly took away all the farmland for from the white people and handed it handed it over to black people. So after even after Mr. Mugabe became the dictator. White people remained some white people remained in Zimbabwe and they were primarily employ they were primarily farmers. They owned land large amounts of land and they did farming and they produced at least 40% of Zimbabwe's agricultural output if not more if not more at least 40% is what I remember. Now their land is taken away Mr. Mugabi encourages his party's supporters to go and forcibly take over the land of the white people and maybe do whatever you want with the families whatever you know. So once this happens all the farmland comes into the hands of of native Zimbabweans and they don't know how to farm and that caused a disastrous recession in Zimbabwe. There was hyperinflation. the Zimbabwe and paper currency became cheaper than paper itself and eventually I think they had to as a stop cap measure use the US dollar instead of the Zimbabwean dollar or something and yeah so it was a disaster once again and Zimbabwe has never really recovered from that similarly Uganda also never really recovered from expelling the Indians so pretty similar policies but done in different ways both were pretty brutal one towards the Indians one towards the whites and both caused significant disasters in these nations. Um but when it comes to the Indians and the whites, you can't really compare the two. See, the whites existed in Africa as a consequence of colonialism which was brutal. The whites were invaders in Africa. The Indians were not invaders. The Indians had been trading in Africa. that set up trade outposts in Africa going back centuries. Indians have had a presence in Africa east on the east coast of of Africa for centuries maybe thousands of years. Africa's eastern Africa's cuisine is Indianized. Their their the way they dress is Indianized. Even their language is Indianized. They eat samosas. They eat they eat Gujarati style curries. They they wear u the ladies wear dresses that look like saries that have patterns that are similar to patterns that were printed in in that were u manufactured in western India for centuries. So you can see the Indian influence there. It's not been it's not this cultural influence would not exist if it had come through invasion. through invasion. When you when a cultural influence exists, it it generally takes the form of religion because invaders they force the natives to adopt the religion like the Portuguese did in India in Goa, the French did in in Pondicherry, the British tried in India, the Brit and so on. Long stories, right? The Arabs did everywhere, but Indians didn't do that. The the there's no Hindu, black Hindus there as far as I know. So you can't really compare the two as the same thing. The whites who were living in Zimbabwe, their ancestors were invaders. The Indians who were living in Uganda and all across Eastern Africa, they were never invaders. They came as traders and they were allowed to settle down by the locals and they became eventually part of the local communities. So that's the difference. Big difference there. Okay. Amisha says, "If I was an everyday Indian living under the British Raj, the British occupation of India, how much contact would I have would I likely have had with uh the British people, the British occupiers?" Well, that's a pretty interesting question that you ask here. And how and how do I figure it out as a question, right? So, uh um let's let's ask Google once again. Let's go to our Google friend uh to our friend Google and we shall ask a simple question. How many many British how many British occupiers were in India during the peak of the occupation? Okay. What's it say? Oh, it finds my video. That's that's a different one. Okay. At at its peak in 1947, the British population of in India was about 800,000 to 1 million including civilians and their descendants. However, the occupying forces were much smaller consisting of of about 20,000 British civil and military personnel in 1921 who were responsible for the direct administration of the vast territory. So the civilians if you include the civilians it's about 1 million people okay and if you only include the occupation forces which is the civil and military personnel it's 20,000 um so let's say you were living in India during the British occupation in 1947 our population was 330 million roughly undivided India and the British were maximum 1 million So it is 330 Indians to one British person. So it's and the British would be concentrated in the power centers. They will not be spread across the entire country. So if you are living in in let's say a town or a village, you would perhaps never see a British person in your entire life perhaps if you were fortunate. But if you are living in a big city, if you were living in what was then called Bombay, which is now Mumbai, then you would see British people on a regular basis, I suppose, because there were lots of British in Bombay, Mumbai. If you were living in Delhi or Kolkata, then also you would see British people from time to time, I suppose. Um, that sort of thing. So the British population was at its peak about 800,000 to 1 million. That's 1947. So depending on where you were you may you may you could have you could potentially spend your entire life without seeing a British person if you were fortunate. Yeah that's the kind of Yeah. So they had a pretty small number of occupiers actually just 20,000 British civilian military personnel makes you question a lot of things and it it tells you how well the British understood the nature of power. All right. Nirvana Shanks says, "How was Tenokitlan built on water with canals and floating gardens different from European cities at the time?" Okay, what is Tokitlan? I will show you Tanuktitlan. Yes, I will. We have to go to maps. So, we go to map. We zoom out from Africa and I shall take you to the city of Tenokitlan. So, we go westwards. We go westwards. We go westwards. across the Atlantic. Now we go northwards into central central America. And now we zoom into what's called Mexico. And we zoom in. And we zoom in. And we zoom in. This here is Toklan. It's now called Mexico City. It used to be called Tokitlan. And the city was built inside a lake. The lake was called Lake Texco. T E X C O C O. This was the seat of the Triple Alliance. The Aztec trip Triple Alliance. So the city was built inside a lake. You can't see the lake today. The Spaniards have wiped the lake out, right? And this basilica of whatever whatever it is built on a destroyed temple. Okay, that's what the Spaniards do. You will see the similar things happening in India also. Wherever you have the old Portuguese or French churches, they'll be built on destroyed temples. Anyhow, so this is Mexico city. It is it it used to be called Tanuktitlan before the Spanish destruction of the Aztec Empire. Now, so how was this city of Tanuktitlan different from European cities of the time? So Tino Thetlan was like I said built inside a lake. The lake wasn't super deep and the city was built as as like like islands kind of floating islands inside the lake and instead of having water I mean having having roads you had waterways. So the city had canals for transportation. You could transport humans even animals on boats in the canals. So today you if you want to travel in in in any any major Indian city you would take I don't know two wheeler three-wheer four-wheeler whatever if you don't have one of your own you can hire taxi or whatever call call one of the uh services you can do that so in tinctitan you could I suppose call a boat walla I would like to go to so place market and come back how much that sort of thing and you also had causeways so you So that that connected the city to the mainland which was not the lake and in the middle of the lake where you had the city you also had farmland. So they had created this artificial islands kind of floating islands where you had farms. It was a city like no other and it was a very powerful it was a seat of an of an empire. So that's very different from European cities. European cities around 1500 were generally constructed around forts and castles. So Europe was this tribal region where you had tribal warfare that went on for centuries going back to the pre-Christian era. Um so all the major cities of Europe they started as castles and fortifications. So you would have some kind of chieftain, maybe a small king or small chieftain who would construct a a fort or a castle with a moat around it and you will have like a 100 200 soldiers inside and because that place is a place of protection which will give you protection from neighboring raiders. That's why small a small settlement will come around it and they will offer services to the king and the king will offer protection and that's how the the the the the settlement slowly grow and that's how you have cities like Paris and so on that became big cities eventually and they grew these cities like Paris etc they grew organically even London initially they grew organically they grew hapazarly they were not planned cities and uh that's why they were congested they would they would not be very hygienic uh They used to they used to have a class of people called the gong farmers who would be allowed inside inside the city only at night to take the off the roads because the Europeans used to dump the on the roads the excretita in the night from buckets onto the streets of the city. the streets the the cities used to stink immensely and there was a certain cast of Europeans who were called the gong fermu or the gong farmers would be who were untouchables and who would be allowed only inside the city at night to collect the excrement and they have to disappear before morning because they are untouchable they they're dirty and they their children could only do this job this work they could not aspire to any other life so that's the kind of cast system you had in Europe so cities in Europe were disgustingly dirty, stinky, extremely congested. Uh in in a city like Rome, you had something called the Cluaka Maxi Cluaka Maxima, which was the great sewer and you had smaller sewers. Rome at least had sewers, but other European cities later on did not have sewage systems. Uh Pinoitan was not like that. Everything was well organized and so overall it was very different, right? a unique city and that's something the Spaniards completely smashed and and and they created they renamed it to Mexico City and and they destroyed the lake which is why there is no lake there today. Okay. Shou says how didi become uncool in India. How can we bring it back? Doi it became uncool like everything else because of the British occupation and because today western dress is the norm in India. Western dress is cool. You wear designer clothing, western clothing, you're cool. You wear the humble doti or you wear a sari with a pettic coat and blouse, you're so you're so uncool. You're uncool, right? How do you make it cool? Well, have designer do have have mix and match your your dresses with doies. You can wear a polo shirt and and sneakers with doi. But not just your khadiwali doti. You can have a silk doti designer doti. Why not, right? I mean, you can you can bring it back. It's a it's a very comfortable piece of clothing and it's it's it's tailor made for the Indian climate. The jeans aren't tailor made for Indian clim for the Indian climate even though we all wear them, right? The doies are buties are uncool. That's why nobody wants to wear them. But doies are really good. They're perfect for the Indian Indian climate. And u uh so historically it's not like all Indians wore dies. The Kushans when they conquered northern India they brought in a different kind of attire what's now called Salvoir Kamse the Kushans used to wear the Salvar kamies kind of thing they used to wear boots and and trousers which have now become the salvoir u but even that is light and airy right it's not like tight um so the doti can be made cool again let me give you an example of a of an ancient historical doi from my Instagram page for instance, right? Check this out. This is something I put on Instagram la what? Yeah, 2024 is last year. This is a coin. It's an ancient coin. It's and and this is the coin of the Persian ruler Vahhabar from about 200 to 164 BC roughly. And it depicts the king slaying a Yavana soldier, a Greek soldier. And the question I've asked over here is what garment is the king wearing below the waist? What is it called today? Is this still still worn anywhere? And if you look at the garment, yeah, let's bigify this. If you look at the garment, it is clearly a doi. It's a Persian king wearing a doti in battle. Isn't that interesting? Right. So it was cool in Persia um 2,000 years ago. So it's it's something that we can bring back anytime if if you want to. But we don't think it is it is cool today. It is not cool. No. Feminist Slayer says who was Ragnar Loth Brock and why is this significant in Viking history? Well, Ragnar Lbrook is very famous today because they made a whole series out of around his around his life story, right? Vikings and they also brought in Rolo into the series. So, Ragna Ragnar is considered to be a semi-leendary king. Apparently, historians say that his historicity is not entirely confirmed. Well, I'm kind of perplexed. It is not. So, he was a king. He was he was a chieftain in in Scandinavia. Scandinavia is the Nordic countries, you know, Sweden, Denmark, all that. Mainly, Denmark, Norway, Norway, Sweden, that area. So, he was probably Danish or Norwegian somewhere around there. Yeah. Um and he is someone who perhaps would have been one of the principal um principal actors in the beginning of the Viking age which is the beginning of the Viking invasions of England. It would be he probably he or one of his contemporaries would have launched that one of the first raids that happened on Lindes farm where all these uh where the monks were slaughtered and the in in the monasteries gold and valuables were carted back to Scandinavia. Um so Ragnar Lbrook was a was a king. He eventually became a king. I suppose I'm not sure if he was born into nobility or royalty, but he became a king and he apparently had multiple wives and lots of children, lots of sons and he launched multiple invasions of England and he was eventually captured by King of North Umbre North Umbria and he was executed in a very strange manner. He was thrown into a pit that was full of snakes. So the snakes bit him and he died. And so the king of North Umbrea, King Ella, he killed Ragnar. And the word reached Scandinavia. And Ragnar had a whole bunch of sons. So his sons obviously were not very pleased that their father was killed by the by an English king. So they brought together an army and they invaded England. And that is called the great heathen invasion or the great Viking invasion which happened in the 9th century. And it really happened. That is not legendary. And the English records say that there was an invasion by Vikings, a great invasion of heathens, unwashed non-Christians, pagans, polytheists. And the uh the the Viking sagas say that this was an invasion done by the sons of Faragnal Loth Brock to take revenge for for vengeance for the death death of the father and they conquered almost all of England apart from what Alfred King Alfred the great whatever territory he he commanded he was able to safeguard that but everything else came under Dne law the law of the Danes. So Ragnarok was very significant and he had multiple sons who went on to be legendary kings in their own right like be iron side and uh Ivar the boneless and s what snake in the eye some some and so on and he was known to have multiple wives at various points in his life right Adita Kumar says why did the raiding of monasteries by the Northmen, the Vikings. Why did it not lead to the development of a faction of warrior monks who could defend the sad monasteries? Well, in a society you have division of labor. We are familiar with that. Do you expect the teachers? See, for example, we know what happened in Nalanda. The barbarian Turks came and burned Nalanda. Why were they able to do this? because they had defeated the kings who protected Nalanda. So in a civilized society like we used to be you had division of labor. The the monks, the teachers, the gurus, the who were brahmans in in the monastery, they would not do any fighting. Why should they do fighting? The kings would do the fighting. The kings were the were the defenders of the realm. They would have armies. it was their job. So in a in a in an advanced society, people specialize in a tribe, you generalize. You should know everything. If required, you should be able to fight. If required, you should be able to do something else. You should be able to hunt and so on. But in a in a civilized advanced civilized society, you specialize and you stick to only that. So even England was kind of advanced. It was no longer tribal and it was a Christian society and in Christianity the monks they they they're supposed to be cloistered in the closters and and pray and dedicate their their life to the service of his lord his holiness Jesus Christ I suppose right so monks did not fight the kings who protected the monasteries they were supposed to take care of the of the protection of the monasteries so there was a deal of course you have exceptions of course you have exceptions we of Bodhi Dharma who was an Indian monk who went to China and he had to teach them how to fight. So may so it is said that he was actually a chhatri he was not a brahman right he was the son of some king in southern India apparently that's what the Chinese say so he came from southern India he was the son he was a prince a prince is taught how to fight a prince knows how to fight right and that's why he was a he was able to teach the the monks of Shaolin temple how to fight and that fighting style is now called kung fu in Christianity also you have exceptions if you uh if you read the the the legend of Robin Hood which originates in the what 1200 1300s around that time in England you had this this monk correct prior Tuck Prior Tuck is a character obviously this could just be entirely legendary but legends need to have some semblance to reality otherwise they don't become popular so the in the legend of Robin Hood you have one of his one of his u one of his followers or one of his close associates who is called Frier Tuck who is a who is a monk who a frier And he's fond of drinking. He's fond of eating a lot. And he's fond of fighting. He's a good fighter. He's a pretty fit man, fat man, but strong man. So you have exceptions everywhere. But overall, monks were not expected to fight. Monks were expected to pray. And the king was supposed to protect the monks and didn't work. Some sometimes doesn't work, you see. Okay. Um, Ajing Gapawar says, "What's your opinion about the theory that states the painter has actually escaped from Germany to somewhere in South America along with a few Nazi leaders?" Look, it is known that a few Nazi leaders were indeed present in, for example, Argentina, right? Adolf Aikman, where was he discovered? Israeli the Mossad discovered Adolf Akman in Buenosiris and they sent a team to of Mossad agents to Buenosiris. They abducted Adolf Aikman, drugged him and sent him back to Israel on a on a on a flight and he was tried in Israel and he was executed. That's Adolf Akman who was a very high ranking Nazi official. The Israelis apparently even discovered Dr. Mangel in u Argentina but they had a choice. They had to make a choice. It's either either Akman or Mangel and they suppose I think Akman was a higher ranking guy. That's why they decided to go with Akman. And it's not just like you only had Adolf Akman and Mangel in Argentina. you had many other uh former Nazis who had escaped Europe and and settled in Argentina. Today you will find many Argentinian people who speak Spanish who have got first names like Carlo and Gustavo but they have German last names which is very interesting. So it's possible the painter himself may have made the journey across the Atlantic. It's possible because when it comes to the painter, have we ever found his body? Do we have any actual evidence that he died? The newspapers shouted the painter is dead. But was there any evidence? It is said that the Soviets took his body and disposed of it or whatever. Why would they not parade it? He was their arch enemy. He launched operation, what was it called? Barbarosa, right? He was the great evil who bled so many Russians who who caused so much destruction and death to to Russia. Why will the the Soviets not show his body? So there's the possibility that that the painter may actually have escaped. The possibility exists. But do we have proof? We don't. Okay. Proof doesn't exist. Possibility exists. Let us take some questions from the comments. I still have more questions that I can go through but it will take a long time. I will take questions from the comments for a while and then we shall end this. Uh right. Okay. What? Yes. Barbar Roa. Shar Vladimir Putin says it is Barbar Roa. We get it. And I Why are you guys taking super chats today? Why? This is not a super chat session. Okay, I will finish the super chats quickly. See, please. This is not a super chat question. I'm I'm sure you did not realize it. I should have been more clear. And the fault is mine. Let's quickly go through super chats, but only if it is about history. I will not take non-history questions. What is the first one? One second. Let me um Yeah. How might Indian history have looked if naval dominance had been prioritized the way it was in Europe, the way it was with the Cholas and the Sat Vahas? Well, that's a completely hypothetical question. Um see na we were navally dominant even during the Marata period, right? uh we prioritized no dominance for the longest time. If you look at the Harapan period, we had gigantic docks. The dock the port at Lothal and the port at Dool Vira, they they have harbors that compare favorably with the port in Vishaka Patnam where you can dock an aircraft carrier. And even during the Gupta period for example when um Samudra Gupta conquered the entire subcontinent especially by conquering the southern part of India his conquest of southern India was a two-pronged conquest. It was a landbased conquest and also a conquest in parallel at sea. He had a powerful navy. But we will not be taught any of this in our NCERT textbooks. That's the problem. He had a powerful navy. The Maratas had a powerful navy. We our our empires always prioritize the navy. They always had powerful navies. But we are not taught this. We had the great Marata Admiral Shri Anoji Angre who won so many who never lost a battle I believe right a naval battle. So we had that but we are not taught these things. That's the problem. Godliness says cast reservation work. We talking history sir today. Please sir please we talk history today. We'll not take and anyway don't talk about internal matters. I talk about history science geopolitics. I don't talk about cast issues today. I don't talk about vaka board. I don't talk about these things. Internal politics. Yeah, that's something I am not a not I don't deal in that. Sorry, sir. We talk about history. Uh what is next? Uh Koshel says causes for the fall of Roman Republic includes one increase in inequality between the slaveolding class and con people. Increasing use of political violence. I see the same thing in America. Agree. The incre the call for the the cause for the fall of the Roman Republic does include all of these things. Yes. And even the fall of the Roman Empire. See the cause for the fall of any system is the weakening of the system. You may have inequality but as long as the system is strong nothing nothing can be done about it. When the system becomes weak that's when the inequality becomes weaponized. You may have a nation where you have 1% people who rule 99% people who are slaves. We just take took a look at at an example where you had 20,000 British occupiers who ruled over 330 million Indians. Isn't that shocking inequality? But as long as they have the power, they they wield the power in the right way, they the Indians can't do a thing. So what you are saying is true. You are you are seeing rising inequality in America. No question about it. No question. You're also seeing an increase in political violence and the Charlie K thing is like something all Indians are obsessed about for some reason right now. But whatever it's it's an indicator of the rise in political violence. No question. Um but as long as the American system remains strong and the politicians have the power in their hands which is the armed forces the nuclear the nuclear option and the police force then there's nothing the common Americans can do about it. It's only if they lose their control over these these tools that America could u be on the way the same way the Roman Roman Republic went. Arush Mahajan thank you so much sir. Thank you. Arush says, "Well, thank you Arouch. First of all, we met in Pune Hayat." Okay. I Okay, it's good. Good then. Uh I'm sure if I meet you again, I'll I'll be able to remember that. So, good to hear from you, sir. I hope you're doing well. Abida Singh says in Shivuran there's a story where Daksha gets his 27 daughters married to Chandra or Soma that is a moon and he used to spend most time with Rohini. How we know that the elliptical course of the moon? Uh we know the constellation where the moon transits is exactly the same one. It's interesting. It's interesting. You see many of these stories have in India in India look we our our ancient our ancestors did not expect everyone to understand science. Let's say you are a ship builder. Let's say you are a cloth merchant. Let's say you are a metallergist who making who is smelting steel. Let's say you're into some other business. Everybody was in some business, right? India was a fully industrialized civilization. So you had people who were in all these occupations and they did not have the time or the inclination to know science. So how do you bring scientific concepts into common understanding? by by crafting this beautiful beautiful tales, right? So that's how the the astronomical facts become woven into stories you teach your children. So children grow up learning these stories and then one day when they realize it's an there's an astronomical uh fact that matches it they will immediately be able to match the story with the astronomical fact. So that's how you can bring the scientific world into into the common common people's lives by creating these interesting stories and tales and and if they these include divinities like like the moon is a divinity and so on then it makes it even more powerful. So that is how we used to have you know we used to transmit knowledge education and so on and today it's the it's very different. It was so easy earlier right if if it was done this way. Himmanu says Rahul Gandhi will speak to Trump. All right sir, we are discussing history today sir. We are discussing history today and I will not discuss Indian politics. I stay out of Indian politics even if it is Yeah. So okay Mohit but says vers was the most two three of ancient Egypt a good emperor. How much did the Egyptian civilization did ex um I don't remember this particular king manos the third I have the book right here but it's been a long time since I read it and there are so many kings and queens of the Egyptian empire okay let me do a book recommendation give me a second I will be right back in like 10 seconds give me a second Yeah. And we are right back. So if you want the answer, I don't remember right now that was the third, but if you want the answer, this is a great book. The rise and the fall of ancient Egypt by Toby Wilkinson. And I am pretty sure that I'll be able to find the answer in this one. It's been a while since I read through read through the book. So I don't remember. See that's the deal. People ask me, let me use this to illustrate a different point. People ask me all the time, how do you retain everything you read? Well, here's an example of me not retaining everything I read. It's impossible to retain everything you read. You have to give yourself permission to forget things. You're not supposed to be a a hard drive that stores facts and data. You should understand causality, cause and effect. How did things happen? But specific facts, the the life history of a specific king somewhere, it's okay to forget. It's okay to forget. So, um, Moit Mohit, I'm sorry. I don't remember this right now. It's been a long time since I read the read this part of history. But here's a great book recommendation for you, Mohit, and for anybody else who is interested in Egypt. This is a great book. All right, let's let's move on. Let's go to the next question. AKS Baga says, "Are Russian demographics as bad as China?" No, I don't think Russia's TFR is as Are you talking about TFR? I hope not. Not Not demographics. Uh China's TFR, the last time I saw it, total fertility rate was, I think, 1.1 or 1.2, which is horrific. And Russia's TFR is is not that bad. Uh, okay. Let's let's quickly see if we can find information on Google. Um, Russia Russia TFR 2025. Okay, Russia's TFR is about 1.41 or 1.42. Okay, this is a very brief I'm not sure if it's the exact correct number, but yeah, this is what AI is telling us. Google's AI. I'm not doing a proper detailed fact check here. Just a very quick check fact check. Let's see. China's TFR. China TFR 2025. What is it? It's 1.02 1.02.9. My goodness. It is worse than last time I saw. So, as you can see, Russia's TFR is nothing as bad as China's. China is in is in a bad situation. Wow. Ramachandra, thank you, sir. No question. But all right. Thank you so much. Uh Dig Vijay says, "I am more left liberals often differ. That's fine. But your views push me to think deeper. We grow by learning across perspectives. I even use ask this is my gym podcast." Well, thank you so much, sir. I am really honored. It's okay to be whatever you are. Look, whatever we believe, whatever worldview we have, it is it is caused by the kind of life we have had, the kind of upbringing we had, the kind of teachers we had, the kind of textbooks we had, the kind of parents we had, the kind of family we were born in, the kind of friends we had, all of this comes together that it in in it influences the way we see the world. So, it's okay to be whoever you are. It's not like we I will only speak It's not like we should only speak to people who have exactly the same thoughts and same beliefs as us. We should talk to everyone and it is perfectly fine to have different opinions. You know, I'll tell you something. In the 2000s, I used to consider myself to be liberal. Why did I consider myself to be liberal? Because I enjoyed meeting people of different backgrounds. There are some people who only want to be who only want to have friends who speak the same language and have the same exact same food choices. Everything everything should be the same. I only want people who are exactly like me. Me, I'm the exact opposite. I enjoy having friends who are from very diverse backgrounds, different countries, different cultures, different backgrounds, different whatever, different languages, even different religions. I don't care. It it it gives you it makes the world more interesting if you if you have friends like that. I always enjoyed having friends from different parts of the world and that's why I considered myself to be liberal because I had a very open mind. I still have a very open mind. Then later on I unders I got to know that the the term liberal has been captured by the left. That whatever the left is that is liberal and everyone else is right-winger. From that perspective then I would be a right-winger because I'm not that I'm not a Marxist. I'm not a leftist. I'm not a socialist. I'm not a communist. So that automatically makes me right. So the truth is I am liberal. I respect everyone as long as they respect me. I enjoy very diverse company. But I am not a lefty. Okay. But but that's okay. That's okay. So my my point is look, it's okay to have different opinions. It doesn't mean that we have to be enemies or we have to fight. We can be friends. I as long as you know I'll be happy to be friends with anybody as long as they're not anti- my civilization in my country. That's it. You can be of whatever religion. You can speak whatever language. You can even eat whatever food you want. I don't care. As long as you are not actively harming my culture, my civilization and my country, I'm perfectly fine. But that's all. Right. Okay. Next. D Vijay says to be clear, I'm not saying I change my views. I respect the intellect helping me helps me avoid echo chambers and test my own own ideas. Perfectly fine. I'm not asking you to change your views. Just have an open mind and and and and at least hear everyone out. It's you should you should be exposed to all kinds of ideas and then you can choose whether you want to agree or disagree with them. That's entirely your choice. And it's glad that you have this I'm glad to see that you have this open mind. So good to see that, sir. Good to see that. All right. Galler says Trump's breaking a Okay, this is sir this is geopolitics. We're discussing geopolitics tomorrow sir please. Today we only discuss history otherwise it's no longer a history liveream and I'm I'm letting my audience down who who have all come to watch geopolitics I mean sorry history right please sir let us stick to history today. Um Rahul says not a question but a suggestion. There are some trolls who frequent the live chat and dirty the discussion. Having moderators will help. I have at least one moderator. Well, I will remind the moderator to do a good to do a better job. But anyway, thank you for pointing this out. I I appreciate that and it is noted. Your point is noted. And the last question for today is by Galler. Why was the mass why was the massacre Pquart misnomered in Mobyick? Anglo-Saxon arrogance or innocent for folly like M fobedic. Moby Dick is a fascinating story. What's the first sentence in the book the one of the most epic opening lines? Call me Ishmael and that's the narrative. Now the problem is that I read Moby Dick and I was fascinated with the story with with the whole time period and that that mill but the last time I read Moby Dick was when I was like a 15 years old. That's been a long time. I don't remember the story today. I remember it was fascinating. It was all alled with veiling. You have Captain Ahab. You have uh Quiqu and and so on. But I don't remember the story. Um I remember the white whale. Captain Ahab was obsessed with the white whale. Um so I I don't remember right now. Once again, you see, I don't retain everything. It's been so long. So long. So yeah, I'm sorry I won't be able to answer this because I don't remember the story anymore. I and reading that book again, it's it's a huge time investment. That's a big book. And I remember it's not an easy read. It's a fascinating read, but not an easy read and it would take me some time to read it today. So I'm sure I'll not have the time right now to read it. So right now I can't answer your question. But anyway, thank you so much for asking the question and uh yeah. Okay, folks. That's that's it. That's it. I'm going to have to end this now. This is a regular live stream. It's not not one of those 8 hour live streams that I can't do every every weekend. So, um, so let's end this now and I shall see you tomorrow 8:00 p.m. India time and tomorrow we shall talk about geopolitics and I'll take all the questions as many as possible mainly from the super chat but everything is welcome. All right people, thank you so much. And good night, good day to everybody, all my friends. Guitar when you know what, it's been a long time since I played the guitar in any seriousness. I have three guitars hanging there. They need new strings. They still have the strings and I have my amp over here, the electric guitar amplifier. It's been a long time. If I play right now, I will sound terrible. So, maybe I should practice for a while before I play the guitar. Yeah, I used to be a good musician. I I am I am a lapsed musician. I used to be a really good guitarist. Anyway, maybe sometime in the future I'll I'll bring out my guitar and do the intro with the guitar. All right, people. I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you. Bye-bye. Take care and keep raising your standards. Never forget that. Bye-bye.