[Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the Oscar video show. Today we are discussing history. We are discussing Indian history as well as world history. I'll take questions that you all have asked in the comments. Before we do that do that as always let's see who all is there on the live chat. Let me greet some of you as many as of you as I can. I can see Sasmit, Beneat, Bonjour, Zodiac Cycle, Animesh, Namaste, Happy Diwali. Happy Diwali to everybody. Um Chat DSP, Happy Dhanteras. Thank you and same to everybody else. Freedom from outcome is here from Canada. Ankita G, welcome. Thank you very much. Happy Dhanteras to you as well. Feel strong man, Pawan Shetty, Shetty, Ayush Singh, Pranam, Avinash, injured soccer player from Ontario in Canada, uh Bruce Wayne, IPK_1S, Namaskaram, Vladimir Putin, Jai Shri Ram, Avinash, Bruce Wayne, Sanna, Apoorva, Apoorva, Anupama, Krishna Raghunath from the Suriname is Netherlands. Vishpala, Namaste. I'm autistic. Uh Animesh, Ankita, Pratyush, uh Ayush Singh, I'm a painter. Uh Gautami, Happy Diwali. Vishpala, Namaste. Aryansh Rai Saxena, Parth Prajapati, Apoorva Anupama, once again, Roshan, Roshan Baker, Krishna, Beneat, Gautami, Vishnu Mohanan, Happy Dhanteras. Uh Jai Dixit, Jai Dixit, Pratyush, Fireball is traveling. Anant Pai, Baron Zemo India, uh Tushar Kalburgi Kalburgi, Shubha Deepavali, Gaurav Sarkar, Geopolitical Dubai from Indore, good evening. Jai Dixit, Bruce Wayne, Sasmit, Who else do we have? Krishna, Abhishek Gurjar, Nikesh Dahal, uh Anahita, Pranam, Aniruddha Godbole, Happy Diwali. Ananta Subramanian, hello. Alisha B, Namaskaram. Krishna says, Krishna, okay. And Abhishek Gurjar, Nikesh Dahal, once again, desperately wants to visit India. Well, you are always welcome. Please do come. You're welcome. Uh Vamsi Kalam, Naman Arora, Karan Yadav, and warrior, and everyone else. All right, okay, let's get going with the questions. I'll take as many questions as I can over the next couple of hours. Let's see what questions we have. Let us begin with a question about Hannibal Barca. Napoleon Singh Shekhawat says, "Who was Hannibal Barca? How did he destroy the Romans? And how far did he stretch his empire?" Hannibal Barca was born in Carthage, which is present-day Tunisia. Let's take a look at the map to understand what part of the world we are dealing with. We're dealing with North Africa. So, let's go to the map and visit this location virtually. So, we're going to North Africa, we go to Africa, northern Africa, this this smallish, reasonably smallish nation called Tunisia. And if we go to the capital city Tunis, well, um where is the location of Carthage? Carthage? It's somewhere around Tunis if I recall correctly. Let's zoom in further. Let's zoom in further. Okay, now we are talking. Now we are dealing Okay, so this is the ancient port of Carthage, the Punic ports of Carthage. Uh and and that still exists as you can see and there's the archaeological remains of the city of Carthage and then you will also have a lot of Roman uh presence whose archaeological remains are very much in evidence in Tunisia and North Africa overall. So, that's the region we're talking about and as you can see it's not really very far away from Italy, right? Here we have Italy, which was part of the Roman Empire. It was the well, it was the seat of the Roman Empire out of which governed out of Rome. So, Hannibal Barca was born in Carthage, which is present-day essentially uh the city of Tunis, Tunisia. All right? So, that's the first thing we have to understand about Hannibal Barca. He was born in Carthage. So, he was a Carthaginian general. He was a warrior. He was a general. And he is considered to be one of the greatest, most brilliant military commanders in world history. He is still remembered for his incredible tactics, incredible strategies, and the fact that he nearly brought the Roman Empire down. The It was not the Roman Empire at the time. It was the Roman Republic at that time. He nearly brought the Roman Republic to collapse during a period of time called the Second Punic War. His father had fought the First Punic War. Okay? So, we're talking about the 3rd century BC over here. So, Hannibal was the son of another general whose name was Hamilcar Barca, who had fought against Rome in the First Punic War. And in the First Punic War, Carthage had been defeated. It had suffered a humiliating defeat and it had and and the Romans had imposed very harsh, very humiliating terms on Carthage. Uh and this motivated Hannibal Barca to take revenge against Rome. Kind of what you see between the First and the Second World Wars. That sort of thing. Very similar. So, when Hannibal was a child, he swore an oath of vengeance, of eternal enmity against Rome against Rome. And he swore that he would make he would punish Rome for the humiliation that it had imposed on Carthage. So, the Second Punic War starts with Hannibal I think attacking Spain. His It was then called Iberia, which was the one of the easternmost parts of Europe, southeastern Europe, and it was a Roman possession, not quite at the time, but that's where he starts. Okay? So, he crosses the sea, he attacks Spain, he gets a foothold in Spain, and then what he does, Hannibal, is something extraordinary. He conducted one of the most extraordinary military maneuvers in European history. He crossed the Alps, the mountains. Okay? With tens of thousands of soldiers, of troops, and also war elephants. And then he achieved uh a succession, a series of of victories against the Romans. So, there were like multiple battles that he fought and he defeated the Romans in them in those battles and then it all culminated with the Battle of Cannae. The Battle of Cannae was uh one of the most devastating defeats that Rome ever suffered. Uh Hannibal's armies, they killed between 50,000 Romans in a single day, soldiers. Uh entire families, entire bloodlines were extinguished. It was an absolute disaster for Rome and Rome came on the on the on the verge of essentially entirely falling to to Hannibal. But then the Romans adopted different strategies. They they adopted the strategy of shying away from a battle with the with Hannibal and they kind of kept Rome out of his hands. And eventually eventually they were able to rebuild strength, the Romans. Um And and then what what Scipio Africanus, the Roman general, did is that he invaded North Africa. And that's what had to bring Hannibal back to Africa. He had to go back to Africa to defend now. Instead of playing offense, he had to now start playing defense. Um and that's how it went and eventually uh so So, that's the deal about Hannibal. He was a brilliant general. He brought the the Roman Republic to the brink of disaster, of of annihilation. And uh he is regarded as one of the greatest generals in in world history. Incredible tactical brilliance, incredible strategic strategic brilliance. His his campaigns are studied in military academies even today, right? Uh and so eventually the Roman general Scipio Africanus invaded North Africa. This forced Hannibal to return to North Africa and there he's playing defense and he eventually suffered a a defeat in a battle against Scipio Africanus and that put an end to Carthage's ambitions of destroying Rome. Uh And what was the eventual fate of Hannibal Barca? So, after the Second Punic War, he kind of became a statesman in North Africa in Carthage and he was the advisor to various kings and so on. And eventually the Romans started exerting more and more influence in Carthage. And sometime in the 2nd Century BC, Hannibal faced a choice. Either be captured by the Romans or escape the capture by killing himself. So, he took his own life. And that's the story of Hannibal Barca essentially. Um so, he was not an emperor. He did not have an empire. He was a He was a general. He was fighting on behalf of Carthage and he did not get sufficient assistance from Carthage. Otherwise, he would have uh perhaps been able to totally defeat Rome, right? So, maybe there were elements of rivalry elements of elements elements of jealousy elements of fear back home this guy may become too powerful and he may take over Carthage and become an emperor instead of just being general and so on and that contributed to the eventual demise of Carthage itself. Eventually. Right. So, that's about Hannibal Barca. Very I mean, a really renowned general and a very interesting person in world history. Next question is by Saloni Mishra. Why did the IRA assassinate Mountbatten? Who is Mountbatten or what is the IRA? So, the IRA is the Irish Republican Army. Uh they they are or they used to be um a freedom fighting force that was fighting against the British occupation of Ireland, which still continues in Northern Ireland. Northern Ireland is still occupied by the British, by the way. So, the IRA were fighting the British occupation through violent means, not through the stupid ahimsa nonsense, but through violent means. Because through ahimsa, you can only achieve vassalage. Through violent means, you can actually defeat your oppressors and and you know, ensure that there is full victory. So, the IRA were fighting the British occupation of Ireland. Okay? Now, coming to Mountbatten. Lord Mountbatten was the last was the first governor general of independent of of uh not independent India, but uh dominion status India. So, 15th August 1947 is dominion status day. Okay? You have been misled that it is Independence Day. It is dominion status day. India became a dominion of the British Empire on the 15th of August 1947. And Mountbatten was made the first governor general of dominion status India. Now, who was this guy, Mountbatten? He was a German. Well, at least he was of German origin. His family originated in Germany. And their their actual name was Battenberg, not Mountbatten. It was Battenberg. Um and during the First World War, when there were very strong anti-German sentiments in in England in Britain, the Battenberg family changed their name to Mountbatten. See, the word berg, b e r g, berg like iceberg, it means it means a mountain. Iceberg means ice mountain. It means mountain in German in the German language, berg. So, Battenberg was then translated into English to make it Mountbatten and they became the Mountbatten family. So, uh Lord Mountbatten, he's his elder sister, she had a son who went on who whose name was Philip. And Philip's father died at when Philip was young and Mountbatten, his uncle his uncle, became kind of a father figure in his life. And he took care of Philip and he mentored Philip, right? You need a strong male presence in your life. So, Mountbatten became that male presence and he eventually introduced Philip to Princess Elizabeth. And prince and and Philip ended up marrying Princess Elizabeth and he became um and and Elizabeth went on to become the Queen of England, right? So, that's the story of Philip. Uh so, Mountbatten was a very uh prominent figure in the royal family of England. Even Elizabeth's family had German ancestry and so on. So, essentially the Germans were ruling England. And they changed their their name to the House of Windsor around the same time that Mount the Battenbergs changed their surname to Mountbatten. That sort of thing. So, Lord Mountbatten was a very prominent figure of the royal family of England. Okay? He was like a father kind of a father to Prince Philip, who was the husband of the Queen of England. So, very prominent member of the family. So, the IRA were fighting for independence of Ireland. And they used non-vi- they used violent means and they wanted to make a statement. So, they took out Mountbatten when he was on a boat in a lake somewhere. Okay? And they they planted a they planted a bomb on on on the boat and that explosion took out Mountbatten. I suppose his body would never have been recovered properly. And that was the fate of of Mountbatten. So, that's why the IRA assassinated uh Mountbatten, Lord Mountbatten, because they they wanted a prominent target, a very high-ranking target, a target that was very closely closely associated with the royal family, kind of a member of the royal family itself, right? To bring uh to to to first of all send a message to the occupiers, to the oppressors that you know, we can target any of you. And secondly, to bring more publicity to the fact that Ireland was under British occupation, right? And uh it still is under British occupation, but today the IRA has gone to sleep for whatever reason. All right? So, that's the deal. That's why the IRA assassinated Mountbatten. Amisha Bishnoi says, "Who were the Mycenaeans and how did they differ from the popularized ancient Greeks?" Okay. Let us first go to the map and discover the geography that we are discussing. Okay? Then we will deal with the historical issue of who are the Mycenaeans etc. So, let's go to the map. Here's is the map. Now, we zoom westwards from India. We cross the Persian Gulf. We cross uh the the far the the what do they call this? The Middle Middle East? Yeah? Or West Asia? And then we are into the Mediterranean Sea. So, we are talking about Greece over here, right? Greece is slightly eastwards of Rome. You have to cross the Adriatic Sea and then you are in in Greece. So, we're talking about an ancient race of Greeks essentially, so to say, the Mycenaean Greeks. So, who were these Mycenaeans and how did they differ from the later Greeks? So, we have to look at some chronological issues here. So, this is the region we're dealing with. Now, first of all, even before the Mycenaeans, there was something called the Minoans. The Minoans, they uh lived in this island called Kriti Crete. It's it's called Kriti today or it it was called Crete. Okay? So, the Minoans lived on this island called Crete about between 3,000 BC to about about 1,000 BC. From 3,000 to 1,000 BC, about 2,000 years, the Minoan civilization lived on this small island. And one interesting fact about the Minoans before I proceed further with this uh with this topic, in in Minoan, they have discovered paintings of a certain kind of monkey that completely stumped historians. What is this monkey? We have never seen this monkey anywhere in this region. Okay? And it turned out to be the langur, which is a monkey that's found in India. So, the Minoans, they apparently had langurs about 4,000 5,000 years before today during the period of time which we call in India the Indus Saraswati Sindhu Saraswati phase of our history. So, it looks like the Sindhu Saraswati era Indians had contacts with Minoan. Maybe we were tra- trading with Minoan or maybe Minoan was trading with us or whichever way it was. But Minoan had access to Indian langurs and they painted Indian langurs uh on on certain frescoes on the walls of temples and buildings and stuff. So, that's Minoan. So, the Minoans were the what you could say what you would call the oldest uh civilization in the region. Were they Greeks? Were they non-Greeks? Well, that's a different story. They clearly were most likely Indo-European. And their civilization takes a sudden downfall about 1500 BC, which probably has something to do with this island here, which is today called Santorini. It was called Thera in the past. And as you can see, if you look at the satellite image, it's kind of circular weirdly because this used to be a gigantic ginormous volcano and it exploded somewhere around 1500 BC and it most likely caused a complete utter catastrophic disaster, which hastened the fall of the Minoan civilization. Okay? So, that's 1500 BC, but Minoan starts about 3,000 BC and it ends about 1,000 BC. Now, coming to the main question, the Mycenaeans. The Mycenaeans were a group of Indo-European people who arrived in Greece around 2,000 BC. Maybe maybe after 2,000 BC, maybe 1900 BC. Indo-Europeans who arrived in Greece, let's say around 1900 BC. So, that's more than a thousand years before after the beginning of the of the Minoan civilization. And the Mycenaeans, they were they they, you know, they spread across various islands and various parts of Greece. So, it's like Greece had its own Aryan invasion, migration, whatever you want to call it. Okay, Indo-Europeans. Those were the Mycenaeans. And uh so and and they had this so they spoke what is called what is considered to be the oldest version of the Greek language. And their script is called Linear A or something. Linear A most likely. That's the script that they used. Um and and it is and and the Mycenaean phase of Greek history ends catastrophically around 1100 BC. Okay, around 1100 BC. What happened around in 1100 BC? The Trojan War happened around 1100 BC. And where was Troy? Troy was in present-day Anatolia, which is currently occupied by Turkey. Okay? The it's it's a place called Hisarlik. Hisarlik. Zoom in. Here we are. Hisarlik. If you zoom out, you will see it's near the coastline, but the coastline has shifted. So, all of Anatolia used to be Greek long before the Turks even existed. So, Hisarlik is the site of ancient Troy. If you if would you like to if you like to see there's a town called Hisarlik, but then you have uh Okay, I'm not sure you'll be able to see much on the satellite images. But yeah. So, that's where the Trojan War happened. The coastline was all the way inside at the time. And now it has shifted significantly. So, the Trojan War is considered by the Greeks was considered by the ancient Greeks to have been the beginning of a of a dark age of Greece. So, it destroyed the Mycenaean period of Greek history. It probably led to immigration into Italy, which eventually gave rise to Rome. And from about 1100 BC to about 800 BC, there was a dark age in Greece. And then you have the beginning of of classical Greek civilization, which is you know which which culminates with Alexander the Greek and with it which ends with the invasion and the occupation of Greece by Julius Caesar. So, the Mycenaeans are the ancestors of the classical Greeks. And they gave rise to the heroes like Agamemnon and Paris and Menelaus and Hector Achilles, Ajax and so on. Right? Those were the Mycenaeans. So, the Mycenaeans were the ancestors of the classical Greeks. The classical Greeks were eventually defeated and occupied by the Romans, by Julius Caesar and his armies. And this eventually gave rise to Byzantium or the Byzantine Empire, which was the Eastern Roman Empire. So, even around the Second World War era, the people of Greece some people of that part of of Greece re- you know, regarded themselves as Romans. So, that's the entire chronology. It starts with the Minoans, then you have the Mycenaeans, then there is a Trojan War and and dark age, then you have classical Greece, which ends with the with the defeat at the hands of the Romans and the Roman occupation and then you have the Byzantine Empire, which lasts for a while, then you have the Turkic occupation of Byzantium and Anatolia, which gives rise to the Ottoman Empire and that brings us to where we are today. Okay, hopefully you understand the chronology there. Okay. Shubha says, "What was the practice of witch hunting in Europe? How many women were burnt alive? The number 35,000 to 60,000 seems under underestimated, underrated, etc." Witch burning. It was um it was a European custom. It was a European tradition, which lasted for several centuries. Uh what? Between I don't know, 1200 AD to about between 1100 AD to about 1500 AD or something. May have ended in the 1400s sometime to a significant extent. But for several centuries, there was this nice charming custom that the Europeans had of uh burning women alive. Okay? Now, what is the what was the origin of this custom and so on? So, Europe, in case you aren't aware Christianity isn't native to Europe. It's it's a foreign imposition on Europe. Before Christianity existed, Europe was polytheistic. Europe was part of the of the larger Indo-European world. The gods and goddesses the Europeans worshipped were offshoots of the old Vedic gods. And the European religions or cultures, whatever you want to call them, were local manifestations of the of the oral same culture. Right? Polytheistic culture with the same original gods and goddesses, which then took took different forms and different shapes and different names in various parts of Europe. So, that's what you had in Europe originally. And in the old polytheistic European culture, the Indo-European culture, which we are still familiar with because we still live it. So, in that old culture, women had a good status in so- society. Women had very prominent roles in society, not as warriors, unless it was needed, but as healers, as as as people who uh you know, passed on wisdom and knowledge and so on. Right? So, obviously you had gender roles in society, which is a horribly malign thing today. Oh my god, gender roles. Oh my god, how how how backward, how how misogynistic and so on. You had gender roles throughout history. And women had they played certain roles. They played the roles of of healers, of teachers and so much more. And so, healing was done by women. Um and women were highly respected in society. In in the Indo-European society. Then you have the advent of Christianity. You have the Northern Crusades and various other things and all and you know, read Catherine Nixey's The Darkening Age that book, which will explain how Christianity was imposed brutally through brutal force on the on the native people of Europe. So, so Christianity now starts taking root in Europe, but the old practices, the polytheistic practices still kind of linger and people don't want to give up their the religion of their ancestors. So, what do you do? You frighten the hell out of them. How do you do that? You accuse any woman who has any old knowledge of being a witch, of being a devil devil worshipper. Any woman who retains old knowledge, who can who can you know, secretly heal people, who secretly can pass on the old knowledge designate that woman as a witch, as a Satan worshipper, a devil worshipper, as someone who communes with the devil, with Satan. Right? Accuse her of being a witch and then burn her alive. And then that spread like wildfire. So, the most popular book or second most popular book in Europe for multiple centuries was a a Christian book called the Malleus Maleficarum. Let us Google this just fantastically charming text. Okay? Malleus Maleficarum. Malleus Maleficarum, The Hammer of the Witches. The Hammer of witches of yeah. And this was probably either the most popular book in Europe or the second most popular book in Europe for several centuries. And this book explained how to discover whether a woman is a witch or not. What are the tests you can do to to ascertain the witch-ness or not of a woman? And what are the means of of of killing such women. So, one of the ways you could discover whether a woman was a witch or not is this. See, let's let's say a woman has been accused of being a witch. You catch her, you bring her in front of the of the of the church men of the priests and all that. And they will obviously disrobe her and make her naked. And then they will test whether she is a witch or not by uh tying a heavy you know, um tying a heavy rock to her feet and putting her in a body of water. So, if she drowns then there is no effect of Satan on her and she was not a witch. But if she floats, then she's a witch and you should burn her alive. So, if you are not a witch, you will drown. If you are a witch, you will float and you will be burnt alive. So, it is death this way, death that way. That's one way of finding out whether a woman is which is a witch or not. And they had many other charming ways of finding out of discovering whether a woman was a witch or not. So, essentially it was about exercising control and power over the people of Europe. It was about terrorizing the hell out of them. It was about uh uh terrorizing the people so much that they will abandon their ancestral culture and religion and become staunch Christians through fear. And that was the dark ages of Europe. Right? So, um the old culture respected women. The new religion that that was brought in, it was misogynistic. Horribly misogynistic. And that led to the practice this this custom, this European tradition and custom of burning women alive. And eventually it was it went to the extent that if you know, if someone did not like someone, they would accuse the woman of being a witch and then the church would be very happy. Okay, one more soul to burn. Right? And that that that that would make them you know, enable them to control the people even more. Even if people were um falsely accused of being witches, I'm I'm sure there was no real witch at all anywhere. Right? Obviously. And that's how it went. Now, it was believed for the longest time that millions of women were burnt as witches. But in recent time, you know, very eminent scholars and academics have done proper research and they have decided no millions of women were not burned alive. It was only a small number, 35 to 40,000, maybe 60,000 at most. Not even 100,000, not even six figures. All these old myths, all these old stories that have been passed on by through word of mouth, these are myths. Europe wasn't that barbaric. It was a modest figure. Only 35 to 60,000 women were burned alive. Okay? That's the deal. So they have whitewashed their history. They accuse Indians and Hindus of of being what? Sati, of forcing our widows to to to burn themselves alive, immolate themselves alive, which is a complete colonial fabrication, missionary fabrication, but they are the ones who were doing all this. And now they have whitewashed that down to to a figure of 35 to 60,000. 60,000 the higher higher limit. Mostly mostly likely 35,000. So that's how you whitewash history and that's how you create historical narratives. That's how you use history as a weapon. Understand this. All right. Swapnil Mishra always has interesting questions. So, the question is what caused the Aral Sea in Central Asia to dry up? And is there any chance it will recover? Let's go to the map and find out what is this Aral Sea thing, right? Um So I you may have I mean in case you are a regular viewer of this channel, you would have heard me speak about Emperor Kanishka and how his empire stretched from the Aral Sea to the Caspian Sea all the way to other parts of the world. So where is the Aral Sea? There is no such thing today, but there still is kind of something uh which is here. Shall we zoom in? What's it say? One second. Um Has to be somewhere here. This has to be the Aral Sea. This has to be the Aral Sea. But as Miss Shikha Lake, okay. So let's put the satellite images on so that we get some more clarity. So this this used to be Okay, let's first Google Aral Sea, okay? Let's first Google Aral Sea and you can see the before and after images of what happened to this part of the world, okay? So let's do that. Aral Sea before and after. Before and after. Let's go to images. And look at this. So you have a before image and after image. After is disastrous, as you can see. Look at this. See what happened here? Disaster. Look here. Look at the the satellite images here also as well. Look at this. 77, 1977, 1989 and 2006. Uh and there's more and there's more. It's it's all it's a tale of disaster. You can see the shrinking over here. 2000 to all the way to 2018. Now we can go to the satellite images and uh Okay, where where are we? So Uh one second, let me put that on and then we shall discuss what exactly happened here. So Is No, not this, not this. Okay, so this is the Aral Sea, okay? By the way, whatever they say satellite images uh This is the northern portion of the Aral Sea and there's a dam over here. We we're going to come back to this dam because this dam is important. Uh I forget the name of this dam. It is Aral something dam. And this dam has kept the northern portion of the Aral Sea still kind of alive. It's kind of revived in the past few few in the past couple of decades. But as you can see there's a huge artificial I mean new desert that has come up over here, which is where the Aral Sea used to be. So why did the Aral Sea go dry? Why did that not happen to the Caspian Sea is the question. So the Aral Sea is fed by two rivers, two iconic rivers, okay? The the modern names are the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya. The historical name of the Amu Darya was the Vakshu or the Chakshu River. Chakshu means eye in Sanskrit, okay? And another name was the Vakshu River in Sanskrit. The Syr Darya, its original Persian name was the Yakhsha Yakhsha Arta. Okay, now so let's see where these rivers are. Um this has to be this river here is the Syr Darya which is the Yakhsha Arta. So this is one of the rivers that that feeds the Aral Sea and it goes all the way here and it's still kind of feeding the Aral Sea over here. As you can see, this is the Syr Darya. It is draining out into the northern portion of the Aral Sea, which is still kind of alive. And then there is another river okay? Um which is called the Amu Darya which kind of flows in this region which also used to feed the Aral Sea. So this is the Amu Darya. This one here. This river. This is the Amu Darya. As you can see over here it says Amu Darya. So these two rivers used to feed the Aral Sea. Now this this part of the world was part of the USSR. Okay, in the 20th century. And uh the Soviet uh government or whatever you want to call it, it decided that it will launch irrigation schemes in the region. And they built these big networks of canals that drained out the waters of these two rivers, the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya. And the canals were not properly engineered. They did not have proper embankments and all and so on, which is why the waters, you know, they they just spilled out and much of the waters evaporated and the the water that used to drain into the Aral Sea, it was all diverted. And then there were all these agricultural projects that were undertaken in the region and all kinds of chemicals and fertilizers and whatnot were was used and this caused the waters of the Aral Sea to go down down down. Eventually they became it became a shallow lake which which you could walk in, wade in and it became highly salinated because because when the water evaporates there's a lot of salt that's left behind. And eventually it just dried out and became a desert. And all the fish disappeared and obviously it will disappear. What do you expect, right? So it's because of this man-made disaster that the Aral Sea disappeared. And after 2005 that that dam that I showed you, that has been put in place and that has kept uh the northern the northern part of the Aral Sea from drying up and it has kind of revived. And you still you now again have fish uh fish that have revived over there and you can do fishing and stuff over there. So the northern part of the Aral Sea has been revived to some extent. Uh it will be very difficult to revive the southern part of the Aral Sea because it used to be such a large large region and today the the river it's being used in other ways and hardly anything reaches that part of you know, the Aral what used to be the Aral Sea. So I suppose you could do a 100-year project or 50-year project in which you could revive the Aral Sea. I'm sure it's possible, but it's not going to be easy. So that's why the Aral Sea disappeared completely. I mean not completely, but to a very large extent. The empire of Emperor Kanishka, it it stretched from the shores of the Aral Sea to the Caspian Sea in the northwest and it had Xinjiang and northern India and so much more. So that's the deal with the Aral Sea. Now Shub says, how did 12 major Mahajanapadas come into being and influence Indian history? 12 Mahajanapadas. Can you name the 12 uh Mahajanapadas? Uh Kashi, Kosala, Anga, Magadha Vrijji or Vajji, Malla Kuru Panchala, Avanti, Matsya, etc. I'm sure I've not named all 12. But uh you can find you can look at the list. So you had these 12 Mahajanapadas that appeared sometime around 1,000 around 1,000 BC. Somewhere around that time, maybe slightly before that, maybe a couple of centuries before that, maybe a couple of centuries after that. Most likely after 1,000 BC these 12 Mahajanapadas appeared, okay? Now what's the deal with the Mahajanapadas? What's their history? So how did these Maha What the first of all, what does Janapada mean? The Jana means people, right? Jana. Pada means leg or sorry, foot. So Janapada means foothold of the people. Mahajanapada means great foothold of the people. Uh and Jana means people as in a group of people, as in a linguistic group um a clan, an ethnic group, whatever you want to call it. So you had So as we know, there used to be some there was a period of our history which is known as the Saraswati Sindhu era, right? When our population was significantly concentrated in the north and west of India in the Sapta Sindhu region. Obviously people still lived in the Ganga plains, Yamuna plains and all that, but you had this massive urban gigantic part of India which was fully urbanized, fully industrialized and it it straddled the length and the breadth of the Saraswati Sindhu region, the Sapta Sindhu region. Now there was climate change around 1200 BC and look India's climate started changing about 6,000 BC. The Indian rainy season started declining monotonously monotonically around 6,000 BC. Slowly, very gradually, very imperceptibly, the intensity of the rainfall decreased over time. And the volume of rain that we received decreased over time. Around 1500 BC, the great river Saraswati had kind of half dried up. It no longer reached the western Indian Ocean, the Sea of Saurashtra. It no no longer reached it. It dried out in a big puddle, which eventually became the Thar Desert, the desert, the Rajasthan Desert, right? Um and today it only exists in the north and it no people call it what? The Ghaggar-Hakra. So, the great river dried out. And around 1200 or 1300 BC, you had this massive maybe 50-60 years of climate change, which caused the bronze bronze age collapse in the Mediterranean region. Uh and it also caused a significant climate change in India as well. So, people abandoned They were forced to abandon the great cities like Mohenjo-Daro, Harappa, Kalibangan, Rakhigarhi, Lothal, Dholavira, so on and so forth. And they had to move to other parts of the world. So, some Indians went westwards. That that process may have begun around 2000 BC because we know that Indians went westwards and in and created you know, the uh Mitanni Empire, the Hittite Empire, right? Uh but Indians also went eastwards and settled in the great plains of India, the Ganga plain, the Saraswati the Yamuna plain and so on. So, this process was not a sudden process. It happened over centuries and the people who lived in the Saraswati Sindhu region the Sapta Sindhu region, they migrated to other parts of the world, mostly eastwards into other parts of India. And these groups of people, they would obviously migrate together. And they eventually settled in all these different parts of India, which eventually became the Mahajanapadas. Okay? Um and so that was the the the origin of the Mahajanapadas. They So, there is the So, the climate change happens in the late late Vedic era. 1500 BC is the late Vedic era and then you have the end of the period of antiquity and the beginning of modern India around 1000 BC. Which is the period of the Janapadas, which become the Mahajanapadas and eventually stronger Mahajanapadas like Magadh, like Kosala, like Avanti, like whatever else they they defeated the weaker ones and absorbed them. They absorbed them. And this process continued, process of absorption, annexation. It eventually led to the unification of Bharatvarsha under Magadh, which set the stage for the Mauryan Empire. So, that's a transition from the late Vedic period to what you could perhaps call the modern Indian period, which is about 2 and 1/2 thousand years before today, 2,500 2,600 years before today. Uh maybe 3,000 years before today. So, the transition phase is around 3,000 years before today. From the late Vedic period to what you could call modern India and the period of the republics, the great republics, the Mahajanapadas. Right? Uh The Sky Prime says, "Considering how ancient our Bharati history goes, why do we consider let's say the the era of the Mauryan, Shunga or Gupta Empire that period, why do we consider it to be ancient?" That's what I just spoke about, but yeah, great question. Shouldn't that period be considered to be a modern or maybe somewhat recent period to us if we look at the antiquity of our civilization? Very good point you make, sir or ma'am. So, yeah, so like I said, the period the the around 1000 BC, you had a period of transition from the late Vedic period to what you could call a modern period, right? So, the late Vedic period is the period when there is climate change and the Saraswati dries up to a significant extent and uh you have people who are forced to migrate out of the Saraswati Sindhu region and abandon the great cities of Mohenjo-Daro, Harappa, Kalibangan, Rakhigarhi, Lothal, Dholavira and so many more. Thousands and thousands you had of cities, towns in this region. Fully urbanized, fully industrialized. People had to move out of that because of climate change. And many Indians went westwards. At least some Indians went went westwards out of India forever. They set up empires like the Mitanni Empire and the and the Hittite Empire. And most Indians are would say would have gone eastwards into the Ganga plain, Yamuna plain and other parts of India, Narmada Narmada plain and settled in these various parts of India. And people would have obviously migrated in groups, not just random migrations. They would have migrated in groups together to to keep the society and and everything else together, unified. And then they would have migrated to migrated and settled in various parts of the Ganga Yamuna plains and Narmada plains and so on. And that gave rise to the Mahajanapadas. Right? And that eventually gave rise to the rise of Magadh, which absorbed all the Mahajanapadas and gave rise to the Nanda Empire and then the Mauryan Empire. So, that's So, around 1000 BC, we have a transition phase from the late Vedic era to the very initial Mahajanapada era. So, that should be called modern Indian history or a different phase of Indian history. And the and the period from 1000 AD to today should be called the millennium of humiliation of India because that part part of period of time, 1000 years, we were under foreign occupation and we still are subjugated mentally at least because we haven't come out of the British occupation period of Indian history. We haven't. We are still very much We are actually deeper into the period of British occupation of occupation of India through the constitution, through the institutions, through the English language and so on. So, yeah, I completely agree with Sky Prime that you know, it's the the the year 1000 BC rough is roughly an inflection point in Indian history where you are transitioning from the Vedic late Vedic period to what you could call a modern period or some or the Mahajanapada period for sure. So, it's definitely more recent considering the antiquity of Bharati history that goes back at least 6,000 or 8,000 BC most likely even before that. Right. Samarth Pramanik says, "Why did the Cholas never conquer the whole of the subcontinent despite having the strongest army of that time?" Just like the Mauryan Empire, the Gupta Empire, the Kushan Empire. You see, the Mauryan Empire, the Gupta Empire, the Kushan Empire, the Chola Empire, they all solved for different strategic issues. Okay? All of these were empires that had very different characteristics. Two of these were kind of similar, the Mauryan Empire and the Gupta Empire. They both emerged out of Magadh. They both had their capital at Pataliputra at least initially. Right? So, the Guptas and the Mauryans were kind of similar in certain senses. The Kushan Empire, you could say a significant portion of its territory was Central Asia. At least half was India, northern India was in India. But a significant period portion of it was Central Asia. A present-day Xinjiang, present-day Tibet, to the all the way to the shores of the Aral Sea and the Caspian Sea. Uh Kanishka fought with various with what I forget the name of the Persian king, but he fought. He fought and he pushed him back and grabbed some territory. Right? So, what was Kanishka doing? What was the deal with the with the Kushan Empire? The Kushan Empire's entire strategy, grand strategy, was a strategy of amassing wealth by by by controlling the the landmass through which all the trade between India and Europe happened. And also to some extent with with China. The Europeans were majorly trading with India. This entire myth of the Silk Road, it's it's a it's a myth. The major trade between Europe and the East was between Europe and India. Not the not the Chinese. There was hardly any trade comparative comparable to India between Europe and China. So, Kanishka, his strategy was to occupy a gigantic portion of Central Asia and control all the trade between India and Europe and amass tremendous wealth for the empire as a consequence. And Kanishka also controlled our western ports in Saurashtra, which was also which were also trading with Rome. So, Kanishka by doing this was able to control the land as well as sea routes of trade between India and the West. And through that he made India fabulously rich, fabulously wealthy. That was Kanishka's grand strategy. Um now, the Mauryan grand strategy was to control the entire subcontinent, essentially during Ashoka's time, and while the Kushans were these highly mobile they they had these highly mobile armed armed forces, mainly equestrian armed forces based on horses, uh the Mauryan strategy was to construct a network of roads and highways all across India and control India through that. And they had direct taxation, direct control. They did not employ vassals. The Mauryans, at least Ashok did not employ any vassals. He controlled the entirety of the subcontinent through a centralized system. And it was a centrally planned economy as well. Right? Uh when it comes to the Guptas, it was similar, but the Guptas used vassalage, the system of vassalage. So, the So, what's his name? Samudragupta conquered the whole of the subcontinent. He defeated all the southern most of the southern southern southern Indian uh kingdoms. And he allowed them to continue as vassals. He did not defeat the kings and kill them off. He allowed them to continue on their thrones, but as vassals who would serve the Maharajadhiraja. Okay? So, that was the deal with the Gupta Empire. Now, the Cholas were a very different kind of empire. Uh Rajaraja Chola sets the foundation of the Chola Empire. And Rajendra Chola takes it to the next level. So, the Cholas built India's premier blue water navy in the past 2,000 years. Uh its capabilities were, you could say, compared to everything else in the in the world, far better than what India's navy today is compared to the rest of the world. Okay? And through through that, they were able to uh essentially conquer Srivijaya, but not just conquer Srivijaya Srivijaya, vassalize the whole of Southeast Asia all the way to the Philippines. That's what their strategy was. Their strategy was to control the maritime trade. See, without wealth, nothing works. So, you need to have a way of controlling wealth, the flow of wealth, the flow of goods, the the the the trade routes. So, the Chola strategy was to solve for a different problem. It was to control the maritime trade routes between India and Eastern Asia. And that made the empire fabulously rich. Now, Rajendra Chola did conquer did did make a move on Varanasi. And he did conquer Varanasi for a bit. And that's why he came to be known as the conqueror of the Ganga. And he created a new capital in in the memory of the glorious event, Gangaikonda Chola Cholapuram Gangaikonda Cholapuram, which today is kind of in ruins, very sadly. Uh and at that time, you had the Palas who were ruling in that area. And he defeated the Palas, which were which was a Bengali empire um kingdom, wasn't it? But for the Cholas to go and conquer northern India would take a tremendous amount of resources. They would need horses. They would need a whole different set of strategies and tactics. And they would have to fight their own people. And you had very powerful kingdoms up north. You had the Paramaras, you had the Chahamanas or the Chauhans. You had the Palas. And you already had the unfortunate introduction of the of the Turkic invasions into India. The Cholas probably did not want to deal with all of that at this point in time. So, they decided that let's stick to our strengths. Let us play to our strengths. We are a We have the probably the world's premier blue water navy. Let's use that to our advantage and create a maritime empire. So, that's the deal. All of these empires that you're mentioning, they solved different strategic problems. And the objective of any empire is to control the flow of trade, the flow of wealth, and to amass as much wealth as possible, which is what allows the empire to run function properly. And it it's what keeps the people happy. If If you have If you are amassing wealth, if you are gaining wealth all the time, then you are able to give your people prosperity and high quality of life, which is what any emperor needs, no matter how powerful he is. You don't want to deal with an unhappy population. You You never want to do that. So, that was the deal. But very interesting question. Why did all these different empires have different different strategies and different policies and, you know, different outlooks? Manu Wadi Lab says, "Why do Indian orthodox parents consider love marriage to be a taboo and against our culture when Lord Krishna's marriage to Maharukmini, Masatyabhama, Arjun's marriage to Subhadra, Lord Shiva's marriage to Ma Parvati, these were all love marriages?" Interesting question. So, look, in uh in sociology or whatever you want to call it, there is the concept of hypergamy, hypogamy, and homogamy. Hypergamy means you're marrying upstream or you're marrying up. See, in any civilization, in any advanced society, you have a stratification of society. Society is stratified in a hierarchical set of classes or castes or whatever you want to call it. In India, they call it caste to demonize Hinduism. But anywhere in the world, any properly functioning society has hierarchical classes in society. You have the elites, then you have the merchants, then you have the warriors, then you have this, that, etc. etc. etc. That's the way a functioning society is organized. That's how the way a functioning army or military is organized. That's the way a functioning whatever else is organized. A corporation is also organized like this. Any functioning group of people needs to have a hierarchy. And with hierarchy comes status. It With hierarchy comes power. With hierarchy comes wealth. So, people on people who are who belong to a higher stratum of society, they will generally either have more power or more wealth or more status. Typically, all three. Sometimes not all three, but at least something will be higher. Right? So, in India, we have the so-called caste called Brahmins. They typically were not powerful. They did not have access to the means uh to the to the means of violence, which is weapons and soldiers. But they had higher status because they were they were the the the preservers and transmitters of knowledge. So, they were considered even higher in status than the warriors who were actually the most powerful. And that's how it was. Now, now that we understand this, so we have in any society different classes of people. And you have it in today in India also. Today, they say that we have to annihilate caste, blah blah blah. Good, fantastic, annihilate caste. But then why do you have high what middle middle class and lower class and upper class and creamy layer and all that nonsense? You're creating new classes. You're creating the same old nonsense all over again. Right? But that's the way it is. Society is always stratified. Any functioning society is stratified. And a highly civilized society has even more stratification. Now, now that we understand this, why is love marriage taboo? It's not taboo. It's your parents won't object to you if you fall in love with a boy or a girl, depending on your gender, because there are two genders, depend depending on your gender, um they will not object to you falling in love and wanting to marry somebody of equal status, the same stratum of society, or maybe perhaps a higher stratum of society. Right? So, let's say you come from a family that earns, let's say, cumulatively 10 lakhs a month, which is probably what would be considered to be middle class. And uh if you fall in love with somebody who's who comes from a family that earns 1 lakh a month, your parents will be deeply upset. But if you fall in love with someone and you want to marry someone who comes from a similar background, 10 12 lakhs a month, 15 lakhs, 20 lakhs, they'll say, "Good good, beta." Or "Good, beti." And if you fall in love with somebody who's earning 10 crores a month, they'll say, "Be careful. You may get into trouble because, you know, there's a difference in class." That's how it goes. Okay? That's how it goes in all societies. That's how it has historically always gone. So, it's not a taboo. It's not against our culture. When Lord Krishna married very various ladies, he would have probably married ladies See, he was a very high status person, Lord Krishna. He was one of the world's greatest statesman. He was a great warrior. He was a king. For him, it was okay to marry anybody. Anybody. Ideally, somebody who's at the level of a king or a queen or a princess or something, but as a king, he could do whatever he want wanted. And that's how it went for him. And Arjun and so on. So, I I hope that explains why, you know, parents typically consider love marriage to be taboo. Because, see, when you're children, you don't understand class and status and all these things, then you typically, you know, love is blind. You may fall in love with someone who is the the son or a daughter of a billionaire or somebody who is the son or a daughter of a pauper. Okay, I have nothing against any class society. When I use the word pauper, I'm just using it in an illustrative sense, not in a pejorative sense, please. Somebody will start commenting now otherwise. So, that is the reason why you have these issues. Because children, when you are young, when you're 18, 19, 20, even 25, until you reach a certain age, you don't understand these things. And you then, you know, may get into situations which would be socially socially awkward for your parents and so on. So, that's the reason. Feels strong man says, "In terms of early city building, why were the Americans hell-bent on constructing new cities like Chicago or other cities in the West Coast specifically in the grid layout? Did they draw inspiration from cities like Paris? Why do our Indian cities that existed for 2000 that existed for 2000 years still not have a grid layout despite being better, in my opinion? Why did the Americans build their cities along a grid layout? Because it makes sense. It leads to better city planning, town planning. You know, it's easy to reach any part of the city just using a grid grid system. It just makes sense. It's it's a superior way of planning a city. That's why they constructed the cities when they See, what the Americans did is that they conquered an entire continent of swept aside the natives, wiped them out, genocided them. And this entire new land that they had, they could create any city they wanted in any way they wanted. So, they went about creating cities in the best way possible because they had this land that the gods had given them or their god had given them. And they could start from a blank slate. They did not have the legacy of cities that were like 2000 years old. And then, what do we do with this? It's already constructed in in a certain way. No, they could build from scratch. That's why they started with the best possible system, which is the grid system. Right? I'm not sure if they were inspired by cities from cities like Paris or whatever. See, Paris, was it constructed from on a grid system? It was not. If you go back a thousand years, Paris was a town, a little small town with a fortress on the banks of the Seine. Then it just emerged organically from there. Today it is slightly more organized, definitely. London also, if you look at old London before the great fire of whatever year it was, it was a disaster of a city, horribly unplanned. But then a miraculous fire happened in London, and then they were able to rebuild the city from scratch. Huh? So, the Americans, they built the cities using the grid system because it just made sense. Now, the question is about India. Why do our Indian cities that have existed for 2000 years not have a grid layout? Let's go to the map, yes? Let's go to the map. I agree with you that if you look at various modern Indian cities, which I will not go to otherwise it will create controversies, they are horribly unplanned. So, I will not talk about any modern Indian city. Now, let's Google something. Hm? Let's Google Dholavira. Dholavira is over here. Look, zoom out. It's in the eye of Gujarat. Over here. Let's zoom in. Zoom in. Zoom in. Zoom in. Let's see the satellite image. Dholavira. Harappan era, you know, archaeological site. So, this is not that. This is some alleged museum here. Look at this. This is a museum, apparently. These are the Indian standards of today. But look at the Indian standards of old times. There's a very little amount of the city that's still visible. But if you look at the layout, it's a god damned grid layout. Hm? This city is how old? 5000 plus years old? Yes? If you go to Lothal, if you go to Harappa, if you go to Mohenjo-Daro, if you go to Rakhigarhi, if you go to Kalibangan, if you go to all these ancient cities which are more than 5000 years old, they are all laid out in a grid structure. Yes? And then, there's something more interesting. In the Gulf of Khambat, okay, this place is called the Gulf of Khambat. There's this town called Khambat, which used to be a great port in the past. Now, this entire Gulf is silted, so the port is unusable. But in the Gulf of Khambat, there there is this cluster of sunken cities that are more than 10,000 years old. And if you see the sonar images, okay? I'm not sure they're even available now on the internet, but if you look at the way those cities are laid out, they are laid out in a grid grid structure, more than 10,000 years old. If you look if you go to Dwarka, it is so the old city of Dwarka is sunken along the coast somewhere, and that's why they had to rebuild a new city. And that old city of Dwarka, which is underwater, which is at least 8000 years old, that is also laid out in a grid structure. But if you look at modern Indian cities, they are laid out in a completely haphazard structure because those are the post-1947 standards of India. Abysmally low standards of India. That's the standards your politicians and leaders have and your town planners and bureaucrats have. Okay? So, that's how our standards have declined. Ayush Singh says, "What is this term Sinosphere? What does it mean? Why are Japan and South and Korea considered to be part of the Sinosphere? Uh because um these these cultures, these these countries, let's say, they received Buddhism from China, which is an Indian culture, which is an Indian export. Uh apart from influencing the language of East Asia, to what extent was China influential? And please draw a comparison between that and the influence that India has, okay? Sinosphere. The Sinosphere, just like Indosphere, means uh the the region that has been the geographical the geographic region that has historically been influenced strongly by China. That's the Sinosphere. So, which are the regions that are part of the Sinosphere? Vietnam is there. Um uh Korea and Japan. Is part of the of the Sinosphere. And what else do we have? Uh today you could say Singapore to some extent is part of the Sinosphere because there are so many Chinese who kind of dominate Singapore. And also Mongolia because half of Mongolia is under Chinese occupation and so on. So, that's the Sinosphere. Now, the question is why are Japan and Korea considered to be part of the Sinosphere? Japan received Buddhism, an Indian culture, from China. But that's Indian culture. That's not Chinese. And the same goes for Korea itself. So, why are Japan and Korea part of the Sinosphere? Considered to be part of the Sinosphere? See, the Chinese script of writing, it was transmitted to Japan and Korea. And the Japanese, if you look at the Japanese script, it is derived from the Chinese script. If you look at the Korean script of writing, let's let's Google it, right? Quickly. We'll we'll take a look at that. Okay. So, first let's see the Chinese script. Chinese script. So, this is what the Chinese script looks like. Okay? This is Chinese writing. We are we are all familiar with what it looks like. Now, let's look at the Japanese script. Japanese script. So, once again, as you can see, it's very similar to the Chinese script. Look I mean, we don't know how to read this, but you can see how similar it is. Let's look at the Korean script. Hangul. So, once again, as you can see, it is very strongly influenced by the Chinese script. So, there you have clear influence from China, unquestionably clear influence. Then if you look at um the the then there is the fact that China did not merely export only Buddhism and Indian culture to China and Japan and Korea, they also exported Confucianism and Taoism to Japan and Korea. The Chinese had this imperial system that strongly influenced the Japanese imperial system and the Korean administrative and and uh you know, kingly system. Korea was never an empire, it's too small, but they had kingdoms which were influenced by Chinese by the Chinese imperial system. The Chinese have this administrative system, the Chinese ancient version of the IAS, let's say, okay? Far superior. Uh which strongly affected uh which strongly influenced the way the Japanese imperial bureaucracy was and the way the the Korean uh kingdoms' bureaucracy and administrative administrative structure was like. So, there once again you have this. The fact that the Chinese eat with chopsticks, I think it's Chinese export. We I think I think we all understand that. The Japanese use that, the Koreans use that, the Vietnamese use that. The Vietnamese history has also been similarly influenced by China. Uh so, a lot of what China has exported has been Indian culture into Japan, into Korea, into Vietnam, etc. But the Chinese claim that Buddhism is is now a Chinese religion. It's been in China for 2000 years. And the Chinese have adopted it in uh and and and adapted it to the Chinese way of life and so on. So, it's now a Chinese religion. That's what they say. Well, okay, we can agree or disagree, that's that's a different story, but these are the ways in which China has influenced uh Japan Japan Korea and Vietnam. So it's not just the Indian export, but the entire Chinese way of life and stuff that has that has influenced these parts of the world and that's why they are part of the Sinosphere. Now even Mongolia is being influenced by that to some extent. Tibet is now anyway it's been annexed by China. So the Chinese language and whatever else will be imposed on the Tibetans and so on. A comparison with what the influence in India has. The influence that India has on Japan on Korea Mongolia it's indirect influence. Whatever Indian culture which is immense amount of Indian culture which were absorbed by Japan and Korea, they were all they all came through China. So there's a strong Chinese flavor also to it. For example there is the concept of Dhyana. Dhyana meditation Dhyana practices and all that. The Chinese called it Chan. Okay, their pronunciation of Dhyana was Chan and that when when it went to Japan the Japanese further changed it to Zen. So they have something called Zen Buddhism which is nothing but Dhyana, right? So so you can see that there is clear unmistakable Indian influence in Japan and Korea. In Korea also similar things. If you look at the the deities that the Japanese worship, the Buddhist deities most of these are Indian Hindu deities actually. Beyond the Buddha himself you have all the other Hindu deities like Saraswati like Ganapati like Shiva like Kubera and so on. All these Indian gods and demigods like Yakshas like Kubera, these are all part of the deities that the Japanese worship which are not Buddhist deities but Hindu deities. In Buddhism you're supposed to worship the Buddha. You're not even supposed to worship the Buddha actually, but you know that's how things have changed. And the Japanese called Saraswati Benzaiten. They called they call Ganesh Kangiten and so on. So the Indian influence is secondary influence. It's it's indirect influence, but even then it's very strong influence. Nirvana Shanks says, "Why did the Western Roman Empire fall in the 5th century AD despite maintaining advanced technology infrastructure and a large military for centuries, whereas the Eastern Roman Empire or the Byzantine Empire survived for nearly a millennium more under similar pressures?" So the the Western Roman Empire had advanced technology infrastructure and a large military for centuries and yet it crumbled. Well, India had advanced technology infrastructure and a large military and yet we fell to the Turkic invasions. What was the reason? We were fragmented and we had poor leadership. Even if we had good leaders they were not powerful enough because the country was fragmented. Similarly, when it comes to the Roman Empire we had similar situations, right? So what are the factors that caused the collapse eventual collapse of the Western Empire? First of all political instability. That's one of the key things you need to have. Political stability is is key to the survival of an empire. So the Western Roman Empire it faced frequent leadership changes. Frequent rapid revolving door leadership changes. One emperor comes and another one goes. This is assassination or war or thrown and another one comes in and so on, right? So you had this severe political instability and what this caused what what was the effect of this political instability? The effect was that the real power it moved from the emperors to military commanders. And this led to a fragmentation of the authority in Rome. So there is no clear authority. There is hidden authority like the dictators of Pakistan, the military dictators of Pakistan and the emperor becomes like the prime minister of Pakistan. That sort of thing. Because of this you have all kinds of other problems that that creep into the administration into society. There is corruption. There is economic decay. You know, there is less attention paid to the things that keep society running in a good way. Right? There is loss of revenue. Um Different commanders fight each other in the armed forces. There is overextension of the armed forces. It's very difficult to fund large large armed forces. It's hard to maintain infrastructure. Even if you have infrastructure you can't you know do the upkeep of the infrastructure. Then because of all these things you have various provinces that fall to barbarian invasions. The Ostrogoths and the Visigoths and the Huns and whatnot, right? The Vandals and so on. Yeah, so these so-called barbarians they repeatedly breached the borders of Rome and the Roman you know the territory it slowly starts declining as it starts contracting. Um Another issue was that the Roman military eventually became over-reliant on mercenaries. What kind of mercenaries? Non-Roman mercenaries. Barbarian mercenaries. Visigoths Ostrogoths Ostrogoths Vandals and Huns and whatnot. And if you are reliant on these foreign mercenaries you have to eventually settle them in Rome and give them Roman territory. Who will that make unhappy? The Romans. Have you seen this somewhere before? So all these things they weakened Rome. They weakened Rome. They made the people more and more unhappy. This this illegal immigration, right? Because of this cities like Rome became overcrowded, unhappy, unhealthy. The food production decli- decreased because the barbarians did not know how to do agriculture, but they'd taken agricultural lands. Um so there is low food production. The technology disintegrates. There is constant infighting, constant warfare. Trade is disrupted. Hm? So these are the reasons why Rome collapsed eventually. Decline of standards. Decline of you know because they stopped caring about basic things. Why did the Eastern Empire the the the Byzantine Empire survive far longer? So first of all it was in a great location, okay? Very highly defensible location. The city Constantinople had massive walls and they had a massive military. They had water on three sides. Um That's just the city Constantinople, but they had a far better administration. They had a far more stable administration. They had a far more centralized administration. They maintained economic discipline, economic strength. They adapted better than the Western Roman Empire to shifting alliances to different geopolitical threats. They adapted diplomatically. They adapted economically. They adapted militarily, right? Um and they also had the advantage of geography. And obviously when the Byzantine Empire eventually fell they it fell from a from a direction that they had not expected which is a land-based invasion from Central Asia. The barbaric Turks, right? So these are the differences between the Eastern and the Western Roman Roman Empires and that explains why the Western Roman Empire disintegrated mainly because of all these policies that were bad for the empire because of declining standards and so on. And the East survived longer because of the reasons I just stated. Shub says, "What was the society like during the Vedic age in India?" It was very different from anything you have today. The society of our ancestors was very different from anything we have today during the Vedic age. Now where is What is this Vedic age? When did it happen is the first question we need to ask ourselves. If you read your textbooks most Indian textbooks. These days I hear that some textbooks have been changed a little bit. Maybe CBSE, maybe something else. Some changes have happened which is good. Thank you. But most textbooks in India still will tell you that the Vedic age was between 1500 BC to 1000 BC. After the Aryan no migration not invasion now. It's migration. That's that's nonsense. There was no Aryan invasion. There was no migration. The Aryans are us. We are the original Aryans. Us Indians, okay? Aryans were not some fictitious white race of people race of white people. Um So So the Vedic age age was not after 1500 BC. The Vedic age is closer to 6000 BC. And I have explained this so many times I will not explain it today. Uh so the Vedic age was closer to 6000 BC than to 1500 BC. And it was a completely pastoral era. A pastoral period of Indian history. What does this fantastic word pastoral mean? It means rural. India was a rural society at the time. India was a clan-based society. The population density was incredibly low. Compared to not just today, compared to the Saraswati Sindhu phase of Indian history. During the Saraswati Sindhu phase of our history our population in the Saraswati Sindhu region, the Sapta Sindhu region was probably around 5 million individuals. Which was the world's largest density of people anywhere in the world at that time. Today it's 1.4 billion people which is a whole different story. But during the Vedic age it would be have been a fraction of the population during the Saraswati Sindhu period of our history. So we had clan a clan-based society. And you had different clans who lived in different parts of India of northern and western India. Some lived in the Ganga Yamuna plains. Some lived in the Saraswati Sindhu plains Saraswati Sindhu valleys and so on. The society was completely rural. You had forts, fortresses which were like not like huge fortresses, small fortresses, more like the ring forts or whatever you would find in Europe or whatever, Uland etc. Sandbyborg So, that's the kind of society you had. And uh the currency, the major source of wealth was cows, cattle. The more cattle you had, the wealthier you were. Which explains why we did not eat cattle. You don't eat your currency notes, right? And because and that's why we also considered cattle to be, you know, uh whatever we consider them to be. So, the subcontinent was full of forests at that time. Today it is largely deforested. It was full of forests and it was very mysterious at the time. And uh the lifestyle was, like I said, pastoral. And it was a meat-eating lifestyle, which will make some people very unhappy. No, no, sir. No, Vedas are non-violent. What non-violence Vedas? Have you read the Rigveda? We were a warrior class of warrior society. And we were meat-eaters. And that's why we were winners. Today we've become a bunch of softies. Carb-maxing softies, right? So, uh that's what the society was like. It was a warrior society. Obviously you had agriculture. You had other classes in society, obviously. Uh but and and and the gods that were worshipped at the time were also very different. The greatest of gods was Indra. And at that time you did not use the word Shiva. You used the word Rudra. Om Namo Bhagavate Rudraya. Right? So, in the Rigveda, the I don't think there's any mention of the word Shiva. It's always Rudra who's mentioned in the Rigveda. And Rudra obviously Shiva. Eventually the name changes, right? Uh yeah, so that's kind of what society was like during the Vedic Age. Our ancestors were meat-eaters. I I know it will make some people very unhappy. Because we want to back-project our today's lifestyle onto our ancestors, which doesn't make any sense. We're talking about a period that is like 8,000 years ago, maybe even older than that. It was a different world at the time. Your ancestors were different than what you are. You people have changed. Today our standards have declined decreased dramatically. Okay. Amisha says, "Why did Roman emperors mostly adopt while European monarchs were obsessed with bloodlines?" Outstanding question. It's very interesting. Roman emperors typically adopted um individuals who they who they designated as the next emperor. But typically, even if you look at India, there was no there was very little adoption at all. It was all based on bloodlines. So, if I am the emperor, my son, one of my sons, typically the firstborn son, will become the next emperor. Otherwise, one of my more capable sons who I have designated that you're going to be the emperor, will become the next emperor. That's how it was. Uh generally it was based on primogeniture. Firstborn becomes the firstborn son becomes the next king or emperor. That's how it was. But the Romans, they had this um practice of adoption. So, why was this? It was pragmatic. It made sense. Um Roman society was merit-based society. It It didn't mean that other societies were not merit-based, but the Romans were very pragmatic. They understood that succession is very important. If we mess up succession, everything is over. So, we have to ensure that, you know, my family, my son, I'll make sure that they are rich and they're taken care of, but as far as the administration of the empire is concerned, I will ensure that the right person becomes the next emperor. So, Roman emperors would typically designate who the next emperor would be and they would adopt that person to become their their successor. There was this period of time called the Five Good Emperors or something. Let's Let's Google that. The Five Good Emperors. The five five good five or no? Five good emperors of Rome. Yes, Nerva, Trajan Hadrian, Antonius Antoninus Pius, and Marcus Aurelius. The Five Good Emperors, Britannica. Right? So, you had these five emperors and um you have successively adopted heirs only distantly related to the predecessor if at all. And then you have the Antonine emperors and so on. So, the Romans had this practice. It was a good practice. It ensured that the right emperor comes to power because see, like I've spoken about many times in this show, what makes or breaks an empire is the succession. Kingdom, empire, whatever, succession is the most important thing, the most critical thing. For example, when I discuss geopolitics, people ask me about Vladimir Putin. I say that Putin will be considered to be Putin the Great by history if he gets his succession right. If he gets the succession wrong when he moves on from power and the next person who will be in charge of Russia will be a weak person who will mess up everything mess everything up, then everything that Putin has worked so hard for will be washed down the toilet. Essentially. Right? Succession is the most important thing. You have so many examples in history where botched successions destroyed kingdoms, destroyed empires, and led to disastrous periods of centuries of misery. Sometimes the entire annihilation of an empire or a culture entirely. Botched succession. So, if you want to ensure the right person will succeed you, then the most practical, the most pragmatic way of doing it is by appointing a successor who is adopted by you. So, that's why the Romans did that. It made a lot of sense. The Baron Zemo says, "Was the conversion of Andean cultures to Christianity a process of spiritual erasure similar to what happened in India under colonialism?" We're talking about the Inca Empire in the Andes in South America. So, first of all, let's take a look at the geography before we discuss the matter. We're talking about the 1500s. The 1500s AD. And we're talking about South America here, the Andean cultures, which is western Sorry. Yeah, western Peru. Uh where is Yeah, somewhere here. Which Is this Machu Pic- This is Titicaca, yes. So, you had the Inca Empire in this region, which was destroyed by the Spaniards. Um And what the Spaniards did is that they very rapidly imposed Christianity by brutal force on the natives. On the Inca people of the region. And today a lot of the people who live in this region, even if they are of native uh heritage, native blood, most of them still Today they would practice Christianity. There are some elements of the original culture that still kind of survive, at least in in Peru, but most people have been forcibly converted to Christianity through brutal force. That's what the Spaniards did. So, is this similar? Is this process of spiritual erasure similar to what happened in India under colonialism? Look, let's not use the word colonialism. Let's Let's use the proper word, which is for the proper term, which is foreign occupation. You had two periods of foreign occupation of India. One is the Turkic occupation of India. And the second is the the European occupation of India or the British occupation of India. During the Turkic occupation of India, there was the sustained effort to destroy India's culture, to eradicate India's religion, and to impose by force a foreign religion on India, which was Islam. Right? Um and it succeeded to a small extent. Surprisingly, it did not really succeed. Um because even in 1947, just before the partition of India, when you still had a unified India under British occupation, you still had majority Hindu population in India. So, even after 1,000 years of occupation, after the beginning of the occupation, India did not convert. So, it did not work. They tried their best. At least the Turks they did. Afghanistan Gandhara, it almost entirely got converted. Uh in the late 1980s and 1990s, you still had maybe 100,000 non-Muslims in Afghanistan, Hindus and and Sikhs, right? And those are not Indians, they were Afghans. Like today we are Indians and we are not Afghans, right? But those were actual Afghans and who were the descendants of the original population that had resisted conversion. So, what the Turks attempted in India was similar to what the Spaniards did in what is now Peru. And also in Mexico, Tenochtitlan. But it failed to a large extent in India. India was super resilient. Then the British came in India. They also sought to do that. But they did not employ force. They were far more insidious. They changed the education system. They imposed the foreign education system on India and they made it such that unless you get educated through the through their education system, you will not get a job in India. So, it became a matter of survival to be educated through the Indian through the English education system and that system still persists today. After 1947, everything has been made worse. So, because of successive decades and and generations of deradication of of deracination, today India is possibly far more amenable to getting converted to foreign religions than it was even 40 years ago, even 50 years ago. Forget about 1947. Compared to 1980, Indians are far more likely to convert to a foreign religion today. And that process is is continuing. So, successive Indian governments have continued the same policies of of of deracinating Indians through the education system and so on. So, that process of cultural and spiritual erasure that the Spaniards attempted in in the what is now Peru, the Inca Empire, that similar something similar to that was tried by the Turks in India, succeeded to a small extent which eventually led to the partition of India because of British policies and agendas. But today, Indians are more likely to convert and and I think today you have industrial scale conversions that are right now being conducted in India by foreign forces and the Indian government is completely either oblivious to it or it is allowing this to happen for whatever reason. Amisha says, why how and why did humans start walking upright? What came first, large brains or bipedalism? So, we will assume for this discussion that humans, Homo sapiens, originated in Africa. There if there is new evidence that turns up eventually that maybe we originated somewhere else, we will change our opinion, okay? We should always be willing to adapt your worldview to new emerging information which is like legitimate information. Right now, we're going to assume that humans originated in Africa, Homo sapiens, Jebel Irhoud, North Africa, 400,000 years before today, let's say. Now, bipedalism comes way before Homo sapiens. I believe Australopithecus, one of the ancient hominin species, from about 4 million years before today, Australopithecus was the first probably to start walking in a bipedal manner, a bipedal gait. So, why did our distant ancestors from 4 5 6 7 million years before today, why did they start becoming bipedal? Why? They earlier used to crawl on all all fours like any typical mammal, like a dog, like a cat, like an elephant, like a giraffe or whatever. All are quadrupedal mammals, right? But so, why did our ancestors start walking on two feet or attempting to do that? See, today if you look at bears, you will see that bears are kind of capable of walking on two on two feet if they have to. They can stand up and look around. They can even walk on two feet, but they prefer to walk on four feet. So, so bears have that kind of adaptation. Dogs don't have it. Even the dog even the dogs and bears are very closely related. You can see their faces very similar, right? And bears, have you heard them have you heard them vocalize? They bark like dogs, bears, but a pretty booming bark, woof woof. Similarly, cats. Cats are also capable of standing up on two feet if they have to, but they prefer to be on four feet. So, why did this adaptation adaptation happen in humans? It's because the terrain of Africa changed. Not the terrain, but the the vegetation, the the flora of Africa changed. Where what used to be dense forests gradually gave way to grasslands and savanna. And when you no longer have this thick canopy of trees all the way god knows how many meters, when you just have grasslands which are like a couple of feet tall, then it makes sense to go up on two feet and look around, peer around and get gather more intelligence of about what's happening around you. And probably that is what led to this eventual adaptation adaptation that humans became kind of quasi bipedal. And we already had these digits, right? These opposing digits, the thumb which is an opposing digit which gave us this superb advantage that we could hold things in our hand, manipulate objects. So, when we started becoming bipedal, we also became capable of carrying things in our hands, tools for example, which gave us a tremendous right? So, I think that is what led to us becoming gradually over hundreds of thousands of years, millions of years, bipedal in nature. But if you look at the skull volume, the cranial volume of Australopithecus, it is very similar to today's chimpanzees and gorillas. First of all, let's see what Australopithecus would have looked like, okay? Australopithecus Australopithecus. So, yeah, this fine ancestor of ours, possibly ancestor or definitely relative of ours, that's what they looked like and their cranial capacity was similar to chimpanzees and gorillas of today. Then you have Homo erectus. Homo erectus which is more human-like, but still not modern human and even the the cranial capacity of Homo erectus was about the somewhat better than Australopithecus Australopithecus, but nothing similar nothing comparable to our cranial capability. And eventually you you have So, you have Homo habilis, Homo erectus and eventually Homo sapiens. So, what I'm trying to say is that the bipedal gait came first. The the the ability to walk on two feet came first and the expansion of the brain and cranial capacity came later because when you start walking on two feet, suddenly you can see so much more and your brain has to process so much more information. So, it makes sense to selectively adapt, you know, through natural selection for larger and larger brain capacity which is larger yeah, larger and larger skull capacity. So, so bipedalism came first several million years before larger brain sizes. The larger brain sizes were an adaptation which were forced upon us by the fact that we had become bipedal and we were having to process so much more information and data in real time. So, it made sense to sense to have larger brains to be able to do that in real time. Rishi says, how far east did the Sakas or the Scythians travel? Because of the Scythian style art of the upper Xiajiadian culture Xiajiadian culture suggests that they traveled as far east as the coast of the Pacific Ocean in eastern China. Okay. The Xiajiadian culture, it is located north west of of Korea, present-day Korea. Let's let's Google this Xiajiadian culture. And they have artwork that is very swastika-like at times. So, Xiajiadian Xiajiadian culture. Culture, all right, Xiajiadian. Upper Xiajiadian culture. If you look at the images, you will see that it's north west of present-day Korea. And as you can see, it's far far in the east of China, right? Present-day China. Scythia was Central Asia. So, as you can see, that's it's far away from what is traditionally called Scythia. But if you look at their art, you can see the swastika-like shapes. And if you look at other things, it's it's very similar to the kind of artifacts and culture that the Scythians had, the Sakas. And the Sakas were an ancient Indo-Iranian people in in ancient Indic people who probably were descendants of some of the Indians who had been exiled after the Battle of the Ten Kings and who settled in Central Asia for for a few millennia before reentering India about 2,300 or so years ago. So, Indians who left and then returned to India. And the Scythians were nomads, horse riders, slave traders. Oh, yes, Scythians were slave traders for sure. And they had absorbed cultures which were not ours. So, they were more relaxed with the with the cultural taboos like slavery which we did not practice. And they had the Scythians had also intermixed, interbred with various other peoples like the like the Indic peoples, like the more Europoid peoples and so on. So, the Scythians kind of looked different different from standard issue Indians and Persians. And the Scythians, how far east did they travel? Look, if you look at the Kushans, you could perhaps make an argument that the Kushans are the easternmost Scythians. But the Kushans had some characteristics that were different from the Scythians like they were not that nomadic. And yeah. Now, the question is we saw where the Shajadian culture was located northwest of Korea and their culture is very similar to their cultural artifacts that are found in the archaeological record are pretty similar to Scythian artifacts. At least they look like they're influenced by Scythian artifacts. So, does it mean that the Scythians had traveled all the way east to the northwest of Korea? I would say that maybe the truth is somewhere in between. If the Scythians were present in the Tarim Basin region and if you could consider the the Tokharians the Tushara people or the or the origin the ancestors of the Kushans to be the easternmost Scythians, then it's possible that the Shajadian people would have had contact with the Tushara people who were Scyth- kind of like Scythians. And maybe that contact, the cultural exchange and whatnot, it would have possibly led to the kind of Scythian-style art etc. that you find in the uh arti- uh in the archaeological artifacts left behind by the upper Shajadian people. So, I think it's a combination of two things. I don't think the Scythians themselves went all the way far uh to the northwest of Korea. Maybe it was because of the contact, cultural and other contacts between the Tusharas the Tokharians or or Kushans and the Shajadian people that gave rise to these uh the kind of art that they had. Ayush Singh says, "India for the longest ti- time was the richest civilization. What factors contributed to it becoming such a prosperous land? What was the economic model at the time? Was it export-driven, consumption-based, or anything that isn't prevalent today? What are the factors that contributed to India's prosperity? First of all, incredibly incredibly uh rich incredibly fertile land. Huge landmass. Subcontinent-size landmass. Um temperate and and good climate that can sustain humans. Not freezing weather that will kill people who are weak. Not horrifically horrifically hot climate that like Somalia or something where no one can survive. Decent climate. Good climate. Depending on where you are in the subcontinent. And very fertile soil. Which can sustain population of millions, today billions, right? There is that. Then you had um then you had Indian culture and civilization which was um which was very progressive, you could say. It It allowed all kinds of questioning. It was very technology-focused, which is why you had uh the urbanization and complete industrialization of India about 5, 6,000 years before today. That is one factor that that gave rise to you know, that led to the prosperity. Then you had the the fact that um our kings our emperors they had good strategies for enriching the country. For example, if you look at different empires, they had different uh they they solved like I said for different strategic problems. The Cholas, which are a much more recent empire, they controlled the maritime trade between between um the subcontinent and the east, which made them fabulously wealthy. The Kushan Empire and the Gupta Empire also, they controlled large parts of of Central Asia, which once again um gave them you know, gave them tremendous amounts of of uh of wealth in terms of revenue because of the trade which they controlled between India the subcontinent and the west, which is Europe and uh Mesopotamia and Egypt and so on through the land route as well as the sea route. Uh so the economy was to some extent export-based. Whatever the Europeans wanted Indian spices, Indian textiles uh whatever else they wanted, we exported to the Europeans and we got gold in exchange. Similarly with the people of Mesopotamia and the people of Egypt, we were trading. And uh so to that extent we were export-driven. To for all intents and purposes, we were consumption-driven. Our own society, which was so large, our own population, which was so large, was the consumer of whatever we produced. And we imported very little from the west. Maybe some luxury items like lapis lazuli or whatever we may have done, but mostly it was gold in exchange for uh for whatever the Europeans wanted, which was mainly spices. Um what was the economic model to Different periods of time you had different economic models. Sometimes you would have had uh free economy. Sometimes you would have a centrally controlled economy like during the Mauryan time the Ashokan time. Um the Kushan economy was to some extent centrally um organized, but it had different elements of different things. It was more of an export-import-driven and kind of a middleman-like economy to some extent and so on. So, different parts different periods of time you had different models. And they all worked as long as the administration is good and as long as the emperor or the imperial system knows what they're doing, it will work fine. So, different periods of time, different systems, different models, different approaches, different strategic approaches, different tactical approaches, but they all worked in their respective contexts. Feminist Slayer says, "What's the origin of slavery and was it practiced universally across societies or primarily within Abrahamic cultures?" And Sum- Sumit Aggarwal says, "Who invented slavery? Was it the Turks or the Europeans?" I would say that slavery has existed since before recorded history. I'm I would imagine slavery has always existed as long as humans existed. And it definitely is older than recorded history. The Turks and the Europeans, they simply were continuing traditions that were age-old, age-old traditions, extremely ancient traditions. Like I mentioned just a while ago, the Scythians one of their principal sources of revenue was the slave trade. The Scythians. I would say many of us in India would have some Scythian ancestry by now. Yeah, well, they they were into slave trade and they they they It was a very lucrative lucrative trade. So, um and the Scythians came before the Turks or the Europeans. The Scythians were around like 5,000 BC. Um at least 3,000 BC. So, what's the origin of slavery? The origin of slavery is the origin of humanity. See, the world has always been the kind of world that if you are weak, someone's going to take advantage of you. If you're going to If you're going to be weak, they're going to take your lunch, they're going to take your wallet, they're going to take your family, they'll take your land, they'll take everything. They'll take you as well. That's See, the human species is a very violent species. That's been our history. All major change in human history has happened through warfare. And with warfare there used to come slavery. So, the Turks and Europeans were simply continuing the old traditions. Nothing that they invented. Now, was it Was slavery practiced universally across societies or primarily within Abrahamic cultures? The Abrahamic cultures are recent, like 3,000 BC 3 3,000 years before today. 1,000 BC is where the Abrahamic culture starts. Give or take a couple of centuries, maybe, right? Slavery is way before It It It existed way before the Abrahamic cultures. Um so what's Where was this practiced? Was it practiced universally across the world? Look, let's look around. The Abrahamic cultures very slavish. They They were very fond of slavery. No question about it. The it was there during the Abrahamic times. If you look at Egyptian civilization, of course they had slaves. They practiced they practiced slavery. The Romans, of course they practiced slavery. The Greeks, oh yes, they very much practiced slavery. The Chinese, of course they had slaves. Various African African cultures, of course they had slavery. Um the United States was founded on genocide and slavery and theft of land. So, the United States, slavery yes. England, of course they had slavery. Around what? Around 1,000 AD at least minimum 10% of the people in England, they wore these copper collars, which they could not take off ever. Even after they died, they were buried with copper collars. Those were slaves. You had slavery. The Vikings they had slaves. All across Europe you had slaves. The Romani people were frequently enslaved and massacred. The Turks, of course they had slaves. The Arabs, of course they had slaves. The Chinese, of course they had slaves. The Greeks had slaves. Who Who is left? The Persians? Persians probably also had slaves. Probably. Who did not have slavery? We Indians did not have slavery. Now, if you ask Google, if you ask Wikipedia or whatever, they will say Indians also practiced slavery. Why? Because the word dasa means slave. The word dasa does not mean slave, it means servant. A servant is not a slave. If I say my name is Ram Das, does it mean I'm I'm Rama's slave? No, I'm Rama's servant. Right? But there are these scholars. Well, let's Google. Let's Google some scholarly works, shall we? Um slavery in ancient India ancient India India uh Pramod Pramod Kumar or something Pramod something UGC some See, UGC is a huge problem. UGC Pramod Kumar Pramod Kumar 1 second. The quality of this this lit of this research that comes out of Indian universities is horrific. Look at the quality of this research. Who is this imbecile Pramod Kumar? Slavery in ancient India Shudra slavery rights of slaves Look. Standard missionary atrocity literature. Indians are the most slave-minded people today. Indo-Aryans settled in northwest Who is this utter imbecile Pramod Kumar? This is the problem. Indians are so mentally colonized. Indians have this gigantic inferiority complex. And the quality of research that comes out of India's universities, it is abysmal. And the government of India instead of reforming this, they're encouraging this further. Anyway, my point is slavery never existed in Indian culture in Indian civilization. It existed everywhere else. And that's the deal. Okay. Uh Amisha says, "Why didn't Alexander the Great go west and conquer Rome? Why did he focus on going east all the way to India?" Well, multiple reasons. First of all, Rome We saw the map will I'll not open the map once again. Rome is west of Greece across the Adriatic. But, at that time during Alexander's time, Rome was the struggling little city. They did not even have control over even half of Italy present-day Italy. It was a struggling insignificant uh obscure little city. No one cared. There was no wealth there. There was nothing to There was nothing of any of any value in Rome. And west of Greece were the lands of the barbarians. The Europeans were essentially what? Wearing animal skins and eating raw meat at the time. The Greeks were the civilized Europeans, if you could call them European, right? So, that's one reason. There was nothing of value in Rome. Why go west? What's the point? Secondly Alexander's father Philip Philip of Macedon was a great man. And his great uh ambition was to conquer Persia and take revenge for ancient Persian humiliation of Greece. So, Philip of Macedon had already made plans, raised an army, done all the preparation for an invasion of Persia, which is east of Greece. Persia was the old enemy. Persia always fought the Greeks and the Romans and always went west. They never fought India. So, the Greeks wanted to take revenge on the Persians. Alexander's father Philip wanted to take revenge on Persia. And obviously cover himself in glory personal glory. But, Philip mysteriously got assassinated in front of Alexander and his and his mom. Okay? And then Alexander at the at the age of 16 or something becomes the king of of Macedon Macedonia. So, he takes this forward. He takes his father's plan forward. That okay, my dad is dead. I will go ahead and conquer Persia. And Alexander's tutor was Aristotle. So, Aristotle was requested by Philip to tutor Alexander. And he had taught taught Alexander told Alexander about the riches of India and India is the greatest of the eastern civilizations and so so and so forth. So, Alexander dreamed of going to the ends of the world and conquering India. And And Alexander had this demon inside him. He had to prove to himself and to the rest of the world that he was greater than his father. He had this rivalry with his father even after his father was dead. So, that's why he decided that he will go west to eastwards and conquer Persia and then India. So, he was able to conquer Persia. On the way, he was able to conquer Egypt as well. And he did he did all kinds of atrocities on the way. That's a different story. And then he reached the outskirts of India and there was a disaster. So, that's the reason why Alexander focused on going eastwards instead of westwards. Because See, first of all because Persia defeating Persia represented revenge it represented glory. But, Persia was also fabulously wealthy. And after Alexander defeated Persia, he took all the gold all the wealth all the silver everything of value out of Persia and beggarized Persia. And he intended to do the the same thing with India as well. Didn't quite work out that way. Rushab Shah says, "Why did it take so long for the US to capture Osama bin Laden? Why does the US forgive Pakistan even though bin Laden was found there?" Okay, we'll treat this as a historical question because it's about 25 years ago, so kind of historical. Uh why did the US take so long to capture bin Laden? Maybe they did not want to capture him. Maybe maybe they wanted to capture him at a later point in time when it was more appropriate more opportune time to do that. Yeah? You always need periodic times of success and victory. So, keep that for later. We already won um you know, we already uh conquered Afghanistan. So, let Osama go now and after a decade we'll capture him. Or whatever. We never we never saw any evidence of the capture and and killing of Osama, but that's what we are asked to believe. So, um that's one reason. I don't really know the details because these are all still classified matters. Now, why does the why does the US keep on forgiving Pakistan? Pakistan is an is an American asset. They do what the Americans tell them. Sometimes they do some naughty stuff, but it's okay. As long as the asset is valuable and useful, Pakistan will be on good ground. Yeah, so we So, Osama bin Laden was found in Pakistan. Apparently, he was found right outside the Pakistani military academy in Kakul. Or wherever it was. Abot- What? Abbottabad. Right outside the Pakistani military academy. And yet no action is taken against Pakistan. Very strange, isn't it? Very mysterious. Let me Shall I? Why not? You can ask this question about the US, right? Why does the US keep forgiving Pakistan? You know, Israel Israel has this track record of going after anybody who has killed a Jew or hurt Jewish interests. When there was the Munich Olympics massacre Munich Olympic massacre, the Mossad went after each and every perpetrator of the of the massacre and eliminated each and every one of them. They went after the Nazis for decades after the Second World War was over and took out Nazis from various parts of the world. They brought Eichmann back from Argentina and hanged him. Yeah, we know that. So, why hasn't the why hasn't the Mossad gone after Lashkar-e-Taiba? Who did 26/11? You have to ask questions. Right? You should. Amisha says, "How do you How would you Who would you define as Arabic people? Are are Palestinians, Egyptians, Syrians, Lebanese, Moroccans are all these people considered to be Arabs or only people from the Gulf are considered to be true Arabs?" I think there's no real definition today. All these people speak the Arabic language and they're part of the Arabic world or Islamic world. If you ask an Egyptian person today, they do consider themselves to be Arabs. They consider themselves to be part of the Arabic world. So, from their perspective, they're Arabs. I suppose from the perspective of the people of Tunisia or Morocco they may not consider themselves to be Arabs. They may consider themselves to be Berbers. And the word Berber is the Arabic word for barbarian, by the way. Yeah, so that's a very nasty word, but that's the word they use for themselves today, the people of North Africa. Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria So, people the people of North Africa, barring Egypt, probably would not consider themselves to be Arabs. They perhaps the Libyans consider themselves to be Arabs. But, if when it comes to Egypt, Syria I'm sure most civilized I mean Sorry, most educated Syrians don't consider themselves to be Arabs because the Syrians have never been Arabs. They are an occupied and and uh subjugated people. The uh Syrians. Lebanon, they were never really Arabs, but today they speak Arabic. So, it all depends on how you see things. From my perspective, uh the Arabic people are the people who live in the Arabian Peninsula. Which is Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar Bahrain perhaps Yemen perhaps you could uh and and the UAE etc. Yeah? I don't consider the Iraqi people to be Arabs. They are the descendants of the Mesopotamians. The Assyrians and the Akkadians and the Sumerians and so on. But, today they would consider themselves to be Arabs. So, it's it's kind of mixed bag. If you are a purist, you would say that the only the people of the Arabian Peninsula are are Arabs. But if you look at it from linguistic and etc. perspective, then there's so many more Arabs. Okay, there's many more questions, but we are about to reach the 2-hour mark. Um what should I do? Okay. Tanmay Deshpande says the philosopher Euhemerus suggested that gods like Zeus might actually have been deified rulers from the past. What if Zeus was once a powerful king whose deeds were magnified in religion? Zeus's attributes, supreme authority, control over the sky and thunder call real-world monarchs who claimed divine right. Also, his name shares roots with Dyaus Pitṛ. The Vedic sky father god as we know. In my opinion, I feel the same for our history and philosophy as well regarding Shri Ram, Shri Krishna, etc. What are my thoughts? So look, many gods are deified kings of the past. Shri Ram, Shri Krishna, we know are historical figures. I mean, the Europeans would laugh would say we are with a joke, but no. Shri Krishna, Shri Ram are historical figures from our history. And they they have been deified as gods. And they are considered to be considered to be avatars of of Vishnu, right? What about Indra? Isn't it possible that Indra, who is a Vedic god, the the the the most powerful of the Vedic gods, it's possible he may have also have been a king in the past. Long before the Vedic age, maybe a thousand years before the Vedic age, maybe 2,000 years before the Vedic age. Maybe it's an ancient ancestor king who did such incredible feats that he was then deified and turned into a god. It's very much possible. When it comes to Zeus, he is um the the god of thunder, right? The god of the thunderbolt. That is nothing but Indra. Zeus is the Greek version of Indra, but the name comes from Dyaus Pitṛ. Dyaus Pitṛ, Zeus Pater, Jupiter. And what's the weapon? The thunderbolt and the hammer Mjolnir. Oh, that's the that's Thor. Again, the same god. So Zeus, his two weapons are the thunderbolt and the hammer. Indra has a single weapon called the Vajra, which is a hammer as well as a thunderbolt. And Indra, if you look at his story, he defeats a gigantic evil serpent or dragon or sea monster called Vritra, right? And he smites Vritra with his Vajra. So if you look at Zeus, he defeats a great sea monster with his thunderbolt. Jupiter defeats another sea sea monster with a thunderbolt. So does So does Thor. It's the same god all over again. So when it comes to Zeus, they've taken the attributes of Indra, but they've taken the name of Dyaus Pitṛ. And that's the deal. So it's possible it it would have been a deified king. It's it's very possible, entirely possible. Okay. Let's take some questions now from the live chat because I still have more questions I could have taken, but I'll take a few questions for the next few minutes from the live chat. In case you have questions, please do ask in the live chat. I'll take a few right now. Uh is he reading live questions? Yes, sir, I am reading live questions. Atif Hussain says Zeus is Kubera. Kubera is the king of the Yakshas. The Yakshas are guardian deities. They guard treasures. And they perform some other uh functions as well in the divine world. But Zeus is not Kubera. Zeus is the personification of Lord Indra with the name of Lord Indra's father, which is Dyaus Pitṛ. Okay, um um um um um um Rajarshi Gon says, "Were North, South, Northeast Indians followers of Vedas and Sanatan? If yes, how did they develop such distinct languages? Will they Why did they diverge? Or is it the other way around? Were they unified later? They were unified later. Okay? The Vedic culture, it it was associated with the Bharatas, with the Bharata clan, the clan of king Divodasa and his son king Sudas. King Sudas was a great man. He stood alone against a coalition, a confederation of more than 10 clans who came together to fight him. And he defeated them all with the help of Lord Indra. And then in victory, the first thing after victory is he expelled all those who stand stood against him. He expelled them out of India. They went into permanent exile. And they gave rise to the Indo-European languages in west of India. And then whoever was left in India, he said, "Okay, the deed is done. We have I have won. But now you're all welcome to join me. And I have my set of gods, Indra and so on and so forth. And we uh give offerings to our gods through the medium of Agni, who's also the who's also a god, a messenger of the gods. And he said that you all can also join in the Yagna. And your gods are also welcome at the at the at the in the Yagna. So when we offer ghee and whatever else to Agni as an offering to Indra, etc., we are also going to offer it to your gods. We are all together now. And that's how everybody came together. That was the first grand unification of India. Yeah? That's the origin of Indian civilization. So originally, you would have had lots of different belief systems and all that in India. But eventually, because of the victory of King Sudas, everything was unified slowly, gradually, etc. All right. Okay. Thomas says, "Can we consider the Kushans to be Can we consider the Kushans and the Sakas to be Indians?" See, today I'll I'll first take the today's question, then the question of the time period you're referring to. Today, a lot of people, if not the majority of people in northern and western India, including Gandhara, including Pakistan, including Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, I don't know about Maharashtra, but at least western and northern India, Punjab, Haryana, etc., Kashmir, all these people will have a little bit some extent some some fractional Greek ancestry, Kushan ancestry, Shaka ancestry, all that. So it's there in us. Now, when it comes to the Scythians, the Sakas, were they Indians? Well, they invaded India 2,300 roughly years ago. Okay? And why why did they have to invade India? Because they were fleeing from the Kushans. Why were they fleeing from the Kushans? Because the Kushans were fleeing from the Huns. That sort of thing. The Scythians were most likely descendants of one of the losing clans or multiple losing clans of the Battle of the 10 Kings, which happened God knows how many thousands thousands of years ago. So they were expelled out of India. They set up They set up kingdoms in Central Asia. And some of them became nomadic. Okay? And they they lived all across Central Asia, which was which was called Scythia. And about 2,300 years ago, they re-entered India. And when they re-entered India, they were able to conquer parts of India. They ruled over those parts of India. And was there any cultural clash? Was there any ethnic clash between the Scythians and the and the Indians? Nothing. They still had the same culture. Their languages were still similar. The Scythians were sun worshipers. Saurashtra, Saurashtra, the rashtra of the sun. Yeah? Who ruled over Saurashtra? The Mahakshatrapas, the Western Satraps, who were Scythians. They were the lords and protectors of the great Jyotirlinga of Somnath, and they controlled India's trade with Rome. So the Scythians, the the Sakas, they were of mixed ethnicity by the time they re-entered India. Some of them would have looked white also with blonde eyes blonde hair and blue eyes, but originally they were they were of Indian origin. Same goes for the Kushanas. Okay? The Kushanas, they were found in the Tarim Basin region, the Tarim River Basin region. If you go to that region today, you will find mummified remains of these their ancestors, the Tocharian people, the Tushara people, whose language was similar to Indian languages, whose script was kind of it went ka kha ga gha. Ka kha ga gha all that stuff, right? And their genetics were R1a, which is again very similar to our genetics. Even though some of them had blonde hair and red hair and blue eyes. So they were all of Indian ancestry. Okay. Now, next, what else? Lavanya says, "Any progress on the Dwarka Island excavation or any more sites of Saraswati Sindhu in Bharat?" I have absolutely no idea. I heard that there was some further uh marine archaeological uh expedition that happened recently in Dwarka, off the coast of of modern Dwarka, but I'm not sure what the outcome is. I don't know what they're trying to achieve. What whether there is any real progress or not, I have not seen any significant progress in the past 30 40 years. So I've no idea. No idea. Maybe something is happening, maybe I'm not informed, but I have seen nothing of any significance happening. So no, I don't know. Any more sites of Saraswati Sindhu in Bharat? We have thousands, but nothing is being done there. Yeah? Nothing is being done. Soumyajan asks a good question. What about the die dice game? In which Draupadi is to become dasa? dasi How could one become servant through gambling? You know, in every culture the culture may have norms, but there are some idiots who flout the norms, right? Why were the Kauravas deserving of being exterminated? Because they were adharmis. Because they treated women like that. And would you blame only the Kauravas for this? Would you not blame the great Yudhishthira for not having any self-control? He knew that his cousins, the Kauravas, were adharmis. And how can you bet your family members like they're objects? So, you see in every culture, you will have some idiots, some low-quality, low-standard people who will do bad things. Who was Kansa? He was the mama, the maternal uncle of Shri Krishna. But he was a monster, wasn't he? But these are the exceptions. They are not the norm. In our culture, these things are not acceptable. And that's why it was a good thing that the Kauravas were exterminated. Do you understand? There are always exceptions to the rule. You have to understand. You cannot because there is one exception somewhere that doesn't mean we are evil. We destroyed the Kauravas because they were evil. And that's how we upheld dharma. That's what our culture says. Please understand. There will always be exceptions. There will always be exceptions. Okay. Oh, it looks like there are some super chats. Good god, super chats. Please don't take any more super chats. I need to end the live stream, but I will finish the super chats for sure. Krishna says, "Why did USSR give up military bases in Beijing?" Because after the Sino-Soviet Soviet split the Chinese were no longer willing to accommodate these bases. You see? After the Ussuri River crashed clashes and after the Soviets decided to nuke China, which the Americans prevented them from doing. So, that's why they had to give it up. James says, "L'Afrique a toujours été pauvre. Ils vivaient dans des huttes de terre jusqu'à ce que les Français vous offrent la civilisation et les ampoules électriques." He's saying the Africans have always been poor. Mhm? They live in these little huts, you know, until the French came and offered them civilization and electricity and all that. Look, we don't really know the history of Africa. The history of Africa that we know has been written by the whites, by the Europeans, after they destroyed Africa. And Africa has been so badly impoverished that the overwhelming majority of African countries don't even have an archaeology department. So, we don't know what the past was like. So, the Europeans came in, they destroyed Africa, they pauperized Africa, they genocided Africa. They destroyed the indigenous culture. Uh let me show you something. Permettez-moi de vous montrer cette chose. Okay, Africa religious demographics map. Map. Let's take a look at the religious demographics of of Africa. Um Hinduism must be Mauritius. Do you have anything native left in Africa? This is the deal with Africa. Look at this. This is what they've done. They've destroyed all of African culture, everything that was indigenous to Africa. Totally destroyed it. They proceeded to write Africa's history to paint the Africans as barbarians. And they introduced these brutal foreign religions to Africa, which causes so much bloodshed in Africa. And then they say that you know what, we civilized Africa, we brought in electricity, we brought in whatever, but they look at the Africans, they're still not raising their standards. You caused this. You destroyed Africa. You installed dictators. You installed corrupt people to rule Africa, which perpetuates the colonization. And then you say that Africans aren't capable of ruling themselves. You starved Africans so that the IQ drops 30 points, and then you say that Africans are the lowest IQ people in the world. I can't do that. Please. And the same arguments have been used against the Native Americans in in North America. Anantha Subramanian says, "How to listen? We are discussing history today, not geopolitics. We will not discuss geopolitics today. Tomorrow Tomorrow is geopolitics day, okay? Uh favorite king or emperor? I don't have any one favorite king or emperor. Ashoka is one of my favorites. Okay, even though he was slightly naughty. Kanishka, definitely one of my favorites. Shri Chinggis Khan, definitely. Among the Europeans, maybe Julius Caesar, yeah. He was not a king, he wasn't not an emperor, but one of my favorites. And of course, probably um William the Bastard, who came to be known as William the Conqueror. And his son, Henry the First. And there's more. ICMB says, "Can you tell me the story about the Kosovo war?" Very convoluted. I can't explain right now. Very convoluted. Balkan history, my god. If I want to untangle that, it'll take me a minimum 1 hour. Balkan history, the roots of this nonsense goes back goes goes back to the Ottoman occupation. Even before that, you need to understand Slavic history. Very convoluted. I can't explain right now. Impossible. Impossible. I mean, I wish I could. It's very complicated. I apologize. Can't do it. Not when I'm ending the live stream. Uh Dilute H2O says, "We told the word Hindu originates from Persian Sindhu." The Persians used the word Hindu because the Persians had lost the ability to say the word say the say the sound sa. So, instead of sa, they used ha. So, Sindhu became Hindu. Sindhu is a is a is a Sanskrit word that means river, actually. Yeah? Uh Brihaspati Agam says, "Land between Himalayas and Samudra is Hindustan." Brihaspati would Agam would no pre-Islamic or pre-Turkic text would use the word Hindustan. Let me just try and corroborate what you're saying. Okay, let's go to Google. Brihaspati Agam Bri Brihaspati uh Agama Okay? Really? Wow. There are so many ancient texts. I am not aware of this at all. The word Himalayan Samarabhya Yavad Yavad Din Hindustanam Okay, what is the Brihaspati Agam? Brihaspati, is it a real thing? Agama Brihaspati Look, I don't even know what the Brihaspati Agam is. Okay, I'm not aware of this. Does it really exist, the Brihaspati Agama? What's the origin? Uh original text Do you have it? It's not definitely known. It has undergone revisions over time. Surviving versions may not be original. So, look, this is not this is not something that you can, you know, rely upon. This this claim that it it talks about Hindustan. No. From my little brief research that I did did over the past 60 seconds, it's clear that it's not something that is reliably attested. Okay? The point is the word Hindu it originates from Persia. The Persians looked upon their eastern neighbors, and the the land started from the river Sindhu. And the Persians could not say Sindhu, so they said Hindu. And that's how other the Arabs, who eventually conquered Persia, they started using that term as the term for the people. And then they said sthan. So, Hindustan. That's how the word Hindustan came into being. Deva has become new a new member. Thank you very much, Deva. Appreciate that. Ut Yo says, "History of Tuvans. They are classified as a Turkic based on Turkic based on language, but genetics show them closer to Mongols. What's your opinion? Do you know Shoigu?" Shoigu Gerasimov Shoigu is half the one. Look. Are they Turks? Are they Mongols? First of all, the Turks and the Mongols also share the same origin. Understand that. The Turks are descendants of the of the ethnic group called the Huns. The Huns are descendants are the same people as the Xiongnu, who emerged out of the region called Mongolia 2 and 1/2 thousand years ago. The Huns emerged out of that region, which is now called Mongolia. They displaced the Kushara people the Kushans westwards. The Kushans started fleeing the Huns. Because the Kushans started fleeing westwards, the Scythians who were living westwards, they started fleeing southwards and invaded India to flee the Kushans, who were more powerful. Then a couple of centuries later, the Kushans invaded India to flee the Huns, who were more powerful. The Huns eventually became the Turks. And the Huns and the Mongols were the same people. What's the Mongol language word for human? Hunnu. Hun. So the two ones are classified as Turkic but genetically they're the Mongols. It's the same thing. Same thing. Essentially. Amisha says, "How did the development of bipedalism influence the evolution of childbirth and infant dependency? Did walking upright make make childbirth more difficult?" I have absolutely no idea Amisha ji. I have no idea about this matter. I have never researched this. It's possible. Look, when you adopt a bipedal gait from a quadrupedal gait the your skeletal structure will change. Um your femur your your tibia they will elongate and change in shape. The pelvis changes in shape. Um the lumbar spine all of that changes. So maybe the pelvis becomes more narrow. I'm not I'm not sure how it works. Gorillas have far wider pelvises than humans. Uh it's possible that it may have influenced the evolution of childbirth and infant dependency. Maybe it could possibly have made childbirth more difficult but I am not 100% sure. It certainly would have changed the skeletal structure which can certainly affect the way things happen mechanically at least. But I haven't studied this in detail. So I won't be able to tell you right now off the off off the cuff whether it did indeed have this effect. Indian Soccer Player says, "Punjabi So Pakistani Punjabis boast about Arabic and Turkish Turkish ancestry but they speak Punjabi and have Punjabi last names. What are my thoughts?" Slave mindset. Right? Slave mindset. Inferiority complex. The Pakistanis they identify themselves based on what they are not or what they claim to be not. Their identity is that we are not Indians. We are not Hindus. That is their identity. So then what are you? Oh, maybe we are this maybe we are that. See? If you go to Turkey and you take away for example hypothetically completely, okay? This is a thought experiment. If you take out the religion from Turkey, what is left? Turkish culture Turkish Turkish language, right? They're still Turkish. If you go to Egypt and you take away the religion they kind of become Egyptians again. Right? Their language is still Arabic but they kind of become Egyptians. Uh if you go to Persia Iran you take away the religion suddenly they become Persians again. You go to Pakistan you take away the religion, what will happen to them? They'll become Hindus and Indians again, right? But they don't want to be that. That's why they claim all kinds of different ancestries. Sometimes Arabic sometimes Turkish. Now I don't know what else they can do. What Chinese now? What will you do? Neither the Arabs nor the Turks want you. They speak Punjabi and have Punjabi last names. It's it's slave mentality. It's it's sad to see. It's sad to see but it is what it is. Okay peoples, I am done with the questions for today. Thank you very much for all the questions. I really appreciate all the questions you asked and it was great fun fielding all the questions. Thank you very Oh, there's one more super chat apparently. Uh please clip James. Africans would appreciate. Certainly, I will clip all the questions. Yeah, they will all come out on the channel in due time. So people, thank you so much for your questions. I really really enjoyed this. And tomorrow I look forward to seeing you and doing a geopolitics live stream super chat live stream. And yep, I'll see you tomorrow. Keep learning. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. And I shall see you tomorrow. Take care. Thank you very much. Until tomorrow. Bye-bye.