[music] Heat. Hey. Hey. Hey. [music] >> [music] >> Heat. Heat. [music] Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Show. This is episode 300, the history, the mysteries of history. Okay. Uh and I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments. I've selected a bunch of those questions. I will take as many of those questions as possible over the next couple of hours. So no super chat today just uh questions from the comments but let us see who all is there on the live stream. So who do we have? Mary Kane good to see you ma'am. Real Vadimir Putin demon crawler geopolitical dubet from indor good evening sir. MK hello Saksham Jotia Vinit Kapper uh Arya 314 good evening demon crawler once again Ashwini Sharma Shub Shy Gi Pratarana Namaste Mea Kotari hello General Subutai hello Shanks Dhwana Shanks a do I have an ear for David Bowie well never been really close to David Bow's music but I'm sure a couple of his songs I've heard Yes. All right. Nikita Anesthesia. Okay. Good to see you the summit. Thanks so much. Thank you so much. Uh Alan J Victor Namashkaram from Oman. Good to have you sir. Namaskarum. Uh Yash Yashnag Yash Nagar. Hello. Uh who else do we have? Karthik Prattab Singh. Hello Swami once again. Demon Crawler Davik Shrian. Namaste. Anandam S2825. Hello. MK Shv General Subutai Aayush Singh Panam Anand Pay Push K Namaskar Sujal 5270 Vinit Kapper Swami is here from Jaipur. Good to have you sir from Jaipur. Krishna of the Suries Netherlands always good to see you. Uh Jay Bonjour from Martinik France. Bonjour to you sir. Barat M Kulkarni uh from New York. [laughter] Okay. AJ Ajay Ajay Rana. Crazy brain. Good evening. Good to see you. Crazy brain. Good to see you. Uh Gopol says Niha Shangji sir. I think I'm acquiring a new Chinese name or something. Yes. Uh I I'm on the lookout for a Chinese name. We have a new ambassador to China who's been appointed. The new Indian ambassador to China. He has a a Chinese name in addition to his own Indian name. So it looks like you can acquire an an additional name. So I am on the lookout for a Chinese name for myself in case some of you have some uh recommendations. I'll take those. Da Lanya from Jaipur. Good evening. Namaste. Uh Amrit Singh Har Mahadev. Arismanticor. Swami says, "Have you watched young Frankenstein?" I may have watched it. Is it a black and white movie? Is it a funny movie? I may have seen it. [laughter] AB normal. Is that the one? I can think of some other things too. Yeah. Okay. I think I've seen that. The guy with the eyes. Yes. Okay. Nirvana Shanks once again. Da Lanya Sam the gamer. Good. Good morning. Real Madrir Ramji Omnayak and everyone else. Okay. I will be able I will I will stop now otherwise I'll be greeting you all day and all all night. Adil Ben good evening and everyone else. Okay. Okay. Let us uh uh Jatin Shukla has just came back from Jaipur dialogues. All right. Uh Vi very easier from NJ New Jersey. Well, good to have you sir. Good morning. Okay, let's get going with some questions. What questions do we have today? Um various questions. Yes, let's take the questions. What's the first question is by Rushab T. Who are the Drews people and what's their belief system? What similarities does the Drew's faith have with the Abrahamic religions? Why is it considered mysterious and secret where no one can convert or intermar? Is it true that the Drews religion has many similarities or some simil similarities with Zoroastrianism and Hinduism? Can the Drews be put in the same basket as Jazidis and Kurs or are they different? The Drews people. Who are these Drews people? So, there are a small uh religious group, Arabic speaking religious group that is found in West Asia in Jordan, Syria, parts of Israel, Lebanon as well. And the total number is approximately 1 million people. Okay. So if you look at the map it's in uh the these people they live in West Asia kind of you know similar region as the uh Kurs and the Yazidis. So the Yazidis are found in northern Iraq. Um and the U Drews people are found in Syria, Lebanon, uh Jordan, Israel, maybe maybe Iraq. I'm not sure about Iraq, but definitely western Asia, the eastern Mediterranean seabboard, that region. Okay. Small population about a million people. There are some Jews people in Venezuela as well, apparently in South America. Maybe a few a few tens of thousands, that sort of thing. So that that's where these people live, the Drews people. Okay. Uh they are an Arabic speaking people and their religion is a monotheistic religion and they say that the god they worship is the god that the Jews, Muslims and Christians worship, same god. So that means that this is an Abrahamic religion. A minor Abrahamic religion, one of the Abrahamic religions but a small number of people practice this religion. Uh let's let's uh find out how many people practice Judaism globally. Let's find out. Uh how many million will that be? Let me see how many Jews in Okay. In the world, how many uh what's the total Jewish population? Okay. 14 million. 15 14 15 million. That's that's the that's the global Jewish population. So the Drews are about 115th of that. Okay. So, pretty small population. So, now what are the characteristics of the religion? First of all, it like I said, it's a monotheistic religion. It's an Abrahamic religion. Their God is the same God as that of that of the Jews and Christians and Muslims. uh they believe in the the prophets that the Abrahamic people believe in uh Moses and uh Noah and Jesus and Muhammad and whoever else the the the Abrahamic prophets are Abraham obviously right uh and so on what else is there in the religion what what what what makes it unique so what makes their religion unique is that they don't believe in a day of judgment They don't believe in heaven or and hell. The Jews people they believe in reincarnation. What? Abrahamic religion, monotheistic religion, but they believe in reincarnation. Well, yes, they believe in reincarnation. Um, so that's that's what makes the religion unique. And they have their own um uh holy texts or something. I don't know what they called. Okay, you can look it up. uh I cannot remember foreign terminology uh Arabic terminology. So they have some some uh holy texts of their own minimal holy texts not like extensive documentation or literature uh and they don't uh intermar they they practice monogamy not polygamy that's another difference between their religion and the u and for example Islam so they they don't marry multiple wives um they don't uh convert out of the religion, you can't convert into their religion. That's not allowed. So let's say you are somebody who practices some other religion and you say, "Yeah, you know what? I want to convert to Drewism." Whatever. It's not allowed. You can't do that. So you can be Drews only if your parents were Drews that sort of thing. So it's a pretty insular kind of uh religion. Um it is said to have similarities with Zoroastrianism and Hinduism. The clearest similarity is that they believe in reincarnation. That is what the dharmic u religions or faiths or culture believes in, right? Reincarnation. So the the Jews believe in that. Uh but they believe that if if you are a male person, the moment you die, you are reincarnated immediately in a different body. And if you are male, then you will be reincarnated male only. And if you're a female, you will only be reincarnated as a female. So there's no cross-pollination of genders or whatever. In the dharmic uh system, you can be a male in one birth and a female in another lifetime, right? But in the Drews system, if you're male, you're male forever, no matter how many times you're reborn, that sort of thing. Um so that's about the Drews people. Um they have been persecuted historically at various points in time. uh in more recent day, recent years, they have been uh uh the target of massacres by ISIS, right? So the Drews have been treated by ISIS the same way that they treated the Yazidis. Not sure about the Kurs. So can the Drews be put in the same basket as the Yazidis and Kuds? Well, the Yazidis aren't an Abrahamic. Uh their their religion isn't Abrahamic. I'm not sure if they are considered to be Abrahamic. The Yazidis they do say that their religion is monotheistic Yazidi religion but clearly it has way more elements of Indian culture than the Drews religion. So the Yazidi religion is different and the Yazidi people also aren't Arabic. They may perhaps speak Arabic today because of circumstances but they are not an Arabic people. They are an Indo-Iranian people. The the Yazidis even the Kurds are Indo-Iranian. They speak a Persian or Iranian religion and the Kur they practice Islam standard Sunni Islam if I'm not mistaken and the Drews faith religion it's it's a descendant of a Shiite form of Islam right a pretty interesting and unique religion small Abrahamic religion descended from Shiite Islam Shia Islam um and they believe in reincarnation and they have some peculiarities that are absent in mainstream Islam or the other Abrahamic religions. So that's the Drews people. Pretty interesting um religion that they have. Um okay, I suppose that's the answer. All right, next. Rushabar once again says, "How did Russia retain the permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council after the USSR disintegrated? Didn't the US try to block Russia? [clears throat] They had an excellent opportunity in 1991 to remove Russia permanently and isolate it. So why did the US not grab it? Replacing communist China or Taiwan is a prime example of replacement. The Russians had a weak leader Boris Yelson. So why did the US step back? So here's what happened in the early '90s 199192. That's that's around the time when the USSR disintegrated. Okay. Gorbachev steps down. Yelson takes over. There is chaos in Moscow. Uh the White House of Moscow, the parliament building is is is bombarded. There's lawmakers stuck inside. Yelen on the streets. He climbs on top of a tank and shouts democracy, democracy, or whatever he shouts. Yeah, it was pretty young and much more sober at the time. And there's chaos across the length and the breadth of the USSR. And more than 10 republics, SSRs secede from the union from the union of Soviet Socialist Republics. So these are the uh Commonwealth of independent states, the Stans and so on so forth. The Baltic states, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and the Stans, Usbakistan, Tajakistan, Kajakistan, Kyrgystan, so on so forth so forth. So all these little little and large states seceded from the USSR and what was left? What was left was what is today Russia. Okay. So now the question for the United States was how do we deal with this potentially super chaotic situation? Why potentially super chaotic? because the USSR was a superpower and their assets were distributed among these various newly emerged nations in addition to a lot of most of the assets being in Russia. Now the assets that concerned the US were nuclear weapons. You had Soviet nuclear weapons in various various parts of the USSR and now many of these parts of the USSR were now independent. And even for these newly independent republics, those nuclear weapons were like hot potatoes. They did not want to have those. So they all get together, okay? The former Soviet republics, they all get together and they decide, you know what? Let's give all of this back to Russia and we will tell the world that Russia should should continue on in the U in the United Nations in place of the earthws and we are completely fine with that. So all the earthw wild Soviet republics, newly independent Soviet republics, they came together and they announced that we want Russia to be the continuation of the USSR in the context of the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council. So that was the will of the uh newly independent Soviet republics. Now you have the US. The US has just won a major victory, a victory that was decades in the making. They have defeated the USSR. They have disintegrated the USSR. And the US was now worried that what if there is proliferation of nuclear weapons. Usbakistan says I want to have 78 nukes. Tajakistan says I want to have 15. And what if there's chaos and and these all nations you know that power goes to their head and they start acting crazy. So the US also wanted a stable situation. So they supported the commonwealth of independent states and the transfer of the nuclear weapons whichever where wherever to the to the Russians. They the Americans even ensure that Ukraine transfer transfers its nukes to Russia and the US was perfectly okay with Russia continuing as the successor state of the USSR in the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council. Why? Why this? We understand we can we can understand that the US did not want proliferation of nuclear warheads. But why allow Russia to continue on in the UN security council? In the UN security council, you have special privileges. You see the post 1945 world order was a hierarchical order and there was a privileged bunch of nations. Five the P5 nations. the five nations that are permanent members of the UN security council which is the US, Russ, USSR, China, uh the UK and force. Now USSR was to be replaced with Russia. Why did the US allow this to happen? Because the US at the time believed that they were in complete control of the universe. They were now the lords and masters of the universe. Russia was this broken country with a devastated economy and a leader that was a US asset apparently Boris Yelson even Gorbachev most likely was a US asset in some way or the other right the US thought that we have them by by whatever hurts the most [laughter] so then let them continue and we got to control them completely so you have after the disintegration of the USSR you have Gorbachov appearing in a Pizza Hut commercial. So that's the kind of infiltration the Americans had achieved in the in the earthw wild USSR by that point in time that Gorbachov the former president of the USSR one of the two most powerful men on earth now appeared in a Pizza Hut commercial and you had the friendly with Clinton and so on. So the Americans thought we are in full control. Let them continue on in the UN security council. And if they did not allow Russia to continue in the UN security council that would create some kind of uh crisis in the UN security council because the original charter would no longer apply and all kinds of procedural issues and so on. So just to smooth things over the Americans said okay let it continue let the Russians continue as was one of the P5 nations and we we'll be able to deal with them. And as long as Yelson was there, Russia was was under American control. I mean, Russia was under control. Not directly under US control obviously, but under control. Things were under control. It's only when there's a transition from Jelson to Putin that then after a few years, the Americans started wondering what what on earth has happened here. Something has gone wrong. Putin isn't what we expected. But by that time, it was too late. Right? By the time it was too late to change things. So the Americans did not want to permanently isolate Russia. They wanted to infiltrate Russia. They wanted to take over Russia's resources. Um they wanted to destroy the Russian economy further. And for some time they kind of achieved that, right? Russia wasn't in chaos. There were the two church wars. First Chuchchin war was a disaster for Russia. Yelsen lost it for Russia. Um and yeah, so the Americans didn't want to isolate Russia. They want to remove Russia permanently. They wanted Russia to be a new US vasal, you know, the nation with the largest resources in the world. Why why isolated? Bring it integrated into it into the American western economy, right? That's what the Americans wanted. So in in hindsight, maybe it was not a very wise move, but at the at that time, it was the uniolar moment. It was a moment of euphoria. It was a moment of invincibility. I mean, apparent invincibility for the US. They were the now the the rulers of the universe, the masters of the universe. And that's why they were perfectly happy for this to happen. But today, well, after the Ukraine war started, the Ukrainians have been raising questions about whether the u whether allowing Russia to continue on as the successor state of the USSR as a P5 nation. Was that legal? Was that right? The Ukrainians have been raising questions about that, but that's like 35 years too late, right? So, okay, what's done is done. It's a done deal. It's a feta comp like they would say in French. Okay, next question. And the next question is by by it's by Rushab Tar once again. Okay, Rushab Tar is on a roll today. The question is if China invented gunpowder, why did it remain so backward compared to the modern artillery of the Europeans? Did the Chinese emperors make the same mistakes which Indian emperors made or were there other reasons why they did not really use gunpowder for military purposes or did they not think that this will be used against them in a different way okay so the question of gunpowder it's a pretty vexed question it's a pretty controversial question because there is significant evidence that actually it's India that invented gunpowder but the European scholars and Indian historians and so on they attributed they gave the credit to China first that the Chinese invented. So we will not get into the debate for the context and purpose of this question. Okay, most likely it was India that invented gunpowder but the credit isn't given. You ask chat GPT I suppose it will say no no China. You ask Google it will say no no China did it. Shall we do that? Let's do that before we uh Okay, let's do that before we actually address this question. Okay. Which civilization invented gunpowder? There we have it. See, so that's the they'll say China. So we will not go into that controversial question right now. But assuming that China was using gunpowder thousand years ago, which it was in that context, let's consider this. So China the see China was using there were periods of time after the Tang dynasty where there was conflict in China. after each imperial cycle there's a period of chaos in China and you sometimes have two or three dynasties that are competing for hgemony and so on so forth uh the song versus the whoever and so on so there were so about 1100 or so years ago we know that the Chinese were using gunpowder against each other okay they were using gunpowder um and Chinese uh emperors had salt peter they used to have they used to have the standardized production of salt peter and sulfur and so on which are components of of gunpowder and gunpowder weapons were used in pretty standardized ways. Uh the Chinese had these uh spears in which at the front you would have gunpowder and that would explode and it would emit shrapnel which essentially is the one of the oldest depictions of a firearm of a handheld firearm like you know like today you have rifles and so on that sort of thing that's a precursor precursor of handheld firearms and there were rockets that the Chinese used and uh you know bombs of various kinds and handheld weapons and projectiles and rockets means missiles and so on. The Chinese did use this in warfare. It's not like the Chinese did not use it in warfare but they use it against each other. Okay. And eventually once Chinese empires stabilized during an imperial cycle there would be no other challenger within China. And then the challengers would be those on the outskirts of China, those who lived in the steps, the Tatars, the Turk tribes, the Mongols and so on. Right? And generally, and these were nomadic peoples. These were nomadic peoples. And gunpowder wasn't relevant to defeating them. See, gunpowder in the ancient days, it was used in siege warfare. It was used in pitched battles where you have a battlefield on which you have two two armies that have come face to face and they said okay they decided okay today we're going to fight we're going to see who wins in that situation which is called a pitched battle gunpowder and and firearms and rockets and bombs and projectiles are relevant or if you have siege warfare where you have one uh where you have an army that has besieged a castle or a city and you're using projectiles and gunpowder, you know, projectiles and bombs and whatnot to try and break down the walls. In that situation, once again, gunpowder is relevant. But when you have a situation where you have horse riding uh archers who are coming at you on all directions, uh those older variations of gunpowder weapons were not were not relevant. So when it comes to the Chinese emperor empires fighting off uh the nomadic step tribes like the Tatars, the Turic tribes, the Mongols and etc. Gunpowder wasn't relevant. So because of that gunpowder usage continued but it never uh it was never iteratively improved in a in a rapid uh manner. Okay. So gunpowder was used uh in China during the Yuan dynasty and after the Yuan dynasty. Yuan the Yuan dynasty was a conquest dynasty. It was founded by Shri Chingghis Khan right? So it was a Mongol dynasty that ruled China for a while. Kubla Khan was their first great emperor of course but retrospectively it's Chingish Khan who was the first who was the founder and so on. After the Yuan dynasty, you have theQing dynasty, right? And once the once these dynasties take over the whole of China, they don't really they do not really feel the need to iteratively and rapidly improve their weapons and artillery and all that improve by by using it. And overall, you know, you use it, you find some defect in deficiency, you find some some scope for improvement and you make that improvement. Then again, you use it, then over time, you keep improving improving and that's how your weapons get better. That situation never arose in China. Now let's consider Europe. At some point in time then powder reaches Europe. And in Europe you had a totally different situation. Europe was this mass of small states, nation states, kingdoms, duchies, principalities and so on who are constantly fighting each other. The European tribal wars. The the region of Europe is a very tribalistic region. all kinds of petty conflicts they always fighting each other. So in the middle ages etc there was constant warfare in Europe constant warfare petty warfare larger scale warfare but constant warfare and because of that there was a tremendous incentive in Europe for weapons to be iteratively rapidly improved because whoever made even a small improvement had a qualitative and qualitative advantage over their adversaries. And when that happened, adversaries were also incentivized to very rapidly address the the the gap in capabilities. And that's why you had very rapid iterative improvement of artillery and so on and gunpowder weapons in Europe and eventually these were standardized and European engineers and scientists were also incentivized to uh get involved in this which obviously once you have engineers and scientists getting involved in this uh things improve rapidly. So on the one one hand in Europe you have constant improvement over years over decades over centuries. In China you had stagnation because there was no need to there was no urgent pressing need to keep improving the weapons. So eventually by the 16 17 1800s there was a situation where the Chinese had to start importing superior European weapons right and eventually obviously because by the time they had fallen behind in their capabilities and technology so the it's like the Chinese uh thousand years before today they were using gunpowder the Europeans had no idea what gunpowder was but by the 1800s the Europeans were far ahead of the Chinese so it's it it's a process that took 800 900 years right it did not happen over a couple of weeks So it's it's a process that took took time and over time everything changes right I mean India invented mathematics but look at where India is today compared to the west right where does all the research and u all that happen today where do all the advancements happen they happen in the west India came up with all of these concepts that are the backbone of modern mathematics and science but today India is nowhere right so things change over time but that process takes centuries. Okay. So you can't really blame the Chinese for this. Their their situation was different. Their their uh the challenges they faced were different. They were very very different from the challenges the Europeans faced. That's why the Europeans because of the ch those challenges improve very rapidly. Rishabad Gowami says please don't get angry. Mhm. Don't get angry. [laughter] I have a sensitive question. Okay. What's your sensitive question? If our ancient Gurugul and temple university systems were so intellectually superior, why did they fail to produce the industrial and military scale needed to stop the colonial factory system? Was the failure in our minds or just our inability to scale the brilliance to the masses? So we just now discussed why China who is said to have invented gunpowder why did China the supposed inventor of gunpowder eventually fall behind the Europeans in firearms and artillery significantly behind. Similarly, India is the nation that essentially it's it's the civilization that invented higher education, systematic education, philosophy, science, the scientific method, mathematics, all of that through the gurugal system, through the temple university system, through the vishwa vidylaya system and so on. India is the pioneer and inventor of standardized education. Right? India gave this to the world and yet look at where today where India is today. India has one of the worst education systems in the world. You can keep harping on NEP 2020 or whatever the hell you want to harp on if you're the government of India, but it's trash. It's garbage. right now. Go back a couple of centuries, three centuries, and you had the the the Europeans who by the 1600s were intruding, introgressing into India, and they had their colonial colonial they were establishing, setting up the the the the um um you know the seeds of the colonial factory system and so on, right? So why did our gurugul and temple education system which was so allegedly intellectually superior why did it fail to keep up with the Europeans? That's the question Rishab is asking and Rishab is worried that I'll get angry. No, it's a good question. Well the answer is by the 1600s 1700s the temple education system and university education system was extinct. Especially the university education system it was completely extinct. India's universities which were very numerous in quantity many of them we don't even know what they were called anymore they are in ruins but we know a few the Chashila Nananda Odantaapuri Tilhara Shardit and so many more right so many more um Walabi and yeah we had so many of these universities all over the place these were all destroyed a thousand years ago and then India gradually came under Turk occupation and the Turks sought to eradicate at the roots India's culture. So they destroyed temples all across northern and western India, Eastern India as well. Southern India temples survived to some extent but northern India was ravaged. West India was ravaged. Even Eastern India was eventually ravaged. So if your universities are burned to the to ashes, the libraries are burned to ashes. the they are dismantled brick by brick. If your temples are destroyed, if your gurus, your teachers are beheaded, um how do you expect that system to still produce industrial and military scale needed to stop something that happens in the 1600s, 1700s, 1800s? How do you expect that? You understand chronologically the problem? The universities were destroyed around 1,00 or 1100 AD. The temples by 1500 AD in northern west and eastern India were mostly destroyed. India was under foreign occupation. India was under siege. India's culture, civilization and people were under siege. The Indian system no longer by the time functioned the way it was supposed to function. It was barely surviving. The whole civilization, the whole population was in survival mode. We were way down here in Masslo's hierarchy of needs. When you're way down here, survival mode in Masslo's hierarchy of needs, how can you achieve the higher order, you know, aspirations of of of human society? You can't. Do you understand? So that is what happened. So the Turks ravaged India, destroyed India. And when the Turks Turk empire started declining eventually that's when the Europeans this they they stepped in to fill the vacuum of power in various parts of India. Eventually the Marata Empire did rise and reclaim and and and and liberate India for a while from Turk occupation but then they too failed and that's when the English took over. So that is what happened. Please understand that there was no temple education system, university education system in 16,700, 1800. At some level lower education still continued until the n until the 1800s. So lower education in village temples etc continued until until the 1800s but not higher education. So lower education means teaching arithmetic and grammar and that sort of thing. 2 + 2= 4, 10 * 12 is equal to 120, 17 * 3 is whatever and so on. That sort of basic education was there. So that's what happened. You see Rushabare once again says what was the Spanish Armada and why was it sent? Why did the Spanish Armada fail and how Queen Elizabeth built the British fleet, the seeds of British naval power? How did it shape the eventual British colonization of the Americas in Asia and India? Could it be considered an inflection point in history as it gave rise to the Royal Navy, a navy that ruled across oceans? Okay. So, um the Spanish Armada, the Spanish Armada, um the Spanish Armada was from what [snorts] 1588 was it? Was it 1588? I think it was 1588 when you have um Elizabeth. Okay. So, let's understand the context. H [clears throat] we are talking about 1588 late 16th century. Queen Elizabeth has been in has been in power for some time. Britain is once again a Protestant nation. Now let's understand the context. Queen Elizabeth's father was King Henry VII. This is a fantastic guy. Okay, brilliant, very interesting guy. You can make a movie series, TV series about him. I'm sure there are. So the guy married six, seven, I don't know, five, six wives, beheaded half of them. Uh his first wife was Katherine of Aragon, Spanish. Um and her she produced one daughter that is married married to her. Then uh King Henry VII wanted a male child. So he had a male child with with one of his mistresses. But the male child died pretty young. I suppose he was king for a bit. Then he married Anne Bolain with Anne Bolain once again. He had a female child that's Elizabeth. Then he had an Molain dispatched and he married I think at least three more ladies. I forget the Katherine Par and whoever the names are not An of Cleaves. Yeah, there was a marriage with Anof Cleaves as well. German lady but it was Anel and so on so forth. Long story. So after Henry VIII died, see Henry VIII, okay, he was born Catholic. England was Catholic at the time, but he wanted to divorce his first wife uh Katherine of Aragon, but for that he needed the per the permission from the pope. A king needed the pope's permission to divorce uh his wife and the pope refused to give permission. So the king said, Henry the said that you know what, I renounce the Catholic Church. I'm going to set up my own church of England, the Anglican church. England is now going to be Protestant henceforth. And so he divorced uh Katherine of Aragon, married Anne Bolain um and had Elizabeth with with her. So after he dies for a while, his son is king I think if I'm not mistaken, but he dies young and then Mary the daughter of Katherine of Aragon becomes queen of England. Now Mary, Mary says Mary was the daughter of a Catholic queen and her father was also Catholic when Mary was born and her father divorced her mother and became Protestant to marry Anbolain. So Mary once she became queen she she undid whatever her father did and and made England Catholic again and then she went after you know she executed a reign of terror in England and and went after all the Protestants and that's why she was called a bloody Mary maybe some of it is propaganda or whatever but she's remembered as a very cruel king queen and she's remembered as bloody Mary but eventually Mary dies and Elizabeth becomes queen and she once again turns England in Protestant. So during Henry VII's time it's it's Catholicism then Protestantinism then Mary comes to power Catholicism again then Elizabeth comes to power protestantism again now the Spanish were Protestants uh sorry they were Catholics and they hated the Protestants so now let's understand the geopolitical situation by the 15 mid 1500s the Spanish were in possession of vast terri terries in the Americas. See 1492 Christopher Columbus announced that I have discovered India but turned out to be a new continent. Okay, the Americas and uh by the 15 mid 1500s the the Spanish had taken over Cuba uh present day Dominican Republica, Central America, parts of South America, Venezuela and so on. They already had this big big big empire, imperial possessions in the Americas and they had the they had the encoma system of slavery and genocide and all that and they were extracting tremendous amounts of wealth out of the Americas and they had a powerful naval fleet the Spaniards. Now the English they had this modest naval naval fleet and they could not compete with the Spanish in outright warfare. So the English under Elizabeth they took a different approach. It was called privateeering. Private hearering or private hearering? Private hearering. Privateier. The spelling is P R I V A T E R. Okay. P R I V A T E R. Privateier. A person a private person or ship that engages in maritime warfare under a commission of war. Now if you rearrange the words private here, what do you get? Let's remove the R pi. Okay, let's let's take the uh R and put it after I p I R remove the V A T E. Pirate private here means pirate actually. Okay. So Elizabeth under uh her rule you had English pirates who were raiding Spanish ships and stealing their treasure and slaves and whatnot. Okay, officially the government of England was not involved in this but unofficially Elizabeth was behind all of that. So this was piracy. So in England is the nation that gave the world piracy and all the cruelty that was assoc ass associated with that and it gave rise to the pirates of the Caribbean movies I suppose eventually. So this was obviously theft and plunder and contravention of international law and whatnot of that time and that's what Elizabeth was doing. So these pirate ships were pretty lean and mean ships, lowbuilt ships with cannons and they were they they did plunder and theft and all that. So eventually the Spaniards got tired of this and they said let us build the big Armada, a big naval fleet of 130 ships and we will take this gigantic naval fleet of big huge massive heavy powerfully armed 130 ships. We're going to invade England. We're going to depose Elizabeth, do regime change operation. We're going to install a puppet regime of our own and we're going to we're going to change the religion once again to Catholicism and we will rule England. Okay? And we will some of the ships that they had orange trees because the Spanish wanted orange trees in England when when they would rule England and so on. So they were they were certain they would succeed. So about 130 ships were launched from Spain. big massive ships compared to the Spanish gallions and ships. The English naval ships were tiny, small, lowbuilt. Uh they could not even do any, you know, boarding activities, you know, boarding the other ship. And they had cannons. The Spanish had like god knows how many cannons. English ships would have like four, five maybe cannons or whatever, whatever the number was, right? Um so it was it looked like a mismatch. And the English ships were smaller in number also. I don't know how many ships they had but significantly significantly less than the number of Spanish ships which is 130 roughly 130. So the Spanish launch the Armada and Elizabeth comes to know about this and she orders her navy to go and defend uh England the kingdom and there's this naval engagement and what you find is that the English ships are very agile very nimble they're fast moving they can't be boarded they can fight at standoff distances of contemporary standoff ranges and they destroyed to some extent the Spanish fleet The Spanish could not match the the the the agility, the nimleness, the maneuverability and the firepower of the English ships. They could not board the English ships and fight the way they were they they were accustomed to fighting. Boarding means you have two large ships who will come close to each other and then you will put ladders on top and you will jump with swords in your hand and then you'll go clash. That's boarding. But when you have a big ship and a small ship and the small ship is agile and faster, you can't board the small ship. So that that manner of warfare is gone. So it's it's you know it's what it's reminiscent of kind of you have a very powerful 21st century army with all kinds of extremely expensive weapons and that can be taken out by inexpensive drones and large quantities of ballistic missiles kind of like that. So the English redefined the nature of naval warfare. They defeated the Spanish Armada and then the Armada to to pour insult on injury or salt on the wounds. It was c it was caught in big u storms and a lot of these ships were dashed against rocks and one of them many of them were sunk. Some of them were ship shipwrecked off the coast of Scotland, Ireland, wherever and they were people the the sailors were killed by the natives that sort of thing. So it was an absolute disaster for Spain. So that was the Spanish Armada which failed completely. Uh now how did this u was this an inflection point in history? Did this give rise to the Royal Navy? No, it did not give rise to the Royal Navy. The Royal Navy already existed. Half of the Royal Navy was a bunch of pirates, absolute cut-throat barbarians. Okay. Uh but it it proved to the British into the world that this is the right way to do warfare going forward. Okay. Uh and uh the Spanish once again built a fleet, but they never tried. So it was not the end of the Spanish navy or whatever. The Spanish had tremendous resources. They had all this gold and whatnot flowing in from the Americas. So they were able to able to rebuild a navy but they never attempted an invasion of England again. Okay. The last successful invasion of England was in the year 1066. After that England has never been successfully invaded until now when you have the Pakistanis and all grouping gangs who have invaded England take a war. That's a different story. So that is a different story. But yeah um so that is what happened. But it's kind of an inflection point because it gave rise to a new new way of doing warfare and it it was a proof of concept for the British you know and that's the basis on which the Royal Navy was built in larger numbers and the ships that they built were based on the ships that succeeded against the Spanish Armada and eventually the British naval power became the backbone initial backbone of the expanding British Empire and this gave rise to eventually the Royal Navy but the Royal Navy already kind of existed at this Um and yeah it did shape eventually the British colonization because of the expanding navy of the trade routes and eventually the colonization of India and the Americas and so on. So 1588 is when this event happened. By 15 1510 or so the British had put a foothold in the Americas uh which was Jamestown disaster absolute disaster. And then you had Plymouth about a decade or so later whatever the dates are by by by by what 1720 or something you had Plymouth and Jamestown and Plymouth both have both have happened. Rono also happened which is a totally different story and eventually the British were the big winners in the Americas right we know that uh so that's how it went with the Spanish Armada. [clears throat] Rishabat Tag Gowami says in light of the direct assassinations of sovereign heads of state and the bypassing of the UN security council in the current ongoing Iran um versus Israel and US conflict. Has the 1648 Westfallian concept of state sovereignty finally being replaced by a civilizational might doctrine where only four or five pole nations have actual rights. The rest are merely buffer zones. Okay. Okay. So, I would not agree it's a civilizational might doctrine. It's an imperial might doctrine because the US isn't a civilization. It's an empire. Okay. It's imperial might or military might doctrine. It's not civilizational might. Now, coming back to what you're asking. So, what have we had? This is kind of a a question that's that's on the border. That's that's both history and geopolitics and that's why I've taken it. So what we've had in this current ongoing Iran conflict is the Americans and Israelis have taken out the they have assassinated the supreme leader of Iran, the head of state of Iran, um the Ayatah Ali Kabi, right? And they've assassinated various lots of scientists, engineers, um generals and highranking Iranian officials. um you know the number two person Ali Larij larijani or whoever he was he was assassinated a few days ago. So this is a totally this is extremely unusual essentially unheard of in the Westfallian system even when you have two nations at war you don't assassinate heads of state you don't do that this is extremely unusual it's unheard of actually so what's the westfallian system the westfallian concept of state sovereignty um the world order is the Westfallian or world order, right? Westfallian sovereignty, Westfallian world order. So in the Westfallian system, you have nation states. Okay? And theoretically or technically each nation state is sovereign which means that it has according to international law complete control over its territory its population and it and you know not and no nation is is allowed to interfere in the internal affairs of other nations. So if I'm a sovereign nation, I can have my own laws, my own rule, my own con rules, my own constitution, my own norms of how to govern my nation and my people and my territory. I can have a democracy. I can have a theocracy. I can have a dictatorship. I can have whatever. It's my internal matter. Everybody else mind your own godamn business. That is the concept of Westfallian sovereignty. Complete sovereignty over the your territory, your and your people. That's Westfall sovereignty. And it doesn't matter how large or small a nation is, as long as you are an internationally recognized nation state, no matter how large or small you are, you are supposed to be exempt from uh foreign interference in your internal affairs. [clears throat and cough] So that's the theoretical or technical concept of Westfallian sovereignty. Now uh the post 1945 system, the postc world war system is not exactly a system of equal rights for nations. It's a two-tier system. It's a hierarchical system. On the one hand, you have the the privileged nations. That's the P5 nations. The five permanent members of the UN Security Council. These five nations are privileged nations. Other nations are non-privileged nations. What privilege do the P5 nations have? Well, they have the allimportant veto in the United Nations Security Council. What does this veto what's the role of this veto? So, the veto allows the P5 nations to block the enforcement of international law wherever their interests are concerned. So if there's something that goes against the interest of a P5 nation, that P5 nation can uni un unilaterally block the execution and implementation and enforcement of international law. That is a very powerful weapon to have the veto. So India was was offered a P5 membership multiple times at least three times by the US and USSR. But India under the great Mr. Nehu uh insisted that this be given to China and that's why China is a P5 nation today. India is not. Now that's a different story. So you have a you have a hierarchical system since 1945. Okay. The privileged P5 nations and the rest of the world the riffraff. Okay. Now since the early 1990s things were once again redefined. The early 1990s you had the break up of the USSR and Russia became a P5 nation the successor state of the USSR. But Russia was very weak. Right? And this was the uniolar moment of the US. So 1990s onwards you had uh you know reshaping of of rules. You had uh sovereignty as responsibility and humanitarian inter interventions. So what was the concept of humanitarian intervention? When you have a sovereign nation that according to the international community is not able to fulfill um its governance and other requirements. It's not able to take care of its people. Then the international community by consensus can intervene in in a for humanitarian purposes in the nation which means the so-called international community can violate the nation's sovereignty for humanitarian reasons. Okay. And then you had something called sovereignty as responsibility which again is the same thing that you are sovereign as long as you are acting responsibility responsibly as per the norms laid down by the international community. But if you are violating the norms laid down by the international community whatever they may be then well you we can violate your sovereignty. So let's say you are not democratic enough or let's say uh you know democracy is black backsliding in your nation apparently or or or if let's say there is a religious persecution in n in your nation. In those circumstances, you are not fulfilling your your responsibilities as as a responsible member of the glo of the world order of the international committee of nations and that's why because of that we can intervene in your nation and interfere in your internal affairs and these are big sticks that the west uses to beat other nations with the west means the US. So what is this international community? The international community let's let's let's find the definition of the international community. Give me a second. I I'll try and pull that out of Twitter if it's available. International community. Give me a second. I'm sure there's a good representation of that. International community. Let us see. Do we have international? Okay. What is this international community? Right? That's the question we asking ourselves. Give me a second. Here we are, sir. So, the international community that determines whether humanitarian intervention should happen or not. This is the international community. This this is the international community. These are the only nations that matter in the international community. So, these nations hold the world hostage and that's the situation. Okay. That's been the situation since the 1990s. Okay. So, you have a situation today where powerful nations can break international law and you have a situation where powerful nations are they are increasingly willing to accept the political costs of breaking of of violating international law and violating the sovereignty of of uh technically sovereign nations. as long as their interests are safeguarded and this has created a situation where you have a small number of nations that can act with impunity. These are powerful nations and the rest of the nations of the world become the arenas where the powerful nations play their geopolitical games. So for example, well um is the 1991 Iraq war a violation of sovereignty? I suppose it had it had UN backing perhaps. What about 2003 the invasion of Iran Iraq? I suppose that that also had UN United Nations approval. But what about the assassination of Kasam Sulmani in Iraq by the Americans in 2020? That is clearly a violation of sovereign of the sovereignty of Iraq. What about the ongoing war against Iran by the US and Israel? That is clearly a violation of Iran's sovereignty. And in response, Iran has violated the sovereignty of the whole bunch of nations in the Gulf region. So when a nation has the might, it is willing to accept the political costs of break of of violating international law and violating the sovereignty of other nations. And it is the weaker nations like the Gulf nations there which become the arenas where these geopolitical games are played. That is the situation. Okay. And one of these things, one of the violations, one of the one of the examples of violation of sovereignty is the assassination of the supreme leader of Iran. So now the Americans have created a new normal where they they all they have to do is to uh put this tag on nations that this is a terrorist nation and put a tag on a person that this leader of the of whatever nation is a terrorist and that gives them the justification to kill people. That's the new normal today. So by according to you know other nations could do the same thing tomorrow morning Mr. Mr. Putin could say that Zelinski is a terrorist and take him out. What's preventing Putin from doing the same thing? Exactly as for the American rule book. What's preventing Narendra Modi from tomorrow saying that Aimun is a terrorist and taking him out? That's also possible. So if the Americans can do it, others also could if they can get away with it do it. So the nations that are willing to bear the political cost of violating international law will do the will do that. It means that only powerful nations can do this and the weaker nations well they pay the price for the the geopolitical games of the powerful nations. So where is India today is the question. So this is not a civilizational might doctrine. This is a military might doctrine. This is an imperial might doctrine. The nations that are capable of hard retaliation, they will do these things. The ones who can't do are not capable of hard retaliation and are not willing to to bear the political and other costs of violating international law, they won't do it. Right. So other nations are Yeah. So you're going to have small number of nations that do these things. The US is a hard retaliator and hard it's always played this game of regime change in and invading other countries. So the US is one Israel clearly is one that is willing to go to war. Yeah. It's willing to initiate wars. US Israel Russia is a hard retaliator. Eventually when red lines were crossed it went to war in Ukraine. So Russia is a hard retaliator. So you have Iran is a hard retaliator. They did not initiate the war, but they have hit back very very very very hard. So you have the US, Israel, Russia and Iran that are hard retaliators and they are willing to bear the political and material and economic costs of warfare and of violating international law. Is China a hard retaliator? I'm not sure about China. Thus far, China has stayed away from these things. China has not gone to war. It it tries to bully nations but it has thus far not gone to war. But time will tell if China also in the next few months you know takes the opportunity to make a move on Taiwan. But China is definitely a very hard retaliator when it comes to uh economic retaliation. So one could say that there are four five or so nations the US, Israel, Russia, Iran and maybe China that are capable of playing these games. Where does India stand in this right now? Uh we will time will tell us. Okay. Real Vadimir Putin says, "What was the ancient Hindu version of Balojasthan culture before they converted to to Islam?" Okay. Where is Balojasthan? First of all, let's take a look at Balojasthan. Where is Balojasthan? So Balojasthan historically is the border region between India and Persia. Today Baljasthan is is split between u Iran, eastern Iran and the western part of the temporary uh nation Pakistan. Okay, that's Balojasthan. So half of roughly half of Baljasthan is in Iran. Half of it is in is temporarily in Pakistan. And historically Balojasthan has been this uh this this uh you could say transition zone between India and Persia. So that is Balojasthan. So you know you have cities like Guadada and Chabahar that are in Balojasthan. You you have the port of Guadada here. This is Guadada. It's in Balojasthan on the Macran coast. You also have Chabahar which is in Balojasthan. Right. Um I suppose Iran Shahar is also in Balojasthan. Chasan and Balojasthan province. So that is Baljasthan. Geographically it's India's western borderlands. Iran's eastern borderlands. That is Balojasthan. So what's the history of Balojasthan? What did Baljasthan look like before it was Islamized? Right? So look um if you go back to like let's say the first millennium BC, second millennium BC um you know the people of Balojasthan were the descendants of the people of the Saraswati Hindu region. So you know in literature it's called the harapan phase of Indian history or the indust valley phase of Indian history and Balojasthan is smack bang in the middle in the western part of this gigantic region right the saraswati synindu the sapasindu region so the people of Balajasan were the descendants of the the ancient people of this region and you could say the descendants of the harapans as we all are actually right that that sort of thing. So you did not have any kingdoms that we know of at the time. Okay. So that is a thing. And then you had the in the first millennium BC you have the Aminid dynasty the Persian the great Persian dynasty of Hakamanish right the Akirid Empire. Um and Balojasthan became kind of part of uh this empire because this empire it expanded eastwards all the way to uh the the the west bank of the Synindhur river the Indus river. So the the Indis river became the dividing line between India and Persia at this time uh especially during the time of Dios. Das was this great expansionist king and obviously he was powerful so he'll expand eastwards westwards and so he expanded his kingdom his empire all the way to the west bank of the indas. So Buljustan came under the Persian Empire at this time. Then you have Alexander coming in okay in whatever 4th century BC right he comes and he destroys Persia and he wants to invade India. So he passes through Balajasthan, enters the Sapasindu region, is defeated by Porus and then then limps back to Babylon where he dies of his injuries or alcoholism or poison or whatever. So um so Alexander goes back but he leaves behind uh um governors and then you have the the the the what is it called the Seucid Empire, right? So, so Balojasthan this region it comes under Macedonian rule after Persian rule and then under Seucid rule for a few years it's under Macedonian rule and then it's under Seucid rule under the the as part of the empire of Salucus Nicator. So Salucas nicer and Chandra Gupta Moria became allies. They signed a treaty. Okay. And uh much of the uh Gandhara etc region was returned to India but Balojasthan remained under the Seucid Empire. Okay. Uh after the Seucid Empire you have various Indo Greek kingdoms that kind of rule this area you know Gandhar sind this this region. Um and some of these were Buddhist some of these were Hindu. uh during um the uh Akameid Empire days in the initial days of the Akameid Empire uh Balojasthan would have been Hindu later it would have come under Zoroastrian rule but it would probably have remained Hindu the people would have remained Hindu um so that's the deal it never essentially was ruled by the Morian Empire uh now after the end of the Indo- Greek era let's say around 100 uh BC or something the first century BC or something you have Indoparthian rule in Balojasthan the Paratar Raja Empire not empire dynasty the Paratar Raja which is the Parthion Paraja uh dynasty ruled Balojasthan uh and they were obviously Hindus you have coins of the parataraja dynasty with swastikas all over the place right that sort of thing so the paratarajas they They ruled Bulajjasthan for a few centuries and they are clearly um a clearly a Hindu kingdom right. Uh and then that kingdom also eventually declines and then you have Cassenian Iranian rule over Baluchasthan. So the Cadenians were again Zoroastrians right they they ruled uh Iran eastern Iran and Baljasthan and after the Cicadenians you have various uh you know uh minor Hindu rulers in Baljasthan and then you have the invasion of the Arabs from Iran because by this time by the 7th century or whatever uh around this time the Arabs had taken over Persia and from Persia they made a move onto India through Baljasthan into Sind And that is the end of uh yeah the pre-Islamic history of Buljasthan. I've given a very rough overview of that. You know I'm sure you can you can have a whole six-month course about of the history about the history of Baljasthan. But overall that's the kind of the outline of the history of Balojasthan right the pre-Islamic history of Baljasthan. If you go to Baljasthan today you can say that people are clearly of Indian origin. They are more Indian than Persian. Their language is more similar to uh Cindi and Gujarati than to Persian clearly right. Their music is very Indian. Um and they still have you know some remnants of Hinduism. For example the the the the Shakipit of Hind Mata is in Baluchasthan and people still go there to worship uh the Dvi right. So there is still a little bit of uh you know indigenous culture and religion left in Baluchasan but mostly today as as as the case with most of Pakistan most of it is now uh Islamicized. Okay. So that is the deal with Baluchistan real Vladimir Putin says what kind of democracy did various Mahajanapadas offer? How was this different from the modern day version of democracy? See, I would say that the modern day version of democracy is the stupidest form of democracy. Once you are a certain age, you can vote. No matter what your IQ is, no matter what your understanding of the world is, you can vote. All you have to do to be able to vote is to be a certain age. Yeah. But so that is the modern 20th century and post 20th century version of democracy. But in older, more mature or some would say primitive forms of democracy, everyone wasn't allowed to vote. For example, let us examine Greek democracy. The democracy that you had in Athens and other Greek city states. Well, according to the Europeans, Athens and Greece gave the world democracy. So, let's examine the form of democracy we had there. In the Greek city states only wealthy landowning males could vote. Okay. So the wealthy landowning males wealthy landowning population of the Greek city states was about 10% roughly of a Greek city state. The rest of them were either poor people or slaves. Maybe 20 30% of the population were slaves. The rest were poor people, shepherds and farmers and whatnot. And about 10% of the population, male and female, was wealthy people, landowning people, the the nobility, the elites. So out of these 10% only the males could vote, the the adult males could vote. So that's about maybe 5% of the population. These people could vote and these people could stand for for election. So it was a very clearly defined small set of people who could come to power and who could vote for those who were standing for power. That was the kind of democracy you had in Athens and the Greek city states. Now what kind of democracy did we have in the Mahajanapadas the great uh ganarajas that we had in India garaj ganasanga that sort of thing. So you had a large how many 14 or whatever mahajanapadas you had mala you had baji you had shakya lchavi uh kamboja which was in central Asia essentially right it was northwest of gandhar. So these were the Mahajanapadas. Some of these were actually monarchies but some were garajas, ganachangas which is republics. Okay. So in these republics what did you have? Um you do not have her hereditary kings. Uh the the authority. Okay. And power it resided in a ganas sabha jana sabha or a ganasanga which is a collective assembly. And that this assembly had the power to make decisions, go to war if needed and you know decide what kind of taxes would you impose and so on so forth all of that you know design policies implement policies so on so forth. So you do not have hereditary kings you had collective assemblies. Now what who could become a member of these assemblies? Was membership open to everybody or was it restricted? So membership was restricted. Okay. Um it was restricted to the heads of certain uh aristocratic chhatria families. Those who were accustomed to ruling and who knew how to rule. Okay. It was so membership was restricted to the heads of these families. um and the rest of the people they would not uh have any you know any any any any share of the of the power or governance. So you these were essentially um you know you had these elite corporate bodies that that that wielded the power and they would elect their own head who would be a Garaja or a synapathy or whatever. They could decide who would be the synapati the head of the army who would be the overall ruler gaja or gaka whatever that sort of thing. So it was not the democracy in the modern sense of the of the word that once you are a certain age no matter who you are you can vote. It was not like that. Only the people who were proven to know how to rule okay they were allowed to to be in power and uh to vote. Of course at the lower levels I suppose you would have anybody could vote for your for your local uh municipal body or whatever but when it comes to the the the apex of power in the Garaja or Ganesa you know it was not open to everybody but at the local level to decide you know who will be your local municipal head or whatever I suppose everybody could vote vote for that. Uh so you had a small inner council or senate-l like body of of a few uh you know powerful people and they would rule and they would prepare the agendas. They would decide the the policies. They would administer the day-to-day affairs. They would decide about important matters of of state like warfare about taxation about this that etc. educational policies and so on. Right? Uh so you had collective decision making right? You had elected uh rulers and chiefs. You had equal voting among the assembly members but uh not democracies in the in the modern sense of the world. They you could say they were closer in in nature to the democracy you had in Greece and Rome. Even in Rome you had elites who could vote and come to power. Even in Greece you had elites who could vote and come to power. And even in India you had the same thing. So these systems were very similar. Right? And you can criticize if it if you want but it was exactly the same as Greece and Rome. So um these were aristocratic democratic republics uh with with uh deliberative assemb as assemblies. These were not the you know these were not like modern democracy where anybody can vote and anybody can stand for power. Once again even in modern democracy technically anybody can stand for power but you know your papers are scrutinized the amount of money you put is criticized and lots of people are disqualified and even if you are a allowed to stand for for election you know you will win election only if you have if you're able to throw a tremendous amount of money into the campaigning process and all of that. So once again even in India technically it's free for all but so but so djour it is it is free for all technically but in reality only certain people stand even a small chance of winning. So technically democracy seems to be it's open for everybody but in reality it's not the case. In reality, you can only stand a chance to win an election in India if you can afford to throw, you know, maybe 100 200 crores per election from your pocket or from the coffers of whatever political party you may be part of. Only then do you stand a realistic chance of winning. So in the old days, none of that BS was there. You know, none of that hypocrisy was there. You know what we everybody can vote and everybody can stand for power. That's what they claim today. But we all know that it's not really how it works. In the old days, it was very clear. It was very transparent that only certain sections of society, the aristocrats will be allowed to come to power because they know how to rule. They've been doing it for for for generations, for centuries. The other people, well, you can vote for your local municipal assemblies and all that, but not for the top uh top positions. That is what it was. Exactly the same as Rome, Greece and so on. But in Rome and Greece you had slavery. In India you never had slavery. So that was one dist distinction between India as opposed to Rome and Greece. Okay. Uh real Vladimir Putin says was there any role of the USSR in the defeat of the Japanese Empire? Was there any role of the USSR in the defeat of the Japanese Empire? So we talking about the second world war. So what are the important dates when it comes to the defeat of the Japanese Empire? Um 6th of August 1945 was the first American nuclear test on Hiroshima. 3 days later 9th of August 1945 was the second nuclear test on the people of Nagasaki. So 6th August, 9th August, what on what date did Japan surrender? Let's find out. I think was it was it August 15? When did Japan surrender in 1945? Second. Okay. It was announced by Emperor Hirohito on 15th of August 1945 and formally signed on the 2nd of September 1945 on a battleship. Right. So right. 15th of August, it was the Japanese surrender. 6th August, the first nuclear test on Hiroshima. 9th August, the second nuclear test on Nagasaki. 15th of August, surrender. Now, what was the role of the Soviet Union in all of this? So, 6th August, Japan is devastated by a nuclear test on Hiroshima, right? in 9th August the second one but one day before Nagasaki and 2 days after Hiroshima Hiroshima which is 8th of August 1945 the USSR declared war on Japan so the USSR had this pact of neutrality with Japan pact of non-aggression or whatever it was with Japan okay and they walked away from it unilaterally the Soviets and on 8th August 2 days after the Hiroshi atomic test the USSR declared war on Japan. Okay. And it said that it was at war with Japan and it was joining the pots dam declaration which called upon Japan to surrender. So on the 9th of August early morning the Soviet army the red army it launched a massive offensive into Japanese occupied Manuria. This is called the brief Soviet Japanese war. Okay. So at that time manuria which is now part of China which was never historically part of China. So Manuria let's find out where is Manuria okay so that we can orient ourselves. Manuria so Manuria is north of North Korea. Okay, Harbin you could say is the principal city and no that's Hilyongjang but this region overall is Manuria and you had this region was under Japanese occupation at the time. Okay, Manuria. Uh so 9th August the Soviets invade Manuria. The Red Army invades Manuria launches a major offensive and they also at the same time attacked the Japanese forces in northern Korea which is present day North Korea. um the the Sakalin region, the Kuril Islands. Once again, let's see the Sakalin region and Kurill Islands. Okay, so Sakalin, okay, is this island here. This island is called Sakalin. This was well historically you could say at the time Japanese territory. And the Kurill Islands are these islands here. These islands between the Kamchatka Peninsula over here and Japan. Historically, these were also Japanese islands. Even Sakalin at least half of it was Japanese. So the USSR then on 9th of August launched an invasion. Okay. It attacked um it it launched an offensive in Japanese occ into into Japanese occupied Manurya and it also attacked Japanese forces in northern Korea in uh Sakalin and the Kurill Islands. And Japan was already battered. their morale was was in bad shape because of the atomic test on Hiroshima and the Soviets very rapidly uh defeated the Japanese uh armed forces. They launched a deep uh armored offensive into Japanese territory bits [clears throat] style campaign. Okay. And the Japanese uh uh resistance collapsed disintegrated within a few days. So now what was the set of consequences this produced for Japan? You see Japan and the USSR had this uh neutrality pact or non-aggression pact or whatever. Okay. And in August 1945, the Japanese were in bad shape in the war. Okay. And they actually were trying to uh negotiate with the Soviets and they wanted the Soviets, the Soviet Union to be their intermediary in their negotiations with the West so that there could be some kind of uh uh you know compromised surrender or compromised ceasefire, some kind of negotiated ceasefire with the West. That's what the Japanese were trying to do. They were even willing to offer some territory to the USSR in exchange for the USSR um facilitating a negotiated ceasefire with the West on behalf of Japan. So, so you see this was their their exit strategy. This was Japan's diplomatic exit stat strategy. They wanted to exit the war and they were hoping the USSR would help Japan exit the war by negotiating a ceasefire with the west. But the USSR, you could say, backstabbed Japan and entered the war and attacked Japan, destroyed Japan's last standing army and destroyed Japan's diplomatic exit strategy. So the Soviet entry into the war, it essentially produced strategic bankruptcy for Japan. Japan had no good options left. And then you have Nagasaki. Yeah. 9th of 9th of August. So you could say that the USSR's decision to suddenly attack Japan, it you could say it had a consequence that was even even worse than the atomic bombings of on Japan. And maybe it was the USSR's backstabbing that actually pushed the Japanese leadership into accepting blanket surrender terms without any conditions. Right? So this [laughter] so the USSR paid played played a major role in the way Japan had to surrender. Yeah. If the USSR had not done this, if they had played the role of a mediator between Japan and the West, between Japan and the United States or the allies, then maybe Japan could have possibly agreed to a ceasefire on certain terms. But uh yeah, so that's what the USSR did and that's why Japan, yeah, it it lost so much territory. It lost the Kural Islands. That dispute still stands. It lost Sakalin and uh it just accepted all the all the American terms eventually by August 15. [snorts] Amisha Mishra says, "Why was Emperor Hirohito not charged with many with any war crimes after the Second World War? And why is Hirohito never mentioned when discussing the most dangerous uh evil etc world leaders?" Right? So 15th of August 1945, Japan surrenders to the west to to the to the allies to the Americans and u 2nd September or whatever they actually formally sign the surrender uh document instrument on an American warship. Right now after the Japanese surrender there is the Tokyo trial and a large number of Japanese armed forces personnel, top armed forces personnel like Hidik tojo and so on so forth they are put on trial. um Hidikito tries to shoot himself in the chest on in the heart. He does pull the trigger. He gets shot, but he somehow survives and eventually he goes to trial and eventually um he and other Japanese top ranking military officials and government officials are hanged for their alleged war crimes. So the question is why was Emperor Hirohito not charged with war crimes? Why was he not part of the uh accused in the Tokyo trials? Right? That's a that's a question. So there's political reasons for that. The Americans um they wanted to they they had extracted Japan surrender. They had they had started they had begun the process of occupying Japan militarily and they needed the cooperation of the people of Japan. Now, Japanese society of 1945 was very different from let's say the Iranian society of 2026. The Japanese system was very different from Iran. In Iran, the Americans today like two weeks ago assassinated the supreme leader of Iran. It made no difference to Iran, right? Because the Iranian governmental system and societal stress system is is decentralized. The supreme leader is merely an embodiment of the legitimacy of the IRGC in Iran. But the IRGC is not dependent on the existence of the Supreme Leader. If the Supreme leader is assassinated, the IRGC continues to exist and function and they can put up a new leader any time. You assassinate that new leader, they'll put up a third leader. The IRGC is decentralized. It's like a distributed system. It's a distributed fault tolerant system with multiple nodes. You take out a few nodes, the system still continues to function. So the center of gravity Clausovitz Carl Claus Carl Clausvitz had this uh uh this this this formalism of the center of gravity which is the most critical um you know aspect of a government you take it out the whole government collapses right so for Iran it the whole center of gravity is distributed you kill theata nothing happens but in Japan 1945 the entire political authority legitimacy was embodied in the person of the emperor. The emperor was the son of god. You take out the emperor and the whole system collapses and society disintegrates. It is no longer cohesive and killing the emperor is will be treated by the society as an unforgivable crime and they'll rise up in rebellion and then the Americans will have to fight Japanese who will be wielding samurai swords. They may not have guns but they'll fight with samurai swords. They'll fight with knives. So the Americans did not want that sort of chaos in Japan. They wanted an orderly takeover of Japan. So they made the political decision to give Hirohito, Emperor Hirohito complete blanket immunity from any prosecution and they made sure that that the accused that is the defendants at the Tokyo trial, they made sure these defendants did not give any testimony that it that in any shape or form indicted Emperor Hirohito in any manner any manner. So the Americans decided to keep Hirohito as the puppet figure head of the government but the real power will now be in the uh hands of the Americans but Hirohito will be the the titular head of government the emperor Banzai uh and that's why Hirohito was never charged with any war crimes to ensure a stable peaceful orderly takeover of Japan and since he was never charged with any war crimes and all that that's why he was never mentioned with when discussing any dangerous world leaders or whatever and the truth is Hirohito was not not really the guy in charge ever since the Maji restoration which was a coup which was a coup in Japan ever since this happened the Japanese emperor was just a figurehead the real people in power were the people within the government at lower levels in government below the emperor they were the people who were really in power you know bureaucrats and officials And the same was the case during the second world war. Hirohito was merely the titular emperor. He would sign off on all decisions. All decisions were made in the name of Hirohito and he had to give his ascent or approval. But the decisions were not taken by him. He merely gave his approval. So he was not really as such you know the guy giving the orders. Of course, at the end of the day, he was the orders were carried out in his name with his signature, I suppose. So, you could say that he was responsible at the end of the day for everything, but that's why he was never charged with war crimes, and that's why he is not discussed or mentioned when discussing the MO, the most evil and murderous and dangerous world leaders. Okay. Aayush Singh says, could you please can you please tell us the history of the Manipur conflict again? Well, I've done that multiple times, but I'm sure there are new viewers who are not aware of the matter. So, I I can do that once again. So, uh this what I'm going to tell you is exactly what I said in in 2023, right? When the entire disaster became visible in Manipur, what is the history of the Banipur conflict? There are so many manipur experts these days, right? um who have their own versions of what hap what's happening who the heroes are and who the villains are and so on but what's the real history of the Manipur conflict to understand the real history of Manipur of the Manipur conflict you have to understand the history of Manipur itself what is Manipur so Manipur is this present day state in the far east of India let's take a look at it right where is this let's go to the map and quickly take a look at it and orient ourselves which part of India are we referring to so this India as we know. Zoom in. Go to the east of India. The far east of India. And here you have Manipur. This is Manipur. The capital city isal. East of Manipur. You have Burma. Burma. Now called Myanmar. Right? So today Manipur is one of the states of India. Historically it was a kingdom. It historically it was much larger over at various points in time. There was a time when the king of Manipur captured Manderlay. Manderlay over here. Right. uh there was a time when the king of Manipur even conquered parts of Yunan in China and there were times when Manipur was under Burmese occupation and so on. So that is Manipur. Now let's understand Manipur a little bit better. We know there's something called the Manipuri language, right? We know that Manipur I mean some of you may know that Manipur has a written record of kings going back at least 2,000 years. Um so you could say three and a half thousand years. So you have a written record of each king of Manipur over the past three and a half thousand years the Ningtoja dynasty and you have the Manipuri language and you some of you may also know that Manipur is the state that has given India one of its so-called classical dances the Manipuri classical dance and nutsan and so on these you know these different manifestations of Manipuri culture that's what Manipuri is famous for so you ask yourself the question now today if you look at Manipur the demographics of Manipur There are three main population groups today in Manipur. One is the matees, one is the Nagas and one is the cookies. The question today is and lots of people are confused about this. The question is who are the original inhabitants of Manipur? H that's the question. Is it the cookies? Is it the Nagas? Is it the matees? Who are the true inhabitants, original indigenous people of Manipur? You to understand that to understand the conflict. So you have a wellestablished historical record of the kings of Manipur dating back to at least 2,000 years before today. A large number of kings. The question is which ethnic group did all these kings belong to? Were they Naga? Were they cookie? Or were they matei? The answer is that every single king of Manipur was mate over the past 2,000 years. Matei, not Naga. Some of them had Naga blood also but there's no cookie. Number two, the Manipuri language. Which ethnic group speaks the Manipuri language? That has been around for at least 2,000 years. Is it the cookies? Is it the mates? Is it the Nagas? It is the Mateis who speak the Manipuri language that has been in existence for at least 2,000 years. Manipuri classical dance. Manipuri not the Sankran. Which ethnic group gave this? Which ethnic group is the progeniator of these cultural manifestations? Is it the Mateies? Is it the Nagas? Is it the cookies? It's the Matees. So, Manipuri language is a mate language. Every Manipuri king was a mate king. Manipuri dance is a mate art form. Manipuri Natkan is mate. Okay. So, Manipur, the history of Manipur is essentially the history of the Mateis. And the Nagas, the people who are called the Nagas, they are various tribes. They are all ethnically and genetically related to the Matees. But they live in the hills today. And the Matees, they live in the small portion of Manipur, whether it's the Infal Valley. So the Matees and the Nagas, [snorts] they have blood relations going back at least 2,000 years. And they are the indigenous people of Manipur. Okay, that is established now and you can fact check that. You can fact check that. What am I what whatever I'm saying [clears throat] now the cookies where did they come from is the question. So if you see u so Manipur has this 2000 year history of kings it has its own language it has its own system of writing its own script. So Manipur is like a mini civilization in its own right and it's historically its religion was a polytheistic religion. In English it is called sanamism polytheistic religion and eventually it synretized with what we call Hinduism. And today a large number of mates practice Vishnovism and some practice a combination of Vishnavism and what is calledism and some are only practice only. uh the the Nagas were all Christianized by the efforts of Shri Huji in the 20th century. Now if you look at British census records okay now before the British census records Manipur was independent as a kingdom for 2,000 years. Then in 1800 early 1800s Manipur came under British under Burmese occupation 7 years of devastation. Okay. And after the Burmese were evicted from Manipur, this happened. At this time the Brit British became relevant and they started taking over power in Manipur. To make a long story short, in 1891, the Manipuris went to war against the British to eject them from Manipur and the British were able to defeat the Manipuris and that's when Manipur loses its sovereignty and the British install a fake puppet king and that's how they they they defeat they destroy the sovereignty of Manipur and the Mateis fought a war against the British. So to punish the matees the British they enacted a policy to forcibly confine the mate people to about 6% of the population of of the territory of manipur that is the infal valley the manipur the mates were prevented from having any property outside little Ial valley and to punish the mis further the British started settling foreign tribals in Manipur from Burma and these are the cookies so if you Look at the census records of Manipur, British census records from 1900 and so on in 1900 around that time you will see less than maybe 1% of the population of Manipur was cookies and those two were brought in by the British as foreigners who were settled in Manipur to punish the mates. And then over the next few decades the British brought in more and more cookies in Manipur and these are all Christianized. Then after 1949 when Manipur officially became a part of India, the government of India for whatever reason continued settling cookies into Manipur. Now if you look at the satellite images of Manipur over the past 10 years, over the past 10 years you will see thousands of new villages coming up in Manipur. That is lacks of cookies crossing over from Burma into Manipuri territory and taking over more than half of Manipur. That is the Manipur conflict. The Manipur conflict is what is the root cause? It is the foreign occupation of more than half of Manipur by foreigners, foreign infiltrators. Just like Bangladesh is, just like Rohi's cookies have come in, the borders are open. They've just walked in and taken over territory and they are terrorizing the locals. And you have American and Ukrainian mercenaries who are coming in crossing over from Misoram into Burma coming with drones imparting terrorism training to the cookies giving them drones and whatnot. And the drones since 2023 have been used to target Manipuri civilians and kill them. So um the cookies they have weapons all kinds of weapons unlimited supply of weapons arms ammunition and so on. So this is the Manipur conflict. The Manipur conflict. What is the root cause? The presence of lacks of foreigners in Manipur. Okay. Who are the victims? The indigenous people of Manipur are the victims. The mates and the Nagas. That is the history of the Manipur conflict. And this is a story. This is not a story. This is the history I have been saying since 2023. It has not changed. Okay. And uh today the things I have been saying since 2023 they they are now coming out they are now being proven to be true slowly slowly the truth is coming out isn't it right just a few days ago this American terrorist was was arrested along with six Ukrainian mercenaries right um last year the chief minister of misoram he said that more than around 2,000 foreigners had come to money to to Misoram over the past year or so you US and UK nationals who were not really tourists. So this is a geopolitical game to to destabilize the region and to create a de facto artificial nation called cookie land cookie land for Christ to to create more chaos for India and more trouble for India. So that essentially is the Manipur conflict. Okay. Amisha Mishra says, "Tensions between Afghanistan and Pakistan have reportedly escalated after claims that drone strikes were carried out on targets across the border. What triggered the latest escalation? Details of the reported drone strike claims historical context of Afghanistan Pakistan tensions possible regional and geopolitical impact # geopolitics. Well, this is a historical question as much as a geopolitical question. And just like the Manipur conflict, let's understand the Afghanistan Pakistan conflict. What is the context? Why does it exist? So why are Pakistan and Afghanistan hostile to each other? Aren't they both Sunni Islamic nations, Sunni Muslim nations as Muslim nations should not be they be friendly, brotherly ties? Should should they not have? So why do these two nations hate each other? What is the root cause of the conflict? And it's a intractable conflict. It's not going anywhere. What is the cause of the conflict is the question. The root cause of the Afghanistan Pakistan conflict is a massive border dispute. See Afghanistan is Gandhar. Gandhar is the first part of India uh that was Islamized as a consequence of the Turic introgression into India, the Turk invasions of India. [snorts] So the first part of India, Daratwash that was that was conquered by the Turks and Islamized was Gandhar, Afghanistan and then slowly over centuries they they came slowly further into India and eventually they took over large parts of India. So Afghanistan is the original Kashmir. Okay. And [snorts] much of Afghanistan was Islamized. uh until the 20th late 20th century you still had a few lakh maybe about a lack of Hindus and and and six in Afghanistan but today there's almost no Hindu no almost maybe a handful of Hindus and six left in Afghanistan most of them have escaped to India so those Afghan Hindus and six who escaped to India they were pons okay ethnically they were pons but by religion they were Hindus and sik and the pashons are anyway an extension of the northern Indian ethnicity countries uh they are extension of the northern Indian population. Now Afghanistan because it was Islamized for a thousand years. It waged war against the southern parts of India for centuries. Uh the Gores started that then the Gnavis started the continued that and so on. Then you had the Abdales and so on. So there was a time when the Afghans they had conquered and occupied Kashmir and they were very cruel to the people of Kashmir and they did all kinds of atrocities and brutalities and so on. um you know and then what happens is in the 19th century um [snorts] Maharajit Singh establishes the stick empire and is a very vigorous um conqueror and he liberates Kashmir from the Afghans and uh to punish the Afghans for the atrocities they did on Kashmir he takes some Afghan territory as well and makes it part of the Sik Empire. Okay. and uh he reestablishes dharma in Kashmir. He again bans cows slaughter and so on and so forth. Okay. So that is Baharaja and Jjit Singh. This is what he did. So to punish the Afghans for their atrocities on the Kashmiris, he took a large part of Pashon territory as well and made it part of the Sikh Empire. Now after Maharaja Ranjit Singh's demise very rapidly his empire collapsed. It was taken over by the British by the British and whatever territories Maharaja Ranjit Singh had conquered the British made those territories part of British India including the Pashun part of the Sikh Empire that Ranjit had conquered from the Afghans. After 1947 that Pashon part of British India became part of Pakistan. But if you go there, it is pun dominated. The people there are puns mostly. Today it's called Kar Pakuna. And the line that divides Pakistan from Afghanistan is called the Durand line. And the Afghans say that this is an imaginary line that we don't recognize and don't respect. And the Afghans say that Kyber Pakuna is Pashon territory. It should be back. It should be part of Afghanistan. It should not be part of Pakistan. We will never recognize it as part of Pakistan. And that is the major border dispute. As long as Khibar Pakunwa is part of Pakistan, there will never be peace between Afghanistan and Pakistan. And on top of that, you have the Pakistanis who perpetrate barbaric atrocities in the people of Afghanistan. They've launched drone strikes. They've launched air strikes on Kabul. A recent air strike hit a hospital that was a rehabilitation center for drug addicts. and about 3 400 patients unarmed civilians were killed by the Pakistanis. Right? So that's the deal. So the Afghans will the Taliban government will will never allow the Pakistanis to get away with this. So the Afghans may not have a fully professional, well-trained, well equipped army. They may not have nuclear weapons, but they know how to fight guerrilla warfare and they're going to make life miserable for the Pakistanis. Right? So that is the deal. That's the deal. And Afghanistan and India historically well have had good relations right. I mean one of the tallest leaders of who was a pashon was Khan Abdul Kafar Khan and Khan Abdul Kafar Khan spent his whole life fighting for a united India united independent India. He opposed the creation the formation of Pakistan and when Pakistan was formed Khan Abdul Galar Khan told Mr. Gandhi that you have thrown us to the wolves and Khan Abdul Kafar Khan spent much of the rest of his life under house arrest. Okay. Khan Abdulbar Khan wanted a unified united India. So he was pashon he was the pashon leader and uh when he died I think he was buried in Afghanistan in I don't know Jalabad or whatever right. So yeah, so Afghanistan, India, we have we have always had good relations in the past century or so. And uh I I I wish our Afghan brothers and sisters success against this barbaric, evil, terrorist nation, temporary nation of Pakistan. Hopefully we solve this problem soon. Real Vader Putin says how did Hindu kings deal with differences that existed in Indian society? We had thousands of jatis and hundreds of languages. So imagine you are in a corporation. You are you are you are u uh an employee in a corporation. Let's say you are in an IT firm. Let's say you are a programmer. But let's say you have colleagues who are testers who do QR QA testing, quality assurance testing. So your jati is programmer, their jati is QA tester. You're totally different people, right? And then you have technical writers, that is a third jati. Then you have the uh HR people, that's a fourth jati. Then you have the managerial staff, that's a fifth jati. Then you have the canteen people who who ensure that everybody is wellfed. No, that's a sixth jati. So even in a corporation you have so many jatis are these differences do do these differences make you hate each other? Not quite right. You all work together. If any of these jatis is removed from the corporation the entire functioning of the corporation collapses in a certain way. Some are more important, some are less important, but all are important and all perform a certain role in this cohesive environment that is the corporation. Now, Indian society historically to extend the analogy, Indian society had thousands, tens of thousands of jatis. These were occupation based jatis. Some were jewelers, some were goldmiths, some were iron smith, iron smiths, some were textile, some made textiles. Uh, some were warriors, some were teachers, some were gurus, uh, some were god knows what, sailors, some some you had so many different professions and occupations. India was the world's full first fully industrialized civilization. Some were architects, some were masons, some were stone workers, some were concrete workers, some made bridges, some made roads. These were all different jatis. These are entire lineages that specialized in one specific profession. Super specializations. These were not differences. This this was harmony. All these different jatis they provided very specific services to society and they were all integral parts of society. These are not differences. This is called organization of society. It's called division of labor. We all need all these things to be done but we will all specialize in different things and we will all work cohesively and harmoniously to have this highly evolved and well functioning society. But today that is portrayed by our historians and our professors and academics as differences. So if if you go to university and you have one professor who's from the physics department, one from the maths department, one from sociology, one from whatever chemistry, are these differences or are they just colleagues who are all providing different services to the students and eventually these services are provided to society. Are these differences or are they actually colleagues who are working together in different roles but the same function and they're all serving society. So today we are made to see things in a in in a way that makes us imagine that everything is a further division of society and everybody is hostile to each other. Nobody was hostile to each other. But today in today's India politics is such that this this this cast politics has made everybody hostile to each other. That's the problem. And we see everything from from the prism of today's world. But ancient India was not like that. Ancient India was a harmonious society. Right? Of course some people earned more, some some people earned less and so on so forth. Every society has these these you know um these issues. These are not issues. These are these are uh these are features of society. Not everybody will earn the same. Right? You go to any corporation does everybody earn the same? No. The manager earns more. A programmer junior programmer earns less and so on. That's how it is. So there was no need to deal with imagined differences. There were no differences. Kings, they had one simple role to ensure that society prospers and society remains safe. And that's what they focused on. They did not have to focus on differences in society. There was no difference in society. Okay. All right. Next. Brown Leprechaun says, "How effective are the This is a This is from three weeks ago. How effective are the THAD and Patriot missile system? Also, when was the last time the US won a war singlehandedly? When was the last time the US won a war single-handedly against anybody against anybody? Okay, so let me deal with the THA and Patriot system. So, THAAD is terminal high altitude area defense. Okay. Um, the THAAD system has this massively expensive radar. One radar costs more than a billion dollars. And they have this very expensive missiles. One missile like between one to one to three 1 to5 million per piece. And uh you will need multiple missiles to take out an incoming threat. Typically a ballistic missile. So that's a THAD system. And uh how effective is it? Well, it's only as effective as the radar. And if you destroy the radar, the THAD system is blind. And the Iranians have been taking out the THAD radars. The THAD system is not working anymore. So that's how effective it is. It may be very effective. It may be very accurate. But you kill the radar, the whole system is blind, right? The Patriot system, once again, very expensive system and not very accurate. You need multiple Patriot interceptor missiles to take take out an incoming ballistic missile. Obviously, it's it's like shooting a bullet with a bullet. It's very difficult. And uh yeah, it's it's the Iran war has shown that the Patriot and AD systems are extremely economically ineffective because uh each interceptor missile costs millions of dollars while the incoming ballistics and drones cost a fraction of that. Quantity has a quality of its own. I've been saying for how many years? Well, you're seeing it in action in front of your eyes now. Quality quantity has a quality of its own. This is the lesson India really desperately urgently needs to learn. Now the the more pertinent historical question since we are dealing with history today. When was the last time the United States won a war singleendedly? Good question. So let's think about some of the wars the United States has uh fought in the reasonably recent past. There's an ongoing war the Americans are fighting. It's against Iran, but they're not fighting alone. Israel is fighting alongside the US. And the various Gulf nations are also kind of providing some services to the US. So the US is not fighting single-handedly. It's not fighting alone against Iran. Iran is fighting a eight or nine front war. In India, we worry about a two and a half front war, right? Iran is fighting an eight or nine front war. So this is not war. The US is fighting single-handedly. 2003, the Iran Iraq invasion, sorry, Iraq invasion. This was the US and a coalition of other nations that collectively invaded Iraq and deposed Saddam Hussein. So it was not single-handed victory. 1991 Iraq once again once again a coalition of nations attacked Iraq. So it was not a single-handed victory. Before that you had uh Vietnam. The Americans lost Vietnam. So that was a loss. There was a defeat for the US. Before that you had the Korean War which was not a victory for the US. they lost half of the Korean peninsula. So you could say it was kind of semi-defeat for the US and once again the US was not fighting alone. So u uh it was a a semi-defeat for the US. The second world war the Americans you can say won but they were one of the allies and they had a whole bunch of nations that was fighting against the Nazis and the Soviets and the Italians and much of the fighting and dying and winning was done by the USSR not by the US. So the US did not win this war single-handedly and before that. So which is the last war the Americans won single-handedly. You had the US Mexico war in the 1800s that they won. But uh after that there was one more war I can think of that the Americans won single-handedly. That was the um Spanishamean war. Spanishame war of 1898. Okay. So that is a war in which the Americans defeated Spain single-handedly. 1898 you have to go all the way back. So the Americans um defeated Spain. They uh liberated Cuba from Spanish Spanish occupation. They also liberated uh Philippines and Guam from Spanish occupation. But the consequence was that the Americans occupied the Philippines. They they essentially bought the Philippines from Spain for about 10 million or something dollars, 1020 million. And then the Filipinos went to war against the Americans because they wanted to be free. But the Americans, they effectively replaced Spanish occupation of the Philippines with American occupation of the Philippines. So there was no difference for the for the Filipinos, right? Uh so anyway, that led to the US Philippines war, which the Americans eventually won, but the that was not a major war. It's hardly a war. So the last war the Americans won was the uh 1898 Spanish American War. Since then, they have never won a war single-handedly. is truth. Yes. Is very much truth. Okay. Um Swami says, "Shouldn't Rome and Byzantine Empire be considered to be different as Rome was pagan and the Byzantine Empire was Christian? Also, why do you say that the capital of the British Empire shifted from London to Washington? Aren't they separate entities too?" Good question. that a good question that allows me to explain this in a little more detail. So Rome, the Roman Empire and the Byzantine Empire, shouldn't they be considered different? The Roman Empire was pagan. The Byzantine Empire was Christian. So should they not be considered to be different? Well, you see, Christianity became a thing in the Byzantine Empire in the 4th century AD. before the 4th century AD around the time the Byzantine Empire was still pagan and secondly the origin of the Byzantine Empire is Rome itself. So it depends on what sort of lens you want to use for your analysis. If you want to look at the situation in 1,00 AD then clearly the Byzantine Empire is a completely separate Christian empire and there is no Western Roman Empire in existence around 10,000 AD. Even 500 AD the Byzantine Empire is a major eastern Christian empire and the Roman Empire is mostly disintegrated in the west. So again two completely separate entities. But if you go back to 200 AD then the Byzantine Empire is nothing but an offshoot of the Western Roman Empire. So understand that the origin of the Byzantine Empire is as a child of Rome and eventually it it it took took its own life its own separate existence eventually. So eventually they were different. Today India and Pakistan are different. But that that that is relevant. If you look at 2026, if you look at 1945, there was no Pakistan. Do you understand this simple difference? So eventually the Byzantine Empire became a distinct separate entity from the Roman Empire and it significantly out outlasted the Roman the Western Roman Empire. But the Byzantine Empire, there was a time when there was no Byzantine Empire and there was only a Roman Empire and then the Roman Empire gave birth to a child in Byzantium which became Constantinople and eventually became a separate entity. Do you understand the difference and eventually even when it was born the Byzantine Empire was originally pagan just like Rome polytheistic and later it became Christian. Please understand the chronology, understand how things evolve. And the same can be said about the British Empire and the American Empire. It's the Anglo-Saxon Empire. Okay? It's the capital of the Anglo-Saxon Empire that moved from London, UK to Washington DC. Okay? It's the Anglo-Saxon Empire which encompasses much of the world. Australia, Canada, the UK, New Zealand and the US are part of the Anglo-Saxon Empire and all their vasal states and occupied states like Japan, Germany, South Korea, etc. These and EU EU NATO nations these are all part of the Anglo-Saxon Empire. Some are vasal states, some are allied states, some are states under occupation and some are actually Anglo-Saxon states. Understand that? So that's what happened. Okay. So, originally you had a British Empire and the United States was this relatively weaker entity, but it was the same people, the same culture. Eventually, the US became the lifeline for the UK in the Second World War. And that's when the center of gravity moves from London to Washington. Right. Okay. Swami once again says how important is the Siber Siberia region Russia if hypothetically Russia loses it would Russia just become a boxedin state in Europe like Poland Hungary etc that is super easy to invade excellent excellent interesting question uh first of all let's look at Siberia uh let's put the map on the screen Okay. So, Russia is the world's largest nation um and broadest widest nation from east to west or west to east. Yes. I don't know 11 12 or whatever time zones 15 time zones whatever it is whatever the actual number is. And which part of Russia is Siberia? Well, I suppose it's the uh from where does it begin? I suppose um yakutsk and all the way to um yeah this overall region Eurasian region uh does Google let's see Siberia does it give us a separate okay so this uh shaded region is Siberia I would not really include sakalin and vladi was part of Siberia but Okay, technically it seems to be part of that even Kamchatka. So this is Siberia. It's eastern Russia. It's you could say Asiatic Russia that is u Siberia and then you have European Russia which is uh uh essentially west of the Ural mountains and that's the uh European or Eastern European portion of of Russia. But the largest portion is the Asia is the Eurasian or Asiatic part of Russia which is Siberia. Right? So the question you're asking is how important is Siberia for Russia? It is super important. It's critically important. It's vitally important. Most of um the resources that Russia has are in Siberia. Whether it is metal ore, whether it's iron ore, whether it is diamonds, whether it is uh various chemicals, whether it is oil, whether it's gas, oil, gas must be caucases region. But much so much more. um the agricultural land, the the strategic depth Russia has um the the ability for Russia to have an eastern seabboard on the Pacific coast, um the proximity to so many nations in Indonesia. All of that is thanks to Russia uh owning Siberia. It's thanks to Siberia being part of Russia. Whenever Russia has gone to war and it's been under stress like for example during the second world war you had operation Barbarosa and the so the Nazis occed Russia they came all the way to the outskirts of Moscow how did Russia survive that they moved all their production lines all their factories into the interiors of Russia which is into Siberia they could just keep going east even if they're invaded right and that's why Russia was able to survive um so this gigantic piece of uh uration territory gives Russia tremendous strategic depth. It gives Russia this inexhaustible re, you know, reservoir of resources. It's what makes Russia an otarchy, right? So, it's it's critically important for Russia, the Siberia region, right? If hypothetically Russia loses Siberia, will Russia become a boxed in state in Europe just like Poland, Hungary, etc. Super easy to invade? Uh, not quite. So, once again, let's go to the map. Yeah, if you see the non-Siberian part of Russia, yeah, it is still way larger than Poland or Hungary. Way larger. Huge. Huge compared to Poland or Hungary. Much larger than Ukraine, it is still the largest entity in uh in in the whole of Europe. Even if it loses Siberia, so it will not become a boxedin state like Poland or Hungary. Poland is not quite boxed in. It has a sea seabboard sea coast. Hungary is a landlocked country. If Russia loses Siberia, it will still have access uh to the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea and also the the Bar Sea, right? So, it won't be entirely landlocked at all. Uh but it will lose obviously its its precious resources in Siberia and it won't be that easy to invade. It will be relatively easier to invade but still it'll still be a formidable uh opponent to have. Okay. Nirvana Shanks says, "During the Anglo-Saxon period before 1066 AD, how much cultural and political influence did the Saxon elite retain in the English court? And to what extent did the English bureaucracy retain Anglo-Saxon structures after the Norman conquest of 1066 AD and where were they were they replaced by Norman systems?" interesting question but I cannot go into such tremendous details because even I don't remember exactly what specific structures and bureaucratic structures and all we had in in England but let me give you a higher level overview okay so before 1066 AD England was ruled by the Anglo-Saxons the Angles and Saxons invaded England sometime in the fifth century roughly AD Okay. They invaded from present day Germany. Saxony and so on. Anglia. Yeah. Angles, Saxons and Judes came from Germany and England and invaded England. So before the Anglo-Saxon and Jude invasions in the fifth century, England was ruled by Celtic peoples. [snorts] Of course, England was under uh Romanal occupation for a few centuries and before the Romans, you had the Celtic peoples who uh and Britonic peoples uh who ruled England. So, if you look at England's population in the 11th century AD before 1066 AD, you had a mix of Anglo-Saxons and Celtic peoples who were part of the English population. Okay? And in 1066 AD you have the Norman invasion of England by William of Normandy day who was then called William the Bastard. But after 1066 AD he was known as William the Conqueror. Now in the 11th century AD uh the Saxon elite retained all the influent influence in the English court. All of it not how much all of it. So England had cultural elements that came from the Celtic people, right? From the um from the northern from the north northern lands, you know, Scotland, Ireland, all that. And England had lots of cultural elements that came in from uh the Scandinavian peoples for for a few for a few centuries. uh the English paid the Dana gel to the to the to the to the Vikings, yearly tribute of gold to the Vikings for a for a various period of periods of time. England was ruled by Scandinavian kings. For example, Canute the Great in the 11th century AD, probably 11th century AD. And then he and Kenut the Great had this great friend who was an earl of his whose name was Earl Godwin. He was uh Anglo-Saxon. He was a Saxon lord and he was a good friend of King Kanut and he had fought with King Kut in Scandinavia in various wars and they were good friends. So Earl Godwin was the first among the the nobility of England. Um so King Kenut was Scandinavian and Earl Godwin was Anglo-Saxon. So King Kenut dies and he leaves behind three or four sons. One of them is the king of England and you have two sons in Scandinavia. One is Harold Herford was it? The one is Swain and so on. Messed up thing. Yeah. And Earl Godwin has a number of sons. One is Swain. He was an absolute crackpot. Nutcase. The oldest son Swain. His second son was was it Harold. Third was Tostig and so on. Wolf not also somewhere. So you had the Anglo-Saxon people who were the elite, the nobility and they had a very welldefined very well organized system of governance of of uh the British islands. Okay. And then you have um so so eventually Harold the son of Earl Godwin became the king of England. He was appointed the king. Uh before him you had Edward the Confessor, wasn't it? Edward the confessor who who was a peculiar person. He is uh regarded as a saint today. He married the daughter of Earl Godwin but they apparently never uh had normal marital relations, never had children. Um and uh yeah, Edward the Confessor, his mother was Norman, but he hated his mother because she did not ever love him or something, some messed up story and so on. And eventually after he dies, you have uh u Harold Godwinson who the son of Earl Godwin who becomes the king of England in the year 1066. That's when all hell breaks loose. Harold Hardrada invades England from the north with King Harold's brother Tostig and King Harold kills them both in a massive massive devastating battle battle of Stamford Bridge and the moment he wins the battle of Stamford Bridge news comes to him that Duke William of Normandy has invaded England in the south. So he has to run with his battered and beaten army all the way down south and he has to meet the Norman invaders at Hastings and uh yeah Harold got unlucky. He got a you know arrow in his eye and that was the beginning of Norman rule. Now once the normals Normans Normans started ruling England they continued much of the same system of governance that the Anglo-Saxons had established. was a very good system of governance. You had shiers, you had hundreds and so on. And then the Normans under William of Normandy, they did what? The great survey of England. They compiled the Doomsday book. Okay? And if you study the Doomsday book, you'll find that at least 10% of England's population was slaves at the time and so on. So that's how it happened overall. uh the details of the bureaucracy and structures and all you can read them in your own free time but overall this is how it happened. Very interesting period of time in the history of England. Abishek says please share your views on the belief that Mongols worshiped Lord Shiva. Well that belief is entirely incorrect. There is no evidence whatsoever that the Mongols worshiped Lord Shiva. Okay. And I'm talking about the time up to the 13th century AD. The until Shir Chingis Khan was still alive. So the original religion of the Mongol people and the Turk people also is called in English language it's called Tangism. And a lot of people try to portray this as a monotheistic religion. The worship of the one true god Tangri which is BS. In the Mongolian religion, there is the worship of the sky father Tangri, the earth mother Umay, which is like dio and prituimata in our old Vic religion, right? You also have the the worship of ancestors, the spirits of your ancestors, the spirits of the forest, you worship trees, you worship hills, you worship mountains. So, it's a polytheistic religion. Okay. And eventually u after the uh Mongol conquest of China um Shri Kubla Khan made uh Buddhism Tibet and Vajriana Buddhism the de facto state religion of the Mongols. But the Mongols already practiced what is called Tangism in English. So Tangism and Vajriana Buddhism synretatized. And today if you go to Mongolia you have Mongol Mongolian people who will have in their house a portrait of Shri Chingish Khan. They will have a portrait of the Buddha and they will also have uh tenrist uh worship elements in their house right that's how it is. They will have swastikas in the necklaces and the musical instruments and knives and whatnot. So it's a very syncritic culture that you have in Mongolia today religion and in vajana Buddhism Tibetan Buddhism there is the existence of Maheshwara Lord Shiva but typically in Vajayana Buddhism Maheshwara or Lord Shiva is depicted as being trampled under the feet of tantric deities. Okay is true? Fact check me. Go on. So that's the deal. Okay. The Mong the Mongols do have the trishul in Tangism but that's a Tristul. It's not a it's not the trishul of Lord Shiva. It's a polytheistic culture and a lot of things come up you know emerge spontaneously that are very similar across neighboring cultures. So the Mongols did not worship Lord Shiva at least until the time of Shir Chinghan. Later on because of Indian influences which came in through Tibet. Maybe some people may have perhaps worshiped Lord Shiva perhaps but those would be a big significant minority. Today you have a syncratic version syncratic form of vajayana Buddhism and Tangorism that is practiced in Mongolia just like in Japan you have a syncratic syncretic synretic version of Shinto and Buddhism and Hinduism practiced in in Japan. that sort of thing. Okay. Um I have more questions but I think I should end it now because it's like over two hours. I typically these days do four and a half hour live streams but let's end this one at a reasonable time. Taking a whole bunch of questions. So um yeah. Yes. Okay. So I will end the live stream here um at a reasonable time today for a change. Uh today the super chat is off because I wanted to end the stream after two 2 and a half hours like I'm doing now. Tomorrow I'm going to have a live stream in which the super chats will be on and we can take it 4 hours 4 and a half hours how as as long as you want. I will take all of a super chats. Yes, you are right. Whoever it is here the Garuda is the national bird of Mongolia. Yes, that is true. And the Garuda comes into Mongolia through Tibetan culture. Right. Right. Okay. So, I look forward to seeing you all tomorrow. Tomorrow we're going to discuss everything including the Iran war, geopolitics, all that back to normal programming. But I thought I'll do a history session today just to, you know, calm the temperature to cool the temperature down a little bit. All right. So, I look forward to seeing you tomorrow in less than 24 hours. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards. And I will see you in tomorrow's live stream. Thank you everybody. Good day. Good day. Good night. Bye-bye for now.