[Music] Heat. Hey, Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello everybody and welcome to the 299th episode of the Ask a Bijit Show. Here we are. We are live. Let us see who all is there on the live chat. Today we're going to talk about history. I'm going to answer questions that you all have asked in the comments. I've taken a bunch of these and I'll answer as many as possible. Let's see who is there on the live chat. Ara feminist player Apurva um Apurva Anupama Karan Ry Sumukalan Bruce Wayne Animish Mleven Ram Nakul BM Namaste Shivas Sai Not that guy okay sir oritankabonia uh Naven Sai Kushbu drawing and art namaskar abhud Singh welcome back Sujit Shanaga namaskarum Aayush Singh pranam anita salutations I might take meow meow uh geopolitical dub is here from indor good evening sir shrias day good good evening pratik bora nikl nikl lang kuml krishna raunad from the surinam surin Netherlands hello United challengers apurwa once again sid make money with ease okay is here from Assam satellite welcome Jimmy wand matram kuml sumuk bupalam sor pande chat DSP namast E Pranov Sony Rea Hlay Basar Kayatwal Beyonder I Matist Vladimir Putin uh Ausin 439 from Agra Namaste World affairs uh Chatanya Manuja Artsy Weeb Pranov Kennel Mita Sanki good evening Dur Daran hello justep saran from Chicago hello good morning God was alive animals for life from laugh from Mumbai. Prashant Sharma the seeker. Shyanga Tiga I hope you I got your name right. World affairs Davis Nyak Nishant Bardage has reposted the stream on X. Good to see you sir. Rinki Chri good evening Deepesh Sharma Namaste. Brianka Bonia Anahita and IPK_1S Prashant Sharma event countdown Gurudatabate Sankar Coney Chiva says Apurva Kishan Burkar Horizon Gamer YT Nakul BM from Karnataka thank you sir worldly affairs Amisha Mishra hello Junadas from Assam and so many other people I will now stop otherwise it'll go on forever Um, and let's take questions. So, I'll I'll let's let's get going with the questions. But before I do that, let me just inform you all tomorrow is going to be the 300th episode. Fantastic. Outstanding. And it's going to start at 6:00 p.m. India time tomorrow. Okay? It's going to be an extended extended episode. The reason I'm telling you here right now is that because the YouTube is making my u community posts invisible. So I put out a community post today early morning India time about the 300th episode with a link to the episode and 9 hours later I take a look and there's not a single comment. There's not a single like or anything. Zero interaction. So I see from another browser and that post is invisible. It's not seeing it's not visible on on my YouTube channel. So YouTube is now making my posts invisible. I'm not very surprised based on what's happening on my channel since uh election time last year, but that's okay. So, I'm just informing you all. Okay, tomorrow the uh 300th episode will start at 6:00 p.m. India time. Um yeah, just to let you know because YouTube is playing these games now. All right, let's get going with the questions. I will take questions that you all have asked in the comments. Let us go. What questions do we have? Question number one is by Vox Urania. Thank you for the wonderful video. You're welcome. Uh the question is how have so many aspects of polytheistic traditions managed to survive in India which is Hinduism of course and even thrive against uh you know the Abrahamic Christian etc you know missionary and all that onslaught this wisdom is needed right so it's a great question I mean polytheism has been eradicated the world over more or less if you look at the Americas Polytheism hardly survives. It used to be the original framework in in the Americas whether it's northern America, southern North America, South America, the indigenous cultures of the native people all essentially wiped out. Everyone has been converted. If people practice their old culture, it's it's in hiding mostly. Uh when it comes to Europe, which used to practice the old Indo-Uropean religion, entirely wiped out. Nothing remains. Africa, it's two foreign religions in Africa today. They hardly practice any of their original polytheistic faiths in Africa. If you look at well Asia, if you look at Arabia, Arabia, the polytheism is gone. If you look at Persia, wiped out, eradicated, annihilated, obliterated. If you look at uh Greece, Rome, wherever you go, uh even Indonesia to a large extent and so on. So, how come Hinduism still survives? How does how did that happen? Despite the subcontinent being under a under foreign occupation for roughly a thousand years, give or take, right? I mean, if you look at Afghanistan now, finally, polytheism is mostly gone. Until the 1990s, you still had more than 100,000 polytheists in Afghanistan. Natives natives, right? Obviously, now it's mostly gone. uh but in the in India it still survives. How did this happen? What are the reasons for this? It's important for us to know maybe this wisdom is needed like uh Vox urania says. So multiple reasons why Hinduism survived. It's it's thrived also but now it is slowly getting eradicated. Uh so what's the deal? So Hinduism has these characteristics diversity, plurality. Hinduism is decentralized. It is self-organizing. It's got these different frameworks in different different regions. Every village, every town, every city has a different framework. Every region in India has a different framework. And these frameworks are continuously evolving. These are some of the reasons why Hinduism has survived. Polytheism has survived in India. Another reason is the varnati system which is demonized as the so-called cast system. Hinduism has survived because of the varnati system. We've had this tremendous social resilience, cultural resilience, civilizational resilience because of these things, because of the diversity, because of the plurality, because the Hinduism is decentralized, because it's self-organizing, because of the varnati system, etc. So, um, another reason is that see Hinduism is is not a religion that is um, you know, a top- down religion. you destroy the church and the and the entire religion, you know, evaporates. It's not like that. Hinduism is deeply intertwined with uh every aspect. It's historically been deeply intertwined with every aspect of Indian social life, daily rituals, festivals, uh your your cultural norms, your dietary norms, your kinship, your traditions, your governance, your institutions. Historically all of that right everything I mean everything was was tradition and Hinduism is part of that um deep down in the villages in in big cities everywhere right um all the structures in Hinduism in in the Indian polytheism are decentralized there's no such no no top-down structure like you have in the Abrahamic religions in the Abrahamic religions for example in Christianity you have a pope at the top then you have cardinals and you have bishops and so on it's like it's a milit interest organization and if you take the top down, if you take the structure down, everything collapses. Hinduism is not like that, right? It's completely decentralized. There is no single institution. So there's no single institution that if you destroy it, Hinduism collapses. Simply doesn't work. It is and Hinduism is so diverse, so plural, super syncric. It's absorbed all kinds of local traditions, ways of life, you know, it's uh it's it's given it's spawned so many different versions of itself like Buddhism, like Janism, like Sikhism, right? Um tremendous philosophical depth, tremendous philosophical breadth also depth as well as breadth. I mean you you have vidanta, you have yoga, you have the bacti movement, you have the tantric paths. So in all of these different aspects of Hinduism, they appeal to various different kinds of people, different classes of people, people with different temperaments, right? It Hinduism accommodates essentially every path you can imagine, every kind of person you can imagine, right? Um then when um when India came under let's say Turk occupation and there was this this sustained attempt over centuries to convert Indians by force that time you had the bacti movement right and you had various u very prominent figures who are considered saints like Tukaram like Miraabai etc who revitalized Indian spiritual life through various kinds of uh what they what what the um academics would call vernacular devotion right open to all so-called casts that sort of thing so that's what Indian polytheism or what you call Hinduism has always been about it's very resilient it's very local localized right some the British were were they simply could not understand Indian culture civilization because it was so diverse. They said it was a network of local cults everywhere we everywhere you go and the the so-called vernati system the so-called cast system which actually is the vernati vernati system they simply could not wrap their minds around it was so complicated so complex right um it's it's like a federation of traditions that sort of thing um and and you know so the thing was that um this vanati system they said the British used to say that it was and and Indian historians today will say it's it's got these insular structures insular community structures that uh limit contact and and and intermarriage etc with each other this endogami right so because of this the verers and jatis they became self-contained religious units each of which would have its own rituals its own traditions it own lineages, its own way of doing things, right? And it was almost impossible to break no matter how much the oppression was. And there were thousands, maybe tens of thousands of varnatis. How do you dismantle that? How do you destroy that? Right? So these are some of the reasons why Hinduism has endured, Hinduism has been so resilient. Um if you look at ancient polytheism, polytheistic traditions like the Roman polytheism or or the older Greek polytheism, they did not have this self-organizing structure, these evolving frameworks. They were very easy to destroy. Hinduism on the other hand, it's the Indian subcontinent has been inhabited since about what 70 80,000 years before today. It's the oldest society in the world. And that's why it's so incredibly complex. And that's one of the reasons why uh that's what why Hinduism has survived. It's it's it's been so resilient, right? It's very adaptive. It's very elastic, right? It's it's the traditions are very deeply embedded in society in in civilization and that's why it survived. That's why it's adapted. Um but Hinduism is such that you know it needs state support to thrive. It needs society to be to be it it needs the society to be prosperous in order to thrive and those things have been taken away from us today. We don't have state support for Indian culture Indian Indian civilization nothing at all. The Indian state is secular. So today it is dying a slow death and uh there's no funding available for for building new temples and for continuing the traditions. If you look at other the other religions they have tremendous funding and this there's their religious structures cropping cropping cropping up everywhere across the country. Where when was the last time you saw a new temple being built somewhere? I know Ram Mandr that's one example. What other examples do you have? So today Hinduism is dying a slow death. Maybe in 50 years it'll be gone. Perhaps. I hope not. But yeah. All right. Next question. EE says, "Why did the USSR not construct military bases on Indian soil if India was a vasal of the US?" Excuse me, what? Okay. If so first of all you are assuming sir that India was a vasal of the US and then you asking why did the USSR not construct military bases in India if the if India was a vasal of the US uh India was nobody's vasal okay I've taken this question because many people assume that maybe India was a vasal of the USSR maybe India was a vasal of the US maybe India was someone's vasal so let's let's understand what the deal was in the 20th century. India was nobody's vasal in the 20th century. India was a very mediocrely run country. No question about it. Very very poor poorly run country. Terrible governance. The way the economy was mismanaged was terrible and so on and so forth. I have discussed that at great length in on this channel. We all know that. But what does mean? What does it mean to be a vasal? It means you are a subordinate to a more powerful nation or empire or kingdom or whatever, right? It means subordination. Vasal means subordination. Now, was India a vasal of the US? Absolutely not. I mean, who even can imagine that? But some people would ask, was India actually a vasal of the USSR? So the question you have to ask yourself was did India subordinate itself to the USSR? Did India subordinate India's interests to the USSR's interests? Which means did India sacrifice Indian interests for Soviet interests? I don't think that is the case. Right? We neither sacrificed our economic interests nor uh geopolitical interests nor security interests nor foreign policy interests etc for the sake of the USSR. We had close strategic alignment with the USSR. We had close ideological alignment socialism etc with the USSR. There was strategic convergence between India and the USSR particularly against western influence in the subcontinent and overall in Asia. There was no question about the fact that there was significant convergence between India and the USSR. But the USSR did not control India's territorial integrity, India's borders. They did not control that. They did not control India's economic matters, economic uh choices, economic strategy, tactics, whatever. The USSR did not control India's domestic decisions or foreign decisions. Right? And actually India's policies um did not always align with the USSR. India sometimes even diverged with um you know uh Soviet preferences so to say for one example Christmas day 1979 what happened Christmas day 1979 the USSR invaded Afghanistan while Gandhar India opposed that now would a ever dare to oppose something its master does impossible right so the point is India was no one's wasal. India was a mediocre country in the 20th century. It still is to a large extent today. Okay, let's not fool ourselves. But we are way less mediocre today than in the 20th century. We are actually going in the right direction slowly slowly incrementally glow gradually. India is a nation of incrementalism. But we despite all the drawbacks and all the troubles we faced in the 20th century all the misgovernance all the whatever else we were still not anyone's wasal okay so let's be very clear about that India was not a vasal of the US or the USSR in the 20th century and that's why nobody was able to construct military bases on our territory okay says Hinduism often becomes the target of the practice of child marriage. The allegations that Hindus these these backward Hindus they practiced child marriage. This barbaric abominable backward misogynistic univilized custom of child marriage. These terrible Hindus. So how do you debunk this? You can't debunk it. Hindus did practice child marriage. Evil Hindus. But but But since we're discussing this, let us go to our best friend Google, right? Satya Nadella has given us Google or he runs Google. So let's go to our best friend Google and let's do some Googling. Let us do some Googling. Okay. Um um at what age did Gberga of Burgundi get married? Yes. Yes. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Answer the question. Answer the question. Come on, you can do that. It's not answering my question. All right. All right. Okay. So, Gerberga of Burgundi was a member of the elder house of we married firstly to Herman the first. Okay. She was born in the year 965 and she married in the year 978 which means that she was 12 or 13 years old when she married. Oh my goodness that's a child marriage. See Google is not answering my question but I was still still able to find the answer. This lady okay she married the you know at the age of 13. Now what at what age did did Cecil of France get married? Cecile of she was about eight or 9 years old when she married Tankrred prince of Galile in the year 1106. Good god n eight or but they will say you know these marriages were not consummated. Are you sure? Are you sure? Really? Is that your your your defense now? What year at what age did Matilda Matilda of England the daughter of Henry I one of my favorite kings at what age did she get married? When she was 12 years old and then she married again when she was 26 years old right well well child marriage. What about Uraka of Castile? Let's see that. Puraka of Castile Castile whatever they call it. Yes. At what age did she get married? She was married at the age of 8 to her first husband. A Christian marriage. And the marriage was not consummated until she was 13 or 14. My goodness. What great mercy. Mercy. Mercy. Oh good God. Very merciful. U Agnes of France. Let's see. Ag Agnes of Thanos. At what age did she get married? At the age of eight. My god. The she married the Byzantine emperor at the age of eight. Oh my god. What what is happening in Christianity? What is happening here? My goodness. Okay. What about Joan of Navar? Let us see. Joan of Navar. What age did was she? She was 11 when she got married. What about Isabella of France? Isabella France. At what age did she get married? Blah blah etc. About 12 years old. Okay. What about Kathine the Medici? Katherine the Medici. Medi, what age was she? She was 14. My god, that's terribly old compared to some of the other cases we saw, right? What about Kathine Willoughby? Okay, let's see this one. Katherine Willoughby. Katherine. Okay, she was 14 years old and she married Charles Brandon the Duke of Suffuk who was at the time 49 years old. So a 49year-old gentleman married a lady, a girl, a child who was 14 years of age. What about Lucia de Mediti? Let us see. Lucitzia the Medici. What age was she when she got married? 13. She was 13. Oh my goodness. And she died at the age of 16. What? I wonder what she died of. Uh, I'm sure. I'm sure it must be something um pretty normal. What about Maria Louisa? Maria Louisa of Parma. At what age did this lady get married? At the age of 13. At the age of 13, she married Charles IV of Spain. But I am over here giving you examples of people who got married like hundreds and hundreds of years ago. Obviously that's that's very outdated information right? No one does these things today or do they? Let us see some other cases. Okay. Ruby Thornton. Who is this Ruby Thornton? Okay. Um Ruby Thornton. Let's just let us just Google this name. Ruby Thornton. Uh, okay. 1913. How about that? Ruby Thornton. Okay. It's not giving me the information I seek here. Um, okay. Maybe maybe we'll see somebody else. Ununice. Ununice Winstead. Marriage of Charlie Jones and Ununice Winstead. Let's take a look at this now. All right. Maybe this will give us something. So, this was a child marriage that took place in the state of Tennessee in January 1937. Um, how old was the girl? She was 9 years old. Oh my goodness. Jesus Christ. She's 9 years old. Oh wow. Okay, let's see something else. Uh, who else do we have? Sher John Johnson. Sher Johnson. Sher Johnson is an American activist. Uh she campaigned for title. Okay. She was an only child etc etc. Beginning at the age of nine, she was repeatedly raped by the deacon and bishop of her church. Well well well church bishop deacon and she was also raped by her mother's husband. very very very very barbaric culture these people have. She began she became pregnant as a result of rape at the age of 10 and uh okay so she had to marry the deacon who had raped her so that he could avoid the criminal charges. Um okay so the church arranged the marriage and she had six children by the time she was 17 years old. Okay. And this is all in the 20th century and this lady is about 66 years old today. Okay. I could go on and on and on. My point is, have we had enough? Is Hinduism this terrible barbaric religion? Yeah. Yeah. Sure. There used to be the practice of the custom of child marriage in Hinduism. Sure. Everyone had it. Uh let's not talk about certain religions at all by the way, but I've given you like a 300 examples from Christianity. Okay? So I'm not debunking anything. I'm just giving you I'm just I'm just showing you what the world really is like. All right? That's it. Next. Okay. Nikesh Dahal says, "What lessons should we as ordinary Indians learn from a millennium of humiliation?" Yes, the Chinese speak about their century of humiliation, don't they? They teach every child in school about the century of humiliation that China was humiliated by the whites, by the westerners for a century. We have been under we have we were under foreign occupation for in various parts of the subcontinent for over a thousand years starting with Gandhar starting with Sind even before Gandhar and we still are colonized by the way we still are laboring under a colonial system which has never been removed and we don't know that. So our our millennium of humiliation is continuing. By the way, it's not over. India remains deeply mentally, culturally, civilizationally and institutionally enslaved and colonized. First of all, that is the first lesson we have to learn. The mill the millennium of humiliation is not over. It is continuing. We are still colonized. First of all, understand that. That's the first lesson. It's not over. Now what are the lessons we have to learn? Uh so many lessons. Look people ask how do we take revenge for the millennium of humiliation? Revenge on the Turks, revenge on the Europeans and so on. You don't take revenge. The best form of revenge for all humiliations whether in personal life or as a civilization. What's the best form of revenge? The best form of revenge is success. success. India needs to succeed. India needs to reclaim its historical position as the greatest civilization, as the most prosperous civilization. That is revenge. We are nowhere close to achieving this revenge, right? Yeah. Uh secondly, we have to understand, you know, Indians love soft power. Indians soft power. Soft power this, soft power that blah blah blah. Why did we fall prey to foreign occupation? Soft power. Maybe soft power was one of the problems. Soft power is a mirage. It's useless. It's worthless. Soft power is is pointless unless it is backed up by hard power. Actual hard power. Understand what the world respects. Understand what the world fears. Hard power. Prioritize hard power. How do you prioritize hard power? By becoming an economic powerhouse. There's no other way. India has to India must reclaim its historical position as the world's largest economy, the greatest economy in the world. This this requires sustained long-term high economic growth. Right? We have to reach the $10 trillion mark first and then the $15 trillion mark. Eventually we will be uh you know putting out these marks in Indian rupees not in dollars but right now we talk about dollars because the dollar is the world's reserve currency. So we have to grow to these marks. Right now we are not even a $5 trillion economy. Soon we will be so five then 10 then 15 we have to keep on moving. We have to keep on heating hitting these milestones. Right? That's the only way if you to to to increase your hard power and gain the respect and fear of uh those who do not seek you well. Um and once you have money, you have to invest it in the right places. It should not be splurged on this largely beha yojas and whatn not they're doing. It has to be invested in the military in science. There's no progress without science. Science is is is is is vital for progress. So India needs to bolster its military strength. India needs to achieve excellence in science and technology which will not come without merit. A meritocratic society. No more reservations. Are we anywhere close to that? Are we learning any of the of the lessons of the millennium of humiliation? Right? So we cannot compromise on excellence on science, excellence in science and technology. We need to have one of the world's best space programs. Are we anywhere close to that? Our space program is sleeping right now. The Chinese are going ahead in leaps and bounds. The Chinese are developing reusable rocket technology. What are we doing? Nothing. Yeah. Okay. Next, India must become a manufacturing power obviously, right? Otherwise, you can't grow your economy. India has to achieve self-sufficiency in otarchy essentially the way Russia is an utarchy completely self-sufficient in everything whether it is raw materials whether it is iron whether it's copper whether it is oil whether it's gas whether it is chemicals whether it's fertilizers whether it is agriculture whatever you can think of Russia is self-sufficient in those things so is the US India needs to become that right completely self-sufficient in all critical resources agriculture industry ries etc. technology right complete authority now what about leadership what about governance we need reforms on that we need reforms in these fields we need to have a strong unified leadership the past 3,000 plus years of history teach us that India has done well only when it has been unified under a strong central leadership I can give you the examples of the Morian Empire the Kushan Empire, the Gush, the Gupta Empire, the Chola Empire, even for some time, little bit of time, the Marata Empire, strong central leadership, right? India needs strong central leadership to unify the country and keep the country u immune from external aggression. India needs meritocracy. Like I said, reservations are the bane of India. They will destroy India. India also needs meritocracy in succession of leadership. A kingdoms, nations, empires disintegrate because of poor leadership succession. And what threatens leadership succession? Elections. So India needs to have a system that promotes the best possible leaders and puts forth the best possible leaders. Not the most popular. The best leaders are not necessarily the most popular. The best leaders can often be unpopular because they make hard choices which the general population won't understand. Right? So that has to happen. We need to prioritize the national interest. We need leaders who prioritize the national interest. Right? Not the popular whatever is popular right now. Yeah. They need to avoid the the mistakes made by past leaders. Um we have to follow the ancient state craft of India the Chanakeniti the timeless teachings the precepts of Vishrishna Gupta Chanaka right other our other rival nations they follow Chanakini far better than us even Pakistan follows Chanakini better than India so that's where we are we also need to wage a war on corruption we need to reform our internal systems we need to raise our national standards heads. We are currently a super mediocre nation. We are a nation of incremental tiny change. Look at the way ISRO progresses. What what major progress has is ISRO made in its capabilities in the past 10 years. 2010 9 or wherever it was there we launched Chundrean one the first one. Where are we now? Chundrean 3. Two uh two happened three happened. But have we developed rockets like that are like 10 times more powerful in the past 10 years? No. Have we developed a single reusable rocket? Have we even tested one? No. All tiny little increments. Lack of vision, lack of leadership, lack of ambition. Right? Where are we raising our standards? We're not. Then we have to reject this image of weakness. this false image that has been projected by historians and leaders that India is is mainly historians that India is a nation of losers and weaklings whose core philosophy is pacifism. We need to reject that. We need to reject that. We have to decolonize our minds. Indians need to mentally decolonize themselves and we have to realize like I said that India is still colonized and the millennium of humiliation has not ended. We need to reject this pacifist ideology, this nonviolence. All of that needs to be dumped into the trash bin. Don't ask yourself what would Mr. Gandhi do. Ask yourself what would Kali do? Yeah, that's a lesson that you to learn from the past 10,000 years. Um, we have to regain selfrespect in culture and traditions. We have to regain our sense of civiliz civil civilizational pride. We have to learn our true history. Um we have to overall education. We have to adopt Sanskrit if that's possible. We have to be ruthless with our enemies. We have to play the long game. I didn't bide and so on. I mean I could give you a two-hour lecture on this but uh I hope you get the point of what I'm trying to say. These are some of the lessons that we as as a regular ordinary Indians can learn and should learn from the past millennium of humiliation which still continues. We haven't come out of it. We haven't come out of it. No matter what your favorite leader tells you, we haven't come out of it. Right. Okay. Next question. Nirvana Shanks says, "Compare the causes of the French Revolution with the American Revolution. what were the key similarities and differences between these two u major events in the western world. So both of these uh both of these revolutions took place in the second half of the 18th century. The American revolution is between 1765 and 1780 something. And the French Revolution is in the last decade of the 18th century about 1789 to 1799. That's the French Revolution. So, uh these two revolutions paired certain key points, certain key ideals. Uh but they arose the the the two revolutions took place in very different places. One is the old world, you know, Western Europe, France. The other one is the the new conquered world, right? The continent that was being wiped clean of the of the natives and it had been taken over by the colony colonists who were mainly English and who wanted freedom from the crown in in London. Uh so that's what it was. Uh so so the two shared many things but they were also very distinct. One thing what did they share? What are the things that the two revolutions shared? There was something in Europe called the enlightenment. Yeah. Uh so uh the enlightenment uh it it had these these leaders you know what of the what were the enlightenment ideals what the French called libeal liberty equality fraternity uh the sovereignty of the individual popular sovereignty that sort of thing. So these are these are some of the ideals of the u European enlightenment. You had these fantastic wonderful deep profound thinkers like John Loach, like Jeanjac Huso, like Mesu. uh these people they they uh shaped the thinking of Europe through uh their philosophy and through their writings and they were some of the the leading lights of the so-called enlightenment and their ideas deeply influenced both of these revolutions. um both revolutions in in both revolutions you had people who rose up and rebelled against what they perceived as tyranny governments that were regarded as being as as as unjust governments. Um the French what did they want to do? They wanted to end the absolute monarchy. They wanted rule by the people. And the American colonists they sought to break free of the political control and of course taxation money is very important uh by Britain. So the British political control and the tax that they had to pay to the king of England they the American colonists sought to break free of that. So there is similarity there. Uh then there were economic grievances right obviously economic inequality was a very big deal in France. exploitation of the of the common people. So that was one of the central problems in France and which is why the revolution happened. Um in in France the the poor people were heavily taxed and u in America the the the the colonists had to pay a 2% tax without any representation taxation no taxation without representation. So the English crown, it charged a 2% tax on the American colonists. Today, how much income tax would the Americans pay? They they they they rebelled for a 2% tax, right? Because they had to pay 2% tax. Today, I think the income tax is in in excess of 25%. But today, no one rebelss. Anyway, that's a different thing. Um so these are some of the things that these two revolutions had in common right. Uh so the French Revolution it's it it took place because of this terrible alleged economic inequality uh this terrible alleged social injustice that the the system imposed on the poor people and the absolute monarchy which was terrible. And the American Revolution was all about taxation without representation and colonial independence from Britain. They wanted to govern their own country. They wanted to to to have their own land. They wanted North America to be their land. Um and uh the French they opposed uh kings the kings the king Louis the 15th 16th 15th whichever it was you can look it up and the entrenched nobility aristocracy all of that and the American revolution it uh it opposed the king of England. It was I think George III, right? Uh and so on. So the French Revolution, its goals, what are the goals? The goals were to radically restructure society, French society, the complete abolition of monarchy, the complete purging of society of anybody who um you know was part of the nobility of the aristocracy. The guillotine was a great tool for doing that off with their heads, that sort of thing. U the French wanted everyone to have equality under law. and they wanted to have lacy t a secular state and um the American revolution was all about achieving political independence from England and uh self-governance while maintaining social order obviously you can genocide the natives that's fine the savages like the American Declaration of Independence says but social order which is under the rule of law by the white man that sort of thing and the outcome obviously was the was well warfare in in France. You had this violent upheaval in this uh decadel long pretty chaotic transition towards dictatorship under Napoleon essentially right. So they moved from one form of autocracy to another form of autocracy in France and in America you had a stable democratic republic that emerged under the US constitution. Democratic only in name obviously because the women could not participate in the democracy nor could the blacks nor could the nor could the natives so democracy only for the chosen few. Uh that's what it was. So the American revolution was a struggle for independence. It was a uh struggle for governance reform and the French revolution was a mass social movement, mass social revolt, revolution upheaval to to completely transform the nature of society in France and both of these drew inspiration from the ideas the ideals of the European enlightenment Montescuous John Lock and so on right and yeah so that's kind of a comparative analysis of the two revolutions significant similarities but major differences as well between these two events. Okay, the same questioner Nirvana Shanks says compare the ideologies and policies of Stalin and Mao in shaping their respective countries. So Joseph Stalin and Mao Tatong. Stalin based in Moscow. Mao based in Beijing. Mao comes to power in 1949 after winning the Chinese civil war and defeating um Chankaek and the Kuin Tang and Stalin was in power. He became well since before the second world war. So if you take a look at the maps then you will see that these two countries share a significantly long contiguous border despite the capitals being so far away from each other. So the Russian capital is obviously Moscow over here and the Chinese capital is Beijing all the way in the east. And if you look at the distance between the two capitals, well it's it's mindboggling. It's 5.7 something thousand kilometers, right? But as you can see the two countries have a significant border. There's a tiny little border here as well between u obviously Kazakhstan and Mongolia. In the past, Kazakhstan was part of the USSR. So, the border was much longer at that time. So, that's just the the map. Okay. So, yeah. Now, so you have these two rulers, Stalin and Mao. Both were Marxist Leninists. Clearly, both were authoritarian. So, the ideologies were pretty compatible. uh policies were also authoritarian policies but you will find differences as well. Um you you will find divergences in their ideologies too and their policies as well. So what was Stalin's ideology? Socialism, sure. But it was centralized industrial socialism. H industrial socialism. And Mao, he was also a socialist, but he was all about revolution, the revolution of the proletariat, the revolution of the peasants. So Mao was all about peasantbased socialism. Stalin was all about industrial socialism. significant difference despite both being socialists. What was Stalin's economic focus? Stalin's economic focus was heavy industry and collectivized agriculture. Forcible collectivization. You have no choice in what what happens. We're going to forcibly collectivize all the agriculture in the country. And that's what he did. Stalin that's what he implemented. So Stalin focused on heavy industry, massive large scale industrialization and collectivization of agriculture. And Mao was all about rural communes. So Mao was all about agriculture. It's all it was all about creating communes in villages, rural communes. U the great leap forward which essentially destroyed the country in a significant way. But yeah uh so once again Stalin was all about industry was all about large scale collectivized agriculture and Mao was all about peasants once again and rural communes not massively collectivized agriculture and definitely not industrialization. Then what about the politics? What about the political ideology? What was the means of political control for Stalin and Mao? So Stalin was well an out and out bureaucratic-minded person. So Stalin controlled his nation through a totalitarian bureaucracy. He held um frequent purges in the country and he had this this massive network of espionage all over the country. Secret police, NKVD, KGB, whatever you want to call it, right? So the bureaucracy controlled the whole country totalitarian bureaucracy and you had secret service all over the place and uh yeah purges happened all the time in Stalin's USSR. When it comes to Mao Mao uh how did he control his country? through mass mobilization of the peasants through ideological campaigns that sought to motivate the peasants and uh yeah you would obviously have aeroplaning of of intellectuals and all that you can look it up what it what what it means black and white pictures thankfully right uh and that was called the cultural revolution so the total transformation of the culture of the country uh what was the role of the peasants in the two countries. Under Stalin, the peasants were forcibly subordinated to the industrial goals of the country. So peasants were sometimes moved out of agriculture and put to work in in factories, right? And in Mao was China, it was the other way around. People who worked in factories were pushed into farms and and turned into peasants. And the peasants were essentially Mao's centralized revolutionary force. So totally different outlook in the two countries. Um and obviously both Mao and Stalin were against religion. So Stalin definitely suppressed religion in his country. Anyone was who was religious would be purged. And Mao was not only about opposing religion and purging people who were religious. Mao was also an anti-intellectual. So there was this massive anti-intellectualiz anti-intellectualism campaign in China. If you were a physics professor and you taught quantum mechanics, you would be purged. You would be sent you would be sentenced to 20 years hard labor in the farms and you will forget all quantum mechanics by the time you're done. Right? Mass reeducation. Anyone who had the wrong notions, you believed in quantum mechanics, you believed in relativity, you would be re-educated. Yeah. Through through hard labor, that sort of thing. So, as you can see, the ideologies are similar but very different. The policies are also kind of similar, but tremendously different as well. And uh and Mao to conclude, Mao regarded Stalin. Mao had the greatest amount of respect and admiration for Stalin and it's only after Stalin's death that the Sino Soviet split happens because once Kruev comes in Mao did not have that same kind of respect for GeF both were similar but both were also significantly different. Amisha says, "Ancient Egyptians were fairly accepting of nudity with women often depicted depicted topless or in little clothing. But today millions of Egyptian women wear conservative Islamic clothing. How did they become more conservative? Did it happen in the Greek period? Did it happen at some in some other period? Was it the Roman period? Was it the Christian period, the Muslim period? How did this all evolve?" Uh so you are totally right. uh if you look at uh various uh carvings and sculptures and you know artwork Egyptian artwork you you will see that the Egyptians were were you know nudity was no big deal in Egypt whether it was males or females no big deal at all so how does this change so that is the original Egyptian culture very similar to ancient Indian culture before 1000 AD no big deal unity is no big deal u so Egypt It first came under foreign occupation. Egypt is a very ancient civilization. Egypt was well, you could say older than China. The only older civilization is India that we know of. So, uh Egypt first came under foreign occupation about 1500 BC. Uh for a century and a half, maybe two centuries by a strange num bunch of people called the Hixos. The Hixos were very different from the Egyptians. They were of of course polytheists and they used to worship a thunder god. They used to invade on chariots and yeah certain very strange beliefs they had. They had horses and they had chariots and they had a thunder go thunder god and they had copper weapons and stuff like that and they seems they seem to have come from the from the part of the world where the mitani lived and so on. Um but the Hixos did not impose any weird culture on on on Egypt that uh made Egypt cover up or something like that. That did not happen. So the Hixos occupation did not change Egyptian culture in a way that you know nudity became unacceptable. Then in the 4th century BC uh around that time Egypt was under Persian occupation and the Egyptians regarded the Persians as as bad people. Okay, foreign occupiers of of of Egypt. And the Persians again had no issue with nudity, nothing. The Persians were similar to us at the time. So they they they had no issue with nudity. But then the Greeks arrive. Alexander the Greek comes there. He had already defeated the Persian forces in what is present day Syria. And then before going to Persia, he said let me go towards south towards Egypt. So he uh moves into Egypt and the Egyptians welcome him as a liberator and they they crown him as the pharaoh Alexander. And he Alexander apparently founds a new city which is now called Alcandria Alexandria uh based on his name. Yeah. And the Greeks also don't have any issue with uh nudity at the time. So that's the 4th century BC. Now around the first century AD things start changing because a strange new religion appears is it's introduced into Egypt. It's called Christianity. Right? somewhere in the first century AD. At that time, uh it's not Greece that's ruling ruling Egypt, it's Rome now because Greece was occup conquered and occupied by the Romans and then Julius Caesar happens and Mark Anthony happens and Cleopatra happens and Egypt becomes a Roman possession. So in the first century AD, you see this new thing spreading through Rome and it also reaches Egypt. So Christianity arrives in Egypt in the first century AD. Um and eventually Rome officially becomes Christian somewhere in the 4th century AD and this is what is imposed on Egypt as well. Um you you have the the the female astronomer and mathematician Hitesia who was torn to pieces by Christian mobs uh somewhere in the in the 4th century AD. Right? So because she was a mathematician, she was a woman. How dare a woman be do mathematics? Right? That sort of thing. Um and Christianity was significantly more intolerant than the Greek polytheistic religion or the Roman Roman poly polytheistic polytheistic religion or obviously the original Egyptian polytheistic religion. Christianity did not like women who were free. It did not like nudity. So things start changing when Christianity becomes more powerful in Egypt. And somewhere in the sixth century or so AD uh Egypt's ancient culture is wiped out and that's where Christianity becomes more orthodox and so on and becomes more powerful and I think it's it's around this time that you know nudity is no longer tolerated in uh Egypt and then um there is a conquest of Egypt somewhere in the 7th century or or so by the Arabs and that that's about We know what happens then. The uh Rashidun caliphate. So once the Rashidun Caliphate conquers Egypt, its curtains for any idea of nudity or whatever you have to cover up top to bottom. End of story. All right. Aayush Singh says, "You mentioned that Indians settled in Australia thousands of years ago. It means that they had the chance to conquer the piece of territory. Why didn't they do this like the Europeans? Why such a difference in mindset where one race conducts genocide on a continental scale like in North America, South America etc. Whereas the other one which had reached regions which Europeans did not even dream to have existed at least the time lived in harmony. Also please give an estimate number of people Europeans have killed in Australia, Americas and countries like New Zealand. Okay. So there is no question about the fact that ancient Indians voyaged to Australia. When did this happen? Somewhere around 4,300 years ago. You can look it up. You will find articles in Nature. You will find National Geographic articles and so on. The time period is about roughly 4,300 years before today. Give or take a 100 or 200 years around that sort of time period. How do we know this happened? How do we know? Because that's the time when new genetic seniority appear among the native population of Australia. Who the the who are the natives of Australia today? They are called the Australian Australian Aborigines. the Aboriginal people of Australia. They're not called the indigenous Australians. I suppose they may be called that, you know, but the the term that I have heard since I was a kid was Australian aboriges. So that's the native true native people of Australia, not the Europeans. So these people have been living in Australia for at least 50,000 years. 50,000. And suddenly about 4,300 years ago, their genetics change and some new genes come in a set of new genetics appear in the Australian populations and these genetics are clearly Indian subcontinental genetics. So if you look at Australia's population today, the native population of Australia today, approximately 10 between 9 to 11% of their genetics on average are of Indian origin and you will find more Indian origin genetics in the north and west of Australia. Let's take a look at the map, shall we? So that we understand what we are talking about. All right, here is map. So you can see where India is now. You can see where Australia is. What is the north of Australia? It's all of this, right? What is the northwest of Australia? It's this clearly it's the region of part of Australia that is closest to India. So Indians voyaged by sea maybe through Southeast Asia or or wherever, but it they voyaged by sea. Indians had ships. Indians could undertake sea voyages and they they appeared in Australia. We don't know whether Indians settled there or Indians stayed there for a while or Indians visited there regularly but Indian genetics appears there which means that Indians interbred with the people of Australia and if you look at the northeast of Australia that's where you will have more Indian genetics than maybe southern Australia Tasmania whenever Tasmanians are obviously have been completely genocided out of existence by the whites but um in other parts of Australia natives still exist. So more Indian genetics in the northwest of Australia and central Australia compared to southern Australia. Um and this all appears about 4,300 years before today. What also changed in Australia around that time exactly at that time is that a new species of animal appeared in Australia. Exactly when these new genetics arrive Australia. In Australia what new species of animal arrived? Let me show you. It's called Australian lingo which is a nice dog. This if you look at this dog this is your standard issue Indian dog that you will see on every see on every street corner. It's the same dog. So this dog suddenly appears in Australia which was not in available in Australia ever before and this dog looks like your standard Indian street dog right. Um so yeah so a new dog a new animal appears in Australia. Clearly the Indians brought this dog as well and new tools also appear in Australia around this time and even new a new language family appears in Australia around this time. Um so that is what we know clearly Indians went there. Um was it a single voyage? Were there multiple voyages? Did Indians stay there and have local wives or whatever and then leave? We don't know what happened, who the people were, who the ancient Indians were. At the same time, we have the Yamna invasion of Europe that's happening. At the same time, we have the introduction at the same time of Indian cattle in West Asia in Egypt. So, Indians seem to have been traveling across the world at this time and they reached Australia and they did not do any genocide of the Australians. Clearly, there is zero evidence of that. So Indians, they they interacted pretty peacefully with the Australians. That's what we know, right? And why did Indians not do what the whites did to Australia? It's a it's a cultural thing. It's a cultural thing. It's a civilizational thing. Um yeah. Do we have an estimate of how many native Australians were killed by the Europeans? Um, I'm not sure about the in in Australia proper how many were wiped out. Okay. Uh, Abori. Abori. Okay. Enslaved. My goodness. What's wrong with me? E N S L A V E D. Ah man. So if you look at the images you will see that Austral the Australian Aboriginal people were treated like animals. Uh they were treated like flora and fauna. I mean check this out. People in in chains. Uh it was it was absolutely terrible atrocious uh treatment that these people got. They were treated like animals and many of them would have been killed. Uh, another question we can ask Google is how many native Tasmanians existed before Euro Europeans uh appeared. Let's see. Oh, really? Just 15,000 people in Tasmania. Okay, that's what Google says. All right. So between 3 to 5 15,000 people only were genocided in Tasmania. What about the Americas? In North America maybe 100 100 million between 50 to 100 million uh native Americans were genocided in North America. In South America I I'm not not quite sure. You can look it up. So yeah, New Zealand once again I'm not really sure and we can do the do the research alo over here or you can do it in your free time but the numbers are pretty pretty mindboggling overall. Right. David says how did the Saxon Empire beat the Roman Empire? Okay, we're talking about uh the British islands, aren't we? So let's take a look at the map before we go and discuss this further. Um the Saxon Empire and the Roman Empire. Okay. So here's a map of the world. We're talking about the British islands. So this is the part of the world. We're talking about this two sets of set of islands over here. So Rome is over here in Italy. As you can see, this is Rome. This is the city of Rome. And if you go to the north and you go to the west, you cross the English Channel, you come to the British islands. And um so so the the Romans conquered the British islands, not all of the British islands. They could not conquer Ireland. They did not really go all the way into Scotland, but what is now called England and Wales and Northern England, all of that was conquered by the Romans. And they they built a wall. Hadrien's wall all the way up north and north of the wall were the barbarians, the picss and whatnot. And eventually the Romans left England. So what happened is the question. Did uh the Saxons defeat Rome? Did the Saxons have an empire? The Saxons never had an empire and they never defeated Rome. So what happened? How come England became Anglo-Saxon? How come the British islands were dominated came to be dominated by the Anglo-Saxon people and today and later the Normans. So when the Romans arrived in the British islands, it starts around the time of Julius Caesar. The people who lived in the British islands, they were of Celtic origin mostly. Um and they were defeated by the Romans and the Romans you know built garrisons and cities in the British islands and uh they they conquered and ruled the British islands. Now in the 4th century AD uh that's like several centuries have passed and Rome is no longer this great cohesive power that it used to be. It's been an empire for like two three centuries and once you're an old empire you you kind of lost lose your edge don't you? Uh you overextend yourself. You have too many possessions too many things to look after. You have gmania you have th you have North Africa you have Egypt you have Greece you have Gaul you have uh Iberia you also have the British islands. How much can you can you can you administer and govern at the same time? So by the by the fourth by the fifth century AD what you find is that Rome is politically fragmented. Rome is under pressure by invaders. Um a bunch of Germanic tribes have come together you know into a coalition and they have crossed the rine. Where's the rine? Let me show you the Ryan since we are discussing the Ryan. The Ryan is a major Euro river in Europe. Uh let's go. So the way I see the Ryan is the border between Switzerland and Germany. Okay, if you go to the map, you will find that there is this river over here. This is the Ryan. Right in the middle of the Ryan, you have the border between Switzerland and Germany. And Switzerland was then at that time part of Gaul. The Romans regarded the uh this yeah this land as part of Gaul. So the Germanic tribes had crossed the Rine and they were threatening Gaul and they did devastate Gaul. And then you also had the Ostrogoths and the Visigoths who were doing all kinds of mischief and devastation of Rome. You also had the Vandals. You also had the Hoons. The Huns who were pressuring Rome at the same time when they were pressuring India. So Rome is under siege from all these forces. Rome is overextended. Rome is also politically disunited. Rome has ambitious governors who want to declare independence and declare themselves emperor. Right? Uh it happened a couple of times. Once in the late 4th century, once in the early fifth century. What what year was it? 406 407 AD. Constantine the third or something his name was was a Roman governor who declared himself emperor and fought the empire itself. That sort of thing happens. U so you have all these issues with Rome. Um and by about 410 AD, so when somebody rebelss against Rome, your own governor, you have to bring in re reinforcements to defeat him. And if this happens in western France, which is today, today's Western France, which was then western Gaul, then some then you may have to bring in re reinforcements from the armies that are stationed in England. So if you take this ar armies out of the British islands to fight the rebels in France then Britain becomes undermanned and the local tribes will try and fight the Romans. So eventually a situation occurred by about 410 or so AD that the that the emperor of Rome sent a message to the cities in Britain which are ruled by Roman governors that no more help is coming from Rome. you are on your own. So those Roman governors etc. they declared independence. They became kings or chieftains in their own right and then Rome comes under comes under a new invasion. The Saxons, the Angles and the Saxons. They invade England. So Rome withdrew voluntarily. It was never defeated by the Saxons. Okay. Rome had too many problems. It eventually had to abandon England. But many Roman origin people remained in England and they became English overall eventually. And then you had the Saxon invasion and then allegedly there was a king called Arthur who defeated the Saxons and the invasion was reversed for a few years and there is archaeological evidence of that as well that the invasion was reversed for a while but eventually the Saxons and the Angles they settle in England and this they set up the Anglo-Saxon uh era of England which lasts for a few centuries until it is replaced you know. So the Saxons, Anglo-Saxons ruled England for close to half a millennium before and and then the Normans took over. They defeated the Anglo-Saxons. The last Saxon king was Harold. Yeah. Harold Goodwinson, the unfortunate, the guy who took an arrow in his eye. And that's a whole different story. Okay. So that's the story about the Romans and the Saxons. Real painter. That's quite a name. Okay. Why did the US invade Vietnam? Was Vietnam became becoming a USSR with the communism split? Okay. What was the deal? What happened? So in 1945 the US in 1944 455 the US becomes u a superpower you know the world's reserve currency and so on and it it wins second the second world war along with Russia and Europe is divided between eastern and western Europe. Western Europe comes under US hedgemony. Eastern Europe comes under Soviet hedgemony. Um at that time Vietnam was under French occupation, French colonization. The the the term we use is colonization because occupation sounds harsh. Colonization is a nice term. So Vietnam was under French colonization. Occupation. Okay. And there was this uh this gentleman called Ho Chi Min who was French educated who was a communist who wanted to make Vietnam independent of the French. So there was a communist rebellion going on in Vietnam in the 1940s 1950s. By 1954 the French are defeated and the northern part of Vietnam is liberated from the French. So the Americans hop in and they prop up a pro- west government in South Vietnam. I can't remember the name of the guy who was ruling South Vietnam at the time, but there was a pro- US government. Have you seen that infamous picture of the Vietnamese Buddhist monk? What was the deal? Okay, so Vietnam Buddhist monk self emulation okay very okay very um famous infamous image trigger warning in case you are sensitive don't look at this this here how do I okay maybe it doesn't want to allow me to see this or show you this. But you have this picture, right? Very famous, infamous picture of the Buddhist monk who who emulates himself. The why did he do this? Why did Tich Kuang Duk do that? Why did he set himself on fire? This was in South Vietnam. Why did he do this? Because the South Vietnam government that was propped up by the US was a Christian government and it was trying to eradicate the native religion and culture of Vietnam. Naturally, obviously if you are a pro- US government, you're going to do that. So that's why this Vietnamese Buddhist monk did this public self- emulation. So coming back to the question, South Vietnam was a US vasal. It was propped up by the US. So you have successive American governments and presidents uh Truman, Eisenhower, uh Kennedy etc. who support South Vietnam more and more first through funds, then through political advisers, then through military advisers, then through weapons and so on. And there's the you know the the quantum of involvement is is increasing every year with each presidency with each administration with each American regime. And uh the American fear was that look in 1949 China became communist and now North Vietnam has become communist. If we allow this to happen there's going to be a domino effect and the whole of Asia will become communist and we want democracy. Communism is something that came out which which is which is associated with the USSR. So if communism spreads the USSR wins and we lose. So let's have democracy which is vasalage. Understand what democracy really means? It means being a vasal of the US. Um so so so North Vietnam becomes more and more powerful and they are obviously supported by the USSR as well as by China. So the US obviously supports South Vietnam and eventually by 1964 there is this alleged false false flag operation. Okay, some people say it's a false flag operation. Others say it's a conspiracy theory. It's up to you to decide what you feel or what you think based on your research if you do if you do it. So there is this Gulf of Tonkin incident. Let's Google it. H Gulf of Tonkin incident. So it's a it's a couple of American warships that allege that they were attacked by North Vietnamese vessels and that gives the US the justification for launching a war on on North Vietnam. And that's the beginning of the Vietnam war. Eventually they bombard Cambodia as well and the war spills over and so on and eventually the US is defeated and the whole of Vietnam is reunified under the North Vietnamese government. Ho Chi Min and Saigon becomes Ho Chi Min city and today Vietnam is well still well the if if you see the flag of Vietnam it's still that communist flag. So that's the story of why the US invaded Vietnam. Right. Next, Amisha says, "If the Ottomans were Turks, then how come they all look like Europeans today? Was the Ottoman Empire considered European by other European nations and peoples?" Absolutely not. The Ottoman Empire was not considered European by anybody, including the Ottomans themselves. The Europeans did not regard the Ottoman Turks as Europeans. They regarded them as Turks. Turks aren't Europeans. So the Ottomans were indeed Turks. Uh we don't know that. We don't know whether Erru even existed. But the later Turks obviously did. Otman and his descendants. And they did not look like Europeans at all. They looked like central Asian Turks, people from uh Kazakhstan or or or or Turkmanistan or whatever, you know, that sort of appearance. So, how did the modern Turks end up looking the way they do they look today? They don't look like central relations. They look like Europeans. What happened? See the Turks when they um invaded Anatolia and what is now Turkey which used to be Greece at the time when they invaded they had already converted to Islam the Turks um and they still retained this ancient Turic custom of bride kidnapping. Bride kidnapping is how you prove if you are a Turkic warrior and you want to transition to adulthood to manhood. If you want to prove that you are worthy of being a warrior and worthy of being a man, you have to take a great risk. You have to go and raid a neighboring tribe or some other tribe and kidnap a girl, a young girl and bring her back. If you survive and if you're able to bring the girl back, you get to marry her. you get a wife and you are then respected as a man. Yeah, you could do it. Good. Good on you, bro. That sort of thing. So that was this Turk tradition, pre-Islamic tradition. And uh so now the Turks invade Anatolia. They conquer Anatolia. They find this land which is pretty fertile, nice temperate climate. It doesn't freeze in the winters. Yeah. big population, completely peaceful, helpless population, lots of women. So what do the Turks do? They go and grab girls and forcibly marry them. And because they are now Muslims, one woman isn't enough for them. So they grab multiple women, each Turk. And this goes on for generations and generations and generations. If you go to Cyprus today, where is Cypress? in in the 1970s, which year was it? 1974 or whichever year it was, sometime in the 1970s, the Turks invaded the Greek island of Cypress. Where is Cyprus? This here is Cypress. It is a Greek island and the Turks take over the northern part of Cypress. As you can see, there is this dash line over here which which is which represents an undemarcated disputed border and a no man's land kind of situation here. Yeah. So the northern Cypress is occupied by Turks. Southern Cypress is occup is is still free and it is still Greek. So in Cyprus also ever since the Turks took over, they have been trying to kidnap Greek women and girls and forcibly marry them and have children with them. So that still continues. So because the Turks continued this for generations and centuries, that's why the Turks today look like Europeans. And if you do a DNA test of Turks of the Turkish people, you'll find that there are about 95% to 100% either Greek or Greek Armenian or something similar. Very little if any central Asian DNA left today. Maybe 1 2% because they've been doing this for centuries. So that's how they completely transformed their their ethnicity and so they are culturally Turkish or Turkish today but ethnically they are Greek and Armenian but they hate the Greeks and Armenians that's the deal okay uh two questions one is by EE how did capitalism evolve from feudalism and Nirvana Shanks says how exactly did the industrial field revolution change social hierarchies and labor systems in Britain. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Okay. So clearly the two questions are interconnected and uh let's deal with this. Okay. So the industrial revolution is it happens sometime in the 18th century. Let's say 18th century. Okay. Industrial revolution. before the industrial revolution happened, what kind of society did you have in Europe? What kind of society did you have in England? Because it it it mainly comes from England, you could say the industrial revolution. What was the nature of English society before the 18th century? How was English society in the year 1066 AD when William the Conqueror takes over England? How was English society in the 1200s, 1300s? How was it? It was a feudal society. What do we mean by a feudal society? It was an agricultural society where you had a very strongly entrenched cast system, a highly oppressive and hierarchal cast system. At the very top, you have the royalty, the royal family and their relatives. That's at the very top. At the top of that you have the crown. Then you have the knights, the chosen warriors of the king or the queen. Mainly the king. Okay. The knights. Below the knights you have the aristocracy and nobility which is strong men or thugs who have been given various land holdings by the king to administer on the king's behalf. So every year these thugs who are called nobles they will give a tax to the king. They are his vasals. That's where the word vasal comes from. Okay. The French called them the vasals and the English called them nobles and so on. So that was where the power lay. And these these nobles they would have their own soldiers and whenever the king needed the soldiers they would go and fight for the king. So that's about maybe 5% of the population, the royalty, the knights, the the the the the nobility and their soldiers. That's about 5% of the of the population. About 95% of the population were peasants, people who worked as farmers, people who worked in various professions. And they were horribly oppressed. And most people in England worked on farms, worked in rural areas. And the wealth of the country of the kingdom lay in agricultural produce. And what gave you agricultural produce? Land. Farmland. So farmland was incredibly valuable. And it was controlled by these nobles who served the king. And the peasants who worked in the farms, they did not own anything, no land, nothing. They simply were allowed to work on the land and they had to give most of the produce to them to the nobles and just barely subsisted. That was the deal. A highly unequal society, tremendous uh power differential, tremendous inequality and a deeply en entrenched cast system. That's what you had. That was feudalism in England. So what was so what was the source of the wealth of the nobility and the kings and all that? The land, the agricultural land. Okay. Now the industrial revolution happens and society changes. How does it change? Now the the the wealth it now starts coming from industry. industry. These machines, they produce goods that are very valuable, far more valuable than agricultural produce. And these industries, they are based in these new mushrooming towns and cities, Manchester and whatever else. So suddenly you have this these business people, these entrepreneurs who very rapidly become more wealthy, significantly wealthier than the the oldtime nobles. And these peasants who used to toil away on the farms, they now gravitate towards the big cities because there is money to be made in the big cities. But once again in the big cities you they they find that they they own nothing. They own no land. They don't they don't own any property. They live in rented houses in crowded squalid rented houses and they sickly start mushrooming and becoming big and you have overcrowding, you have pollution, you have horrible hygiene, you have epidemics, you have disease and once again you have tremendous inequality and it's the business people who become wealthy, super super wealthy and the nobles they retain some prestige, they retain some land but they are no longer wealthy. And so you have a tremendous transformation of society. The society transforms from a feudal system to a capitalistic system. That's how capitalism evolved from feudalism and it created this whole new set of hierarchies. It destroyed the old cast system to some extent. The naves still continue and it created these new labor systems. Right? So you have the rise of the bourgeoisi which is the entrepreneurs the ones who own the means of production and you have the rise of the proletariat which is the peasants who used to work on the farms and then they now work in these terribly horrible factories. So you have this whole new system that emerges out of the ruins of feudalism because of the industrial revolution, right? Rahul Dunke says, "How did Christopher Columbus make such a blunder reaching America thinking it to be India when the direction is totally opposite? How could he march towards the west thinking it's the east? Wasn't he reading the magnetic compass, the position of sun in the night? Wasn't all of this informative enough? So, Christopher Columbus, he did have the use of the magnetic compass, but it was a new instrument at the time. So, it was there. It was available to him. Now, what was the deal with Christopher Columbus? He knew India existed. See at this time in the 1500s what's recently happened is that the Turks had recently conquered Constantinople and they had finally ended the Byzantine Empire the western the eastern Roman Empire and because of that Europe had lost its its its land access to India. Europe used to trade with India for centuries for since before the Roman times and they deeply craved Indian goods such as uh textiles such as spices and and whatever else. So um the European kingdoms and empires they desperately sought to find a different way to access India a different route through some other part of the world. uh they could no longer go by land. So maybe they wanted to find some way of reaching India by the sea. Now around this time around the 1500s they people had realized that the world is round. So Columbus said you know we keep trying going east but if the world is round what if I just go westwards I I'll go west I I I'll reach India from the other side. Um so his reasoning was sound and his motivation was pure greed. He had promised his patrons the queen and king of Spain that he would go and discover India and bring back tremendous amounts of gold from India. Well that is weird because the Europeans typically sent gold to India in exchange for the spices and and whatever other goods they used to buy. But whatever. So the king and queen of Spain were super greedy and Columbus was personally ambitious and personally super greedy and he promised them that he would get back so much gold and what not. He would discover India was was sure of it. So they financed his expedition the Santa Maria and all these ships like two three ships they gave him or he he acquired for with the wealth with the money they gave him and he goes westwards right across the Atlantic and he is lost over there and eventually he does discover he's his crew discovers land but he claims that he discovered it himself obviously right and uh they he obviously had reached to the Caribbean islands and he claimed it was India and he proceeded to enslave the people of Hispanola. Would you like to see the map? I'll show you the map. Um, where is Hispanola? Right, that's the question you would be probably wondering about. So, where is map? Here's map. We go westwards. So, it starts he starts off from Spain. He stops at the Canary Islands over here to to uh replenish his ships and then he goes westwards and he reaches somewhere here and eventually he colonizes this island and genocides the people there. This island was then called Hispanola. Today it is divided into two countries Dominica and Hiti. And he also discovered Cuba and so on. He did at least three voyages. He eventually got lost during the third voyage and he discovered Venezuela. So when he discovered the Dominican Republic and Cuba and all, he thought that one of these was Japan and the other was India. And he goes back to Spain and reports that you know what I have discovered India. So uh he was convinced that he had discovered India. I don't blame him for that. At the time nobody knew where they were, right? And the compass doesn't tell you what country it is. And Columbus clearly was not at all familiar with what India was like, what India's cultures culture was like, customs were like, geography was like. So he found something and he said that it was India. And that's what happened. Okay. Shou says, "What faith or religion did the Nazis believe in?" Um, Jesus Christ, Christianity. That's what the Nazis believe in. Believed in that was their religion. Christian Christianity. Pretty simple answer this time. Okay. Next question. Nirvana Shanks says, "Sparta was military dominant but socially rigid. How did its strengths also create vulnerabilities?" Okay. So, first of all, where is Sparta? We have all heard of Sparta. Let's go to the map and discover Sparta, shall we? Let us go to the map and discover Sparta. So, we are here in India. We go westwards, westwards, westwards. We reach the Mediterranean and then we move further west of Cit and here we shall find Sparta. So, let's just search for it. Sparti and zoom in. Here we are. So this is the old, you know, the earthw wild Sparta. What's it look like? Well, so that's where Sparta is. And uh as you can see, how far is it from Athens? Let us see measure distance. It's about 150 something kilometers from Athens as the crow flies. So that's where Sparta lies in present day Greece. Okay. Now let's talk about Sparta. We're talking about classical Greece u which is about what 600 500 BC around that time 400 even 400 BC that's classical Greece. So, uh, Sparta obviously was renowned for its militaristic culture. Um, very rigid, very harsh militaristic c culture, extremely high standards. And the Spartans fought the Athenians. They fought Athens in the Peloponyian war and they defeated Athens. That war lasted decades and they eventually defeated Athens. That led to the downfall of Athens. Eventually, Sparta itself fell. eventually to the Romans. Now, what's the deal with Sparta? It was militarily dominant. It was able to defeat Athens. So, clearly, it had tremendous advantages. Socially rigid. Okay. So, what's the deal with Sparta? So, as you saw, Sparta was located on this massive peninsula which was connected by this land bridge, you could say, to the region where Athens exists, right? What was Spartan society like? Right? That's the question we have to ask ourselves. How many Spartans were there? Spartan society was very strange. They were all soldiers. Their only profession was warfare. But how can a society only practice warfare? Who's going to plow the fields? Where's the food going to come from? Who's going to take care of the industries or whatever else? Who's going to build houses? If you are only soldiers, if your profession is only war fighting and sword fighting, who does all of that? Where does the food come from? Who does the fishing? Who does the farming? Who does the animal agriculture, animal husbandry? Where will you get the carpenters from? Where will you get uh you know people who make clothes? Where does all that come from is the question, right? Well, you know, the fantastic thing is that Sparta's the majority of Sparta's population was slaves. So, if you had one warrior, you had seven slaves for that one warrior. H what were these slaves called? They were called helots. H E L O T. Helot, plural is helot. So the helotss were the people the majority people of Sparta. Maybe they were an ethnicity, maybe they were a tribe, maybe they came from a place called Helos, we don't quite sure, but they were called the Helotss. And they were enslaved by the warrior cast of Sparta. And you know what was the manner of enslavement? Every helot was allocated a certain number of beatings per year. There was a kota given to every helot that you have to be beaten x number of times per year and it would all be you know the records will be kept and if you were not beaten let's say the the the kota was 20. So if the year is ending and like seven days are left and he has been beaten only only 10 times then over the next seven days he would be beaten 10 10 more times. That's the kind of thing you had. And they would be humiliated by making them wear caps made of dog skin and whatnot. And their women, I have no idea what happened to the women and children, but yeah, it was a it was a it was a tremendously oppressive society. If you watch movies like 300, they portray the Spartans as this great heroic people. They were brutal oppressors. They enslaved their own people essentially. Hm. The Spartans, none of this will be taught to you in in your history textbooks or or by Hollywood movies, right? So for for every warrior you had seven slaves minimum, men, women, children, what kind of society is this? So eventually this is going to create problems because you can't enslave people forever. Maybe you can, but eventually you can't. Uh yeah. So eventually after certain battles and wars um the Spartans defeated Athens then they fought the people of thieves. Then their army got significantly decimated in the in the battle in whatever battle ensued and because of that the the number of Spartans dropped drastically and eventually that led to their downfall and eventually it was subsumed by the Roman Empire. So the the major problem was that Sparta was horribly oppressive. It enslaved huge numbers of people and and maltreated maltreated them horribly. So that eventually led to the welldeserved downfall of Sparta. Nirvana Shanks once again says most European nations first became prosperous not through democracy but through colonial plunder, resource extraction, imperial exploitation and later and only later democratized after wealth had already been accumulated. By contrast, India has been democratic since 1947, yet has struggled to achieve comparable prosperity, while Singapore and China have grown rich under authoritarian systems. What does this teach you? Given this pattern, is the US the only major power in history that truly became prosperous within a democratic framework? And if so, what made that possible there and no almost nowhere else? Look, the only question you have to ask yourself with with this in the context of this question is is the US truly a democratic nation. After the uh American Revolution which we discussed today and the war of independence which the Americans won, what happened? We are taught that the Americans adopted a constitution and the constitution was ratified democratically and then America became a democracy and it is a great example of the success that the system of democracy brings to a nation. So we have to ask ourselves was the US at that time truly democratic? Is it truly democratic today? When they won the war of independence and they drafted this constitution, they put it to a vote and that's the democratic process. Now, who was allowed to vote? Were women allowed to vote? No. No. No. No. No. No. No women No women could vote. Were the true people of America, the natives allowed to vote? No. the Okay, let's take a look at the American Declaration of Independence. Let's read the text, shall we? Full text. Let's Let's go to Google. Uh American Declaration of Independence full text. Let's find the full text. This will be fun. This will be great fun. This we go to the uh US government's website. Don't show again. Thank you. Uh, I just want to search for one word. Okay. S A V A G E. The Declaration of Independence. How does it refer to these people? The merciless Indian savages whose known rule of warfare is an undistinguished destruction of all ages, sexes, and conditions. the merciless Indian savages. So a nation whose declaration of independence calls the true natives of the land merciless savages when it is these people who writing who wrote the declaration who were merciless savages. Right? So the women were not allowed to vote. The merciless Indian savages were not allowed to vote. The blacks were slaves anyway. They were not allowed to vote. And that's how the constitution was artified. Do you call this democracy? Do you call this democracy? Women could not vote until the 20th century. You call that democracy? Yeah. And today you have a system where you have only two political parties. Only two. Where's the political party for black people? Where's the political party that takes care of the interests of the of the Hispanic people? Where's the political party for that takes care of the interests of the native people? In India, we have political parties for everything. That's why we are a true democracy. In the US, you just have two political parties. Both of which have the same foreign policy, the same uh you know, apart from small matters in domestic policy, everything else is the same. The US is an autocracy masquerading as a democracy and that's why it became so powerful and prosperous. There's a lesson in all of this. Democracy doesn't work. If you want to be powerful, if you want to be prosperous, you have to be an autocracy. That's the lesson that you have to learn. The Baron Zemo says, "I recently came across the name library of Ashur Banipal. Could you please explain what it was and why it is considered to be so important in ancient history. Let's go to the map and we are going to go to Iraq, present day Iraq, which well hardly exists anymore. So we go to Iraq which is we go to India. We go westwards through a temporary nation. Then in Persia and west of Persia we have Mesopotamia which is the region between the two rivers the Tigris and the Euphrates. And over here we will go to Mosul. Mosul is up here in the north. And near Mosul we going to search for Nineve Nine which will be Zum. Okay. Nineve ruins ruins and that's where we go. So here we have the ruins of nin uh where's the shamash gate saturate palace and so on. So let's go to the palace and let us could you please not do this? Yeah go away please. Thank you. We go to satellite image. You're going to see hardly any vegetation at all and we go in here. So this is the ruins of Nineve and that's where somewhere in this area you had the library of Ashur Banipal. So Ashur Banipal was the last great king of the Neo Assyrian Acadian Empire. Acadian I believe right and he was a great scholar. He was a great uh student of uh literature. He wanted to know every religious text that could bring him good fortune and whatn not and uh he was a great conqueror also. So wherever he conquered he would amass the literature and and added to his library and uh the library was very well cataloged very well organized and it was all in the in the form of clay tablets mostly written in the cutuniform language. They may also have have had uh tablets written in beeswax but those obviously won't survive because it's an organic material. So uh more than 30,000 clay tablets have been discovered. So what happened to this library? So Ashra Manipal was this great conqueror and great great um student of literature, great uh collector of texts and uh he used to request his neighbors and through diplomacy to send him texts and all that and whichever countries or or kingdoms he would he would conquer he would gather gather the texts and add them to the library. So eventually it become a very massive library and a very well organized library probably one of the first libraries that we know of that of of which something survives right and eventually uh eventually after his death um the city of Nineve was was conquered by a combination of skithians and the the mess who were portions and and the city was burned and the library was burned. And because the library was library was burned, these clay tablets got baked and that's why they survived until today. And the British discovered that. And today most of these clay tablets are found in the British library which is an active crime scene full of stolen heritage. So uh because of this gigantic library more than 30,000 texts in various forms some are not well preserved some are fragmented some are reasonably well preserved because of that scholars were able to decipher the uniform script and uh you know this library obviously gives you a lot of information about the the Mesopotamian culture, civilization, empires and so on. So that's why it's so important, right? Okay. Uh Prem says, "How did the Portuguese occupy present day Brazil despite the treaty of Toresas?" Great question. Treaty of Toresas. It happened sometimes in the 16th century. Columbus discovers the Americas. He thought he was he had discovered India. He discovered America. Eventually the Spaniards reached uh the Americas and they devastated in Octitlan which is the Azik Empire which is today Mexico. They also destroyed the Inca Empire and the Spain Spanish were after gold. The Portuguese also had tremendous seafaring capabilities. So the Spanish and the Portuguese decided that we should not fight over these things. So we should divide up the world in two halves. Spain should take one half, Portugal should take the other half. Right? So they got together, they put the map in front of them and they divided the world up and they signed a treaty called which is called the treaty of Toris which divided the world into two halves. So the western half the western hemisphere so to say was given to the Spanish. The Spanish would would have full rights to do whatever they wanted there. Whichever land they could find where he did not have Christians, they could go and conquer the land. They could genocide the natives. They could uh enslave the natives. They could rape the natives. They could do whatever they want unless they converted to Christianity in which case they would be spared too much horror. A little bit of horror is fine. So the Spanish they they took the western hemisphere the Portuguese they took the eastern hemisphere that's why the Portuguese vasco ga etc they came to India that's why India was colonized by the Portuguese to some extent otherwise it would if if the Portuguese had taken the western hemisphere then the Spaniards would have tried to colonize India that's why you have Portuguese uh Goa there still there are plenty of Goans who still love Portuguese Yeah, despite all the operation, that's a different story. So, yeah, that's the deal. Now, the question you're asking is if you have this division, if Spain is given the western hemisphere in and Portugal takes the eastern hemisphere, how did the Portuguese take over Brazil? Which is a great question. Let us first of all go to Google and let's Google let's find the the the the boundary the demarcation of the treaty of toatias and in that is lies the answer okay all right what am I doing treaty of to the 1494 so there there's a bunch of islands called the cabo verde islands cape Verde Islands and that's and and the treaty the demarcation line is about like 2,000 km west of the Cape Verde Islands Cabo Islands. So uh demarcation lines etc. So if you see three of the uh let's let's open this other other one. Okay, give me a second. It's a Reddit page. Okay, we'll do we'll do. So as you can see this is the deal. This is the demarcation. Espña means Spain and Portugal means Portugal obviously. So about 2,000 kilometers west of the Cape word islands this this line was drawn. Okay. And because of that some part of South America becomes part of territory that's that that is allocated to Portugal. And that's why Portugal went ahead and took that and they were able they were allowed to by by the treaty to set forth u you know to to to set up colonies in what eventually became Brazil and eventually over the years they kind of pushed the envelope and the boundaries of the treaty of theas and they set up this big big big colony called Brazil. So that's how it happened. It was all part of the treaty. They did not violate the treaty, but eventually they did. Eventually, right? That's the deal. Okay. Schub says, "Was Julius Caesar cruel?" Was Julius Caesar cruel? H What about was was Emperor Ashoke cruel? Let's talk about business. Was Steve Jobs cruel? Is Elon Musk cruel? See, Steve Jobs has a pretty nasty reputation. He treated his employees pretty harshly. He made them work very very hard, very hard hours and did not give them exceptionally great pay. If you look at Elon Elon Musk, you know, he he orders these surges like let's get something done which will take 3 months. Let's do it over a weekend and all all all hands on board. No one sleeps. No one no one takes one minute's rest. And and and Elon Musk is known to fire people like that. Hire and fire. When Elon Musk took over Twitter, within a few days he fired 85% of the staff. Is that cruel? And the people he retained, he he he essentially drove them like slaves, you could say. Obviously, they are paid money and all. They're not slaves, but it's it's a metaphor, right? Elon Musk is not known for empathy. So, is he a cruel person? Was Steve Jobs a cruel person? Isn't Elon Musk trying to achieve something massive which according to him will be tremendously beneficial for humanity? And unless you push people that that will take years and years and years and he wants to achieve this within his lifetime reaching Mars and and and if he if he if someday whenever he dies you don't have that that that passion and and that push anymore then that may never happen. So that's why isn't it justified to push people that hard that that and and be so cruel? Most people can't take it. They have to leave the company because it's it's the the pressure is too high. It's very cruel. Is that cruelty? Steve Jo is very similar. Was he a cruel person? Julius Caesar killed so many people. He essentially conducted genocide. Was he cruel? Ashoke you could say did the same thing. Was he cruel? Samudra Gupta conquered the entire subcontinent. Beyond that also he obviously conducted a lot of warfare. Many people died. many soldiers of the of the of his opponents died. Was that cruelty? Was it? That's the question we to ask ourselves. You know, Carl Vanuan Clovitz, one of the greatest military historians and writers, strategists, he wrote, and I'm paraphrasing here, that mercy has no role to play in in warfare. Mercy is dangerous in warfare. Let's say you are a general of an army and you are facing your opponent and you decide and and and you want to you have see as you know in a war in a battle in a war in a military campaign you have objectives clear objectives I have to go and capture so and so territory right that's your objective now let's say the enemy is surrendering to you so then what do you You have the task of capturing so and so territory in so and so time. Now the enemy wants to surrender to you and you want to be merciful. You want to take them as prisoners. If you take them as prisoners, you have to allocate half of your army to guard them, to feed them and maybe they want to sabotage you while pretending to surrender. So should you surrender and waste your time and delay your operations which could create a whole ripple effect and and and defeat your entire force not just your campaign but your other generals and your other armies as well. Should you delay that in the name of mercy or should you take no prisoners which means you will kill kill your kill kill them all. What should you do? And in case so that's one example where being merciful could end up causing much much more cruelty to your to yourself and to your people. And let's say you're fighting a war and uh the enemy is losing and you don't want to you know destroy the the entire force. So you you slow down and you don't bombard them because they they are now almost decimated. But will that not bog you down and and give the enemy the chance to to come and uh potentially defeat you again? My the whole point is what Carl won close said is that in warfare there is there is no place for human sentiments. It is all mathematical. You have to keep your sentiments your emotions out of it. If you try to be merciful, you actually end up creating more trouble and and and you end up being more cruel. Yeah. So in in in in these matters, whether it is the military domain or the business domain, emotions, sentiments, there's no place for that. You you just have to achieve your objectives as efficiently, effectively, and rapidly as possible. That is the most merciful thing to do essentially. That's how the world works unfortunately. Yeah. Okay. I have as always many more questions. Uh but I'm going to have to I've already crossed two hours. Let's let's let's take some questions from the live chat now. Maybe for another 10 minutes. Okay. So, um, so in case you have questions, please ask. Please feel feel free to ask me. I'll take a few questions right now. All right. Let's see. Oh, I see that we have super chats. Good god, people are taking super chats. Okay. My request to all of you is please don't take any more super chats because I have to end the live stream. I'm going to do a long one tomorrow. So I better not do a too long a very long one today. Let me take a few questions right now from the live from the super chat. Hersshai says should we follow puppet kings if they are of any use like king of bhavnagar is mugghar specialist Jim rat or prince of me is a chef you should follow real leaders that's all I can say h follow true leaders who are genuinely worthy of following devil x first of all thank you sir devil x says who can be considered the greatest empire in human straight including both ancient powers like Rome and the Mongols of the modern worlds like the US and what makes it stand above all others in terms of global influence and legacy. The greatest empire in human history is the US empire, the American empire. Look, there are various ways of looking at empires and and evaluating their greatness. Some would say look at the culture and civilization. If you have a very good culture, very high civilization, they are better and so on. The straightforward way of looking at empire is how much have they conquered. Okay, you may consider it to be a very barbaric way of looking at looking at things, but that's the way history generally uh judges empires. How do we judge who wins a war? We judge who wins a war based on who takes how much territory. It's as simple as that. That's why Operation Synindhur was what? Who won? Can we claim we won? Did we take any territory? What was the objective? Yeah. So, so which is the greatest empire in human history? It's the American Empire which is the US superpower which exists right now. That is the greatest empire in world history because they control the largest uh territory you can think of and not direct control but indirect control so that they can hide their instruments of power. So, it isn't Rome, it's not the Mongols, it's the United States. What makes it stand out? What makes it stand out is that it has more than 700 extr territorial uh military bases. It controls it. It can project power all across the world. It can intervene militarily essentially any any part anywhere in the world at about 60 minutes notice and u it has the the power to annihilate the whole world. Legacy I don't know about legacy. Uh so if you look at old empires as in in the past I would say the Mongol Empire uh and obviously the British Empire as well which still continues in the form of the US empire. So that's the deal. Um Arvind says have you played or heard of the NES Famicon game called Contra? If there's a real alien invasion could Earth realistically fight back with guerrilla tactics. I haven't played this game. I haven't heard of it. And we're talking history today. So, let's deal with history, please. Okay. 6P70 Delta says, "Sir Alex 3 is said to be Putin's favorite star. How good are how good a leader was he? What was the condition of Russia? Would the revolution have taken place if he was in power?" I haven't studied his history in great detail, so I can't say. Sorry. Jasp says civilization is not static. Human culture values language. Tech is evolving every day. What good is historic revisionism? How can humanity come together to preserve the species? What's the question? You're the man. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Everything is evolving every day. Um that's the nature of the world. What good is historic revisionism? uh I have no idea what good is historical revisionism. What is important is that we know the true history so that we can learn the lessons of history. If we are taught fake history then we will learn the wrong lessons and we will be misled. That's why it's important to set the record of history straight. Wherever there are distortions, wherever there is falsification that needs to be rectified. Um how can humanity come forward to to preserve the species? By become by becoming multilanetary because this you know the the cliche answer is that we should stop war we should become peaceful blah blah blah but the fact is that we are a violent species that will never change. So how can we preserve the species by becoming a multilanetary species? Now the question is who's going to take us there? Who's going to lead us there? Right now, it's the United States and Elon Musk. Is India taking leadership? Zero. India is not doing that. So, India is not going to preserve the species the way it's going right now. Project Smiling Buddha says, "Causes of the Great Depression. Can it happen again?" The Great Depression, 1930s, the causes. What were the causes? Financial market manipulation, etc. What were the causes of the great depression? Yeah, I haven't studied that in detail. Uh, Indian nomad says not much is known about the rashtrakutas. I haven't studied the rashtrautas, sir. I haven't I'm not a specialist in the rashkutas. Uh, Harshai says, "How come Maywar dynasty if every kings fought with the Turks? We can ignore the bad exceptions but other dynasties have only two or three I don't know look everybody fought the Turks okay whoever had to fight them fought them let's not single out this or that everyone fought the Turks all the Rajput fought the Turks and the Maratas defeated the Turks so it's this Phoenix says feudalism becoming dominant in the west due to merger of core poor in government but technological development stalled due to elites becoming mediocre. Bhat has hope as next generation are interested in in development and avoiding traps. Please look at Kukar Namar 6. Okay. I'm not sure there's a question in here. There is observations. All right, sir. Thank you for your observations and this uh and what you're saying here. Kuka namar6. Okay, I shall look into that. I shall make a note of that. Thank you. Duresh says, "Your favorite anecdote from history excluding India." There's so many. Look, I get these questions all the time. My favorite empire, my favorite book, my favorite movie. I don't have a single favorite of anything. There's so many so many examples of these things. So, I can't give you a single one. May who vicram says anything about Hyderabad Nisam may opphan I have not read anything about this individual so I can't say thoughts on Andrew Uber Huber man this is not history sir how he loots knowledge yeah yeah yeah he he he yeah that's that's that's a phenomenon that's that's a long time thing in the west it's like uh the Wimhof method of cultural theft he will steal yoga he will steal steal pranayam, he will steal bastrika, he will steal kapalabati, he will put that all together with the Himalayan cold weather exposure and he will say it's the wimhoff method and Andrew Hubberman does the same thing. So standard uh tactics James, good to see you James. India in the 40s was slowly filling with pious British evangelicals who wanted to not just rule and administer India but also to redeem and improve it. Indeed. Indeed. in India is still being filled with these fantastic evangelicals who are no longer merely British, but they're also American and from various other countries and who are carrying forth the the flame that the British the torches that the British lit. So I suppose James you must be greatly pleased with what is currently happening in various parts of India. In the past in the 40s you had only a few pious British evangelicals who were converting a smattering of evil backward Hindus to superior Christianity. But today you will see that this is happening on an industrial scale in India. So this shall please you and fill the cockals of your heart with great warmth. My dear James. All right. Uh Prashant Sharma says any book which talks about cast system before the British. Um what's it called? Casts of mind I think it's called. Give me a second. Let me Google this. I have the book somewhere over here in the shelves. But let's Google this. Casts of mind. mind by by Nicholas Dirks is good book. Yes. I'm not sure if it's about it's it's not about the cast system before the British, but it's about uh how the cast system is is a misnomer and how the British imposed the four the four uh you know that that four-pronged cast system on on India. Uh 6P70 Delta says, "Excited for tomorrow's live stream would be awesome. I look forward to it. I'm also excited for it. So that brings me to the end of today's live stream. I am excited for tomorrow's live stream. It will be an extended live stream. I am not sure it's going to be an 8 hour live stream. Most likely not, but I will extend it. It'll at least be a 4-hour live stream. So let's end this today. Right now at this point in time, tomorrow 6:00 p.m. India time we will have the 300th episode of the Ask a Budget show. Uh I will take all kinds of questions. It's going to be mainly a super chat thing but let's see how it goes. Uh so I look forward to seeing you all tomorrow 300th episode. Quite an achievement. I'll see you there tomorrow. So thank you everybody for the for the questions. Thank you to everyone who was here on YouTube, on Twitter, on on Twitch, on Facebook, wherever else. Thank you and keep learning, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards. I shall see you tomorrow. Thank you very much. Take care.