[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Hey, heat. Hey, heat. [Music] Good evening, good day, namaste everybody and welcome to the 254th episode live episode of the Ask Abij show. I hope you're all doing fantastic. It's great to see you all. I can see a lot of you already on the live chat. So, thank you so much for being here. I will take as many questions of yours as possible over the next hour or so. But before I start, let me see who all is there on the live stream. I can see Shri Ram Chundraa, Mr. Adoras, Pujan Patel, Mr. Reactors Zone GK, Dilling Pu from Assam, Namaste, Pravin SS, uh Event Countdown, Anand Chandak, Mr. Jam Priyanchi Sud Om uh Info King Kumar Kanesh Yashwant Sudir uh NTN88 Samraati Kumar Kaneshk Vinayman Geopolitical Dub from Indor Chil Yash channel Mr. Biz Kumar Kanesh Kagan Akash Sharma Sudhakar S Rahul Dunak who else do we have Akila Narayan uh Vijitraati pane Paul from Kolkata my good friend Anand Chandakwant Sudir Sarup Exim Nimish Gupta Adit07 Xenomorphosis Susant Das Pranayumar Rajat Agarwal Darya Bhanavat Deepika Arian Musk Priyanka Jaw Alia, Samim, Sury, Pawan, Air Gandhi, Hari, Chan, Gul, Vikas, PJ, Somi, Jade, Abishek, Shivas, Karan, Nalawat, Juram, Hunter, Kenway. Who else do we have? P, PDR, Mastan blogs, Vinayan, Arian, Patel, Nuro, Arnav, Son, Pankage, Giki, Nikil, Bansali, sir, SC, Mystic, uh, and and so many other people. for Ankita, Somi, Jen and and so many so many other people. So, thank you so much for being on the live stream. Welcome everybody and let me take as many questions as possible. I will take uh the live chat questions obviously on a priority basis. Let's do that. Let's go with question number one. Kumar Kanesh says, "Can it can it be possible that the UFOs we hear about are actually humans for the from the future or more like time travelers and the UFOs are their time machines on a research mission?" Well, it's not entirely 100% impossible. There is a small probability that that that could be the case, but uh there is nothing in well, according to the laws of physics, time travel is theoretically kind of possible if you do some manipulation of of space-time conditions using Ein field equations. Essentially, it's allowed by the field equations of Einstein, if you use wormholes and long distances and stuff like that. But have we ever seen evidence of time travelers ever? I mean, look, if if UFOs are the vehicles of time travelers, then why don't they come down here and talk to us and and tell us how the future is like, right? What what what time period are you coming from and how are things then then? What's the technology we have in in the future and so on. So, uh I think the chance is very low. I'm sure it's not entirely zero. Maybe they have a miss research mission. Maybe they they want to study us from far away. Maybe that that was the case. It could be the case perhaps. NTN88 says, "Who do you think gave Zilinski authority to do such an audacious attack? Do you think Trump didn't know about the attack?" I think it looks like Mr. Trump was not aware of the attack at all. The uh Operation Spiderweb attack on Russian airfields and the Kirchbridge attack. It doesn't look like Mr. Trump was aware of this at all. He was completely silent about this for about 48 hours. Looks like Mr. Trump was completely caught off guard. And if that is the case, I think he only has himself to blame, Mr. Trump. Um, he did not take Mr. Zalinsky seriously. And Mr. Zilinsky is now showing to Mr. Trump, demonstrating that look, I have the cards. I have many cards up my sleeve. The cards that you are asking about, the cards you were speaking about in the in the old office. Let me show you the cards. Here is card number one. Spiderweb. Here's card number two. Kirchbridge card number three, train attacks. Now, let's see what other cards he has. I don't think anybody has given Zilinski the attack, the the audacity or the or the authority to do this O audacious attack. I think he is now battleh hardened. Initially, he was a comedian. Now he's he's transforming into a Ukrainian Wilson Church, it looks like. H So, I don't think Trump was aware of this. Zalinski has taken charge it looks like and maybe he is supported by the European nations the the the EU nations or NATO nations without the US involvement. So that's what it looks like is happening over here. Ud the Bhav Sharma says if the USA and Indian deep states are not aligned with the national interest, how can ordinary people like us replace them and do the needful especially overcoming the corruption and coged system here. India doesn't have a deep state. India has some uh powerful people who have been powerful because of their their ancestors status as British era elites. Um I'm not sure. Yeah. But whoever they are whoever they may be probably aren't aligned with our national interest. The US deep state well the US deep state is is it owns the US if it does exist. How can ordinary people like us replace the deep state and do the needful? Ordinary people like us cannot replace the deep state and do with the neutral. First of all, we don't even know who they are. And we don't know what their means of control of power are. See that one thing the the Anglo-Saxons have done is they have very craftily hidden away from public sight. They're instruments of power. Historically, everybody would demonstrate the instruments of power. See why we are so great. We have this and that and whatever. The Anglo-Saxons have very craftily hidden away the instruments of power and hidden away where the real power centers lie. So it's impossible to find where they are apparently. So how do we replace them? I mean if you want to replace them you have to become become powerful. How do you become more powerful? How can an ordinary person be become powerful? What is power then? Then the question is what is power? Like Maung said power flows from the barrel of a gun. Right? Influence is not power. Power is power. Power means you have an army of people who will obey you without question and who will do whatever you say. That's power. That's a force multiplier. That's leverage. How can ordinary people do that? Unless you get deep into things and get into politics or something. Otherwise, you can't. Otherwise, you can't. Udb says, "Can you please recommend top books you believe are necessary for becoming highly successful, wealthy, powerful, tax techsavvy in today's world? Mix of genres, technology, mindset, et I have always been so loath to do book recommendations. See, how do you become successful? What's the book for becoming successful? Is it a set of books? I I don't really do self-help books. Successful. What about books about strategy, etc.? If you want to understand power, if you want want to understand strategy etc. You got to read books like for example well if you want to understand amoral strategy in power you can uh read books by Brzinski Bzinski I'm sure I have a few up here you can read books by uh Henrik Kissinger diplomacy what else one is diplomacy the other is leadership um so that that is all about aoral power grabs and stuff. I mean, not about power grabs as such, but that's how the how the really the world works. Books about becoming wealthy. I don't know books about maybe you should read uh uh what was his name. Can't remember the guy's name. There was this uh British entrepreneur uh Felix Dennis who wrote a book about how to become rich or something. Maybe it's a good book. Maybe it's a good I think I read it like 15 years ago or 20 years ago. Uh and so on. TechSavvy, you can't read books to become techsavvy. You have to get your hands dirty with technology. You have to dive deep into technology and actually start using it, creating it, modifying it. That's how you become techsavvy. You don't become techsavvy by reading books. You don't become wealthy also by reading books. You become wealthy by taking risks, financial risks and calculated risks, not reckless risks. And similarly it goes to becoming powerful. So Sachin thank you very much sir. Thank you. Sterk Bay says with the US national debt crossing 36 trillion what are the possible long-term global risks? Could this lead to major economic or geopolitical shifts? Look, as long as the US is in control, it it it has the world's best power positioning capabilities and it has it controls more than 700 extr territorial military bases. I don't think nothing will I don't think anything will happen to the US dollar's hegemony. So the US dollar is is based on US American global military power projection and their ability to intervene militarily anywhere on the globe at 60 minutes roughly notice. So it doesn't matter how much their n national debt crosses. So what they're doing what is what exactly is the US national debt it means that they are selling pieces of paper to other countries who are so you you sell sovereign bonds to countries and you and the country gives you dollars back in return. That's the kind of scam it is. The sovereign bond is is a promise that I'll pay you back with US dollars again. It's a complete scammy system, complete circular logic and so on. But since the debt is in US dollars, all the US has to do is to print a little bit more dollars and give it back. See, here's the difference. If India owes let's say a billion dollars to another country and we have to pay it back. Hm. We have to first earn those billion dollars by trading with other countries by giving those countries actual goods. That's how we earn the paper $1 billion and that's how we pay the debt back. If the US owes somebody a billion dollars, they'll just print the billion dollars and give it give the money. So that's that's the entire financial system global financial system is is based on it's it's the foundation is is this scam. So the risks are significant. Uh right now nobody's going to dare to ask the US uh even the Chinese own trillions of dollars of US securities. It doesn't make any difference. And if the Chinese ask the Americans to pay it back, the Americans may even refuse. So overall the entire system is a scam. And the global risk long-term risk is that eventually this will collapse. when it collapses the entire global financial system will collapse which means that nations won't be able to trade with with each other very easily. Um so it could cause genuine massive global economic shifts and that comes with geopolitical shifts also. Diva Sharma says Vietnam, Indonesia, Singapore, Israel sovereign or not? The only fully sovereign nations in the world 100% sovereign are the US, Russia, China, India and Israel, five nations. Uh other nations have their sovereignty that is compromised in a various ways, a variety of ways. So Vietnam not 100% sovereign sadly. I would love it to be so sovereign. It's a beautiful nation. Indonesia wonderful nations. Singapore no. Okay. Jagen says s world bank is going to give $40 billion to Pakistan. Yes, I gave a detailed presentation about this yesterday. $40 billion 50% to the government and 50% to the private sector 20 billion to the government 20 billion to the private sector. That's what the World Bank is going to do over the next 10 years to Pakistan. So will Pakistan come back stronger whenever clashes with India? Why our forces on regular basis strike across border inside terrorist facilities? Pakistan will remain afloat. The US and its various assets like the World Bank, the IMF etc. They're going to keep Pakistan aloat because they need Pakistan Pakistan is a very major valuable asset for the US to keep India counterbalance off balance to keep on you know needling India and poking India whenever required. Pakistan is very valuable to the US. The Americans will not allow Pakistan to go under. Without all this aid, Pakistan would have collapsed a long long long time ago. So Pakistan will survive. Pakistan will continue to exist. Maybe they'll come back stronger if the Americans give sufficient money. But they don't want Pakistan to become too strong either. They just want to keep it the way it is. You see? So why do our forces on regular basis strike across border into inside terror terror facilities? Because we are not a nation that strikes at civilians. We don't target civilians. We will strike at terror facilities and we will target strike at terror camps and bases and if required we'll st we'll strike at Pakistani military infrastructure and targets not civilians. Um and we wish that we do not have to do this. We wish Pakistan would mind its own business and we would not have to do all this. But they force us to do it by constantly indulging in terrorism and exporting terrorism to India. Akash says is it possible for the PM of BAT to create a secret commando group which can eliminate the 0.5 front hidden force including international politicians. It's look I'm not recommending anything like this but anything is possible. Kumar Kanesh says to deal with Pakistan conventionally can we make WMD silently like country I as option to escalate like 71B possible without west war interference to deal with Pakistan conventionally can we had make WMD silently like country I as option to escalate like 71B possible without I'm not sure what you're asking sir I usually understand things. Weapons of mass destruction. What are Okay, let me talk about WMDs. Weapons of mass destruction. Weapons of mass destruction are either nuclear weapons or chemical weapons or biological weapons. We don't do nuclear we don't do chemical. We don't do biological. That's that's crimes against humanity. The only thing we do is nuclear. We have a nuclear stockpile. So, we have a nuclear stockpile. We don't need to be silent about it. It's pretty open. Um and can something be possible without western war interference? No. The moment we strike at Pakistan, the west will interfere. Guaranteed. Guaranteed. But the point about nuclear weapons is that we don't want to use them ever. It's for deterrence. Mr. Bisby says, "Oh, thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Very nice of you." Mr. Bisby again. How is it that we still have really bright-minded individuals in spite of the bright bad education system? How do we become like them? like whom bright-minded uh first of all why do we have bright-minded individuals despite the horrible education system because talent will will somehow find a way Ramanojun found a way right despite the horrific education system which nearly nearly destroyed him but he found a way he was determined he reached out and Hardy found him he reached out to Hardy and Hardy Hardy saw that this guy's a goddamn genius um so look India is a nation of immense talent. We have the brightest people in the world and they they succeed because of their deter determination. They succeed because of the talent, their hard work and for many of them the education system no matter how garbage-l like it is, it doesn't stop them. So we have the brightest people in the world. No question. So the education system can only seek to u you know slow them down but as long as they have determination they can't be stopped. How do we become like them? by working as hard as possible and being super optimistic. Nikil says best book to teach best books to teach in Indian violence to a baby girl who's just 1.5 year old any lectures I think at the age of 1.5 years I'm not sure anybody can read a book uh but I'm sure you can read a book to them you know read it aloud or something the best book for Indian values are the good old books the Mahabharat draman right maybe the oponyishads but the question is can a 1.5year-old handle that uh maybe you can wait for a few years until she is uh maybe five six years old at that time the Mahabharat Ramayan become really interesting as long as you teach as long as you communicate it at the level of a kid you know so I think the best books for Indian values are the mahabharat ramayan opishadas the vedas all of this and the opishations vedas etc are all pretty complicated for most people so stick to the maharad and ramayan and of course there is the jatak katas the jatak tales the punch tantra all of that is great for kids. So these are some of the best things you can do. Um Rohan says how would you create vasals for India as a PM? How would you create vasals for India as a PM? By being more powerful by becoming more powerful. Right now India is not in the position to create more vasals. only by being more powerful being at least a $10 trillion economy with the corresponding military might then you can think of creating missiles really now says I am thoroughly scared we must strike preemptively you mean about the asymmetric threat from Pakistan no point being scared the government will do what's needed technological capabilities are superb of course it's going to be a challenge after we saw what the Ukrainians did to Russia yeah so we we cannot be complacent But I'm sure we'll be fine. We have more threats now. The Pakistanis will will try some nonsense. I'm sure sooner or later. They have always done that. So, we're going to have to be ready. But let's not be thoroughly scared. Let's be positive and optimistic. Anish, thank you very much, sir. Djamat, thank you sir. Pakistan got a temporary position at the UN Security Council in a supposedly influential position. Is this a diplomatic victory for them which can unfortunately be used to prevent the continuation of operation sindur? This uh temporary position cannot be used to prevent the resumption of operation sindur if we choose to resume it. Just because you have a certain statusdriven position doesn't make you powerful. But yeah, this is a reward for Pakistan of some kind from the US or maybe from China, maybe from both. See both the US and China see eye to eye on on Pakistan. China doesn't want India to rise to grow much. So Pakistan is very valuable in that regard. Pakistan can keep India off balance. The US also doesn't seek doesn't want India to become the next China in a in a by a 2040 horizon time horizon. So they also want Pakistan to continue to exist. So to have Pakistan continue continue to exist. They they want to take the world's eyes off Pak both nations US and China don't want the world world to regard Pakistan as a terrorist nation. They want to whitewash the image of Pakistan. So American the American military Afric commander recently said that the Sahel region is the world's new terror hub. So they are kind of saying that the Sahel region is where terrorism happens now the global epicenter of terrorism and they are not mentioned in Pakistan in this in this regard. So they're trying to whitewash Pakistan's reputation and giving them this this supposedly influential position in the UN Security Council. It um in in in the perspective of terrorism. Well, once again, they're trying to whitewash things. So it's kind of a diplomatic victory for Pakistan. It's not a diplomatic victory because it doesn't really have the support of hundreds of nations. It's it's it's like a bone that has been thrown thrown towards a dog. Here, chew on this bone. This is your reward for your services rendered. That's what this is. But it can't be used to prevent the potential continuation of operations in they can't use that to prevent that. As says, I am a third year. First of all, thank you, sir. Thank you. I am a thirdyear mega chemical from Imperial. I'm a thirdyear Mang chemical. What's mechanical engineer engineering chemical from Imperial? I'm interested in peptide crystallization and thinking about doing a PhD but unsure if I should do it in the US or not given the current situation. I think it's risky now in the US. You know what they're doing right now currently is they are going after Chinese students. Chinese students who have these education visas F what F whatever I think it's F visas is it or whatever it is. Um, and they're revoking the visas. So these students from China, I'm sure most of them are not spies. I I assume maybe I'm too naive, but maybe I'm too naive still, but maybe not all of them are spies, right? For the Chinese Communist Party. So they have spent a lot of money to come to the US and they've taken admission. They've done all the exams and they've cleared everything. They have come legally after spending so much money and the US is now revoking their visas unilaterally. There's nothing these kids can do about it, right? So they're out. All these years of hard work, all the money invested, all of it down the drain. So that's China. They're targeting China right now. That's what the Trump administration is doing. What's the guarantee they will not look at India next in the same way? And right now they're increasing their scrutin scrutiny all on all student visa applications. Like they're tripling the scrutiny. They want you to um diverge all your social media accounts and they will look at your social media accounts and I'm sure even if you have deleted stuff they can find it because they own the social media platforms. So they want to see if you have said anything against their country in the past or against any of their allies or vasals that sort of thing. So I think it's a difficult time to be an Indian student who is thinking of going to the US for further studies. difficult, dangerous I'm I mean I remember during the the COVID period also when there were lockdowns and all there were Indian students who had secured admission after spending so much money they reached the US after spending so much money for the flight and they told to go back so anything can happen the only safe place is your own country um what are other potential locations uh destinations maybe Australia is one but I don't think Australia has such great STEM unities I no offense to Australia, but I'm not sure about that. Um, Germany is a US vasal. They could follow suit and they they've been rather discriminatory towards Indian students in the past. Germany. Um, yeah. So, I think it's kind of dodgy right now. It's kind of dodgy. I can't give you a final recommendation. You will have to do your own risk analysis. But hopefully what I told you gives you some better context. It is kind of dodgy right now. If I was 20 today and I wanted to do do a PhD 22 or whatever, I would be worried if I was thinking of the US. Susan says the nuke we the nukes we talk of today are thermonuclear weapons. Are there any countries that still maintain an arsenal of traditional nukes that is fish bombs? All nations maintain an arsenal of fish and bombs. Thermonuclear bombs are strategic weapons. The tactical weapons are all fish and bombs mostly as as far as I understand. I mean I would not use a thermonuclear weapon as as as a tactical nuke as a tactical nuke or a battlefield nuke. Thermonuclear weapons are for a different purpose. Very nasty purpose. And then you have other weapons also. But see the traditional low low yield nukes fish bombs are still used. Absolutely. No use in you still stockpile them for tactical use. So um it's not entirely correct that the nukes we talk of today are only thermonuclear weapons. It's not the case. Those are strategic weapons. Those are to be delivered in case of doomsday scenario to ensure the complete annihilation of your enemy because they have meadon plus yields. Those are thermonuclear weapons. Okay. MK. Thank you so much. Thank you so much sir. Pravin says first of all thank you. The question is who is really winning the Russia Ukraine war? Can we leverage this war to procure SU57 at discount? Who's winning right now? It's a stalemate. Obviously Russia has the upper hand. Ukraine is in no position to see the question you to ask yourself is very simple. Which side is in a position or has the capability to destroy the other side completely to inflict a permanent complete military defeat on the opponent? Is Ukraine in a position to inflict a complete comprehensive military defeat on Russia? Has it ever been in that position? The answer is no and no. Is Russia today capable of inflicting a complete final military defeat on Ukraine? It is. It would involve tremendous amounts of force and tremendous damage and destruction. But they can do it. They can flatten Ukraine. But Russia has chosen to take it very slow. And because of that, now in the past week, they've suffered significant losses. Uh and now Zalinski's star is rising, his stature is rising, the West is beginning to portray him like a second V Winston Churchill. So that's the deal. So maybe Russia will now take some actions to, you know, rectify the situation. Maybe they will want to most likely to end the war quickly now. We'll see. Can we leverage this war to to procure the Suko 57 at a discount? I think Russia will be happy to give us the 57. I'm not sure about the discounts and all but the the thing is if we get the full transfer of technology that's the most important thing and of course if it comes at at a discount why not but the most important thing is full transfer of technology including the source code including all of it. That would be the most ideal thing for us. Uh I think we should go for that after properly scrutinizing the offer and doing our due diligence. We should go for it. Shibam says when will India build scale power capacity for AI? I think India the government of India is now taking AI very seriously. Uh and I'm sure there are u projects underway to have our own indigenous AI systems. not just a not just a chatbot in a large language model but something beyond that. So the real utility of AI is not in the civilian domain it's in the military domain in the governance domain. So I think India is in the process of doing this. Uh Karnataka you're going to have some um some developments there and so on. So I think we're on the right track. Vic post says did the oponyations give birth to quantum look I may be completely ignorant but I don't see it that way I may be completely wrong in this because a lot of people believe this but I haven't really read the opinions in great detail uh but quantum mechanics see what you have is that there are so many of these phenomena in quantum mechanics that make no sense quantum mechanics is not intuitive at all. It has these extraordinarily counterintuitive um aspects to it and some of the interpretations of quantum mechanics are shocking, mind-boggling like multiple universes, the quantum multiverse, u quantum immortality and so on. These are real possible interpretations of quantum mechanism. These are similar to what we have in the in in the Indian philosophical text like the opishations and so on. So the interpretations are similar to what Indians thought about thousands of years ago. We thought about this without solving the equations of or der or deriving the equations of quantum mechanics. So the oponyations did not give birth to quantum mechanics. But what the openish in etc talk spoke speak about what Indian philosophical texts speak about that is now being seen as some of the interpretations of quantum mechanics. The quant interpretations are very similar to what Indian philosophical texts talk about. So there are parallels which make us wonder what on earth were our ancestors doing. How did they thousands of years ago think of these things which are now coming out of quantum mechanics. That's the deal. Alan Spice says, "How and why did Singapore separate from Malaysia?" Now that's an old story and I don't know Leewan, you cried on in front of the cameras for that. I think there were differences on governance and I don't remember exactly what the deal was right now. There were differences on in opinion about how the two nations should proceed and uh Lee Kuanu wanted something else and and Malaysia wanted something else. That's as far as I can remember right now. the specific details. You're going to have to look it up. Uh yeah, so I don't remember right now exactly what it was. Only Jam says why Hindu scripture teaching in temples is not promoted at least in BJP ruled states. It would unite Hindus and promote use of Sanskrit and unify Hindus. Well, unfortunately, you see, I am not one of the rulers of the BJP ruled states. So, I don't know why it is. you're going to have to ask the governments in those states why it's not being done. Uh Hindu scripture teaching in temples. It's a good idea. What's wrong with it? Do it. But for that temples would need state support, but we are a secular nation. So we can't support the temples with with public money. Of course, we can support other things with public money, which is perfectly fine in secular Indian secularism. I think it's it's ridiculous. India should wholeheartedly, in my opinion, embrace its cultural and civilizational identity and values and traditions officially, but that's not the case. So that's where we are today and it's sad. MK, was the US pro or anti-rexit and why? Well, the US never said anything about this. They said it's a internal matter of the EU or something, but I assure you they were pro Brexit. I assure you they wanted more direct control over the UK which would not be possible if the UK remained part of the EU then they can only control the UK indirectly through Brussels. So I think it was a great deal for the US that the U the Brexit happened. Okay. Mr. 88 says says that if Trump was silent shouldn't that make it more obvious that he was aware? I mean he was very quick with the balam thing happened or we or we started operation tindur look Mr. Trump makes it a point to tweet about everything and anything. No matter what's happening, he's tweeting. He like tweets dozens of times a day. Twitter or or or he post puts posts these days on. So on what truth social and he has an opinion over everything and if something happens, he'll weigh in about it. But I'm assuming you're talking about uh I'm assuming you're talking about spiderweb. Maybe you are. But when this operation spider web happened, nothing not a statement from from Trump for 48 hours because there was nothing for him to take credit for, right? I don't think he was aware. I don't think he was aware at all. I think he was shocked. He was shocked into silence. And his first mention of operation spiderweb was when he put out a post on truth social about his conversation with Mr. Putin which involved a discussion about the planes that were hit. So I think he's been completely shocked and he's been flabbergasted. What on earth happened? They're not playing paying me due respect, due difference. How dare they keep me out of it? He was very upset and very annoyed. I get the feeling he was he had absolutely no idea about this. Si SSS says DRDO is working on human robots that will join our military by 2027. How can they help us in warfare? By taking bullets and nothing happens to them. If you if a human takes a bullet, you are incapacitated at best. I mean, you can fight, but you know, you're going to need attention very rapidly, but robots, I think they can take a lot of damage damage and they can go deep into enemy territory, and we don't have to worry about a robot being captured, for example, or killed, but we don't want our our people to be captured. So, that's just one example of uh how they can help us in warfare. And robots, if they're AI equipped, they will always aim properly. They won't miss the target. You see, they won't miss the target. So many advantages of having robots. You just send 10,000 robots to into battle. They'll take P for you. They'll neutralize all the Pakistani terrorists and all the Pakistani regulars and then we can walk in. I mean, imagine that scenario. Isn't it great if we have robots in battle? There you have it, sir. Sedartha Sharma says, "I want to learn about Indian dynasties before the frequent invasions. What sources would you suggest? Also would love to watch a series about from me about this." Yeah. Well, there's only a certain number of certain number of things I can do on an ongoing basis. The the geo strategy podcast that I'm doing is it it takes a tremendous amount of research. I have to go through more than a thousand pieces of high signal intelligence per week. Yeah. I'm also trying to continue the uh understanding America podcast which involves a lot of reading. If I'm doing all that, how on earth will I be able to uh you know do a series about Indian history? I would love to. I would love to. I'm not saying it's a bad suggestion. It's a great suggestion and thank you for that. But at this point in time it's not possible. Maybe in the future I would love to. Uh where can you read about Indian dynasties before the frequent invasions? I think you know uh you can read up RC Majunar. That's a great one. There's a book about South Indian history and I don't remember who the author was, Nilakantan or something. Maybe I'll put it out uh separately but I think RC Mundar is is a great source. Uh of course some of his information will most likely be outdated because he wrote the books almost 100 years ago but it's still a great source and a very detailed source. So maybe you can start with RC Majunar. He's got this this long series about Indian history. I think more than 10 books if I'm not mistaken. So, that's a good source to go to. Thank you. Anonymous says, "Why can't lab diamonds be used in jet engine turbines?" Well, it's a good question. Well, okay. Let's do some research, shall we? Let's do a bit of research. Um, what's the uh combustion temperature of diamonds? Right. First of all, jet engine temperature. Jet jet engine uh a average temperature um how many,000° how hot? Okay, so this is an AI overview 1500° let's say now 1500° keep it in mind. Now com combustion temperature diamond diamond see 900°. So if you have a diamond turbine blade in a jet engine which re reaches 1500° the diamond will end up as ash because it is carbon at the end of the day. So that's why you can't and also it has other characteristics that you that you don't want in a jet engine turbine geopolitical dub. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. Sahil Rajesh Lande says your thoughts on China's agot terrorism in the US. Well, plausible deniability sending sending some kind of a fungus, a blight of some kind through students or or researchers or whatever. They will try everything at their disposal. They will I'm sure the US will also reciprocate or must be doing things similar to that. So, Sergeant Skylan says, "How would you rank the IIAF?" Now the Indian air force today the most powerful air force is the US air force then the US marine air force and then then the US navy air force that's three the second most power after that you would have I would imagine the Russian air force then the Chinese air force then the Indian air force so 1 2 3 4 5 six number six or something but when when it comes to national strength the US is number one Russia is number two China is number three India is number four that's where I would rank India uh Mike says I like Japanese history and culture. The Maji Empire modernized Japan and made it a great power. Why did the Maratas fail to create something of the Maji Empire and become a contend contender in the Second World War? The Maji Empire nearly destroyed Japanese culture. By the way, they modernized Japan at the cost of Japan's traditional culture and they turned Japan into something it never was, an adheric culture, a Dharmic Empire. And that's why Japan committed, Japanese soldiers committed all those horrific atrocities they did in Nanjing and Manuria and whatnot. The Maji Empire tried to uproot Japan's 2,000 plus year old culture. They tried to wipe Buddhism out. They destroyed the samurai system, the shogunit, everything. And yeah, it made Japan a great power for a while. But then you know what happened eventually? The Maratas never had the intention of removing Dharma from India. Um and uh where did Marata's failed to create something like the major empire? Look, the Marata Empire was destroyed by the British after the second Anglo Marata war. But the reason for the decline of the Marata Empire was infighting. It's always succession that goes along that causes infighting and then you have this tussle political tussle for supremacy and you forget what the big picture is that you know you need to run the empire and safeguard the country and that's what happened. That's what where it went wrong. My friends, Akshai VHMA says, "How do you rate the US current foreign and immigration policy? Will it help them in the long run for creating jobs?" Foreign policy is right now half a hazard. They're imposing tariffs everywhere, even on their own allies. Their own allies are now in the position of at the point of, you know, reciprocating with further tariffs on the US. And the the Trump administration seems to think that they can get away by by arm twisting everybody because they are more powerful. But it's going to cause longlasting long longlasting illwill towards the US and it's not good overall. It's not a good foreign policy to have immigration policy. They are they're cracking down on lots of things. They are deporting lots of what they call illegal aliens and so on. I mean I if somebody is in the country legally they should be deported. Nothing wrong with that. I completely support that. No question about it. Um, so if they're able to deport all the illegal aliens, it will kind of to a certain small extent ease the pressure on their society and economy and it it will free up more jobs for actual citizens. So that would be good. Uh, immigration policy. What else? Uh, they want high-skilled immigrants, very valuable immigrants, not not low-skilled immigrants. So I think that's a work in progress. So um the current foreign policy is is kind of chaotic and I think it's a little counterproductive for the US interests. The immigration policy seems to be a somewhat better and maybe if it is implemented and enforced properly it may be good for the US and it may free up more jobs for American citizens. Maybe even create jobs possibly. Maybe the foreign policy is all about creating jobs, imposing tariffs on things that are coming from outside so that the American economy will have to create those, you know, products at home, but that will come at a much higher cost. So it'll have problems, inflationary problems and so on. But let's see. So overall, the foreign policy isn't great. Immigration policy makes more sense. Nilles Patil says, "What's the battle of anti-atam change in the US psyche?" I haven't reached there yet. I haven't reached that yet. So I'm not sure. Uh but yeah. Yeah. It's a it's a pivotal it's a pivotal uh ep uh what you could say chapter in US history. Abishek shastav says your views on pronabistri chat sutra AI app. I am not aware of it. Pranov mystery is is a pretty solid technical guy. Uh I remember watching videos of him like 15 years ago in which he was the first guy to you know have these the internet internet of things kind of thing and he was very innovative and so on but I haven't positionally seen this uh chat sutra AI app should I see it now I think no not right now I'll look at look into it later so I I don't have views right now because I haven't seen that yet. Mr. Aiator says if the exchange of a 100 nukes between two nations can can end human life on earth then why does the number of nukes matter? We or North Korea should be as much feared as Russia. Why does Russia's number of nukes matter more? Yeah. Be you are right beyond a certain beyond a certain scale number of nukes doesn't matter. And that's why you know during the cold war the first cold war in the 70s and 80s the two nations the US and the USSR had these series of treaties that cut down the number of nuclear weapons because it made no sense for each nation to have 10,000 plus nuclear warheads. Made no sense whatsoever. Too much maintenance, too much headache. Cut it down. Cut it down. Cut it down. They also had this thing that they would not mate their nuclear weapons with strategic bombers and the strategic bombers would would remain on display and they would not be attached the missiles or or nuclear weapons will not be attached to the aircraft. There was the start start one start to whatever treaty and so on. So it doesn't make sense to have so many nuclear weapons. But still I think both nations US and Russia today have around 5,000 roughly give or take nuclear weapons. Um now the question is how many nukes if they're detonated can end human life on earth? If a 100 nukes are detonated will it end human life? It will cause come some kind of atmospheric disturbance. It will cause some kind of mild nuclear winter scenario. Uh but it won't end life on earth. 100 nuclear weapons. It will cause problems climate problems and so on. It won't end human life. It may affect human life maybe maybe a few million people may die possibly which is already a disaster but it won't end human life and nations like the US etc can can potentially deal with this such such scenarios but if you have a thousand weapons that is catastrophic and that's like world ending scenario so that's why nations with 100 200 weapons are not that feared and obviously um nations like ours will probably not want to use them. Uh Rahul Lakman says, "Are there plans for space tourism by India private or public sector?" Not that I know of. Anything at all? Nothing that I know of. Uh for space tourism, you need significant space assets infrastructure. You needed a you need at least one space station. You need the ability to send people up on demand. We don't have that right now. ISRO has a very shoring budget and shoestring capabilities despite being a fantastic organization with fantastic people. And we have achieved so much in this road despite such low budgets. So uh space tourism is a luxury and we are I don't think anybody in India has any plans for space tourism whether it's the public sector or private sector at this point in time. The power says why is Elon posting against Trump now? Divorced. Divorced. Yes sir. Divorced. It's done. Yeah. Nikl Bansali says, "What would you define as Indian values are the values that come out of the Vedas of the Uponyas? the traditional cultural civilizational values of India which come out of the various philosophical schools of thought whether it is yoga mimmansa u what whatever else we have whether it is the u jana philosophy whether it is the the sananka philosophy both the philosophy even the charvaka philosophy or the vidanta philosophy all these philosophical schools of thought they have a shared set of set of values no matter how different the schools of thought are they have these shared values that nonviolence is superior and preferable to violence being vegetarian is preferable and superior to being non-vegetarian and you have to uh serve dharma uh a hinsa is bad which means we have to destroy a hinsa and so on so forth all the values that are common in all the phil philosophical schools of thought are the Indian values chawan thank you sir thank you very much recently we saw how far India has progressed in AI in warfare. How can we Indian citizens best use AI kosh to advance AI innovation research innovation using government provided data sets models and tools? Have you explored it? I have not explored it. What is AI kosh? Let me try and find out very rapidly quickly. Let me Google it. What is AI kosh? Um EI kosh let's see what is EI kosh AI kosh AI kosh a platform that provides repository of data sets oops data sets models and use cases to enable AI innovation it features AI sandbox capabilities through an integrated something and this looks like a government thing that's fascinating I was not aware of this So I'm not that much of an adopter of AI. So maybe that's why I was not aware of it. But it's interesting to see this. Uh so yeah, India has progressed significantly in AI warfare. No question. How can Indian citizens best use AI coach to advance research AI research and innovation using government provided data sets? I'll have to dig deep into that and look into what kind of data sets are being provided to us. um what AI tools are are part of this AI coach? What models do we have? Can we download the models and and use them at home uh on our own systems or do we have to be connected like with charge GPT or or whatever else you have? I have not explored it. I came to know about it just now because of you. So I thank you for it. I've not explored it but I I I'll make sure I do before the next live stream because this is interesting. This is very interesting. Do we already have AI systems and AI AI models of our own? Interesting. So I I'll check it out but as of now I can't answer the question because I haven't used it. So anyway, thank you so much. Susant Das says is the recent movement in Nepal to bring back the monarchy India's reply to the US or the regime change in Bangladesh? Um I hope so if it is the case and I hope that the monarchy comes back in Nepal because that's been Nepal's traditional system for centuries since the 18th century they've had a monarchy in Nepal the first king was Rana I forget the name forget the name but yeah the kingdom of Nar in Nar Valley and and yeah it would be so nice for the people to of Nepal to have their monarchy back I'll be so happy for them Um I'm not sure if it's India's reply to the US. In case it is, well, good job India. But yeah, it should happen. Just just a movement happening without without success is no point, right? It should happen. They should get their monarchy back. They should have their king king back. Rohan says, do you agree with George Freriedman's view who's a renowned geopolitical expert? He says that Japan will research is a great power and the rise of Poland is a big power. Poland is being positioned by by NATO and the US as the next big bulvar against a hypothetical Russian westward expansion and Poland is being transformed into a military power. Significant military power. So yes, Poland is rising as a big power. Their economy is doing well, etc. Anyway, good for the good for the people of Poland. Good. But they should not allow themselves to be used as a pawn on someone's geopolitical chessboard. That's the only concern. But Poland is rising. Sure. Will Japan research as a great power? I would love nothing more than that to happen. Japan is a wonderful nation, great culture, great civilization, wonderful people. I would love for Japan to rise again as a great power and as a as a as a Japanese cultural entity, not as a as an Abrahamized entity or a or a dassinated entity like it was under the major restoration. But will it happen? I think unfortunately it's unlikely for this to happen right now. the birth rates and all. It's a disaster in Japan and now they're bringing in immigrants into Japan. That's a disaster. That's a disaster. Very sad. Diva Sharma says, "Jeo strategy with AC is amazing. Keep it up." Thank you very much, ma'am. Thank you. I'm assuming you're a ma'am. Thank you. Um Vishal Chri says, "Subra Swami stand on current government seems suspicious. Revealing number details of numbers of fighters short calling India's GDP figures fake. any opinion I don't examine Indian politics um I look into geopolitics I am not aware of what who is saying and who is not saying and all that and so many people do that right there are so many experts who go dig deep into Indian politics and they can give you the right answers about this I have not seen Mr. Mr. Swami's statements. I'm not aware of what he has been saying. As far as I know, he's no longer part of the Lok Sabha, Raja Sabha, whatever it was. So I can't say I don't know about that. Not aware of it. Sorry. Jiny says, "Good morning. If hypothetically, so you are in Canada, I suppose." Okay. Good morning. If hypothetically India gets $30 trillion somehow, how will you allocate the funds for the growth of India? I would allocate at least 5% of uh the GDP uh annual GDP uh to the defense of the country defense budget then I would allocate a significant proportion to R&D and then I would revamp the Indian education system with all these funds 30 trillion is a great amount of money invest like at least a trillion into revamping the education system which is easier said than done I mean you can invest the money it's easy if you have it but revamping it the whole system the rotten system with so many entrenched you know stakeholders that'll be difficult it'll cause chaos so be it whatever it is so yeah I would focus on the longstanding issues which have which have long-standing benefits long-lasting benefits deep benefits in the long term so that's what I would do the rest obviously has to be spended governance and and yeah if you get $30 trillion you could purchase a lot of hardware maybe you can transfer the Rafal Rafal U production line to India and the Suka 57 production line to India and have all the technology transferred to India, jet engines and whatnot. So you can do a lot with $30 trillion. But where would I start? I would start with allocating 5% for defense per year. Um and maybe of these so so I'm not really answering your question there. I'm talking about $30 trillion GDP per cap GDP annually. No, but using a lump sum $30 trillion. Yeah. So I would I would uh I would use at least 5 trillion trillion of those for the Indian defense whatever whatever the gaps are whatever the shortcomings comingings are and the rest I would have to think about it because I haven't thought about what I would do with $30 trillion. But I'm sure there's a lot of good you can do, a lot of holes that can be plugged. Um, a lot of infrastructure that can be built, a lot of weapons that can be bought, lot of uh high quality universities and institutes that that can be created. You can invest maybe at least a few trillion trillion of those into ISRO. Yeah. And and uh and so on to create a proper space program and so on. really now says who has fusion nukes do we are they more advanced we have fusion nukes these are called thermonuclear weapons it's a three-stage process chemic conventional explosive gives rise to a fusion reaction fusion reaction which in turn gives rise to a fusion reaction it's called a hydrogen bomb or a thermonuclear bomb u two-stage three-stage devices the first stage is conventional chemical explosives we have it the Chinese have it the Americans have it the Russians have it do the North Koreans have it possibly Okay. Does Israel have it? I have no idea. But they have nukes. Does Pakistan have thermonuclear bombs? If the Americans have given them, sure. Or maybe the Chinese gave them. Sure. So yeah, they are more advanced. It takes a little bit more of engineering to make it happen. The fusion process. Uh so they are more advanced and they are more powerful significantly more powerful because a fusion reaction the fusion of hydrogen atoms into helium helium atoms the output is helium atoms and a tremendous amount of energy way more energy than is that is given out by a fish reaction so that's why they are more powerful kis thank you very much welcome to the channel zea za thank you very much welcome to the channel I never ever tell anybody to buy the membership but some of you still buy it so thank you so much I'm very grateful for that. You're really supporting the channel. I really appreciate that. Thank you. As says, "I'm a British Indian citizen. First of all, thank you. Should I back off with a PhD in the US given I never had any social media profile?" I think if you're a British Indian citizen citizen, if you have a British passport, go for it. Absolutely go for the US. No issues. It won't matter what the color of his skin is as long as you have a British passport and you never had any social media profile. Well, what else do you want? The course is clear, my friend. Go for it. Go for it. As long as you have a British passport, there's no problem. They only are they are only targeting people from who come who have Asian passports, mainly China right now, but potentially also India. So, you're good to go. Uh the UV Mishas, the UV Mishra says, what would be India take on Pakistan's new UN position? I think it is deplorable. I think it is regrettable as the global Indian ambassador to the world. I declare that this is a regrettable thing to do and the United Nations should be ashamed of itself for elevating Pakistan to such a position where it is in charge of counterterrorism in in some way. It's deplorable. It's regrettable. It is shameful for an organization for the UN to give the world's epicenter of terrorism this position. That's it. Krauss Nerf says, "I asked GPT, okay, how people outside of India can help the Dharmic cause. It responded well. Short URL at R. Okay, that's the that's the URL. People should see it." Well, uh, should I see it? Maybe I should. Maybe I'll take a look at what that is. Let us find out. So, let me put this thing on the screen. Um, here we have it. And let me try and check out the URL. Short URL at slash R DLX. What's it say? Page not found. Short URL dot at short URL. R D LX. Okay, maybe some I I'll do that in my my free time. Looks like I was not a maybe I got the the URL wrong or something, but okay, let let people check it out for sure and thank you for sharing this. I appreciate it. Jugen says China controls 90 actually 95% of the rare earth elements. The US is begging. I'm not sure the US is begging in front of China. Is China the next superpower? No, it's not. Thus far, it's not. AI US lack behind China. The US is is at the forefront of AI, but China is showing signs of potentially catching up in the future. It's not very far behind the US. Yeah. And will US ever protect China at the cost of its business with China? Will the US ever protect Taiwan at the cost of its business with China? The US is decoupling from China in case people haven't noticed. The US has imposed 145% tariffs on China and then they brought it back to a certain thing a small period of time for for u for for to to to have breathing space for talks. But the US is going all out against China. They want to destroy their economic relationship with China. They want everything all their American companies to pull out of China. That's why India has the opportunity. The US is not valuing its business with China. It wants to end everything. It's nuking it. When it comes to Taiwan, the the US will protect Taiwan or if China is militarily strong and it'll take Taiwan, it'll the US will ensure that Taiwan is entirely destroyed before China gets hold of it and the US is not begging in front of China. The US has alternatives even though the Chinese control 90% of the rare earth elements 95% actually and they have imposed stringent restrictions which means the US gets nothing. Now there are alternatives. Australia is a big source and Australia if Australia ramps up its production it could become a viable significantly viable uh alternative to China. India is engaging with Australia on this front and so on. Is China the next superpower? I hope not and probably it's not in in a position to be the next superpower anytime soon anytime soon at all or ever possibly. Dave Chandan Malik says India got burned by the US in 1971. Oh yes, backing Pakistan. Oh yes, but we gave them the best response possible by viscting Pakistan and we also got burned by the post98 nuc sanctions. Yes, we did. Can we trust the US now with the quad I set with with China? How do we use it? Stay autonomous and avoid betrayal of the US flips. The US we have to understand one thing very clearly. The US doesn't wish India to grow. It doesn't want to see India as as as a 10 $15 economy by the 2040 horizon. It doesn't want a new China to emerge in 15 years. India could can very much emerge as as as the next China in 15 years if we just keep up with the current growth trajectory. So they will do everything they can to curtail our growth, to hamper our growth and cause all kinds of problems. Can we trust the US? We can trust the US to do all of this. the quad all that is nice to counterbalance China. We have some utility in that in that matter but apart from that the US wants India to stay where it is. They want our growth to stagnate. They will do their best to ensure this this happens. So we can trust them to have that sort of approach towards us. So how do we stay autonomous etc. We have to have a policy of multi-alignment. Work with everybody. Cultivate all possible uh friends that we can geopolitically whatever friendship is possible. Yes. And we should also have excellent relations with other powers. What other powers exist apart from the US and China? Russia for example. We should maintain our excellent relations with Russia. We should also cultivate our excellent ties with France and the global south nations. And if we balance all these things together, we can stay autonomous and that's what one uh would like to do. Nachiket Jay Raman says did USDNI predicted major IndiaPakistan conflict before 2026? How how is that? What is DNI? USDNI. USDNI director of national intelligence. Is it Oh, who is the DNI? Is it Tulsi? Okay. Whoever it is USDNI Tulsi is it Tulsi? It is Tulsi Gabard. So did she predict a major India Pakistan conflict before 2026? I'm not sure. And maybe they have their calculations of you know predictions, predictive analytics. I'm sure I suppose they use all kinds of supercomputing power and AI and all that. So maybe you can war game scenarios like humans can't. Maybe that can allow them to predict stuff possibly. Shuban Dubai says, "What's your take on India acquiring 31 MQ9B drones from the US considering their advanced surveillance and possible nuclear integration? Can this be moved be trusted strategically?" Look, we have if we these are I think surveillance drones. If we try to modify them for nuclear uh delivery, they will not allow it to happen and they will disable the drones remotely. Guaranteed. Guaranteed. And uh you look when if you acquire weapon systems from the Americans they always come with some kind of problem with some kind of comp compromised situation the Australians know it very well. FA18 fighter planes they bought from the Americans completely useless for two decades. So yeah if we use it in a way that the Americans don't like it they're going to disable it immediately. And that's how it is. The reason they've given they've sold this to us is because we can use this to do surveillance in the Indian Ocean region in the Bay of Bengal region, Chinese uh you know inroads into the region and so on. That's why so yeah it's it's it's dangerous to purchase American weapon systems because you know they are not reliable. The Americans can switch them off. Zea Zea Well thank you very much sir. Thank you very much in video. Do Muslims in the subcontinent have Turk DNA? Very little. Very negligible. Most of them have absolutely no Turk DNA. Maybe 1% or 2% of them may have maybe 5 10% Turk DNA. Most of them have absolutely no Turk DNA. They're us. They're our people. Um the in the actual article didn't talk about Muslims in Afghanistan, Pakistan. Rather talked about six random Muslim communities. Nature genetic article from 2012 says 65 65% pashons are distant from Indian people. Okay. But I I have seen genetic studies about pashons. I I obviously don't have the access to it right now because I have to dig through all my uh all that. But the pashons are essentially an extension of the north Indian population. And in the past 1,000 years, many other ethnic groups have settled in Afghanistan, right? Which means that there's going to be dilution of the original ethnicity. No question about it. But overall, among the various ethnic groups in Afghanistan, the Pashons are the largest ethnic group and they are the indigenous eth ethnic group and they still have some remnants of their pre invasion culture. some of I mean the atundance for example I mean if you see the atund dance you'll be astonished what what on earth and so on uh there there will be some genetic dilution some influx some introgression of foreign genetics uh but overall the pashons are our people and you you can look at other research papers also I suppose because I remember doing that a long time ago and I it said that the pashon population is an extension of the northern Indian population and they have had genetic influx from other surrounding regions also because of the geographical location of Gandhar or Afghanistan. Sergeant Skylin says do you think the do you think India used the S400 better than Russia? We we don't know. I don't know because we don't have the data. I don't have access to the data of how much h how to what extent was the S400 used in the 3-day war against Pakistan. As far as I know, we used it once as far as I know. to my very limited understanding because we had that interception of Pakistani missile ballistic missile possibly or sah harana that was most likely in my opinion the S400 I I still may be wrong about that so can't really compare a limited use versus what Russia has been using in the Ukraine conflict can't really compare the two warrior says root cause of anti-semitism in detail Nazism etc the Europeans have persecuted Jews for almost 2,000 years. The root cause is that they claim all kinds of things about Jews, that Jews are outsiders and Jews have some practices that the Europeans don't like and some kind of stories of blood liel or something. I'm not sure what it is. We don't understand these things. The Jews have lived in India for 2,000 years, never ever been persecuted in India. So, we don't understand what anti-mitism is. The Europeans, they have given rise to it, I suppose. Okay. Hm. Big fan. Well, thank you very much, sir. I really appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Ankita G. Thank you very much, ma'am. Thank you. Okay. ABM Studio says, "Russia is offering Sukoy 57s with full technology transfer. They want to produce Sukoy 57s not just for India but for the world. Outstanding. What could be a possible reason why our government is not taking it up?" Uh, we have not rejected it. That offer has just come to the table pretty recently. Now when such an offer is made, you have to sit down and look at all the details. What is part of the offer? What are all the technical details? You have to do your detailed due diligence. Takes time. Then you may find that some things are the way are a different way from what you want. Then you can do a counter offer and so on so forth. So I think the government of India should should move on this as quickly as possible. And I yesterday I think or day before when was it? I think yesterday I made the prediction that there's a 80% chance that by the end of this year we will go ahead with this offer. Maybe a modified version of the offer but this offer. So our government has not refused it. I think we are studying it carefully. Studying the offer carefully. You to look at all the technical specifications and considerations of the offer. So I think I I predict there's an 80% chance that by the end of the year India will go ahead with this and that will be fantastic as long as the offer is great. Rashankumar says as it feels like we are alone and the world is against us. Look friends the world is how many people some 7 billion something we are 1.4 billion of us how can 1.4 4 billion people be alone. We have each other. Why do we need anybody else? And the whole world is not against us. It's only some countries that are against us. Most of the world actually likes us. All the global south countries, they are they are on our side at least. I know it's silent. They're silently supporting us, but they're on our side. Okay. Grock says, "What's happening to the Chinese economy?" So, VGI crisis explanation. um you get this this report of the Chinese economy collapsing or there's some crisis or the other all the time. I don't think it's an economy in a crisis. I'm sure there are issues. Uh they said the housing bubble is going to break and they've been saying that for a very long time. I don't think that's the case. I think the Chinese economy is doing reasonably well. There are issues, no question about it, but I don't see it, you know, I don't see it uh going down. I don't see there being a crisis anytime soon. Um it'll It'll be okay I guess for the Chinese economy. As says, "After my education, what can I do to help India? I'm thinking of setting up a pharmaceutical company in India, but I don't know how to pursue it. After your education, what you need to do is to earn a tremendous amount of wealth outside of India. Once you get your degree, it's not that's not the time to come and help India. Once you get your degree, set up an industry, set up um a company, set up whatever whatever it is in the west and make it succeed. Become super wealthy. Once you have a few hundred million dollars to throw around, that's when you come to India. Then you can set up a pharmaceutical company or whatever you want in India. By that time, you will have experience. You will know how the world works. You will know how to deploy financial assets and other assets. So learn all the tricks of the trade, all the skills outside of India. Gain all the experience outside of India while staying in touch with India so that you know how things are in India as well. And then once you are sufficiently wealthy, that's when you set up your company in India. Because if you have $10,000 to invest in India, what's what's what's going to be the effect of that? But let's say you've got a hundred million to invest in India. Well, now you're going to have a genuine positive effect on India. So that's what I would say. Wait until you're in your 30s or 40s and do your best to become super wealthy. I wish you all the best, sir. Okay. Akar says, "Why doesn't Bat with consensus peacefully unify Nepal, Bhutan, Srianka itself? After all, we have the same culture. We don't follow our culture. Nepal is still still very much a Hindu nation. If we integrate Nepal into India, Nepal will have to follow secularism. Do you want that on on the on our dear Nepalese people? Let Nepal be separate but still one with us. If you integrate Sri Lanka into India, Sri Lanka will go from a Buddhist country to a secular country. Imagine what will it will do to Sri Lanka's culture. Do you want that? Do you want all the problems of India to go to all the other countries? Bhutan is a Buddhist country. You wanted to become a secular country. It's not a good idea. You see, sir, please, please think differently. Think critically. India secularism is a disaster. We don't want to impose that on our people in Nepal, in Bhutan and Sri Lanka and wherever else. Let them currently be be different be be a separate be separate entities. In the future when we reconnect with our civilizational heritage, cultural heritage and we embrace it officially then we can think about these things then they will also be happy to come back to us. Right now it's not a good idea. Okay. I see BM says a turbo question IRA Irish Republican Army is it possible the global glo global drug trade and cartels exists as a way to keep Mexico etc in check independent of the US? M so IRA in Mexico is not a big a connection there but IRA there I'm sure there was some drug funding in there I remember reading a book called Mr. Nice. Yeah. Ireland one of was one of the transit main transit hubs if I recall. So why does the drug trade happen? Why are all these cartels why why do they exist? They serve some purpose otherwise they would have been wiped out a long time ago. And yeah, it's it's it's a way to keep Mexico, Mexico in check, in Colombia in check and keep them off balance, keep them always on in all kinds of trouble. You could say that, you know, there are all these dirty tactics that are used to keep countries down. So I would say there is a pro nonzero probability that this may be true. Let's put it that way. Yes. Shivarput says, Shahar gorakur panam gurudev pranam g pranam thank you so much I'm sorry I I read Hindi very slowly because I spend much of my formative time outside of India and yeah so I can read Hindi but I'm slow so when are you going to see a podcast with Sanjadishar well ask Sanjadik Shitsar to to invite me I will go and I'll do a podcast with him I'll be happy to do that anyhow Gorakpur you're in Gorakpur wonderful place I've never been there I would love to visit but anyway Namaskar to you and thank you so much. Weberinda says is our diversity killing us rather than benefiting us. What diversity do we have? We have the same culture, same civilization, all of us. We have different languages and all does and yeah we have so many different ideas and different ways of living our lives and all different lifestyles and all is that killing us or benefiting us? Maybe maybe it's it's a challenge when you are up against the Abrahamic forces which are like mono mono monochromatic monotheistic mono everything complete you know just one one shade of gray and we are so different so that's why we can't unite possibly so yeah it it is certainly one of our weaknesses sadly what should have been a strength preltp says if India collapsed in future what signs would we see god forward forbid how city of London sovereignty. What Switzerland has WF like horrible or organization like three questions? If India collapsed in the future, what signs would we see? You would see some what there are different kinds of collapse. Economic collapse, economic collapse, there's military collapse, there's foreign takeover, there are so many different things that can happen for a nation to collapse. And each of them has a different set of signals and signs and symptoms that you could possibly see coming. So one thing that could potentially happen to a nation hypothetically is a regime change that's a cool like thing or something you can see that coming if there's an economic collapse happening in a nation you can see that coming from far away you know the economy is going down the inflation is rising jobs not there and so on so forth all of that and so on so similarly you know there are set of signs and symptoms for each different kind or type of collapse and god forbid it should never happen to India how did the city of Len London get sovereignty. The city of London is not a sovereign nation. It's the capital of the UK. I'm not sure it's if it's sovereign nation. I don't think it is. I'm pretty sure it's not. Uh why Switzerland has WF like horrible organization, World Economic Forum? Switzerland is is the is the kind of the European capital of all these things. They have um a very nice, beautiful nation, very nice, very friendly, very boring people, but very nice people. Nothing abnormal, out of the normal happens there. And you have these global institutions that have you know centers over there like the like the United Nations and the World Economic Forum and so on so forth. It is just what it is. Potato praiser says watching you since 10th completed 12th. Well, thank you so much. Appreciate that. And congratulations on completing the 12th. Thinking of taking BBA in marketing, concerned of AI, any better options or is BBA okay? Your thoughts? Commerce. Bachelor of business administration. I suppose what that's what BBA is. Well, if it's something that you like and if that's the kind of aptitude you have to do something in business and commerce and all, good, go for it. Um, any better options? Look, I am What's the better options? the best um I I don't know much about what are the better option in the in the Indian education system. I think that whatever it depends on what your overall objective is. Do you want to be a business person? Do you want to start a business? Do you want to inherit somebody's business? Is that what you're in line for? Do you want to be an entrepreneur and take some risks or do you just want to have a job and work for somebody? Depending on the answers to all this, I can tell you perhaps what the right thing is. Without knowing it, it's very hard for me to say. But if you think that BBA in marketing is great then you must have thought about it and you must be yeah then maybe it's the right right thing for you. So commerce right BBA bachelor of business administration and then you can have an MBA well that's great then you can have a very lucrative job in a company. So sounds like a sounds like a good plan sir. Anyhow thank you so much and thank you so much for watching me for all these years and I can only wish you the very best going forward sir. Thank you so much. Akar says, "Thank you, sir. If BA doesn't trust the USA with fighter jets as it division is over sovereignty, then why are we acquiring GE 404 engines that can be disabled remotely? Is there no alternative in any other country? Somehow we have acquired we are buying those. I think for some reason we have decided or or people have decided that this this is the best possible engine for the Thus. They just is a single fighter single engine fighter plane and maybe the GE4 FC F404 engine specifications match what we require. Maybe we must have maybe maybe we have tried with other countries to acquire some other engines and maybe they did not give us the best possible deal. Maybe they were armed possibly by the Americans into not giving it. Maybe the Russian certain engines are too big, too bulky for the ages. I'm not sure what it is. There could be so many different factors that have compelled us to acquire the GEF404 engine which is now being delayed. So that's a form of leverage over us by the Americans. Okay, I'm going to take like two three more questions and then I'm going to be done with these. So yeah, you can yeah I'm ending soon. Kumar Kesh says Pakistan defense minister said has said just said there is nothing like the LOC as the Shimla agreement is scrapped. It's just a ceasefire now. What does it mean? Is it good? It's nothing. It's it's just redefining what it is. So before the Shimla agreement, the LOC was called the ceasefire line. So now the Pakistan defense minister is saying that it's the LOC now should be called the ceasefire line because the Shimla agreement is scrapped. The Pakistanis never respected the Shimla agreement anyway. So it it means nothing. We don't care about it. Pakistan is insignificant and if they try something, we're going to respond militarily. That's all they have to remember. That's all. So it's fine. Akar says, "Why is Japan offering its IHIXF91 engine for co-development and local production for our AMCA? How does it benefit them?" Looks too good to be true. If it looks too big too good to be true, it probably is. See, Japan unfortunately is under the control of the US, especially when it comes to uh military technology and so on so forth. So if something is being offered to us, think of it possibly as an American Trojan horse. How does it benefit them? Maybe there will be some components in the technology that could be eventually used to disable our aircraft in the future. And it's not Japan that's doing it, but the US because the US controls Japan. So, one has to be very wary of these things. Uh, kids bedtime stories says why does the Modi government continue to deny there's been increased Chinese occupation of India in recent times? There's clear proof. Well, I haven't seen this myself. I haven't seen the clear proof myself. Do you have the access to the latest Maxar satellite imagery? Maybe the print or the squint or the wire or the fire has put something out? I'm not sure. Maybe it's true, maybe it's not true. I don't know what it is. Um increased Chinese occupation. How many? Like how much is it like a 100 square kilometers, 200, 500,000 or 20 square kilm? What exactly is it? I'm not sure. And even if something like this has happened, why should the government go and make it public? It's a national security matter. Why don't we support our government? I don't get it. I personally have not seen the proof. Maybe there is proof. You can put in the comments. Okay? I I I promise you I will look into it and if it's the case, I I'll agree there's proof if it is genuinely there. I kind of have an understanding of how to scrutinize proof and to discern what is fake proof from real proof. I I think I have the experience and knowledge to do that. So in case it is there, please put the link sir in the dis in in the comments once this live stream is over. I will I promise you check it out. All right. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Uh Grock says, "I heard about crown council committee of 300s." 300. What's the history? Now these I haven't read this history. I'm sorry. Crown Council Committee of 300. This sounds like what some people would call what do they call it? Like I don't know. I'm not sure what this is. I I've I've heard of it vaguely. I haven't studied the history. So unfortunately I won't be able to answer your question. Crown Council Committee of 300. Sounds like some kind of vague shady story about some kind of alternative history or maybe hidden history, but I'm not sure what it is. Uh Samir says, "Is watching cricket a luxury view on RCB stampede?" Watching cricket is not a luxury. It's something everybody does. And of course, if you spend a lot of time watching it, it's a luxury because time is the most important and valuable commodity commodity in your life. And if you spend a lot of your time watching cricket, yeah, you're spending your most valuable asset uh essentially doing nothing. You can watch once in a while. You can watch highlights. You can even watch an IPL match three four hours. But if you watch it on a regular basis, yeah, views on RCB stampede. Very unfortunate. Very unfortunate. Sad. Sad. Terrible. Milin says, "Opinion on Poland for rejecting illegals." What's the word? Based right thing to do. Good job. Jurgen says, "Entire Europe is in the verge of collapse because of demographic changes and Islamic immigration. What's the future of Europe? Will it be a new headache for the entire world after the Middle East crisis?" Love you S. Thank you, S. Thank you so much, Sar. uh I don't think the whole of Europe is on the verge of collapse but many countries are under tremendous strain and some could be on eventually going to be on the verge of complete demographic makeover because of the the policy that's been pushed over into these nations by Brussels of of forcing them to accept illegal immigrants or making perhaps making it legal but only military age men from certain places and so on. It's terrible. It looks like the future of Europe is is not good based on what's happening. Will it be a new headache for the whole world after the Middle East crisis? I hope not. I don't think it's going to be a new headache thus far. These things take take time to happen. Maybe Europe will be the headache in 30, 40, 50 years, but not not immediately, right? Okay. I think we have covered everything as far as I can. It's almost one and a half hours. I was supposed to do a 1 hour live stream. So, um yeah, that's this is the end for today's live stream. Thank you so much everybody for watching. I really really appreciate all of you. And uh the next live stream will be on Saturday. It'll be a regular Ask a Widget live stream. And uh yeah, I look forward to seeing you all over there. And next week I'm I will continue with the Geost Strategy podcast as well as the Indian Interest Podcast. It's going to be a regular recurring feature on the channel going forward. I hope it gives you some value. I hope it is very different from anything you have seen in the Indian or maybe global scene. All right. Thank you so much everybody. Please keep learning. Please keep asking questions. And uh yeah, there's one more question. Strangely Proton, how are you also able to do? How are you also do you work these days? I work on my own. I am happily unemployed or self-employed. Okay? I don't work for anybody. It's been a while and I'm very happy with my current uh status. So, thank you so much everybody. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. Keep learning and I will see you in the next next live stream. Thank you so much. Bye-bye.