Hey. Hey. Hey. Heat. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome to the Ask Abijit show. Today we discuss geopolitics and history. I'm going to take questions that you have asked in the comments. So before we get into the questions, let us see who all is there on the live chat with us tonight or today. I can see Nirwana Shanks Kuri Chiva and and thank you very much. Uh Namaste Pranam from Singapore. Hello Mac 4 J1U. Sam the gamer. Uh Soldier Boy Meow Pratam Namaste Mahita Bushetti. Hello. Galawad says Narendra from Tokyo. Narendra from Tokyo. Good to have you from Toronto. From Toronto. Well, good to have you. Thank you so much for being on the live stream. Swami, hello. Ombbe Kikar, good to see you. Hello. Uh, Priyanis Sud, hello. Good to see you. Uh, Geopolitical Dubai, good evening. And geopolit geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor. Real painter says Meow Meow. Abishek Shri Vastav. Hello. Anand Sam the gamer. Tanesh Pande. Soldier boy. Sam the gamer. Priyanchi Sud brute cold. Pratik Vora, Manhattan, Soldier Boy. Adwit Ashwini, good evening. Chatanya Manuja, hello. Naman Dadash, namaste. Reika HL Jri Ram Sam the Gamer Sam the Gamer Chhatany Manuja Jimmy Lee Wand Matram minimalist Maverick hello AJ Ra hello Mac 4 Namaste Pram um who else do we have Rahul Himani is from Mumbai hello Sagar Dadani from Karnataka good to have you Adashani uh Aayush Singh Panam Panam Raguir is here from Jud Latangi Suresh from Chola Chola land. Uh, good to have you from Chula land indeed. Revenant Revenant Volat an Shika Yadada. Hello. Good boys. 93931. Aayush from IIT. Gandhinagar. Hello. Good to have you. Uh, Shivam Chakur Web of Gupta. Priyanka Javalia. Hello. Good evening. Rahul Himani from Mumbai. Hello. Uh, Crazy Brain. Good to have you. Real Radi Bhutin is back. Um good to have you as well ready always ready Bamshi Kalem hello it's Bamshi Kalim good to see you again uh Krishna of the Sury number Netherlands always good to have you Krishna G and everyone else I won't be able to greet all of you individually as always but you know Abishakupla is here from Kpur Raguir is here from Jodpur um Rasputin says namaste well namaste Rasputin G Shivamakur hello and um Amisha Krishna good evening good to have you ma'am Mahita Bushi says Har Krishna Har Krishna indeed Har Krishna Zins Corner Jind Om omsud namaste Amir Shar hello Dea Joti Gope General Subutai General Subutai Anandv hi Himank the gamer and everyone else mlevin hello good to see you okay let's get going with the questions what questions do we have I will first deal with some geopolitics questions and then I shall deal with some history questions. So what do we have? What are the questions that we have? Let's get going. Let's find let's start. Let's begin with the questions. What do we have? What pressing issues concern us today? Let's see. Aayush Singh says what is with the recent failures of ISRO? People are going hyper saying it was a sabotage. What's my opinion? What are the causes and was this really a sabotage considering it was the the rocket was launching military satellites? Real brain says recent rocket failure by ISO looks like a sabotage. First, it was important for India's national security as well as ISRO's international reputation as a reliable space agency for satellite launches. Secondly, these type of failures by ISO are very rare. So, what's what the rocket that failed is ISRO's PSLV rocket. So the PSLV rocket had a string of almost like 18 20 successful launches. It was so successful its launches had become boring. Everyone knew it would go flawlessly. And then the last two launches have failed. It's always the same problem. Some something happens something goes wrong at the third stage. So let's just quickly take a look at isro I mean the PSLV uh the way the PSLV has been performing uh last 20 PSLV launches success failure let's see what it says okay so last 20 PS launches up to 2026 is through two consecutive failures Uh before that the PSV was incredibly reliable. Most missions being fully successful. Um the last two launches have failed. 2026 January 12 and 2025 May 18. May 18 was the first major failure in over a decade. Third stage third stage 21 consecutive successful flights before this. And as you can see we are having very few rocket launches now in India. May 18, 2025 and then January 12, 2026 PSLV. Obviously, we have other rockets, but as you can see, India is not launching a lot of rockets anymore. Um, so yeah, we've had two consecutive failures. Both time it's it's been a glitch in the third stage. Now the question is what happened? This incredibly reliable rocket, 21 consecutive successful launches. Why should things start going wrong with that? Makes no sense, right? It's a design the ISRO engineers have perfected. It works flawlessly every time. And now suddenly two consecutive failures. Same uh same issue. Something goes wrong with the third stage. Is this sabotage? Well, look back at the past. We've we've had issues like this. For example, in the 1980s when the French were developing the Aryan rocket, they had multiple failures which was then traced back to a to a Soviet spy, a Soviet sabotur. And all of that is now conveniently buried. You look for information today, it won't show you anything. But I've seen that I was a kid in the 1980s that and if you're in Europe, this this came on the news. So you had this this sort of thing before. Okay. And if you remember a couple of years ago, I had made a video about the possibility that Chundrean too may have been hacked and sabotaged, right? And I had given evidence that indicates there's the possibility significant possibility that Chandrean 2 was actually sabotaged. It did not just fail because of some some some you know normal issue. And now we have PSLV India's most successful most reliable workhorse rocket failing completely out of the blue two times in succession and each time it failed it it was it was carrying sensitive satellites that are important for India's national security right so that obviously raises the possibility that this may have been a sabotage the other launches were well non national security satellite launches but this these two the past two failures the two consecutive failures the rocket was carrying satellites related connected with India's national security military satellites so so to say military applications so do I know what's happened I haven't analyzed this in detail the government will obviously set up an inquiry ISRO will do an inquiry it'll put out some kind you know report of the inquiry possibly in the public domain maybe not but whatever will be put out in the public domain it may not be the entire story right excuse me because of security reasons you know some things have to be kept classified so we in the public what can we um assume what happened I what I can say is that look there are multiple issues. First of all it is very clear now that India is not taking the space program seriously at all. The government of India is essentially look treating the space program as something that should be kept on life support have three or four rocket launches a year maybe five maximum or six maximum and that's about it. The Chinese launch more than 100 rockets every year. Spac X launches hundreds of rockets every year. Spaces Space X launches more rockets in a week than India launches in a year and we are not developing any major new rocket. It's all iterative incre incremental progress. Why why can't India develop a rocket that's like 10 times more powerful than the GSLV? Why not? Right? So um India is not taking space seriously. India is The government of India has decided for whatever reason to just keep the space program on life support. Don't do anything ambitious. Just keep it going. Uh funding funding is minimal. I've been saying this for a long time that ISRO is is is starved of funding. ISRO is made to do missions on a shoestring budget. I have said this multiple times in the past few years. I've said this on other podcasts outside of this channel too. I've said this on the beer biceps channel Ranir Labadia and then Reanir interviewed Dr. Snomnath the then head of the of the of ISRO and Ranir asked Dr. Omnat about the criticism I've been making that ISRO not not the criticism but the point I've been making that ISRO isn't it is starved of money the budgets are very low and he said that you know what the budgets certain missions are greenlighted by the government and some money is given for that and if the and you you the money is always obviously limited and at the end of the year sometimes you have to return the money to the government so that's how it is I mean whatever is left over in case the in case ISRO has been successfully extremely frugal or whatever. So overall, ISRO is starved of funding. Very few rocket launches a year. If you have a perfectly reliable rocket, you want it you want to launch it over and over again so that no flaws creep into the design and the manufacturing. But if you have a perfectly reliable rocket, but you launch it only three times a year, let's say, then there's a big gap between two consecutive builds of the rocket. And that increases the possibility that some defects may may creep in potentially. So, and and people have been putting out pictures of the workmanship on the rocket on the PSLV rocket on on social media. The workmanship looks shoddy. At least the paint jobs look shoddy. Of course, the paint job doesn't matter. The structural integrity and other characteristics of the rocket are more important. But it looks like there's a lack of pride in the way the rocket is painted. you know, just shabily shoddily painted and all. So, looks like the standards aren't what you expect them to be. So, what do I think happened? Is it just uh shoddy workmanship, shoddy standard, low standards by Israel, or is it sabotage? If you ask me as look I don't have the real information of what's happening inside you know behind the scenes but sitting over here and as someone who has been tracking the progress of ISRO for a long time and as somebody who has some understanding of these things I would say it's I would give the probability of sabotage at 60% or 65%. And the probability of just a regular failure at 30 to 35%. So I am more I I think the likelihood of a sabotage is more than a likelihood of an accident you know a normal accident that's what I believe because this is it's it's a pattern we are seeing here and this sort of patterns have happened before India the ISRO has been targeted target targeted before I still believe very strongly that there's a high likelihood that Chundrian 2 was sabotaged okay some clowns were mocking me when I put up that video at the time where are they now So I think there's a high likelihood this was a sabotage. Can I prove it? No. Because I don't have access to the to well the inside information. The government needs to take this very seriously and the government needs to take the space program very seriously not treat it like a stepchild which is what we are seeing right now. Okay. Next. Ritik P says is the $36 billion deal for just 114 Rafals a four 4.5 generation fighter not even fifth generation. Is this deal really worth it or are we making a blunder? First, we could fund our own engine AMCA twin engine deck based fighter the M2 etc. with the same amount. Second, are there under the hood factors in the deal? And that's why we are not choosing the Sukoy 57. Look, there are multiple aircraft that are put out there. Okay, first of all, let's deal with the foreign foreign aircraft. You have the Rafa 4.5 4.5 generation fighter. Uh then you have the Sukoy 57 which is a new fighter plane that the Russians have developed and then there's the F-35 that the Americans are allegedly supposedly offering to India. Well, which should which one should we go for among these three? So two of these are fifth generation fighter planes. The the F-35 and the Suka 57 and the Rafal is a 4 and a half generation fighter planes. So slightly inferior. Now when it comes to these three aircraft, what about the uh F-35? the F-35 it's clear India cannot buy it India should not buy it it will be suicidal to buy it because to to even launch to even drop a bomb from that from that uh fighter plane you need to take permission from the Americans that that fighter plane comes with all kinds of back doors and kill switches built in everyone knows that it just doesn't make sense and it's just too expensive even if it's even if you forget the expenses you are not in sovereign control of the asset that you paid for so there's no point buying the F-35 anyway it's a flying crash can like I say and it'll make some people upset, they can go somewhere else. Then you have the Sukoy 57. Now, why not the Sukoy 57? The Sukoy 57 is well, it's a pretty good fighter plane from what we hear. But about 20 of these have been built by the Russians so far, only 20. And they haven't inducted the Sukoy 57 in large numbers into their own air force, the Russians. So, if the Russians haven't still inducted this aircraft in large numbers in their air force, but they are offering to sell it to us, it raises some questions. If it's that good, why don't you have a few hundred of these? Why only 20 or so? So, it's not yet the it looks like it is still an aircraft under development. It's not the final version. So, typically, you know how aircraft are designed and and and rolled out. You design an aircraft, a mark aircraft and you build maybe 15 20 of those and you induct the that aircraft into the armed forces into the air force. They fly around, they give you all the feedback. Then you incorporate all the feedback with all the defects and all the strength and all that into the next version of the aircraft. You build 20 more with all those improvements baked in. Then you induct those 20 into the air force. Then you get more feedback from the air force as to what can be improved. Then you do a Mark III or version three of the aircraft. Once version three rolls out, it is probably the best you can have. And then whatever improvements you made in version three, you then retrofit those improvements into the version one and version two aircraft. So looks like the Sukoy 50. That's how the worldass air forces do it. In India, we say we want the best aircraft from day one. You know that that's how we do it. In India is very different. India is a fantastic country, isn't it? But that's how the professional air forces do it. They roll out aircraft in small blocks. 20 is for for version one or mark 1, 20 more for MK 2, 20 more for Mark 3. Then you retrofit the the improvements for Mark III back into MK 2 and MK1. Then you do a MarkV or you start a new family of air of aircraft. Or maybe you then produced 100 or 200 of Mark III. That's how you do it in a professional air force. So even if whatever requirements you have mark 1 only meets 70% of the requirements you still induct that into the air force so that you can get large quantities of data from the from the from the flying hours. That's how it's done. So the Suka 57 looks like it's the Mark 1 or the version one of the aircraft. Maybe they're going to improve it over time and it's not the final version yet. So because the Russians have only inducted about 20 of the Zuko 57 in their air force, maybe we it's too early to buy that. Now the Rafal, why the Rafal? We already have 36 Rafal, right? We know how to use the use the goddamn bird. We know how to use it. Then it's a pretty well, if we are buying more, it means that it's a good one. It's it's a good aircraft. Uh so buy a bunch more. See, we don't want to have a zoo, a menagery of 53 different kinds of aircraft. It's a nightmare, logistical nightmare to get the spares to have the technicians trained into in all the different classes of aircraft. You should have two or three kinds of aircraft at most, right? We have the Jaguar, we have the Mirage, we have the Sukoy 30, we have the Mig 29, we have the MiG 21, we have the TJ Mark 1A, then we have the Rafal. I mean, it's already a six seven aircraft right there. It's already a nightmare. Okay, if you get a Sukoy, it's it's part of the same class of birds as a Sukoy 30. So much of the infrastructure you've built for the Sukoy 30 can be reused, repurposed for the Suka 57, I'm sure. But that's the issue with the Suka 57. They've only injected 20 the Russians, which is an which is an issue. So, so because we already have the Rafal, it's performed well apparently from whatever we hear. That's why the government said okay, let's go for the Rafal and it's the deal isn't finalized yet. this this the all the Indian media whatever it's reporting that we are paying these many thousand cr rupees or whatever the deal hasn't been finalized we haven't inked any agreement yet okay and whatever the final deal is it's going to include all the all the all the weapons systems all the missiles and god knows what else apparently the French are saying that we will not give you access to the source code etc so there's a lot of more negotiations that need to be done we need to have access to the mission computers So that if we integrate new weapons, Indian weapons into the system then they should be well there should be fully integraable into the system into the aircraft. So there's a lot more negoti negotiating to be done and looks like because we are going for the SAF engine that the French uh that we are co-developing with the French that's why maybe it makes sense for the Rafal to go for the Rafal and of course you are absolutely right with all this money that we are spending on the Rafals we can fund our own engine but the government for whatever good reason or bad reason I'm not sure we have once again decided to put the cavary engine on the back burner and over all these years and decades that we have been developing the cavary engine we've spent peanuts on the engine. Peanuts. We don't fund our development of our own technology. We want to buy foreign technology, right? We have spent peanuts over maybe a billion billion and a half dollars over the development of the cover engine over all these decades and then we expect it to work. So a lot of the fault lies with the government of India. A lot of it. Maybe some of the blame has to be shared by the armed forces or whatever. We don't know. or the twin engine deck based fighter has been put on ice right now. I don't think it's going to happen. They just mark 2. We'll see what it what happens with that. It'll become operational. It will start flying in sometime in the 2030s maybe 5 10 years more and even the Rafal this extra 114 whenever they come in they'll come in by 2030 or whatever. So we are going backwards and backwards in terms of the number of aircraft we need to have. Ideally we should have a thousand plus fighter planes. I mean an economy as big as India, we are almost at parity with Pakistan. What is the government doing? How can a third rate nation like Pakistan have almost near parity with India in terms of the numbers of fighter planes? What kind of a joke is this? The government clearly has a lot of lot to answer. I mean this government is in power has been in power how many years? 11 plus years almost 12 now. What have they done? So yeah, so um that's where we are. But the the main answer to your question is that we still haven't finalized the Rafal deal. It's still not finalized. And should we, you know, go for a production line of the Sukoya 57? Well, if the Suko 57 is indeed a good aircraft, then it makes sense to also have a production line of the Suka 57 in India. So one of the one of the conditions we will make for the Rafal is that the Rafal has to be produced in India and and all the components also need to be produced in India. It's not just just that we should assemble the aircraft in India. It has all the spare parts, components, most of them should be produced in India, manufactured in India themselves. So these are the some of the negotiating points we need to finalize. The French will try to have to maximize their interest in whatever they get out of it. But if we are paying so much, we need to uh you know have a much better deal than whatever the Indian media outlets are reporting right now. So it's still a work in progress. These things are interminable. I don't know why defense acquis acquisition in India is so such a protracted lengthy interminable process. I don't get it why bureaucracy right and other I suppose allegedly other interest and what not but what who suffers the nation suffers as a consequence. Uh yeah so all this money we are send you know we we are spending and we are paying foreigners you know even even onetenth of that money if we had spent on the on the jet engine indigenous jet engine we would have had far better results by now I don't know what the government of India is doing and why we are doing this but that's where we are and it's disappointing real Vladimir Putin says the US has banned number one Pakistanis and superpower Bangladesh from entering the US is it a way to humiliate its vasa Rushabare says Trump has recently suspended visas for many countries which includes Russia, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh etc. Even Nepal, even Thailand if I'm mistaken. Okay. So we can understand Russia and Iran but why Pakistan? Why Bangladesh? What's really the reason the US state department is doing this despite their increasing partnership with the with Pakistan and Bangladesh? Look their partnership partnership with Pakistan and Bangladesh is that of a master with its was okay that's the that's the relationship it's the patron those guys are its clients and they are essentially attack dogs for the US and the Indian subcontinent and their job is to is is to is to be part of the US strategy of containing India. So Pakistan acts as an enabler of nuclear blackmail against India as a terrorist nation that can strike India from time to time and keep India off balance and so on. That's the role of Pakistan and Bangladesh it's another nuisance that they've created as East Pakistan in the west in the eastern part of India you know off the eastern border of India. So that's the deal. So that is the utility these two countries have for the Americans and they pay them well for that. So they pay the Pakistani armed forces their their their fellow that guy and I'm sure they're paying the Muhammad whatever money or whatever. So that they'll take care of their minions. They will take care of their puppets very well. But the Americans don't care about the people of Pakistan or Bangladesh, right? So why should they issue visas to them? What the Americans have done now, what the US government has done now is they have suspended or stopped visa processing for a large number of countries, maybe more than 70 countries. Let's let's find out exactly what the number is. How many nations visa processing has been suspend suspended by the US? Okay. 75 countries. Okay. All right. So suspension of immigrant visa processing for 75 countries and so so it's 75 nations right and so why have have the Americans done this? The Americans especially the Trump administration they are concerned about immigration they you know their their voter base is concerned about American jobs going to foreigners. They're concerned about all these things. Um and it's well known that many of these countries the immigrants who come in from these countries the immigrants actually are a burden on the American taxpayer. No question about that. So if an immigrant comes in from let's say Somalia or Sudan or Afghanistan, Pakistan whatever or Bangladesh they typically are a burden on the US taxpayer over 10 years. they they they leech money out of the system rather than than contribute money to the system or contribute value to the system. If you have an Indian immigrant goes to who goes to the US, the Indian immigrant typically outperforms all other immigrants in the value they contribute to the US economy over a period of 10 20 whatever years. So the US government has decided to suspend visa processing for nations that are dangerous, potential terrorist nations or nations that whose immigrants are typically you know lowquality immigrants who actually are a burden on the US economic system and the US taxpayer. That's what the Americans are doing. The Indian immigrant is a net contributor is the highest net contributor per capita to the US economy. Why will the stop why will they stop processing Indian visas? The Indian immigrant is the highest value immigrant to the US. So they won't do that for for India. What about Pakistan? The Pakistani immigrant is a burden to the US economy. The Bangladeshi immigrant is a burden to the US economy. I don't know Nepal also is part of the list apparently. Even Thailand seems to be part of the list. I'm not sure why but whatever. So there must be different cons considerations for different countries. Some countries are clearly nations that whose whose immigrants are burdens on the on the US system those immigrants I mean those countries that the visa processing if it's stopped it just makes sense. Some other countries maybe there are some political reasons or whatever. We can understand Russia political reasons. Iran political reasons. I'm not sure if Iranian immigrants are really on average highquality net contributors to the US system or economy but there could be political reasons as well. So the Pakistani and Bangladeshi immigrants I mean look at the way the Pakist the the the the the contributions of Pakistani immigrants to the UK what kind of gangs grooming gangs and whatnot that's what the Pakistanis contribute who wants such people right so that it's not about humiliating the vasals or whatever it's just the it's just that the US wants high quality immigration and Pakistan is not that Bangladesh is not that Somalia is not that and so on about other countries that's the reason okay two questions here says if the US attacks Iran can Iran stand up to the might of the US military also apart from attacking US bases in west Asia region does Iran possess the military might to choke hormmo says could we talk about Iran while the people are protesting there seems to be no leadership inside Iran Really? Okay. The IRGC despite being compromised has conducted brutal crackdowns. Really? Because the Western media is reporting that. Is that so? Is that why you're saying that the Iranians blocked Starling with the help of Russia? If the US and Israel go there, Kami will make it a patriotic war and the mission fails. Also, Iran is not a rollover. They are pretty capable and may inflict damage and fight a war of attrition which Trump can't afford. Trump can't afford to get bogged down in Iran. At most, they may bomb the Iran and nuclear facilities. So what is going to be the endgame in Iran? Will it be a brutal crackdown, civil war or any other hidden moves or are we underrating them? Okay, first of all, what Okay, first of all, there seems to be no leadership inside Iran. I'm not sure what's the basis for that kind of statement or claim. There is clear leadership within Iran. The government is functioning. The nation is is being governed administered right there is leadership clear leadership. Uh the IRGC despite being compromised has conducted brutal crackdowns. How do we know they have conducted brutal brutal crackdowns? Because the western media is reporting that on what basis is the western media putting out whatever numbers 12,000 dead. On what basis? Do they have reporters on the ground who can actually corroborate those numbers? They don't. So from where do these numbers of 12,000 dead come? There are some videos on social media of some uh protests happening over a over a period of maybe a week or so in large cities like Thran and Mashad perhaps etc. That's a couple of cities maybe four five large cities. What about the rest of Persia? What about that? All the hundreds of towns, villages, thousands of villages. What about that? What about the other provinces? What's happening there? Nothing's happening there as far as we can know or see. So a few cities there are demonstrations happening over a period of let's say 5 to 7 days or whatever the period of time is. That doesn't mean that Iran is under chaos. Now brutal crackdowns. How do we know the IRGC has been doing all this? We can see some videos on social media of various of some men firing rifles or weapons at a crowd. The men aren't wearing uniforms. They could be IRGC in plain clothes. could be maybe agents of some foreign country in plain clothes. How do we know who they are? I mean, we have to we whatever claims we make, there has to be clear evidence for the claim. We can't just assume it's this or that. So, I have no evidence the IRGC has conducted brutal crackdowns. I have seen some sad, terrible, tragic images of dead people, but it's not 12,000. And I don't know who killed them. Whether it's the IRGC or whether it is foreign foreign agents, I don't know who killed them. So how do you know who killed them? Because the BBC is saying it. Do you trust the BBC? Have you seen BBC's reporting towards India? All lies. Have you seen the CNN's reporting towards India about India? If you look at the BBC and the CNN and all the Western media outlets, the overwhelming majority of its reporting about India is negative. It's consistently negative. Much of it is just lies. So, how can you trust that media? I just don't get it. I don't get why Indians don't think. Okay. And there is the thing about Starlink. Well, it looks like the Iranians are successfully at least partially successfully blocking Starlink perhaps with Russia's aid possibly. Okay. Now, now the question is if the US attacks Iran, can Iran stand up to the might of the US military and uh can they can they blockade the straight of Horos? Can they attack American bases in West Asia, etc. So, let's take a look at the US bases in West Asia. Okay, US bases in Middle East. Okay, we call it they call it Middle East, we call it West Asia. Whatever. Here we have it. So, so as you can see, how about this? This is cleaner. US military facilities facilities in in the Middle East. Uh let me open this in a different let me let me reopen that properly. Okay. So here's a bunch of American military facilities in West Asia. You have bases in Oman. You have bases in UAE, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq obviously is under well essentially under US occupation in Jordan. Syria is also a US asset now. Turkey also Israel is obviously Israel the US number one supporter ally and of course Pakistan is now you could say a US asset. So Iran is kind of encircled from three directions, right? That's where we have it. Now what that means is that if there's a war, if there's a US or Israeli or US Israeli joint invasion uh of Iran or or or an attack on Iran, then what you will have is that Iran will be in a position to strike at all these American assets whether it's Oman, whether it's UAE, Katar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Turkey, wherever the Iraq Iranians can strike at these these American uh assets uh because the Iranians have very high quality missiles in very large quantities. Quality plus quantity both, right? The Iranians could hit Israel. They could hit all these American air bases around them. They could hit Pakistan if required. They could even hit Turkey if required with their ballistic and cruise missiles and so on. They also have high quality drones, the Iranians. So they could use the drones and missiles to also blockade the straight of Hormuz. They also have a decent decentish navy. But the real strength is the the missiles that Iran has. So Iran could be pretty capable at doing this. Yeah. And if the US and the and Israel attempt an invasion of Iran that they'll get bogged down potentially because look I don't know how many Iranians actually are opponents of the regime of the ayatas. I don't know the Iranian diaspora in the west it is overwhelmingly anti anti the Iranian regime. They are against the Iranian regime most of them but they don't represent the true voices of the people who live in Iran right the Iranian diaspora outside Iran. So u it's highly possible that maybe even today maybe 55% of Iranians support the regime maybe 65% support the regime and what you see is just on in a couple of cities and if Iran comes under foreign invasion okay and US style invasions always cause always cause large numbers of civilian casualties. Look at the way the Americans have done in the things in the past. They essentially flattened Iraq in 2003. Flattened entire cities. Obviously, cities have people inside. We don't talk about them, right? When the Americans invade, they flattened cities. This causes tremendous numbers of casualties. The Americans say it's okay. It's part of the game. If Iranians are killed in this manner, do you think even the ones who support who are against the regime, you don't think they'll fight back? Iran's a pretty big country. So, um, Iran can inflict damage. Iran can fight. Of course, um, pinpoint strikes. It's something the Americans are very capable of. They can take out nuclear facilities, military facilities. I'm sure if the Americans quickly take out the the missile facilities, then Iran could be kind of a sitting duck, but the people will fight potentially, right? Uh, so then overall with this understood, what's the endgame in Iran? That is the big question. What is America's endgame in Iran? What the Americans seek is first of all a complete end to Iran's nuclear program. Complete end of end of the program. And secondly, the Americans seek control of Iran's oil and gas resources. They seek control over that. Two things only. The regime change may not even that be that important as long as the Americans are convinced that the Iran's nuclear program is finished. and two the Americans can control all of Iran's resources of oil and gas then the Americans are fine. So if the regime of the Ayat can prove provide evidence to the US that they have completely ended the missile the the the nuclear program and they hand over control of oil and gas to the Americans then the Americans will be very pleased and they'll be that is the end game essentially. So whatever the US is doing globally, it's about control of land and oil resources, energy resources. That's what it is. And I don't think it's going to be very easy for the Americans to affect a regime change in Iran. It's going to be difficult. It's going to be chaotic if they try it. So that's the situation. So the endgame once again to reiterate the Americans seek to control energy and territory and resources other natural resources critical minerals and what not. That's what they see. They don't care about the people of Iran or whatever. And if you if you are if you are under the impression that if there is a regime change in Iran then Iran will become a Zoroastran nation. Think again. If the Americans actually succeed in affecting a regime change in Iran, they will flood Iran with Christian missionaries. It's the first thing they'll do. Remember that if Iran falls to the US, Iran is not going to become a Zoastran nation. It's going to become a Christian nation. Okay. Rushup T says India has issued an advisory for our citizens to leave Iran. Also, we see the USS Abraham Lincoln moving from the Pacific to close to Iranian waters. While a war may be unlikely, we can see movement and preparation for any eventuality. How will instability in Iran impact India with respect to Chabahar in the international north south transport transit transport corridor? How is it impact Afghanistan? And what impact does it have on the US on on on on Armenia and its survival the survival of Armenia? How will Russia and China standings be impacted? They block selling etc. Okay. Okay. 73 different questions. Let's focus on one thing. There's lots of questions embedded in this. Let's focus on one thing. Chabahar. What's the impact on Chabahar? So what's happened with Chabahar? India has liquidated its its ownership of Chabahar. given the money to Iran, given it back. So Iran, India no longer owns whatever it owned of Chabahar. India has given it back to Iran. India has given the money to Iran. India may perhaps still operate some part of Chabahar. But that's about it. That may also end soon. So what has India done? India has so the Americans had given a deadline of whatever date it's about to expire now for the reimposition of sanctions on Chabahar and they also have this uh 25% additional tariffs for anybody who does business with Iran so what has India done India has caved into the U India has caved into the US India has come under US pressure and buckled caved H is it terrible? No, it's a practical decision. You see, so that's what's happened. So look, India has been saying for a long time, right? Whatever decisions we make, we don't allow a third parties to influence those those decisions. That's not the case anymore. The US has told us how we should behave with respect to Iran and we have accepted whatever the Americans have said have said. So now we can see what hard power is and what soft power is. India's power is mainly soft power. India's hard power is this. US hard power is that. So the Americans told India ultimatum get stop operating with stop doing business with Iran. we're going to sanction Chabahar. If you still keep doing business with Iran, we're going to impose 25% more tariffs on you. So, India said, "Okay, we are out of Iran. That's it." U is it a failure by the government of India? No. It is a reasonable, practical, pragmatic step. Right? There's no comparison between India and the US. Whatever the Americans say, we will do it. Does this mean that we are on on the road towards becoming a vasal? Not exactly. It doesn't exactly mean that. But this could be the beginning of such a road of India becoming an American basal. This could be the beginning if we are not very careful. Right? So that's where we are right now. India has caved into the American pressure. Visav Chabahar. So Chabahar it's over now. essentially if we can still operate it, it will only be I mean see the Iranians also understand this that India had no choice and the Iranians also have taken actions in the past that have been not very good for India for example their supreme leader keeps on talking about Kashmir from time to time kind of supporting Pakistan so it's not like we owe something a debt of gratitude or something to Iran we were working on mutually beneficial terms and now the Americans have stepped in and pushed India out elbowed India out and India is India is a lightweight compared to the US. Please understand that okay we live in the real world. I am not one of those one of those people who will say oh we are superpower we are vushwaguru we are not. Past four years I've been saying we are nothing like that and now you can see the actual evidence that whatever I have been saying is absolutely correct. India has to be very careful. Now the past 10 years India has been has been doing the opposite of hide your hide your strength and b your time. Deng shaing said when he was alive about China that China needs to hide its strength and b its time. Keep quiet and keep your doing keep doing your work quietly. The past 10 years India has been doing the opposite of that. So now you see what what happens as a consequence. India has been shouting superpower and wish for guru for the past 10 years without actually do putting in the work sufficient work to make that happen where are the reforms where is everything so yeah that's where we are right now brianka biswas says is there a possibility for direct military confrontation between US and NATO troops in Greenland France is sending troops there France is sending 15 soldiers to Greenland the UK is sending two soldiers Denmark is sending 78 dogs to Greenland. And is Russia send is Russia sending something? Look, there is no possibility for a direct military confrontation between the US and NATO troops in Greenland. Zero. Zero. Because NATO is mostly US. The US owns NATO. The US controls NATO. How can you go to war with an organization you control? It won't happen. The US, the the European politicians, they are all in America's pockets. They're all in America's pockets. They won't dare go against their master and finance. Nothing like this will happen. They'll make some noises and some sounds blah blah. We oppose this etc. We are strongly opposed to this. Maybe Mu France will make stronger statements. Maybe he may send instead of 28 soldiers 300 soldiers. Sir, what difference does it make? Even France can't actually seriously think of fighting the US. So this is nothing's going to come out of this. The Americans are going to acquire Greenland. They're going to make a payment. The Americans are going to make a payment to Denmark and then formally take over Greenland. That's what's going to happen. This is my prediction. I don't make predictions, but here is one. The Americans are going to make a payment to Denmark and then a next Greenland. That's what the Americans will do very soon. Very soon. How soon? Maybe one week, maybe 3 months. Definitely in this year, 2026. Okay. So there's no possibility of a direct military confrontation between the US and NATO. No. Um okay. Rushabare says what's happening in Venezuela. Nicolas Maduro is in US custody. Moreover, Madame Madili, no that other lady Machado, the the Nobel Prize winning vampire. That lady, she met Trump and gave her Nobel Prize to Trump and then tried to satisfy Trump. go well she gave her Nobel Prize to Trump as as as as tribute to Trump and uh to plate his ego right moreover however Deli Rodriguez and the military seem ready to cooperate and the US has no issues will the US be really able to extract oil from Venezuela and profit from it and have they started moving in this direction and how do you see this new game of not changing the entire regime but aligning the regime in a way that supports your interest how is this game okay what's happening So they'll see. So this lady Machado, Machado, the Nobel Prize winner, she went to the White House and she presented her Nobel Prize medal to Trump and she bowed down to him and maybe maybe she kissed her kissed his feet or something. Whatever she did, she seeks to rule Venezuela. Okay, she has been saying this for a very long time. The moment I become we we will the moment I come to power, I will I will hand over the whole of Venezuela. All its industries, everything to the US, we will make it very easy for American companies to operate in Venezuela. You come and take our resources, extract everything, plunder, pillage, kill, whatever you want, it's all yours. That's what she's been saying. This lady is a vampire. She's a blood sucking ghoul. That's what this machado lady is. I mean, the Nobel Prize has zero legitimate legitimacy now. zero credibility after someone like her getting it and the Nobel committee has made it very clear that the Nobel Prize cannot be transferred to someone and it can't be revoked and yet she has attempted to transfer it to Trump and Trump is pleased. Yes, he's pleased, isn't he? So that's the deal with this lady Machado. But Delilci Rodriguez who was the vice president of Venezuela under the presidency of Nicolas Maduro he now is the ruler of I mean she governs Venezuela now and the military is aligned with her right and she has indicated that she's willing to cooperate with the United States. Now what does the US seek in Venezuela? The US seeks complete control over Venezuela's natural resources, energy resources. Venezuela has plenty of gold, but more than that, it has plenty of oil. 20% roughly, roughly 20% of the world's proven oil resources, reserves. This oil is extra heavy oil. It's sour crude oil. It's not sweet, light crude. Very difficult to process. What do you do with sour extra heavy crude? You may pro you may turn it into diesel or you may turn turn it into asphalt. And only three or four refineries across the world have the capability to process this kind of crude oil. One of these is in India, western India, Gujarat. So uh the US wants to control all of this oil. It's about controlling the energy that flows out of Venezuela. and Deli Rodriguez I mean she's a practical person obviously she saw what was done to Mr. Maduro. So she says, "Okay, since we can't do a thing about you being a thousand times more powerful than us, we will cooperate with you." And the US is fine with that. And yet Trump has not been able to thus far pursue American oil companies to invest in Venezuela and start operations there because the American companies are wondering and they're worried that maybe in the future Venezuela may once again nationalize the oil industry. So thus far, American companies have been reluctant to move into Venezuela. But you have Venezuelan refineries and whatnot, or at least extractors, not refineries. Not I don't think Venezuela has refineries, but Venezuela has the ability to extract oil from the ground and and the US wants to control that. So, as long as Dil Rodriguez and the military cooperate with the US, the US is fine with that. The US doesn't want to do the hard work of installing a new regime. Why do that when the existing regime is cooperating? Why do the hard work of installing an absolutely brand new regime and setting up a whole system of governance and law and order and judiciary and whatnot? Why do that? Who cares what happens to Venezuela as long as you get the oil? So the US has no issues as long as they'll see and the government of Venezuela cooperate and they are cooperating right. This is a win-win situation for the US actually. They don't have to do any hard work in Venezuela. They don't have to install a new government and all that. The existing regime cooperates. That is the best outcome the US could have hoped for. What's the alternative? The US has to go in, fight the military, uh depose the regime, effect an actual physical regime change, fight the insurgency that may erupt as a as a consequence, plead the people, suppress the people, a lot of effort, energy, money, expenditure, all kinds of things. and then you barely control the country and then you can extract stuff out of it. That's a lot. It's a mess. Why do that? Just force the existing regime to cooperate. That's it. You get everything you want. So that is what's happening. And the US is going to control all the all the energy resources of Venezuela. Right? It's part of their overall game plan of controlling as much of the energy supply of the world as possible in order to isolate nations like China and Russia. Russia won't work but China for sure and to put immense pressure on nations like India. Okay, that's a game. It's it's Sam says among the world's top powers most have either dominant manufacturing or dominant military tech ecosystems. Is India trying to rise with an asymmetric foundation and if so where does that make us vulnerable? So India so you see to be a major power to be a serious contender geopolitically any nation that's a serious contender or a ser serious player has a has a powerful technological base and a powerful manufacturing base. So if you have a highquality high-tech technological ecosystem in your country then you can develop and design the technologies you need to be relevant geopolitically from a military perspective from an economic perspective and it's not enough to have a high quality technological ecosystem. You need to have a major manufacturing base that can turn the technological innovations into products that can be manufactured at scale. So you need a research and development ecosystem which is the tech ecosystem which could be either in your universities or in your corporations or in both. And then all the out all the all the output of that needs to go into your manufacturing um base which will then massproduce the products that the the advanced products that come out of the that that incorporate the technologies you're developing. And that's how you become a relevant genuinely relevant player economically and militarily and geopolitically. So China is a great example of that. The US used to be a great example of that. The US has the world's best education system that's focused on science and technology and research and development. And all of those highquality u students that are output by the education system are are absorbed by the industries. The industries and corporations have their own R&D setups everywhere and they use these R&D setups with this fresh with this with this bright young minds coming from the education system to produce the world's best products right or to design the best products which are then either manufactured in the US or in China. The Chinese have copied the US setup. They now have a worldclass univers university system world-class education system focused on science, technology, research and development. And the Chinese are also they also have these major corporations and and they're the world's largest manufacturing base, industrial base, right? Two great examples. Where does India stand in this? India has a rotten education system. Third grade education system that destroys India's best minds. India doesn't have any real R&D happening anywhere in any university or any IIT or whatever. Nothing. nothing of any global value. Not even 1% of global value comes from here. Then India doesn't have corporations that do R&D. Recently, Reliance, which is a huge corporation, was seeking to buy some technology from a Chinese corporation, which was like a 100th of the strength of Reliance. The Chinese refused and Reliance now can't do what it wanted to do because Reliance has never bothered to invest in its own R&D. Reliance doesn't do R&D. Reliance manufactures. So it wanted Chinese technology. The Chinese little company said no. Reliance can't do a thing about it. This is the mindset in India. So India's education system is third grade. It's rotten. India's uh corporations don't do R&D. They want to do you know screwdriver stuff. and uh and we don't manufacture anything that's globally relevant textiles. I'm talking about high-tech stuff. So without a world-class education system that supplies a world-class R&D ecosystem that supplies a world-class industrial manufacturing base, you are not a serious geopolitical player. You're not India is regarded as a as as a major geopolitical player because of its large economy, the fourth largest economy in the world, big market and all. India has a decent military. India has a world-class missile program and so on. But India has major major deficiencies which need deep reforms and massive reforms. And none of those reforms are happening. So I'm not sure what India's future is. It makes us super vulnerable everywhere. India is not taken seriously actually by the Chinese or the Americans. The Chinese don't see India as a contender for for you know the top crown. The Americans don't see India as a contender for the top crown. They don't take India seriously. The Chinese don't do. India is like Africa. It's like Nigeria or something. Slightly better version. Yeah, that is the truth. I'm sure you want to hear something else but I can't tell you lies. That's the truth. Aish ready says namaste. Yours live streams are like therapy to me. I keep hearing them in loop since 2021. Thank you very much sirishi. Thank you. The questions are one is China more vulnerable due to internal structural pressures like demog demographics debt legitimacy then to external military pressure and does the west misread this balance? So what is China more vulnerable to internal pressures like demographic decline uh lower lowering lower you know uh dropping TFR etc. Maybe debt I don't know what the debt structure in China is. Um the western media reports all kinds of weird stuff about China that China is deeply in debt to itself or whatever but I don't know about that legitimacy. The Chinese Communist Party is fully legitimate. No Chinese citizen doubts or questions the legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party to rule. The Chinese Communist Party does have the mandate of heaven right now. So these are the factors that are internal in nature. Is China vulnerable to these pressures. Uh the demographics will kick in as a problem in the next 20 years. Not right now. So right now it's not an issue. Debt I think the Chinese have the e economy under control. Debt whatever legitimacy. There's no question about the legitimacy of the CCP. So there is no such issue. So the internal structural pressures aren't really genuine pressures. Uh external pressure like the military pressure. Well, what really constrains China is that it is extremely risk averse. The Chinese Communist Party is very happy to bully weaker nations. The Chinese are extremely reluctant to go to war with with a more powerful nation, especially the US. The Chinese don't want a war with the US. The US is willing to ride rough rod everywhere. It'll go and regime change Venezuela. They may do a regime or at least attempt a regime change in Iran. They have done regime changes all over all over the place recently in in the subcontinent, east and west Pakistan. The Americans do all this. They they will fire weapons. They'll will they'll fire shots. The Americans aren't afraid of a fight, a military fight. The Chinese are frightened of a military fight. The Chinese know that if they go to war with the US, whether they win or lose, they will lose half of their economy at least. Whatever they've worked for all these years, they will lose and it's very hard to hit the US. So that's the major Chinese vulnerability. The Chinese want to fight the US, but economically, never militarily. And that is a huge drawback of China. And Trump knows that and is pressuring China on that front. Right? So, China did not want Venezuela to fall. Venezuela fell. China did not want Syria to fall. Syria fell. Now, who knows what will happen in in Iran. China wants to take Taiwan, but is frightened to take military action. It's very clear what China is afraid of now. It's becoming more and more clear. China doesn't want military action. China wants economic warfare, but never military warfare. The Americans know it. So they're going to push, push, push. So that is what China is vulnerable to. External military pressure, not a internal structural pressures. Second question is strategic autonomy a coherent long-term grand strategy for middle powers in periods of intense great power competition or or does historical evidence suggest that such such strategies collapse under systemic crisis forcing alignment despite prior hedging. Okay. So historically what do we have? Let's say you are not a very major power. Okay. Middle power or whatever you want to call it. You have maybe two great powers or superpowers and those two are are competing for you know control of the world order and you are a smaller nation or a weaker nation maybe large geographically but you're weak. You're weak. So what do you do? So ideally as a weaker nation what you do is you play a balancing game. You do the balancing act the tightroppe walking act right? You play one side against another. You try to be friendly with both or you try to be in such a such a position that both want you to do something for them or both want you on their side. So that's the balancing game. That's the that's what you call hedging, right? Uh strategic autonomy. Now that's the game India is playing visa with the US and China. China is more powerful than India. No question. about four times more powerful than India. The US is about 20 times more powerful than India. So that's the game we are playing. You know, we made we became part of the Quad. So if you're part of the Quad, maybe the US will assist us if there's a war with China. All that stuff. We bought American weapons. We are also buying Russian weapons and so on. We allowed American tech products to infiltrate and penetrate India all over the place. Today India can't run without American tech products, right? Everything Indians do take for granted whether it is Google, whether it is Gmail, whether it is Instagram, YouTube, Twitter, this that, WhatsApp, uh, Apple phones, Android phones, laptops, everything is American. What does India make nothing? Why? Ask yourselves, what is the government of India doing? What have they done? Why, why does India make nothing? But India makes nothing. So India became more and more tightly bound to the US consciously voluntarily. We buy American F4145 jet engines which are never delivered. Did the government not foresee that? I suppose they did not. So that's the game of hedging. We we buy weapons from Russia. We do trade with China. We buy something from France. But we do a lot of our business with the US. So that's the kind of balancing game India has been playing. But when push comes to shove, then the US says get out of Chabahar or else India has to get out of Chavahar. Tomorrow the US will say something else. What will India do? Tomorrow the US says agree to the trade deal on our terms or we impose 500% tariffs. Your choice. What does India do then? So the so when a nation is way more powerful than you, this hedging and this balancing doesn't work long term. It works short term. It worked as long as uh the US did not feel that we need to rearrange the entire global world world order and and break down the rules-based world order. So until the Biden regime, the US was okay, let the let the so-called rules-based world order be in place. So India benefited from that. But now the US is changing everything and now India is under tremendous pressure. The pressure is going to be for India to become a US vasal. The next 5 years will tell us whether this happens or not. There's a higher likelihood of India becoming a vasal than not to be very realistic. Yeah. Um so historical evidence suggests that such strategies collapse under systemic crisis like the one we are facing. The systemic crisis right that we are seeing right now is a crisis that the US has manufactured for its own benefit. What is the crisis? the systemic crisis, the entire world so-called rules-based world order, the system that the Americans had constructed, they are tearing it down right now and they are creating a completely different system. That's a systemic crisis. Okay? And the there is an emerging bipolarity of of sorts. One wonders how long this bipolarity will last. The Chinese side and the US side, the bifurcation of the world global world order. China, Russia, Iran, Syria, North Korea, Venezuela. Well, Syria's gone. Venezuela is gone. So, it's like China, Russia, Iran, North Korea. Only four nations left now. Pakistan is no longer on the Chinese side. Pakistan is a obedient US lap dog. Now, what if Iran goes? So, you see the entire system is being changed. This is a systemic crisis, complete realignment, re reordering of the global world order. And the US knows what it wants from India in in this new world order they seek to create. They want India to be an obedient vasal. What what what what's going to happen is the question. It is if you say we have two choices by by 2028. Okay. Wasal sovereign two choices to be sovereign we'll have to pay a lot of price prices. We have to pay a lot. It's going to cost a lot to remain sovereign. Easy answer, easy choice, become a vasal. I think the likelihood of India becoming a vasal is higher right now by until 2028. If India remains sovereign until 2030 somehow, then it'll be hard to stop India after that. But if you are a smart betting person, your money will be on India becoming a vasal. So that is where we are India. That is exactly where we are and you can see what happened in Jabar. India has moved out of Jabbar. Essentially we have sold we've liquidated our our stake in Jabahar right maybe that's the first step toward towards perhaps hopefully not but maybe right let's wait and watch. Rushab Dare says on one side China aggressively claims the Shakum valley Indian army issued statements on the border situation and said that while our forces hold our entire territory we are in a better position which reflects that our army has not reduced any vigilance in the border. I don't know what that entire word salad means but whatever but the CCP delegation has visited the BJP and RSS offices and also the office of other political parties not just the BJP and the RSS which is not a political party but the Chinese Communist Party delegation also visited the headquarters of other political parties apart from the BJP um Indian exports to China are at a record high is it really a taunt or a friendmy game talk but only limited action what's really going on and how should India stay alert? Okay, answer the last question first. What should India do? Stay completely alert visa with China completely alert from a military perspective. Keep an eye on what the Chinese are doing north of the India Tibet border, north of the Pangong Lake, north of the India Tibet border overall in the Arunachal sector, in the Ladak sector, and other sectors. What are the Chinese doing? They're they're they're bulking up their military presence. So they'll talk they'll come to India talk nice things at the same time they're bulking up their military presence. So let's not be fooled. India has to be se vigilance forever vigilant visa v China. Okay that's number one. Secondly it's interesting the Chinese communist party delegation came to India and uh visited the headquarters of various political parties etc. the BJP headquarters, the RSS which is not a political party but the parent organization of the BJP, the CCP delegation visited the the RSS headquarters and they also visited the headquarters of several other Indian political parties. Okay, so it's not just BJP RSS. Why why this? Um maybe it's a routine visit. Maybe the CCP is trying to send an send a message to India and the world that we seek peace and all that. We we seek friendly relations with India. Maybe that sort of thing. Or maybe they are genuinely exploring the possibility of a closer of maybe some kind some kind of closer cooperation with a a weaker nation like India because India is a weaker nation compared to China. Okay, let's not forget that. So, so it's like it's like India sending a delegation to Nepal or something. Okay, kind of like that. Maybe not Nepal, maybe India sending a delegation to Indonesia. Okay, Indonesia is about well it's obviously a major country and a country that is a very friendly nation of friendly nation for sure but hard power wise Indonesia is about 1/4 of India like India is 1/4 of China right roughly uh so so it's like India sending a delegation to Indonesia so what's going on does this indicate some kind of dant or a friendmy I think it's definitely not a donant. It's too early for it to be don. China will have to come under more pressure from the US for it to seriously consider any kind of friendly they like relationship with India. Right now it's just talk talk China you cannot have a donant with China unless the Chinese agree to resolve the India Tibet border issue. There's no question of a detonant without that core issue being resolved. Always remember, always remember this when it comes to the India China relationship. The core issue, the central issue which has been created by China is China's illegal annexation and occupation of Tibet and the Chinese insistence for decades of not demarcating the India Tibet border so that India can be kept under pressure. This entire problem is of China's making, not our making. So the onus is on China to solve this. Okay, that's the deal. So all these visits of delegations and blah blah blah talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk I don't care about it but maybe it indicates potentially possibly some kind of future you know improvement potentially in relations but the only improvement that makes sense is the demarcation of the border and there's no step on that there's there's no move on that at all so yeah it's all words no actions right now that that's what it Rushup says, "What are Zusuli and Sanguinis respectively? What are the origins of these terms and their meaning in American context? Which pattern does the US follow compared to other major populations India, China, Russia, Indonesia, EU, Brazil, African, etc., etc., etc., etc. Now, what's the difference between the two? Juuli and Ju Sanguinis. And why did the US choose to give birthright citizenship to its citizens unlike other countries where bloodline matters?" Okay. See yusulli and sanguinis are two systems of giving citizenship to a person. Means birth. These are Latin terms. Okay. Means birthright citizenship. If you are born on the territory of a specific country and they recognize yusulli then you are automatically a citizen just by being born on the territory on the soil of the country. That's husi. Sanguinius means it doesn't matter where you're born. If you are a bloodline descendant of a citizen of of so and so country, you have the right to be a citizen of that country. So the US, so that's bloodline citizenship. So for India, if you are born on Indian territory, you don't automatically get get Indian citizenship. You have to prove that either one or both of your parents is Indian by blood. So if you are an illegal Bangladeshi infiltrator who has been living in India for for 40 years and you have children and grandchildren then you are not a citizen of India. Your children are not citizens of India and your grandchildrens are also not citizens of India. They are illegal occupants of Indian territory. That is what sanguinis means. So just by being born on on this soil you don't become a citizen of this country. That is sanguinis. it rejects birthright citizenship. Okay. So the US offers it it it uh offers birthright citizenship which means that it recognizes issues solely. If you're born there you become a citizen. Why does the US does? What about India? India doesn't recognize issues solely. India says only sanguinis. China also is sanguinist blood bloodline citizenship not birthright citizenship. Russia I'm not sure. You can look up the other countries what they have. Okay. Brazil most likely has yoli which means if you're born in Brazil you are a naturalb born Brazil Brazilian citizen African countries maybe it's a mixture of whatever whatever EU it depends and so on um so China use sanguines India use sanguin US soi Brazil soi and US also recognizes sanguin so let's say your mother and father are both American citizens but you were born let's say in India So you were not born on US territory. Then despite you not being born on US soil, if both your parents or even one of the parents was an American citizen, you get American citizenship. So the US recognizes both and sanguinis, right? Um and it depends from country to country. Now why did the US choose to give birthright citizenship to its citizens unlike many other countries? It's because the US is an artificial nation. The US is a nation founded on somebody else's territory. It was founded by European occupiers, colonizers, on territory taken from other people who are then um erased out of existence. So it's a country founded on people coming from elsewhere and being born and their children being born here in the in the US, right? So let's say you are it's it's the 1700s a man comes from England and he meets another woman who has come from England and they have a child on North American soil. So the child obviously will be recognized as an American citizen. So because of these special circumstances in which the US was created know stolen land belonging to somebody else who that those people were genocided and the people who stole the land now created a new country out of it. So because of those special circumstances of the US being a a nation of let's say immigrants that's why the US recognizes you so as well as you sanguin now okay that's the deal Joti Bora says how do you see the upcoming Artimus 2 mission do you think ISRO can catch up to NASA when it comes to crude space missions anytime soon okay um Arteimus too. So, the US seeks to send humans back to the moon. The last human mission to the moon, which was an American mission, was like 40 50 years ago. When was the last Let's Let's Google this. Okay. I don't remember. Like late '7s probably. Last last human last. Okay. When was the the last dude moon landing? Let's see. Okay. It's early '7s. Gene Cern and Harrison Schmidt. The last man mission to the moon was Apollo 17 December 1972 782 92 2002 2012 2012. It's been 54 years 53 years. That's a long time over half a century that humans haven't set foot on the moon. So the Americans seek seek to change this now. So you had the Arteimus one mission which was launched in 2022 if I am not mistaken and this was um an uncrrewed mission unmanned mission that was launched on the SLS system space launch system system NASA SLS that's the rocket um and uh it was in 2022 if I'm not mistaken and it it did this figure 8 orbit of the moon so it goes from the earth it it loops around the earth and goes to the moon uh you know shoots around the moon and then comes back to earth that sort of thing. Yeah. Uh let's see. Okay. Arteimus um Arteimus one mission. Let's see. So this was when was it 2022? That's right. I was absolutely correct. And this is the kind of uh you know flight path it took. Okay. It it made it made multiple orbits of the moon which is fine. Now what will Artemis 2 do? I think it'll do something very similar but with human beings this time only one loop around the moon going to have four human beings very diverse crew as as always in America uh one lady one black person one American male and one Canadian male very diverse crew so this is the kind of uh thing it's going to do so now so it's not a moon landing mission it's a flyby mission of the moon so the Arteimus one had dummy crew okay and It did the thing perfectly successfully. Now we're going to send humans who are going to do it's going to be like a it's going to be like Apollo 8. Apollo 8 did a similar thing before Apollo 10 actually landed on the moon. Right. So Optimus 2 is going to do this loop around the moon and return to the earth. Before it goes to the moon, it's going to do a couple of orbits of the earth and do a docking maneuver or something to test docking mechanisms and so on. And then it's going to go to the moon. Um trans lunar injection and so on so forth. Um, and Artemis 2 uses, like I said, the SLS uh, rocket, which is the most powerful rocket that can carry human beings thus far. Of course, Space X has Starship, which is probably more powerful than SLS, but Starship isn't human rated thus far. SLS is. So uh that is the Arteimus 2 mission and Arteimus 3 perhaps will send humans on the surface of the moon if I'm not mistaken. Is that what Artimus 3 will do will do? We can look it up. Uh Arteimus 3 is three or three. Uh Artimus 3 is going to be the first crude moon landing mission. And do we know when it happens? Okay, I'm not sure when it happens. Um okay, whatever. That's that's in the future. So, Arteimus 3 is going to be an actual moon landing. Crude human manned moon landing. Arteimus 2 is a loop loop around the moon and come back. So, what do I think of it? Fantastic. The Americans have ambition. They don't want to be left behind in the space race. They want to take the lead. Let others catch up. That's the American ethos and that's admirable, I would say. Can ISRO catch up? Not anytime soon. India. ISRO. Look, ISRO doesn't decide what happens, right? The government of India decides what this road does and the government of India has zero ambition right now. Zero ambition. We have some plans of humans Indian humans on the moon by 2040 or something whatever. It's all far in the future. We don't have the rockets that can take us there that can take humans there. Um so ISRO is ISRO is not even in the race right now. Yeah. No ambition. Not ISRO government of India. No ambition. Nothing. So yeah that's the simple answer. Okay we discuss history now. Uh Amisha says after the second world war why were Korea and Germany parti part partitioned between occupants between their occupiers. Okay occupiers while Japan was solely occupied by just one power the United States. So after the second world war ended uh it ended in Germany with the capture of Berlin and the disappearance of uh Adolf Hitler. And then the Asian part of the second world war ended in August 1945 with the twin American nuclear tests on the people of Japan. So that was the end of the second world war. And when the second world war ended, you see Germany, what is the situation in Germany? When the second world war ended with the fall of Berlin, the Soviets took Berlin, the USSR took the majority of Germany from the east and the allies, the western allies, they took whatever was left from the west. So Germany was already effectively partitioned when the war ended. The eastern side all USSR occupied. The western side occupied by the Americans, the French and the the Americans, the British and the French. And that's why Germany had to be partitioned because the moment the war ends, the east and the west are automatically suspicious of each other. The Americans are automatically instinctively suspicious of the Soviets. They have become very powerful. Now we fear them. Then the Soviets realize the Americans are treating treating us as enemies. So let's do it then. Let's have it. And there was a deal. So that's why the moment the second world war ended, Germany was already occupied by two different forces and that's why it was partitioned essentially along those lines. Even Berlin itself was partitioned. Now uh Korea when the second world war ended, you had a situation where the northern part of Korea um you had Soviet troops there. Okay? And in the southern part of Korea, you had American or Western troops there. So once again, the moment the war ends, the the the peninsula is kind of partitioned and that is what eventually led to the Korean war and the creation of North and South Korea and uh that has never actually ended officially, right? It's there's never been an actual official ceasefire. It's a different story. So that's the deal with Germany as well as Korea. That's why these two were partitioned. The actual partition for Korea happened in the 1950s with the end of the of the Korean War. Now, what about Japan? So, when the Americans So, when Japan um was on the brink of losing the Second World War, let's let's go to the map. Okay. Oh, we haven't opened the map today. Well, that is serious. We should rectify that immediately. So, here we are. So, we're going to talk about Japan. So, let's go back to 1945. the and at that time see imperial Japan it had massive territories uh the large island in the north of Japan is Saporro it's it's uh Hokkaido island right Hokkaido Hokkaido and north of it you have the Kurill Islands the Kurill Islands belong to Japan I've made a couple of videos about this in detail even parts of the Kamchatka Peninsula uh where they belong to Japan and Sakal in probably also belong to Japan. Now Japan is doing poorly in the second world war. So the Soviets what they do they take over Kamchatka they take over Zakalid and they take over the Kurill Islands as well. Okay. And then the the atomic bomb tests happen over Hiroshima and Nakasaki and Japan surrenders. So so and and then the Americans take over. But the Americans can't take over the territories the Soviets have occupied. So you see this Kunashir is a Russian territory. You see how far is it from uh Hokkaido? If you look at the distance, it's like 24 25 km. So, you can't see it from the shores, but it's right offshore. What about this island? This is a Russian held island. Look at that. What about this little island here? That's a Japanese island. Okay. What about this one here? I think that that's also Russian territory. So, the Russians took all these islands. They took the advantage of Japan's misfortune and they took all these islands as as any reasonably rational nation will do. So even Japan actually its territory was partitioned right whatever the Americans were able to occupy they took it and they still hold it and the rest was held by the J by the Russians and Japan and Russia have this territorial dispute about the the Kural islands and the Russians aren't giving anything to Japan. Okay. So that's what happened. Even Japan actually was partitioned even though you may not realize it. Okay, Nirvana Shanks has a couple of questions. Let's take the second one. The one upon the word the one about Japan. Many Indians visiting Japan, especially when standing in temples, notice that although the language is not understood, the chants, the mantras, the ritual recitations sound strangely familiar, almost reminiscent of mantras heard in Indian temples. What explains this perceived similarity in sound and ritual atmosphere? And what does it reveal about historical or cultural connections across Asia? That's the question. So you see if you watch YouTube videos of Japanese temple ceremonies and rituals often you will you'll find that the Japanese priests are reciting mantras that you don't really understand but they sound very much like sankut mantras and sutras and whatnot and the fire ceremonies look very much like Indian yagnas. Why is that the case? I mean, you'll see many of these uh YouTube videos all over the place, you know, uh gooma fire rituals and whatnot. One second. Oopsy daisy. So, you have all these um one second. Okay, let's find this video and put it on the screen. For example, here's an example of a YouTube video such as that. So, this is Shingon Buddhist GMA fire ritual, Mount Koa, Japan. I will not play the video because there may be copyright issues or whatever. But you can pause the video, look up the the title of the video and if you're interested go and take a look at the video and you will see many such uh examples on YouTube. So this is a GMA fire ritual. They say it is Buddhist but the ritual is clearly not what you would consider Buddhist. It's more of a Vic ritual. It's more of a yagna. And sometimes you you have Japanese channels that show this live the recitation of mantras and sutras and the performance of these of these uh yagna like rituals fire uh you know in in involving fire offering of of various things to the fire and so on. So why do we have this incredible similarity? What is the root of this? Right? You see the truth is the fact is that India has influenced Japan for about roughly 2,000 years. Um our emperor Kesan sent hundreds of of uh religious missions to the east mainly to China as part of trade delegations and this brought Indian culture into China and the Chinese then transmitted that into Japan. you know Buddhist rituals, Vic rituals and so much more. One of these things is called dan which the Chinese called which which the Japanese call Zen, right? Zen Buddhism they call it. But it's not a Buddhist thing. It's it's a it's an Indian thing. So a lot of the Japanese temple rituals, Shinto rituals, even Buddhist rituals, they grew out of Sanskrit chanting. Okay. It traveled from India across China into Japan. It brought Indian mantras, Indian sounds, Indian ritual forms into uh the practices in Japan. So we have shared roots. Okay. And today you will find that the words that are uttered may have their origin in Sanskrit but they may be Japanese today. But the rhythm is the same as what you have chanted in temples today. Even the phonetics the the the ucharan the the the the pronunciations are similar to uh Sanskrit pronunciation. So many of these mantras were originally composed in Sanskrit and they were simply transliterated into first Chinese and then Japanese language. Okay, they were not translated. They were transliterated. So the phonetic skeleton, the sound skeleton, the pronunciation, it still survives in the original forms in these in these uh in these uh chants in the temples. And many of these like I showed you this Shinggon uh GMA fire ritual. You see there is it's a Shinggon school of of Japanese Buddhism, Shinto, whatever probably Buddhism, right? They still write their mantras in the siddhum script. What is a siddhum script like? Let's take a look. Uh Siddhum script Japan. Let's let's Google that. Okay. See Siddhum script. So it's still used in Japanese temples. The Siddhum script. Take a look at this. So you can see it has similarities with our Danagari script and it is used in Japanese temples inscriptions etc. Even today, this is the Siddhum script. It's also used in Korea apparently. As you can see, this is a very interesting creative use of the Siddhum script. So, uh that's the script that's used in many of these temples, many of these rituals. Okay. Um and the Japanese um katakana the Japanese alphabet it's a syllary. Okay it's called katak it's called kana katakana whatever it is it these also originally represented the syllables in Sanskrit in Sanskrit in in in the siddam script or scripts that encoded or embodied Sanskrit. So that's why the sound system once again aligns with Sanskrit style patterns. So because of these these matches and these these uh these uh reasons Japanese priests could and still can chant Sanskrit sutras and mantras very fluidly using their script the katakana script and the sound quality is very true to the original. So sometimes it is Sanskrit, sometimes it is Japanese, but it sounds very much like the um mantras that are heard in Indian temple. So there's a very clear connection between India and Japan, Indian culture and Japanese culture, Indian traditions and rituals and Japanese traditions and rituals. Essentially Japanese culture is built, it is founded on a bedrock. The foundation is of Indian culture. The bedrock is of Indian culture and on top of that Japanese traditions have been built up and to such an extent that today you can barely see the Indian elements underneath. But one of the ways to see that is you know go to these temples, Shinto temples, Buddhist temples especially Buddhist temples where you will treat the temple as a Buddhist temple. But many of the traditions and and prayers are not exactly Buddhist traditions and prayers. They are what you would call Hindu traditions and prayers. Many of the gods and goddesses that are worshiped in Japan, for example, Ben Zaitin are Hindu gods and goddesses. Benzin, who is Ben Zaitin? It's a Japanese goddess, a kami. But what is the original form of benzin? It is Saraswati. Benin. There we have it. Benjitin is the Japanese version of Saraswati very clearly. Okay. Then you have Kangitin. Who is Kangitin? Kangitan is Vinayaka. All right. Kangitan is is Lord Ganesh. And u Yeah. So you have all the Indian gods and goddesses that are present in Japan. And these are not Buddhist gods and goddesses. These are Hindu gods and goddesses that are regarded as regarded as Japanese gods and goddesses or maybe Buddhist gods and goddesses. Kami. So there are there's this deep connection that India has with Japan. The people of Japan may not be completely aware of that today. And when Indians visit Japan, you will find these striking parallels. And you'll be like, what? What am I hearing? What am I seeing here? Why is it so why why does it sound so similar, so familiar? This is the reason why. Okay. Okay. Swapnel Mishra says if Africa if Africa had uh been organized into five large regional states, north, east, west, central and southern Africa rather than fragmented into many smaller nations, how might their economic development and global competitiveness have differed? The question is interesting. If Africa had been divided up in carved up into these zones into all these small nations, would they have would these African regions have done better? Would they have been uh governed better? Would they have been economically better off, more prosperous? Would the living standards be better? Would they be globally more competitive than the current shape and form of African nations today? What would have been the outcome of this sort of thing? Well, we can do the thought experiment today. Where is the map? Here is map. Yes, we bring map. So today if you look at the map of Africa, you'll see that it has all these nations. Many of the nations are artificially created nations with straight lines clearly drawn by Europeans on a map, right? Uh most of these nations have straight line borders or borders that have significant straight line elements. I mean I can't think of a single African nation that doesn't have significant straight line elements. Right? So all of these borders were drawn by Europeans. Leoto is is more organic. Madagascar doesn't count because it is an island. But here we have it. So let's say we draw straight lines such that we have a northern part of Africa, southern part of Africa, east, west, and central. Would that have provided better outcomes for Africa? You see, there's multiple factors that go into whether there's going to be a better outcome in this case or not. First is what sort of ethnic composition do you have in one of these zones. See in the real world there is competition there's adversariality and so much more. So let's say you have multiple ethnic groups who have been living in various parts of Africa for a long time. They will have their own histories. Some of the ethnic groups will not be compatible. Maybe they have centuries long enmities. You put them together in one country you're going to have civil war. That may not happen if you have a strong government and strong military. But who will guarantee that? Let's say for example, let's say you you do this experiment not in Africa but in um in West Asia. Let's say you create a West Asia country which in includes Turkey, it Iraq. Let's say it includes Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Israel and Greece. Now Greece and Turkey, you put them together, that's a volatile combination. You have a nation that includes Greece and Turkey, that is a recipe for disaster, my dear friends. Okay? That's a recipe for disaster. The Greeks and Turks hate each other. You include Armenia in that, it's going to be another recipe for disaster because the Turks want to kill off the Armenians. So, it doesn't work. It simply can't work. That nation is doomed before it it starts. What if you create a nation that includes Iran, Iraq, and Saudi Arabia? Do you think it that will work? It can't work. The Saudis and Iraqis are you can say that Iraqis are Arabs and Saudis are obviously Arabs, but Iranians are not Arabs. They're Aryans. You can't put them in a nation that is half Arab. It doesn't work culturally, ethnically. Doesn't work. And it's the Shiauri thing also. It simply it won't work. So you see these artificial conceptions of artificial nations, it it can be a bigger disaster than than a solution to to a problem. So if you look at Africa, we don't know much about Africa because we haven't taught about it. But if you transpose that solution to other parts of the world, it immediately becomes glaringly clear it's not going to work. Right? So this thought experiment if it had been conducted in Africa, it probably would not have given the desired results. First of all, because of the fact that so many of these tribes and ethnic groups and all they have their ancient rivalries and and issues and problems and also then the question becomes who rules this this artificial country? If the a guy from this ethnic group rules it, other people will feel agrieved. If a guy from that ethnic group rules it, then these people will feel agrieved and you can't satisfy them all. So ideally you should have countries based on a single culture, civilization or ethnic group, right? sometimes religion I suppose but religion doesn't always uh solve those problems so it may not have worked out that's the point I'm making all right okay okay Malik says I live in Deken part of India my family is a Syad family which has a lineage going back to the prophet of Islam and we are believed to be the descendants of the prophet I've heard from my m maternal side that my ancestors from the maternal side were Shia sayy the people from Yemen who migrated to the Dean in India, Deken region of India about 4 centuries ago, 400 years ago. And from my paternal side, I have heard that my paternal ancestry dates back to the migration of Saiyad family from Baghdad, the Mashad Isan, that area of Persia about a thousand years ago to India because of oppression and killing of Syads. Hindu kings wrote letters and invited us to India and gave us shelter after hearing the oppression uh to us caused by nobility of lineage. How true are these migration patterns? We have records that show migration of sayyad, Imam to imams to various parts of India such as Lacnau, Hyderabad, Bidar, Kashmir etc. always grateful and thankful for India for letting us live here and settle here. All right. So we know that there are these old records or at least stories passed down in in families over generations u of migrations from let's say from Yemen from Baghdad from Mashad from Isvahan. So Yemen is obviously south of the Arabian Peninsula. Baghdad is the capital historical historic capital of Mesopotamia Iraq right then and you have Mashad is Fahan etc. These are major cities in Turkey. Sorry, in in Persia, in Iran, right? So Yemen is Arabic. Baghdad is Mesopotamia which is now Arabic. Then you have Mashad and Isahan which is Persian which is Arian. So um so these are the places from which clearly people did indeed over the past several centuries migrate to India and settle in India. And obviously if that's happened, you're going to have stories passed on over the generations and families, right? But can we v verify these these migration patterns, these these narratives? We know that there there has been historically proven well attested migration from West Asia, various parts of West Asia to India. Small numbers of people migrating and settling in various parts of India. Right? But how precise are specific claims you know that from my mother's side let's say 400 years ago uh there was migration from so and so place how precisely can you corroborate that or maybe from my father's side 1,000 years ago some you know they came from whatever is vahan or whatever can you actually precisely verify that you know this unbroken and and the claim of the unbroken descent from the prophet of Islam Can you confirm that in detail? You cannot specifically corroborate the precise claims but the broad migration patterns are reasonably well known and very well established. So if we look at um for example look um we have I mean various genetic research papers do exist with that kind of speak about this in in broad terms. There is this research paper called origins of the Indian sad tribe a genetic perspective by Zahedan uh who is okay this is a Pakistani person government college university lahor origins of the Indian side tribe genetic perspective and you can read the whole thing so it does kind of confirm that you know uh people in various parts of India including the region uh they do have some ancestry from west Asia Now everybody who claims West Asian ancestry will not have it. Actually it's a minority of people who claim West Asian ancestry will have it. Um so in the Dean region we have uh historically known that Persian and Arabic origin people settled in places like like Bijapur, Golanda, Hyderabad etc. Right. Um and obviously if they settle from those regions, you're going to have some today's people who today the descendants today will have a little bit of West Asian ancestry. But it definitely indicates there is direct lineage that comes from West Asia for those people. Even if only 3% of your oral ancestry today or DNA today is of West Asian origin, the rest will be obviously of subcontinental origin. But you still have a direct lineage. But uh and so that is about uh the Deacon region. Then also you have clusters of say uh communities in uh in Lacno region and whatnot that came from maybe Iran or Iraq that sort of place in West Asia and uh in the Islamic societies there there were these genealogical practices for say families where families you know kept detailed records of their ancestry right and the thing is that having say ancestry or belonging to say the family which means you are a descendant of the prophet it is a prestigious thing in Islamic communities right so sometimes these trees you know these genetic trees or these these trees of lineage that were written they became tools of status if you could show a genetic lineage or or or you know a lineage that traced all the way back to prophet Muhammad then it it was very prestigious so sometimes it's been known that some people would kind of sometimes edit that and make make it work like that to become an elite person in in Islamic society and so on. Um so it's known that um we have some communities in India uh whether it's in the in the Dean or in North India where you have higher incidence of West Asian ancestry. See most Indian Muslims have zero West Asian ancestry. Most Indian Muslims are 100% u subcontinental in terms of their DNA but there are specific clusters of of people in various parts of India who do have known West Asian ancestry right so that is known but you can't know for sure whether you are descended from from the prophet and uh and you can't trace it back entirely that's the point so if If your family has passed down the knowledge of its descent over many generations from both sides then I think uh you should instead of trying to verify it which will which is not going to happen you should I think cherish it right that you know more about your ancestry than most people do I mean how many people in the world today know what their great great grandfather's name was what he or she did what he did right how many Two generations ago, you had four grandparents. Three generations ago, you had what? Eight grandparents. 10 generations ago, you can do the math. So, you have so many sources of ancestry. And knowing even one of those like 400 years ago, thousand years ago, it's a big deal. So, um you can't really trace it back. You can't really corroborate it. You can't really verify it. But it is known that you have clusters of population population groups in India who have elevated West Asian ancestry uh compared to the rest of Indians who don't have it. So that's what I can say. I don't have a specific answer to you but it is known through genetic studies. There are people in India who have Westian ancestry. So in so maybe you are that in that case some of your ancestors did come from those parts of the world which is fantastic you know. Yeah. So we all we also glad to have you. What can I say? Glad to have you. All right. Bringan says, "Why did Pam change his name to Garib Navas? Isn't it a coincidence when Orurange almost conquered the whole of India, much of the subcontinent in 1705, Pamiba was ruling Manipur from 1709 to 1748. Assam was occupied by the Muggals for a short period of time. But Manipur was the only major Hindu kingdom with a large land area which the muggles could not occupy. Right. What was Pamiba's original name? Was it Chintang Kumba? What was it? Let me see. I don't recall exactly what was his actual real name. Yeah, he called himself Gibb Nawaz. His dad was pitarayonga and his actual name yeah his name was Pameiba and he was also called Gopal Singh and at some point in time he decided that he will be called Gibbaz's name was King Pambar Chayanga. So why did Pameiba okay first of all I just took a look at Wikipedia for convenience always remember Wikipedia is not necessarily a reliable source of information. Now why did Pamea change his name to Garib Noas? I think it was the the the Turk and Persian influence. The whole of essentially the whole of the subcontinent was occupied by the Turks under Orurange Ze right. So there was a lot of Turk and Persian influence all across India. And I suppose did not really realize that this is not exactly u a term that is Indian in origin perhaps right and it is the term it's a term that it's not Indian I suppose he just maybe that influence came in through Bengal because Manipur was strongly influenced by from Bengal right um Shanti Das Kosai and uh who else I forget the names all the the the Gordia you know the people who propagated Gordioism into Manipur I think Shantas Kosai was one of those people so they came from Bengal Bengal was under strong Turic influence at the time maybe occupation as well right so these things they percolate into into common usage and gur noas means the he who helps the gur people and all that something like that. So I suppose he thought that you know this is a nice name to have. Let me call myself Karib Naz. It is definitely not a Manipuri name. It's not not an Indian term not a Manipuri it's not a term that originates in the Manipuri language the Miy language. It's obviously not a term that originates in any Indian languages. It's obviously either probably Persian or Turk. No not not Turk either Persian or Arabic. So that's the influence that foreign occupation has on a society culture civilization. Right. Amisha says, "Why is Indo-European called Indo-Germanic in German since it doesn't just include Indian and Germanic languages? I think that it's it's obviously a leftover of the 19th century. In the 19th century, it was the Germans who, you know, created, let's say, the field of indology. The Germans were very interested in India. The Germans, the Germans, they sought to steal Indian heritage. Why? And how? You see, Germany doesn't have its own history. Germany was never unified ever before 1871 as a single kingdom, a single empire or a single civilization, single culture ever. It was always a small fragmented bunch of kingdoms and principalities and duchies and whatnot. It's only in 1875 that the 1871 that it was unified as a single entity by the iron chanc. So the Germans sought some kind of legitimacy for their culture civil whatever you know not civilization they don't have a civilization but you know that they sought something that gave them an air of antiquity. So one thing they proposed or or claimed is that all the Nordic languages are Germanic languages Tutonic Germanic whatever. So the Danish language the Norwegian language the Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish language etc. These are all Germanic language. English is Germanic, right? They they so the idea was they they put forth at the time and it was very successfully received everywhere is that all these northern European languages are Germanic languages and these are the languages that are at the extreme western end of Europe. And it was very clear that the oldest of all these languages that are all interrelated was Sanskrit in the far east. I mean from from where they were sitting it's far far in the east India right so the idea was that there is one single language family all the way east in India east in India you have the Indian languages of which Sanskrit is the oldest and all the way west in the European realm we have the Germanic language the other extreme the western extreme so India in the east the Germanic language in the west that's why they called this language family Indo-Germanic obviously also it also included the romance languages the italic languages Slavic languages, the Persian language and so much more. But the two extremes they said one is Indian, one is Germanic. So that's called it Indo-Germanic. And I think even today they call it Indo-Germanic in German. In the other languages, English etc. It's called Indo-Uropean. But the Germans I think they still call it Indo-Germanic. Let's let's see. Indo-Germanish. Let's see. Indoish. Is it like that? Indo-Germanic. Germanish sprain. Indo-Germanish German for Indo-Germanic is a traditional German term for the Indo. Yeah. The traditional German term for the Indo-Uropean language family blah blah blah blah blah etc etc etc synonym linguist Indo-Germananish is the German scientific term for the Indo-uropean language family etc. So they still use this term Indo-Germanish then you have the and blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. So okay some other people are also asking this question whatever. Okay. So that's the deal. That's about Indo-Germanic. And the Germans, they sought to steal Indian cultural civilizational ideas and assign them to German. So that's why the Arian invasion theory was invented. You know that it was very well known that Sanskrit is the oldest of the Indo-Uropean languages by by far. But then the Max Mill Müller proposed the idea that you know what the Indians are brown people but their ancestors were white because the original Indians were black and their white ancestors came from the Germanic speaking world the Arian world. So that's why the Arian race is the greatest race and the real Arians are the white people. They stole the term area from India and Persia and they stole the whole language family because Germany did not have any real history of its own. So it sought to steal Indian history. I'm not saying all Germans do this. It's the German intellectuals, so-called intellectuals. Even today their geneticists try to harp on about the Arian invasion theory and somehow seek to support it. Arian invasion, migration, tourism, picnic, alien alien invasion theory, whatever you want to call it. Okay. Nirvana Shanks says, "The Ming dynasty isolated itself from the world despite having a strong naval capacity. How did this choice affect China's future global rule?" Well, what an important question. What a precient question. The Ming dynasty, it's 1300s, 1400s, is it? Let's let's and and Janggh the Chinese admiral, am I right? 1300s, 1400s. Let's see. Okay. Ming dynasty. Ming dynasty. 1300s 14. Yeah, see I was right. 1300s. So 1368 to 1644. Now what about Janggh? That guy was late 1300s, early 1400s if I'm not mistaken. I'm usually bad with dates. Let me see if I turn out to be right. Janghi. Uh yes, late 1300s, early 1400s. I was right. Once again, see I'm I'm right when it comes to dates approximately. I don't bother to memorize dates, but I'm approximately correct with dates. So you have the Ming dynasty 1300s to 1600s and they had a good naval capacity. They could build pretty large ships, pretty massive ships and put weapons that were reasonably scary on those ships, reasonably advanced technology for its time. And they could send entire flotillas of those ships together, task forces together. And they had a great admiral the Hi general Janggh who was also a unique a unic. A unic is a person who has to undergo a certain who has undergone a certain surgical procedure the Chinese practice charing. So he was this unuk admiral u and he was uh sent by the Chinese Ming dynasty on several expeditions uh to discover the world and to project Chinese power and one of the places where they did this was Sri Lanka and they also I suppose went to East Africa and so on those allegedly if I'm not mistaken you can look it up so so during the Ming dynasty the Chinese had significant naval capabilities and they had the ability to travel far and wide and project power as well, military power, right? And then later Ming kings, emperors, whatever you want to call them, they decided to no longer exercise or use the Chinese naval capacity. Shut it down. Not interested. They decided to focus on the land borders. They decided to focus on um keeping an eye on Mongolia because Mongolia was is powerful. Yes, very powerful. They had already been burned by the Mongols before Shir Chingish Khan, Shirik Kabla Khan and so on. So they said okay we will now focus on the land borders. We will we will um defend the land borders. We will turn inwards. We'll become insular. We'll forget about the sea sea stuff, ocean stuff. Why do we need to do all this? What's the big deal? Forget about it. And so they voluntarily essentially dismantled their naval capabilities. So the we talking about this. So the Ming dynasty lasts until the 1600s, right? So that's by the 1600s it's clear that they have dismantled essentially voluntarily the Chinese naval capabilities. What's the outcome of this long-term outcome? So 16 let's say 1640 they have dismantled the Chinese naval capabilities. Go forward a couple of hundred years 1840s what does China face? Naval invasions from the Europeans. The Europeans did not dismantle naval capabilities. They built on top of their existing naval capabilities. Europe was far away from China. China didn't did not even know that Europe existed mostly. But 200 years after this, after the Ming dynasty, the Chinese find that the Europeans have super advanced naval capabilities. They have militarized those naval capabilities. They have created a world order that is euroentric in nature. They dominate the seas. They decide what happens in the on the seas. They decide who controls the trade routes and who can use the trade routes. And they are now imposing terms on China. That is the beginning of the Chinese century of humiliation. So because the Ning dynasty voluntarily dismantled its naval capabilities, China had to pay a huge huge price 200 years later. Huge price. A century of humiliation. How stupid does it look in hindsight? It may have made sense when the Ming Emperor decided we don't need to do this anymore. But 200 years later, it looked so stupid and it was a terrible decision. If the Chinese had expanded on their naval capabilities, they would have pushed the Europeans out of the ocean. But the that's not what happened. So the these small choices make such a huge difference. Today India is treating ISRO with a strep motherly treatment. We have the the space capabilities. We are choosing to disregard them. Five space launches, five rocket launches a year, six rocket launches a year. PSLV is failing. Who cares? Space ah Janedo who cares. So that took 200 years. This will take 20 years in the 21st century. In the 21st centuries, all the time scales are compressed. In 20 years, you will need a visa to go to space. The Americans will say, "Sra wants to do a space launch. Apply for permission. Wait in line for 6 months." What will you do then? Unless we build a permanent presence in in space, in which case they can't do a thing. But no, we are just snoozing right now. We are going backwards. So, this is a cautionary tale. the Ming dynasty's decision to isolate itself and and cut down its naval capability. That's that's exactly what we are doing with Israel. We not taking it forward. It's just floating wherever it is. Zero ambition from the government of India right now. It's it's distressing to see. Next question. Amisha says, why did the imperial Japanese keep the French colonial regime in power during their occupation of Indochina? We're talking about 1940, 1941, right? The Japanese Empire has marched across Asia eastwards, sorry, westwards, and they have now conquered Indochina. And yet they allowed the French colonial regime to stay in power. What is Indochina? What is Indochina? It's Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos. That's Indochina. Where's the map? We go to the map and we'll talk about that. All right. All right. Okay. Where is it? Um, where is map? We put map on the screen. We talk about the Indochina. So Indo-China is today's Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. That is Indochina and it was ruled by the French. So in 1940 1941 the Japanese roll in and they take control of the place and they allow the French government to remain in power. Why is that is the question. See at the time the Japanese their objective was to prevent the allies the see the allies means the British and the Americans right mainly now the allies where did they exist in Asia in India the British occupied India at the time they had been occupying India for two and a half centuries very brutally and as a consequence the Americans were able to use various air bas sorry excuse me air bases in various parts of India to supply Chinese forces against Russ against Japan. So the Japanese intended to cut off these supplies the the allied ability to supply resupply China and so they wanted to as a consequence use Indochina as a staging base for a further invasion westwards eventually into Burma eventually into India and possibly into China as well. Okay. Now the thing is this in 1940 the French government that that that ruled Indo-China it was the Vishi government the Vishi government was under Nazi control. See, in the beginning of the of the Second World War, very quickly, the Germans were able to conquer and occupy France and they set up a puppet regime in France in Paris, the Vishi regime, which was a a collaborator regime of the uh that actually u served the Nazis that served Nazi Germany. So the French government at the time served Nazi Germany and this was the French government that was ruling Indochina and the Japanese were aligned or allied with the Nazis. So instead of removing this government that was technically allied with them, they said you know what we will simply use Indochina for a as a place as a base from which we will launch further invasions for the westwards and northwards and we don't want to take the trouble of setting up a new government and doing all that in Indochina. Let the French do that job. We don't want to bring in thousands of more Japanese to administer the place. We just want to use the place as a base from which to launch further invasions. So it made sense to allow the French to do whatever they're doing and uh and simply use Indochina as as a place from which to as a springboard from which to launch further invasions. Of course eventually the Japanese did a regime change even there in Indochina. Yeah. What 44 45 around that time that's when the tide had turned. Right. Right. Okay. Uh, Diva Aspasputra says, "I was driving alone in snow in deep snow with in heavy snowfall when I heard you made that comment on quantum dance. It cracked me cracked me up so bad I almost skip. I hope you're okay. I hope you don't completely skip." Uh, tell us a bit about how the US made the Philippines its colony. How did a postcolonial state end up owning its own own colony? Postcolonial state, the US ended up owning a colony of its own. The Philippines, where is the Philippines? Let's go to the map maps quickly and find out where the Philippines are. The Philippines are over here north of Indonesia. These nation this these this archipelago. Okay, that is the Philippines. South of Taiwan uh east of Vietnam across the Champa Sea or the so-called South China Sea and north of Indonesia and that's the Philippines. So the Philippines were occupied by the United States. Okay, how did that happen? Well, you see, for the longest time, the Philippines were occupied by Spain. By Spain, Spain. Then the Filipino people said, "We are tired of Spanish occupation and colonization of Philippines, the evil, nasty people." So the Filipinos rose up in revolt against Spain. And they fought the Spaniards militarily and they set up a parallel rebel government in the Philippines, 1898 or somewhere. At the time the US also fought the Spaniards and they defeated the Spaniards and then they signed a treaty in Paris the Americans with the Spaniards. In this treaty they gave this the Americans the US gave Spain $20 million or whatever it was to purchase Philippines and completely disregarded the the fact that the Philippines Filipino people had set up their own government. So the Filipino people had set up their own government in in the Philippines. But the Americans simply bought the Philippines from from Spain after defeating Spain in a war. The Americans do this. They buy the Louis Louisiana purchase, the Alaska purchase, the Philippines purchase. Now they're talking about the Greenland purchase. They simply do that. So they bought the nation and the people. They bought the people to the Americans. This is the history of the America. Americans. Okay. So 7 so 1898 they buy the Philippines from Spain and then the Filipinos say no we will not be treated as a possession. So so they fight the Americans and that fight goes on for a while and the Americans do all kinds of nasty brutal things to the Filipinos. Okay. And that's how the Americans made the Philippines its own their own colony and they imposed English on the Filipinos and they imposed further Christianity on the Filipinos and the American style of education and so on. And this entire situation went on until the Japanese occupied the Philippines in the second world war. Eventually Japan lost and 1945 or thereabouts the Philippines were freed again from the Japanese come again under American occupation and then the Americans say okay let's move out of this place in 1946. So 1946 is when the Philippines actually become independent but they still have American naval bases and so on Bay and whatnot. So that's the long the short form of the story of how the Philippines became a colony of the Americans. Okay. Amisha says, "How did no not how did did pockets of paganism survive in medieval Europe after Christianization?" Yes, they did. See, Christianity was imposed on the Europeans by force. But even though it was imposed by force, it was difficult to control the Europeans. So what the Christians would do, the Christian converters and colonizers and the and the church officials and all they would what they would do is the Europeans had their ancient religion which was nothing but a continuation of the Indian Vic religion. The same religion in different shapes and forms, same gods and goddesses in different shapes and forms. So the Europeans had this practice of having temples. They had this practice of having sacred mounds and hills. They had the practice of having uh sacred wells and sacred groves of trees. So the so the Christians would do what? They would destroy the the the pre-Christian temples and build a church there so that the worship would be continuous in the same place and it would be easier to convince the Europeans, you know, to keep worshiping in the same sacred place. But now it's a church and it's now it's Jes Jesus Christ. It's no longer your gods and goddesses. Similarly the practice you know there was something called called bad Christianity or something in which various uh pre-Christian traditions were continued within Christianity. You know certain places were regarded as sacred. Everyone knew that these are pre-Christian sacred places and all and that also continued. Um and some parts of Europe simply did not become Christian for a very long time. Certain Slavic regions became Christian only in the 19th century or 18th or 19th centuries. You know Lithuania barely became Christian Lithuania and all they continued many pagan traditions as syncric traditions within Christianity. Uh there are many cathedrals that have clearly non-Christian symbols in them. Um in Russia in the Slavic regions like I said there were many places where Christianity barely existed. It was barely practiced. Uh there was this very famous Russian Orthodox Christian monk called Rasputin. He was regarded as a pagan so strong where where it pagan pagan practices. U so yeah it was like that in different parts of Europe. the the church tried to hammer everybody into submission and they tried to impose Christianity everywhere but it succeeded in at different levels in different places. In some places you had clear synratism um of and and and various sacred festivals pre-Christian festivals were then absorbed into Christianity and Christian symbolism was superimposed on top of those. Uh, the winter solstice is what? December 22 or something. But it was turned into December 25, Christmas, that sort of thing. 22 23 is the solstice, right? Which is the winter solstice? One second. Give me a second. I'm sure it's December 22/23. Uh, winter solstice 21 December. Okay. So, a few days ago. So, that was turned into into Christmas December 25. Maybe it was 25 earlier, maybe 2,000 years ago, whatever it was. So that that's what was done. And a lot of these pre-Christian practices somehow managed to survive despite the Christianization and so on. So you had pockets of paganism did which did survive uh in Europe after Christianization or despite the Christianization and uh in the 20th century you have had the revival of of of pre-Christian uh religions and so on. In uh in the Nordic countries, you have something called Asatru, which is a revival revivalist form of the Nordic paganism with the old gods, you know, Thor, Odin, Voden, so on so forth, Freya, Idrasil, and so on. And in the in the Baltic no in the in the Lithuania Latvia region you have the revival of Ruba which is the old religion and it sometimes they have to bring in priests from outside. Okay. Romeova. So it's the it's a neopagan religion you know based on the old uh old culture and religion of Lithuania. And sometimes they have to bring in priests from outside of Europe. Priests who know the old traditions better. For example, one second. Let's open that. Give me a second. So sometimes for practicing the room religion, they have to bring in priests from outside who know the old traditions and religion better. So here you have a Hindu priest officiating at a room ritual because it is the same religion. Either way, FYI, right? So, yeah, it's it's kind of still survives and some people are trying to revive the old culture, which well, good for them. I wish them the best. And that should I still have multiple more questions, but I've gone significantly below the beyond the 2our mark. So, let me end this here and let me see if Okay. And now I can see that I've got 19 super chats that I need to take up. So let's quickly go through the super chats and then we shall call it a day. Minimalist Maverick says with Iran regime change, will I become will IG become next UA for Russia? With Iran regime change, will Iran become the next Ukraine for Russia? No, it won't. Very unlikely. Uh Namaste Praam. Namaste Praam. Thank you very much. Thank you. Uh Mac M 4 says after new UGC rules do you think BJP is equally compromised as Congress no action by them on illegal immigrants feeling depressed about Hindu future. Look as you all know very well I don't need to remind you all I do not comment about internal matters of India but I what I can say is that the UGC rules new rules whatever I'm seeing are terrible terrible they seek to create a permanent divide in India oppressor and oppressed okay so certain categories of people are forever oppressed and certain certain categories of people are forever oppressors So certain so those who are being labeled as oppressors you can make any allegation against about them and they have to pay the price. People will just simply leave the country off if if this is you know brought into effect. So I think it's it's terrible. I don't know what the government of India is doing. That's all I I'll say about this. Namaste core difference between between Visual and Iran. One fell, the other didn't. Iran is way more powerful than than Venezuela. Iran can hit back. Iran can hit back very strongly. It has very large stockpiles of very very very capable missiles. Iran sits on massive oil reserves. Iran can destroy the oil wells of all the surrounding countries if it wants. Iran has a lot of leverage, you know, that Venezuela doesn't. So that's the core difference. Uh Brute Cole says, "I am a I am a undergraduate student in in chemistry at IIT. I want to pursue MS in quantum information technologies abroad. Please tell me whether I should go to China, west of Japan. Also tell about this future scope. Okay, listen. Um I don't know about the landscape the the educational landscape when it comes to quantum information technology. I think the US will be the best country for that. I'm sure the Chinese also of course are trying to catch up catch up with the US in in every technology you can imagine quantum information technologies very very very cutting edge uh field so I'm sure China has great opportunities uh educational opportunities when it comes to quantum information technologies obviously I'm I'm I'm guessing I have not seen I don't look into these things I don't look into which which country offers the best education opportunities and so and so I don't look into that I'm not in that field but I am pretty sure it must be there in China. So you need to do your own research. You need to do your own due diligence. Okay. The US probably will be the best place to study this. China may be the next best possibly. Japan I'm not sure. Japan is not allowed to do research in certain technology. So I'm not sure. So west definitely the US number one place. Number two will be China. I don't know about Australia. I don't think Australia may be the right place for this. When it comes to Europe, I would say I'm not sure, Germany, whatever. I think I would I would say it's either either the US or China. Definitely nothing in India. I'm sure. Okay. So, all the best. Do well. Uh make the right choice. Do your research properly and uh do well. I wish you success. All the best. Gati says, "Is it true that India has left?" Yes, India has left. India has liquidated its stake in Chabahar. has given whatever the money it was worth to Iran. Uh so for all the bravado that Janker gives about strategic autonomy also have you observed this historical pattern where when Iran falls India falls next we should help Iran there's nothing we can do to help. So first of all India has liquidated its stake in Chabahar port when it when we were faced with US pressure we had to do that. So we have caved in wise thing to do. Okay. There's nothing we could have done to stop this. We would have paid a price. Way more tariffs on India. And anyway, if the Americans do a regime change or destroy the Chabaha airport, what do we do? Best to exit it. It is the wise thing to do. India is a weak nation right now. Relatively relatively much weaker than the US. This is the best thing we can do. See the past 10-15 years, India has been doing the exact opposite of hide your strength and bide your time. India has been the exact opposite of that extremely unwisely. India has this this this tendency of boasting boasting boasting instead of keeping quiet. So now it's going to all going to fall flat. But we are still a sovereign nation. But the beginning of wasalloud starts. How does it start? When your foreign policy actions start being dictated by outsiders and that's what's happened here for India. Until now, our leaders have been saying right no third party can tell us what we will do. We decide what to do. No longer the case. This is a very dangerous sign. This is how Vasalude begins. I'm not saying India is becoming a vasal right now. But this is how it begins. Uh the historical pattern where when Iran falls, India falls next. Well, it's happened once the Arabic invasions, right? Yeah. Iran fell, then India fell. We should help Iran. We can help Iran if we are a powerful nation. We can't even help the Hindus of Bangladesh. We can't even help the Hindus of Pakistan. We can't even prevent the Chinese from interfering in Nepal. And we want to help Iran. Not going to happen. We're not strong enough. Facts. Facts. Arian Shukla says, "What are the losses due to internet shutdown like in Iran? Can they keep it down for a longer time?" What are the losses? What kind of losses? What are the losses due to internet shutdown like in Iran? Can they keep it down for a longer time? The Iranian government keep can keep internet shutdown as long as it wants, right? It controls the internet in its country. It's a sovereign nation. The government decides what happens. They can keep it down for the next 3 months if they want. What are the losses? I don't I have no idea what are the losses. What kind of losses do Iranian uh businesses depend on the internet? I'm not sure about that. So So the government of Iran can keep it down as long as they want. 3 months, 6 months, 3 years, whatever. It's their choice. Losses, I have no idea, sir. I have no idea. Abra Shkar says, "Could you or someone you know at some point start a channel for rare earthy or cicers?" I can't. I'm not an expert in this domain. Somebody I know I don't know any experts in this domain. I may know some people who are in IITs or whatever, but they are doing IIT work. They won't start channels doing this. So, and it's a very niche topic. Rare earth methology. Anyway, I I'll see if I can talk to somebody if maybe you can start it. I'm not the person to do it cuz I'm not an expert in this. I can be an expert in this if I spend the next 3 to 6 months studying it because I have the the background to understand this. Maybe not even 3 months probably a couple of months of intensive study I could definitely have expert level knowledge in this because I have the physics background but it's not for me. Anyway, thank you for the suggestion. I'll see if if something can be done. Jagjit Mida says what drives wars national interest or arms lobby? Both can drive wars. Sometimes in some nations the arms lobby can also precede the national interest. Right? In an ideal world everything is driven by the national interest or everything should be driven by the national interest. But in some nations, in some nations you may have a situation where vested interests supersede the national interest and or they they they construe their interest as a national interest. In that case, if it's an arms lobby, they can start wars. So it can happen, right? It's not an ideal world we live in. So arms lobbies can indeed spark wars or drive wars at times. Yeah. says, "Is Bahrain on red alert now in case of US war with Iran?" I think all the nations in the West Asia region are on high alert. What nations are these? Let's quickly take a look at the map. Okay, all of the nations are on high alert. Um, looks like the US was planning a strike on Iran and then they backed out backed out at the backed down at the last minute. I'd say that Saudi Arabia will definitely be on high alert. So will be Kuwait, UAE, Oman. Um Iraq for sure. Um Turkey will be on high alert. Israel will be on high alert. I suppose Pakistan will go on high alert if the US tells them to. And Bahrain is this little little little nation here. Qatar is on high alert for sure. They have this aloud or whatever base there, right? And Bahrain Bahrain also I suppose would be on high alert. everybody all all the nations in this region right now because there's a possibility of a US lead no action on Iran. Kiran Mores says why did the BJP have a meeting meeting with the Chinese Communist Party? Um I have not looked into it. Has the BJP issued an official statement as to why this meeting happened? Look when the see the Chinese Communist Party is a very major political party. uh the political party of China which is the most powerful nation in Asia and we are the second most powerful nation in Asia or largest political party is the BJP. So when the so I suppose there is some kind of some kind of political activity happening between the two countries and the Chinese Communist Party officials who came to India met with the BJP leadership they also met with the political leadership of other parties okay it's not just the BJP understand that so I'm not exactly sure why but maybe it's a routine thing maybe there is a chance of a rap between the two countries potentially we'll see about that too early to speculate Dir Kamak says you say India is like Nigeria yet India has nukes and fully sovereign. Could you explain the apparent contradiction? India is like Nigeria with nukes in Nigeria with sovereignty infrastructure trash. Education garbage corruption allegedly very high. You see manufacturing what manufacturing? What do we manufacture that the world that we export to the world? Don't say we export raw materials, mangoes, bananas, all that. We're not a banana republic, right? We want to be a full manufacturing power. Are we anything compared to China in terms of manufacturing? No, we are closer to Nigeria. Living standards are closer to Nigeria than to China. So it's like Nigeria with nukes and full sovereignty. Same kind of trash education system, comparable trash living standards, infrastructure is being built in India now. That's one thing the government has done very well. government the past 10 years but look at the living standards quality of life in the streets look at the pollution right so I'm not saying that India hasn't changed India has changed a lot in the past 10 years but we are still I mean look at the per capita GDP in India and compare it with Nigeria okay let's see um one second uh per capita GDP India Nigeria let's see uh So India is 2.7 what? Okay. So India is like two or three times that of Nigeria but not like an order of magnitude higher. So it it is a real difference if it's an order of magnitude higher. So you see overall India is like that. India still got the GDP GD per capita of overall similar to Africa right that's what it is godliness says what made Trump cancel the so-called help he promised the Iranians also with Chabahar gone we are are we fully encircled P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P PM was in Mara Lago. Oh, was he in Mara Lago? Okay, are we fully encircled? Not yet. Not quite fully encircled. Chabahar essentially gone. uh what made Trump cancel the so-called healthy promise to the Iranians? I think what I'm hearing is that the Saudis and and the UAE said that you know what this is not a good idea because we will suffer as a consequence. If the Americans attack Iran, Iran will attack all the American bases in the region and all the oil refineries in the region. Of course they will. Of course they will. Right? So Saudi Arabia will suffer. Doesn't make sense for them to suffer like that. And maybe they were able to convince the Americans. Are we fully encircled? Not quite. But we are getting there. We are getting there. East Pakistan gone. West Pakistan gone. Nepal gone. Bhutan. Bhutan can be bought out easily by the Americans. No question about that. So we'll see. Maybe fully encircled soon. It is what it is. That's how it goes. Died in plane crash. says many on Russian social media alleged that Shyigu turned the defense ministry into his personal haram as a lot of young women without any mile XP were given positions even trolling using terms like reindeer herders haram okay I have absolutely no idea about this I have absolutely no idea I I don't think Mr. Putin would tolerate anything like this actually. So I I'm not aware of this. Sorry. Okay. Smith Sarkcar. Well, thank you very much Smithcar. Thank you very much. And Smith again. Thank you very much again. Okay. Smithar says India's persistent internal divisions and weak state cohesion. Is it time to acknowledge that secularism and liberal democracy are unsuitable for us? Absolutely 100%. But what can we do about it? Because the the folks who come to power through secularism and democracy, they will not give up power. They will never change the system. You see this secularism and democracy were brought into India as solutions to the alleged problems that we had in India at the time of independence and partition. Right? So what happened is that the folks to whom trans the British transferred power they put in place a permanent solution for a temporary problem. A permanent solution to a temporary problem becomes a permanent problem. This is what we are seeing now. India's democracy is is further widening the divisions the British have created. Right? These divisions are artificial. They were created by the British. And today's politicians are exploiting these divisions to play politics and get votes. And they are further widening the divisions and weak state cohesion, too much federalism, too weak of a central government. Overall, democracy is a has been a disaster for India. Disaster. and pandering to the majority to the to the lowest common denominator that sort of thing. Uh it's been an absolute disaster. It's it's it's causing a gradual consistent lowering of Indian stand of India standards. Not the standards aren't being raised, they are being lowered. Rohil says besides the obvious global powers like India first, China, Russia and the US, it should be Russia. It should be US, Russia, China, then India. U okay but despite the these besides these obvious global powers, do you think there's a country silently rising that could become a future superpower? We not noticing see you have listed four, right? India, China, Russia and the US. Out of these four, only three can potentially one is already a superpower, the US. Only China and Russia are in competition to perhaps someday be a superpower. India is not in the competition for being a superpower right now. Okay? And there is no country silently rising that can be a future superpower someday. I don't see any India is not in the in the race for being superpower. Okay? Please understand this. Okay. CVS 2K says sun party. Sun party. All right. All right. Thank you for being a member for a month. Thank you so much. Sam the Gamer says, "What's your favorite car, diesel or petrol?" My favorite car is powered by antimatter. No, I don't I don't have a favorite car. Diesel, petrol, fossil fuels, very bad, very naughty, very nasty. Electric or antimatter? Even nuclear will work, but nuclear reactors are too large. Uh DTI Sharma, thank you very much, DTI Sharma. Thank you indeed. Uh Shivarallay says India opens monument conservation to private agencies ending ASI's exclusive control and is William Dal Rimple a good author to read books about Indian history. Uh India opens monument conservation to private agencies. Has that happened? Let us find out. Um that would be great. I it would be very welcome from my perspective. India opens monu monument conservation to private agencies. Okay. In a significant policy shift, the government of India has decided to open the conservation of all of of centrally protected monuments to empanled private agencies, ending the ASI's exclusive role in restoration work. I think that's an interesting move and probably a good move as long as they are able to ensure that these private agencies do a good job. Not like the ASI is doing a stellar job by any means, but okay. Okay. So, interesting. Is William Dal Rimple a good author to read books about Indian history? I am not a fan of William Dalle, the fat Scotsman. Yeah. I nothing against him being fan or whatever. But the point is I am not a fan of the guy. Okay? He's no expert on Indian history and he takes sides in Indian politics and whatn not. He should stay out of Indian politics. I'm not a fan of his. All I'll say is that I don't have I haven't read read a single book of his. So probably I'm not the right guy to answer the question. My point is I'm not a fan of the person because he is biased against India. He takes sides. He takes the side of the left in the Indian history scene. And when you take the side of the Indian left instead of being neutral and pro putting forth information in a neutral perspect from a neutral perspective then you are on the side of those who have been for decades distorting Indian history. And of course, this is his business. So he seeks to sell as many books as possible. So he's put forth narratives like the true narrative this time about the fact that the silk silk road is a myth. It was India that was trading with the west, not China. But the west has created this entire illusion of the silk road being this great thing. It was India that was the major trader with the west, not China. It was India that was the major economy, not China. So he has written a book about the silk road. I haven't read it. Um this time clearly he's telling the truth but a lot of his history is so I haven't read a single of his book a single book of his so I can't really say but not a fan of his field strongman says I passed with minus 35 in my postgraduate exam I'm on my way to do kidney donation kidney operation can I get your blessings and full support sir full support indeed passed with minus 35 in the PG exam on my on your way to do kidney operation. Aha you're a doctor you know you're a doctor you got minus 35 in the posture exam you're going to do a kidney operation all the best full support sir this is India this is new India this is India Bisha says have you kissed the ring congrats on 950k well 950k it's been like months and months and months at 948 949 now it's 950 all right thank you ma'am have I kissed the ring I haven't kissed any rings I do not kiss any rings I am fully independent as is all right. Okay. Died in plane crash says Millex means military experience. Okay. Military experience. Also, Shuiku had no military experience. Also, the new defense minister Bilusov has fired all those useless women from defense ministry. Okay. Well, I'm not aware of what's going on inside behind the scenes all the women and whatnot. Looks like if this is true, then Shroyu needs to has some answering to do. Yeah, Shyigu has no had no military experience. Okay, I haven't looked into these details, but interesting indeed. Well, thank you for for bringing this to my notice. I we'll do some digging into this. And that brings me to the end of today's question and answer session. I've taken in as many of the Q&As's as possible from the comments and a bunch of super chats as well. Uh RDRA says, "Great content." Thank you very much indeed. Thank you very much. Uh and I'll take one final question by Aayush. Don't you feel jealous about how powerful the US is compared to other nations? The number of facults it is unmatched is unmatched. It kidnaps presidents without any thinking. I'm very indeed very jealous indeed. But what can I do? Yeah, what can I do? I am indeed jealous. I wish my country was like that. But my my country has different standards or leaders of different standards. So what can we say? That's where we are. All right, people. Thank you so much for being on the live stream for all your questions. I look forward to doing your Okay, there's one more super chat. Um V4 Valor says today's episode made me sad about India. Well, you see I I wish I did not make you sad about India but I will not lie to you. I will tell you the truth. The truth isn't always nice. Yeah. But I am still optimistic about India. I am hopeful that we will not go down the road of becoming a vasal despite the odds being stacked against us. I think it's a 65 70% chance that in the next 5 years we become a US vasal. But I'm hopeful that the 30% chance comes out on top. So I'm still optimistic. Yeah, let's all be optimistic. The odds are against us now. The Americans are way too powerful, way more powerful than us. But let's hope that we still remain sovereign as a nation. So don't be sad, work hard and hope for the best. All right. So people, thank you so much everybody and I look forward to talking to you in tomorrow's live stream which is going to be entirely live chat super chat. Look forward to that. Until then take care, keep learning, keep asking questions and keep raising your standards.