[music] >> Good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Abhijit Show. I hope you're all doing great. Um today we're going to take questions about absolutely anything you want. I'll take questions primarily from the super chat. If there is more time, I'll take questions from the regular chat as well. Um the time duration is about 2 hours, but but let's see. Maybe it will extend beyond that. I'll make sure that I take as many questions as is possible in this time period. Now, let's see who all is there on the live chat with us. Pranav [snorts] 561 Om Bekikar, hello, good to see you. Uh Amisha Mishra is here. Maclevin 69, good to see you as well. MAK I am Dib Nike Shailesh is here from Pune, Maharashtra. Good evening. Ram Ram ji. Sky Prime Yulakh Yuber, okay, whatever that is. >> [laughter] >> Uh Maulana Abhijit Charu, what on earth is what kind of name is that? Um uh anyway, from Kalinga Pranav 581 Dragon Slayer Vansh Gada Animish Bharatiya, namaste. Vansh Gada is coming after a long time. Well, good to have you back, Vansh Gada ji. Uh Bala from Washi is here. Vikash PJ Animals from Lab Animals for Laugh is here. From Mumbai, is this red a little bit too red? Maybe we can make it a little less red. Okay. Uh Nike Shailesh is here also. Animish Abhyuday Singh, namaskar. Rudra Avatar, well, thank you. Namaskar. Starlord is here. Daryl is here from Jaipur. Uh Animish once again. Mystic SK Jai Shri Krishna. Ayush Singh good to see you. South Lucknow. Youmix Glo Haha. Rishabh Dang. Um Who else do we have? Uh Gajapati Dave Maclevin once again. Priyanka Jawalia, good evening. Pranam. Uh Real Vladimir Putin. VSVS, hello, hello. Uh Boruto Uchiha, namaste arigato. Ankita Kachhap, good evening. SHSJ is here from Alaknanda Galaxy. Uh VSVS once again. And everyone else. Critical Thinker is here from Mars. Okay. Lol Manu is here from Chhattisgarh. Dragon Slayer once again. And everyone else. Okay, let's get going with some questions. Let's let's um Have I seen Doronder? Not yet. I haven't had time to see it, but I will watch the movie. Parth Prajapati is here from Japan. >> [clears throat] >> Prayas is here from Moscow. Moscow. And all right. So Sahil Patil is marking attendance. Hello. Maclevin is saying, have you seen Doronder? I haven't seen it yet, but I do plan to see it as soon as possible at the earliest possible opportunity. Ananta Subramanian, hello. Parth Nonis here from Washi. Omkar Shinde Hriday Das Sahil Patil Brave Robot Meow. Uh Diva Dainik Hi Name Viva, hello. Okay. Uh let's take some questions. What questions do we have? Parth Non says can India's littering problem be solved by the fund system? What were the ambitions of the Nazis? Why it's spreading Indians in my opinion? Cheating isn't the culture. Okay, like three government questions do we have? One, two, three questions. What's a fund system? Is it something German? Is it that German self-service kind of thing? Let's quickly find out what is a fund system. Um P F A N D. Sounds very German. Fund. Self-service, is it fund? Deposit deposit refund system, etc. Look, the question you're asking is what's the solution to India's littering problem? The solution to India's littering problem is not fancy technol technology. Technology is not the solution. Before Germany had the fund system, before they had the all these technological means they still did not have a littering problem. You can introduce as much technology as you want in India, but you will not solve the littering problem unless you solve the deeper issue the root cause of the problem. See, in India there's this problem, right? There there's a major massive huge gigantic problem in India. What is the problem? It's what nobody wants to speak about. You will have government servants with a salary of 30, 40,000 rupees a month 3 lakhs, 4 lakhs rupees a year who will have huge bungalows. Everyone knows that. Right? You have all these public works that happen every year in various cities in India. Every year they dig up the roads. Every year they lay a new road. In 6 months the road is again crumbled up. Again they will dig up the road. What is all this? It's corruption. The entire system looks like allegedly, hypothetically is geared towards corruption. Whatever money huge amounts of money is allocated every year to various budgets. And where does most of the money go? If you have the situation nothing is going to be solved. You will have you know, you'll have dustbins or or trash bins which are not collected from. Some places you don't even have trash bins so people love to litter. And you know, people when they see that the system is working against them This is when they see the system is so unfair where people get do no work but earn so much money, then people get demoralized and they stop following the rules. Right? So what is the solution? The solution is a clean up. Not of the littering problem first. But of the deep defects and deficiencies in our system. Once that is solved, once you solve the corruption problem enforcement of the rules will be will be done properly. Right now there is no enforcement of the rules. No one cares. Every day these days you know, 6 months ago people were talking about pigeons are a menace to India. Now stray dogs are a menace to India. This thing is they'll keep talking about it, but because of the incredible inefficiency of the Indian system, nothing will be done about this. The only thing that's preventing a genocide of of of dogs in India is the incredible inefficiency of the Indian system that doesn't care about what needs to be done. All it's it's all about slogan slogan slogan slogans. Slogans and and headlines and all that. And and sound bites. But everyone knows what's happening. Every Indian knows what actually is happening. Right? It's all about slogans. It's all about performative you know performative little bit of actions. That's it. So that is the root cause of all the problems in India. The moment you clean up the system, the littering and every problem in India will be dealt with with an iron hand. That's the issue. All right? So yeah, Nazi ambitions, it's a big big topic. We know they wanted to conquer the world. They want to avenge the humiliation of the First World War. Yeah? Why it's spreading Indians? Nothing to do with me. Okay, next. Bhaskar Bandit says Thailand versus Cambodia. Uh due to conflict due to the Shiva temple. No, it's not because of the Shiva temple, sir. Before that, uh Sandeep Sandeep Darwar, well, becomes a YouTube member. Well, thank you so much. And welcome to the membership. And thank you so much. Okay, Bhaskar Bandit says Thailand versus Cambodia conflict due to the Shiva temple. It's not due to the Shiva temple. That is not the cause of the conflict. The Shiva temple is a symptom of of what has gone wrong. The the conflict is not The temple is not the cause of the conflict. Okay, let I'll explain what it is. New possible proxy war loading between communists versus freedom and democracy. What freedom? What democracy? There's no freedom democracy anywhere in the world. It's it's all an illusion. Uh interestingly the new the temple complex is situation is situated on a 400 meter cliff. Okay, now what's what's the deal? Let us understand what this conflict is about. Now I have I had this this series called Geostrategy in which I have spoken about this. But maybe you know, YouTube has curtailed the reach. Maybe nobody watched it. Uh whatever. Let me explain again to those of you who are watching now and those of you who will watch um when after this is live. See, first of all this this temple, the Preah Vihear temple it it was built mo The construction started more than a thousand years ago. Uh it was one of the Khmer kings. Suryavarman first or second or somebody. You can look up the names. It was a Khmer king who built it. And the temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva, of course. And it's an interesting temple. It's laid out in a north-south alignment instead of an east-west alignment that is typical of other temples in the region. Uh we can even look it up, but I'll just explain. So, that's what the temple is. It's a very ancient temple. It's a Khmer era temple. 1,000 years ago it was built. Now, why is there a dispute about this? That's the real matter that we have to discuss. It's It's uh Obviously both nations, Thailand and Cambodia, deeply desire ownership over this temple because it's part of part of their ancient ancient culture. Deeply revered temple even though nobody worships today because of the situation there. Now, in the 1860s, okay? In the 1860s, Thailand became a vassal of the French. And even Cambodia became a vassal of the French. So, there was French colonization in this region. Uh the the king of Cambodia at the time was Prince was King Norodom Norodom Norodom. And so, there is French colonization in the 19th century in the region in Southeast Asia in what they call Indochina, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, that area, okay? Now, in the early 1900s, maybe 1906, 1907, around that time, maps are commissioned. The government of Thailand, which is under the French, it commissions it it asks the French government to do a survey in the region, a geographical survey, topographical survey, and uh and create maps of the region. Okay? Now, at that time, the the the border between Thailand and Cambodia, the two kingdoms, was defined in such a way that the Preah Vihear temple was on the Thai side of the border. Okay? It was on the Thai side of the border. It was not on the Cambodian side of the border. For Since the 1800s, mid-1800s, the Preah Vihear temple was on the Thai side of the border. Now, in the early 1900s, 1906, 1907, the French government made a bunch of maps, maybe 10, 11 maps of the region. >> [clears throat] >> And these maps were then used by the government of Thailand for various purposes, okay? Officially. And out of these 10, 11 maps, one of the maps produced by the French government showed the temple on the Cambodian side of the border. And the Thai government, for whatever reason, continued using these maps. They did not protest. What is the reason for that? I'm not sure. Maybe they were scared of the French government. Maybe the French government was too powerful. Maybe France was too powerful. Thai Thailand was a vassal. Whatever the situation was, they did not protest and they kept on using this these maps in an official capacity. Now, in the Second World War, Thailand was on the side of Japan. Very bad, very naughty. Yes? If you're on the side of Japan, you're very bad, very evil. So, Thailand was on the side of Japan in the Second World War. Japan lost. And in 1946 or something, there was an agreement in Washington or something in which the Preah Vihear temple was given to Cambodia officially on the maps. And Thailand had not protested the 1907, 1908, whatever year it was that that map, those that one map. So, it was said that now it's part of Cambodia because you have not protested for 40 years or 50 years or whatever. So, it becomes part of Cambodia. Then in the 1960s or something, uh uh it is the Preah Vihear temple is declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Not declared, but it's There are some moves towards that. The World Heritage Sites started off in the '60s or '70s or something. So, around that time, uh when um this becomes a thing in the UNESCO World Heritage Site status thing, that's when the dispute flares up again. And Thailand uh protests. It says that this should be our territory. And that's where the protest that's where the issue becomes uh open again. And in 20 20 2008 or something, there was a big flare-up. Maybe it was then that the UNESCO World Heritage status was given or whatever, but there was a bunch There was there was some protest by Thailand in the 1960s or '70s. And then there was a major escalation of the conflict, you know, hot conflict, military conflict in 2008. Several soldiers died on both sides, etc. And then the International Court of Justice comes into the picture and they said that this this should be with Cambodia and then the the conflict simmers down. And now it has again simmered up again. Not simmered up, it's flared up again. It's gone to hot war scenario a couple of times this year. Right now it's again hot. And Donald Trump apparently had ended that war, but it started again. Now, apparently he's trying to end it again. Let's see how it goes. But the issue What is the root cause? The root cause is foreign meddling in the region. And today Thailand is the much more powerful nation. And Cambodia is militarily much weaker. But this conflict is simmering and Thailand is not given uh the go-ahead to take the temple through military means. Even though it was on the Thai side of the border in in the 19th century, etc. So, this is an artificially created conflict. It is It has been created by foreigners drawing lines on maps. Okay? And then arbitrarily putting one thing on one side and after a few months they put it on the other side. That sort of nonsense. These The Europeans are responsible for most of the conflicts that that exist in the world. It is their legacy. Now, who's that? Who's wrong? I I don't know. The It was a Khmer temple. The Khmers were Cambodian. Well, from today's perspective, the Khmers were were based in Cambodia. Angkor Wat, where is it? Cambodia, right? Not Thailand. But it's the same culture. It's the same civilization. It's our civilization. It's our culture. So, I think who should mediate? Should Donald Trump mediate? Who the hell is he to mediate? He's an outsider. I think the only nation that actually can mediate in this in this matter is India. But India is a secular nation. We are secular. So, we will just urge the both both the parties to to to not fight. Please don't fight. Please negotiate, blah blah blah. India has still not reached that that's that stature. India still doesn't have the civilizational confidence as of today to to you know, put itself forward and say that let let me end this war for you in in a proper way. So, what is the resolution? Well, both sides want it. Maybe both sides should govern it. Maybe that should be the resolution. It's not an India-Pakistan situation where you have two sides that you know, two nations, artificial one one artificial one one not, and both you know, one side wants to kill the other. Cambodia doesn't want to kill Thailand. And Thailand doesn't want to kill kill Cambodia. They just both desire this temple. Maybe there should be some kind of joint sovereignty or something in a way that is dignified for both sides. Something like that needs to happen because anyway it is shared culture, shared shared heritage, shared civilization. Um but there may be a geopolitical angle to this. Cambodia is more aligned with China and Thailand has been well, let us say aligned with the US since the end of the Second World War. So, maybe there is something to do with that. Maybe the United States wants this entire region to be destabilized. Maybe to keep China on the back foot. And next to Thailand, north of Thailand, we have Burma where there is more destabilization happening which is spilling over into India in Manipur. So, this entire region, maybe in the coming years, will be more and more destabilized because of external forces, because of major powers that want to destabilize the region for local powers. region. Okay. Bhaskar Bandit says, "Privet. Privet. How is Moscow? I'm sure the weather is cold." Um "Ancient Bharat had better civic sense than today due to monarchy enforcement, but how did investigations happen of murder, theft, littering, etc. in the absence of today's technology?" Well, we have no idea. You see, we can only comment about these matters, investigations of murder, theft, littering, whatever. We can speak about this only if we still have official documents from that time. Investigation documents, court proceedings, we have none of that. What happened to all of that? Everything was burned down. Everything was destroyed. Right? I'm talking about pre- occupation Bharat. Bharat from before 1000 AD. None of the records from those times survived. The only thing that survives are inscriptions on temple temple walls, inscriptions on you know, rock inscriptions, Ashoka's inscriptions, uh copper plate grants that have survived somehow. But none of the paper parchment None of that has survived. Some some, you know, some birch bark records, etc. No, lots actually survived in temples that were not destroyed. But those are all religious, philosophical, etc. texts. But texts related to official proceedings, government proceedings, those would have been in in maybe in government buildings, etc. Those were all destroyed and you know, we don't have any of that. For example, we do have some court proceedings, records of court proceedings that are still available from Egypt, ancient Egypt. Um those were inscribed on on papyrus, uh you know, on the medium of medium called papyrus. Uh so, some of that is available. In the case of Mesopotamia, we have the world's oldest customer complaint um in which the the the the villain was a merchant called Ea-nasir who gave bad who sold who delivered you know uh low quality copper ore. So, wherever records have survived in various parts of the world, we have some understanding some idea of how things were done. Uh when it comes to England, we have copious evidence of court proceedings and all that because of which we're able to draw a very detailed uh um we are able to understand the history in great detail. But in case of India, everything has been destroyed. The foreigners, the Turks, they burnt all the libraries. So, all of that got destroyed and we have no idea how these things were done. But obviously, these things happen, okay? Investigations happen, obviously. We had very high-quality governance. We had very high-quality administrative uh systems in India. Whether it is the Mauryan period or the Gupta period or the Kushan period or even the Satavahana period or whatever. We had very high-quality governance systems in India. Very sophisticated governance. So, clearly this doesn't work. High-quality governance will not exist without high-quality judiciary, high-quality police, all you know, records being kept, etc. But the all the records are gone. So, can't answer the question because none of the records exist today. They've destroyed everything. And that's something we Indians need to realize. What kind of damage has been done to our civilization? We don't have the records of the past. Everything was destroyed. Everything was burnt because they hated our culture and civilization. When when you go to England, you can read court proceedings and and official records and diplomatic correspondence from the 1600s and the 1400s. We even have the Magna Carta from uh the time of William the Conqueror, the Domesday Book, the Bayeux Tapestry. We have so many things. You can actually, you know, get a get a week-by-week, month-by-month understanding of history based on official documents from the Crown's uh records in England. We should have had the same thing for India. Imagine how much better we would understand the past, our past. But we don't have the because of everything being destroyed. Bhaskar Bandit says, "Did you watch Durander?" I haven't seen it yet. I haven't seen it yet. I need to. I definitely need to. Maybe in the next couple of days I'll find some time and go grab a watch. So, what's my thought? As you watch Bollywood rarely, I watch Bollywood rarely. I'm going to break my my my decision to not watch Bollywood anymore just for this one movie, Blue Durander. Um the level of meltdown happening in certain lobbies is entertaining. Ecosystem has never taken a hit of this magnitude before. Yeah, the the meltdown that's happening is in indeed very entertaining. >> [laughter] >> It is very entertaining. I mean, um you open you open X, you're going to see that. Yeah, meltdown happening. All these uh uh critics establishment critics, uh they are deeply unhappy with the movie and uh they are panning it or they're trying to pan it without being too obvious and it's not working. And the same and and they're they're complaining it's too violent. It's too jingoistic. And the same people have been um lauding other movies that are way more violent. And they've been lauding all these fake secular spy movies in which ISI and RAW agents work hand in hand and have romances. The same the same critics have been doing that, but now they are panning this movie. It's such a joke. Those people are so irrelevant today. Nobody cares because this movie is doing so well. And from whatever I've heard, it's a tremendously good movie, a genuinely good movie as not just Bollywood standards, but maybe global standards. So, that's what I hear about it and I definitely need to go watch it. I was Yeah, I think next day or two. The ecosystem has never hit taken a hit of this magnitude before. Indeed, indeed, because see the kind of >> [snorts] >> content that Bollywood produces is crap. It's trash. It's absolute trash. And they keep on peddling this mediocrity week after week, month after month. And their critics keep on doing their job. But then suddenly, there's this guy uh Yeah, you know, this new movie has come up which is not from within their ecosystem, okay? And it's so good. It's better than way better than any Bollywood movie that's come out in recent times. And the people are it's it's vibrating it's vibing with people. People are watching it. People are watching it repeatedly. So, I I know people who watch it like two, three times. It's that good, apparently. So, the ecosystem is crumbling now. Now people Now Indians for the first time are seeing world-class cinema the way a spy thriller actually should be. Right? And that's why the ecosystem has taken a massive hit. And now now that Indians have watched this sort of movie, they will expect something of that standard now because now the standards have increased. Now So, the expectations will also increase. Now whenever Yash Raj kind of trash movie comes out where Shah Rukh Khan is dancing around trees with some ISI agent woman and he's a RAW agent, nobody will watch that movie now. Right? So, great. I'm so pleased. So, I need to watch this at the earliest. I can't wait to watch it. Bhaskar Bandit again says, "Why Benazir and Ziaul Haq were taken care of by their alleged masters?" Oh, did they get powerful internally or change camps? We know the deep state does all of this, but these two people we have not discussed much. Pakistan Pakistan, I am not I don't really discuss Pakistan. See, yesterday I did another show yesterday, Ask Abhijit, right? And some people were asking me, "What do you think about this person? What do you think about that person?" And my answer was that I don't discuss random people like some news reader. Okay? I don't discuss news readers and and some what YouTube content creators who who, you know, read out of um teleprompters. I don't discuss them. I will discuss world leaders. I'll I'll discuss Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping, Narendra Modi, Donald Trump. I'll discuss Elon Musk. I'll discuss people of that stature. So, my the same principle applies here. Who is Ziaul? Who was Ziaul Haq? Who was Benazir? What were they? They were simply puppets, sock puppets. The real power was something else. They were simply sock puppets. Somebody was puppeteering them. So, that's why I don't really discuss these people because they were not that important. But since you since you've asked, since these are now historical figures, so let me discuss them. Ziaul Haq. Well, he got on a plane. He got on a on an aircraft with the US ambassador whose name was Arnold Raphel Raffle, I think. Rafeal Raphael, whatever the hell the pronunciation is. And there was a there was some crates of mangoes on the plane. And one of those crates exploded and the plane blew up. And Ziaul Haq uh sadly perished and so did the US ambassador. Sadly perished. So, that that's what happened to Ziaul Haq. Uh late '80s, yeah. Um And Benazir, well, she was shot by an assassin. Um she was at the time not the prime minister, but she was campaigning or something. So, now clearly, these were both assassinations. So, if it's an assassination, someone assassinated them. Why would they have been assassinated? Assuming it's a deep state behind this. Why would these people be assassinated? Well, you assassinate if you are the deep state, you assassinate somebody if they become inconvenient. Or [snorts] how can somebody become inconvenient? Maybe they become too powerful and and kind of start acting on their own agenda rather than your agenda. They start becoming independent instead of being aligned with you. In that case, you you eliminate such such assets, such trouble-making, problematic assets. And overall, this this this principle is that don't allow someone to be in power too long. The longer somebody is in power, if they are good, then they will they will establish their networks. They will put down deep roots and they will create genuine power structures that are independent of you. In which case, they can become a nuisance. They can they can become problematic. So, don't allow someone to stay in power too long. Keep a rotate you know, employ a revolving door policy. What kind of policy do the do the Americans employ in Japan? There's a revolving door prime ministership. Every few months, a new prime minister comes and goes, comes and goes, comes and goes. Same thing with the UK. So, that way, there is no stability politically. Right? But that doesn't So, Japan and the UK are technically democracies. So, that that's what they do they do with democracies. When you have a dictatorship like we had in Pakistan, you have to give the dictator slightly longer time. Maybe not just 6 months or 1 year, maybe 5, 6 years. So, Ziaul Haq, I think was then power for close to a decade, which becomes too long. So, that's why you take care of him. Um and then you do a different experiment in Pakistan. Then have a different power structure come up, which was essentially soon you had Benazir. And then maybe Benazir had become problematic. You know, that sort of thing. So, overall, see Ziaul Haq was simply a sock puppet, uh a puppet of the US. He was powerful because the US needed him. And the US gave him that power. They made him powerful. And the same for Benazir Bhutto for a while. As long as she was relevant, he is considered to be the founder of the Taliban. Well, that today the Taliban have absolutely no love for her. I could assure you of that. I'm sure of that. So, there you have it. Bhaskar Bandit again. The US funded and embedded terrorism in Bharat terrorism in Bharat using temporary nation Pakistan and in 2020 put their own puppets in place. Then why destabilize the state who acts as an asset by allegedly giving arms to Balochistan Liberation Army, Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, etc. Well, see the US funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against Bharat from the 19 1980s onwards. You know, 1979 is when things changed when the USSR invaded Afghanistan and then in 1980s onwards the Americans poured in tremendous amounts of funds and funneled weapons through various means indirect means into Pakistan, sent um military, you know, trainer people who would train the Pakistani military in various terroristic and other activities, etc. And that's where that's how the terrorism started in Punjab. And then later you it spilled over into Kashmir by design. So, the US has done that. Yeah. Now, nothing changed in 2020. From 2012 to the 2022, Pakistan was a Chinese asset, a Chinese vassal. Because the Americans had kind of uh temporarily given, you know, cut Pakistan adrift. But 2022 onwards, the US took control of Pakistan all over again after the ouster of Imran Khan. Now, obviously the BLA exists, the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan exists. The question is who is funding them? Do we know that the US is funding them? I'm not very sure about that. Yeah. So, if if the temporary nation is your asset, why would you want to destabilize it? Well, that's a good question. Why would you want to destabilize it? You can keep some instability going on just to keep the keep your assets under control. You know, if the country is running completely smoothly, then they then your assets they don't the generals who work for you, they may become too smug and they may become a little complacent and they may feel overconfident. But you keep the nation unstable, then it is a daily reminder to your vassals, to your puppets, that you know, you need to you need to stay on your toes and don't take anything for granted, don't take your masters for granted, that sort of thing. Uh but I'm not sure who's funding the BLA, who's funding the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan. Uh is the US doing it? Can't say. Is somebody else doing it? Is China doing it? Why would the Chinese fund the BLA? The Chinese won't fund the BLA. TTP, I'm not sure about that. Uh the Chinese are very careful about these things, especially with, you know, with issues in Xinjiang itself. Who else could fund? Well, that's an open question. So, one reason you could do this is to keep your assets or, you know, ensure that they don't become overconfident. Bhaskar Bandit says the Taliban denied the Bagram airbase to the US. Yet they receive 50 to 100 million dollars allegedly per week in cash allegedly as a weekly stipend. Not a vassal of the US, but is but this is sort of protection money or de facto stabilization payments. What What is it is the question. The question is why is the US allegedly funding the Taliban? See, the US handed the country of Afghanistan to the Taliban on a platter. The Taliban did not win the war. The Taliban did not defeat and eject the US from Afghanistan. There were a There was a series of negotiations that happened in Qatar between the United States and the Taliban. And that went on for a period of months, maybe years. We don't quite know. It was much of it was done in secret. So, maybe the negotiations were were going on for a couple of years, perhaps. Eventually there was an agreement between the US and the Taliban in Doha. And certain aspects of that agreement, the deal that was signed, certain aspects of the deal are secret. There are secret clauses to the agreement. And those have never been revealed to the public. And as a consequence of this agreement, the Americans simply withdrew from Afghanistan and handed over the nation to the Taliban. And there was essentially no resistance to the Taliban from the government, from the so-called Afghan government, which was nothing but a US stock puppet. So, it looks like a as a consequence of those secret clauses in the agreement between the two between the US and the Taliban, looks like as a consequence of that, the Americans have some kind of secret understanding with the Taliban that you guys you Taliban will play a certain role in Afghanistan which will be beneficial to the US. In exchange, the US will give a certain amount of payment to the Taliban per week, every week, whatever the amount is to to so that the Taliban can continue to run the country and in a in a reasonably successful manner. Now, what role could the Taliban play that is beneficial to the US? Well, in case you're not aware, the Chinese are interested in Afghanistan. The Chinese wanted to use Afghanistan territory to build uh infrastructure for the Belt and Road Initiative and that's never happened. The Chinese were very interested in copper deposits in the Mes Aynak region in Afghanistan. That's never happened. The the the Taliban are keeping China out of Afghanistan. And there must be something else also. You know, so that's that's the kind of uh service maybe the Taliban is providing to the US, a geopolitical service in exchange for the money. But obviously the agreement is such that the Taliban remains sovereign, Afghanistan remains sovereign. It is dependent on the money that comes in from the US, but it's not a tremendous amount of money. A hundred million let's say it's a hundred million per week, that's 400 million dollars a month. 10 months is 4 billion. So, it's it's about 5 billion dollars a year, which is peanuts for the US, but it's significant for the Taliban. Um many nations can actually fill that gap. So, it's not like the US is indispensable for the Taliban and so on. But yeah, that's the kind of situation that we have in Afghanistan. Ritik Pawar says the US is 10 times more powerful than India. So, we don't make any moves against the United States. But Pakistan, knowing that India is 10 times more powerful than Pakistan, still makes moves against us. Why is that? If you look one layer below the surface, you will see Pakistan is backed up by the US. Do you understand that Pakistan is backed by the US? And if if if Pakistan is backed by the US, then it's like India against the US, right? That's why Pakistan makes moves against us because they know they have the backing of the big power. And also they have the the confidence that comes from apparently, allegedly, not allegedly, being a nuclear weapon state. So, they think that, you know, we have that that red line that nobody can cross, even India can't cross. And if if things go badly for Pakistan in case of a war with India, at the end of the day we still have the nuclear option. So, these are the reasons why Pakistan makes moves against us. And the Pakistani military its a raison d'être is enmity with India. The Pakistani military has legitimacy in the eyes of the Pakistani Awam, the people of Pakistan, only if India is positioned as an enemy. If there is long-lasting peace between India and Pakistan, then the people will start asking questions about the Pakistani military. Why do you people exist? India is not a threat. So, why why is the Pakistani military ruling Pakistan? Why is your top general the dictator of Pakistan? Why do you eat up so much of our nation's budget? Why are the roads so poor? Why is why why are all these problems Why do the all these problems exist in Pakistan? Why are you people not solving our problems? But if India is positioned as a big threat all the time, then people will ignore all the problems and worry about India. So, that's why the Pakistanis keep making all kinds of moves against India, you know, cross-border terrorism, infiltration of attempts to infiltrate terrorists into India, uh you know, whatever happened in Pahalgam, all those things. They keep on doing it from time to time. But of course, in the past 10-11 years, things have been very different. Things have been significantly different because every time Pakistan has tried something, India has hit back harder each time. Right? So, first you had the surgical strikes. Then you had um which was what, 2016 or whatever, 2016-2017. Uh then you had Balakot, which was air strikes in Pakistan. The third time you had Operation Sindhu, which was a full almost a full-scale war without you it was an air war essentially for 3 days. So, that's why it's getting harder and harder for for Pakistan to do these things, but they still keep on doing it because they're backed up by the US. Okay, Bhaskar Bandit says most beautiful serene places you've visited in Bharat. Look, most I haven't traveled that much in Bharat actually. I would love to if I get the time to visit every part of Bharat, but I haven't I've done that very much. One of the nicest parts of Bharat, you know, we have great beaches. I don't know, the last beach I visited was the beach at Somnath. That's not quite a tourist destination. It's not very very well maintained. I'm sure it can be done better. Uh the nicest place I've seen visited is probably Ladakh. You know, very beautiful. Love the climate. Love the temperature. Love the altitude. Most people can't take the altitude. I love it. Even Manipur is beautiful, but today you can't really, you know, we've we've messed it up. So, I haven't traveled that much in Bharat. The nicest place I've been to because I like the cold, it's Ladakh. Um yeah, that's what I can tell you. Bhaskar Bandod again says, "Dyau Dyau shpitru, Zeus Peter." Not Peter Peter. Jupiter. What is a Django? What is a Django? Jago. Oh, Django. It's D J A N G O. So, that's yeah, you I think you watched yesterday's live stream. Django Django Reinhardt, the guitarist, yeah. Jago. Khorasans Swarakshetra. Please do tell us more examples and also if possible it would be great to have a separate visual video about this on the channel. Okay. So, these are actually very different examples. Dyau shpitru is the oldest of the Vedic gods that we know of or maybe it's a he's a pre-Vedic god. Dyau shpitru is considered the father of Indra. Indra is the greatest and most powerful of the gods in the Vedic pantheon. But his father is Dyau shpitru. And Dyau shpitru was incorporated in every uh western and you know, pantheon of gods as the sky father. So, Dyau shpitru became Zeus Peter. Clearly, Zeus Peter is derived The name Zeus Peter is derived from Dyau shpitru. But Zeus Peter, the Greek god, has the attributes of Indra. So, they've kind of combined the father and son divinities into one, but given it the name of the father in Greece. So, Dyau shpitru becomes Zeus Peter in Greece, but Zeus Peter is a have is a thunder god. Indra is a thunder god. Zeus Zeus Peter also, I don't know if he See, in Sanskrit I mean in in when it comes to Indra, his primary weapon or his weapon is Vajra. But Vajra has two meanings. Vajra means the thunderbolt. It also means a hammer, a mace, a gada kind of instrument made from human ribs. But in later European versions, it becomes a hammer like the hammer that Thor has. Thor is nothing but the Nordic version of Indra. He has two weapons. One is the thunderbolt, the other is the hammer. But the If you combine the two, it's it is Vajra. So, yeah. So, from Dyau shpitru and Indra, we had Zeus Peter. Zeus Peter became Jupiter. Jupiter also doesn't have the same attributes. He also kills a great sea monster. And then you have Thor. Uh Django Reinhardt, his name was Jago actually. You know, as a kid I suppose they parents called him Jago because he would to sleep a lot or something. Uh Khorasan, well, it was Swarasthan. Swarasthan. Swara means sun. Also, it means gold. So, Swarasthan became Khorasan. And Swarasthan was the region that is the was Gandhar plus plus. Gandhar and parts of the western regions beyond Gandhar all together. All of that was then later called Khorasan. Um More examples. More examples. Uh what more examples can I think of? Not sure. I'll have to think about something. I'm sure there are lots of other examples like this. >> [snorts] >> Um yeah, okay. Okay, I'll give you one more example. In in in in Persia, there is this there is this very pretty common Iranian or Persian name, which is Khurshid. Khurshid Khurshed. Look, let's go here. Okay. Khurshid or Khurshed, okay? So, it's a Persian name, which means sun or radiant sun. Okay? It's not an Islamic name. It's a Persian name. What's the origin of Khurshid? Okay. So, we know Lord Yama, right? Yama. Yamaraj. The god who who's the final person you meet in your lifetime, right? And it's the god who takes you over to the to the afterlife once you are done with this life, right? Yamaraj. So, according to well, mythology, let's say. Lord Yama was the was the son of Lord Surya. He's the son of the sun. So, that's why Yam was very bright and shining apparently. So, his father was Surya Dev. Lord Surya, the sun, the sun himself. So, one of the words for the sun in Sanskrit is Swar, which also means golden. So, Swara means the sun. It also means golden. And one of the epithets for Lord Surya was Swarakshetra. Uh Swarakhetra. Swarakhetra. Swara means sun. Khetra means shining or radiant. So, he was called Swarakshetra. Well, later the Persians could not say "Sa". So, they called it called him Horakshetra, which became Horshed, which became Khurshed, which became Khurshid. So, Khurshid or Khurshed means the sun or shining sun, which comes from Swarakshetra. There are so many examples like these, you know. So, maybe I can make a separate video about that. Parthiban says, "I love geopolitics. I want to work in a PE hedge fund AMC, but I'm stuck in useless SYB com. Having a career in India is painful. What should I do?" Well, what you can do is leave the country and go and work in one of these funds that you like or one of these um in whatever field you like, in a hedge fund, AMC, etc. Uh how to leave India? How to do all that? Well, you have to find a way. I cannot tell you how to do it because I don't know your circumstances and your situation. But where there is a will, there is a way. You know, there is something called agency. A person who is low agency is a person who only who is not able to achieve what they want in life. They can't find a way. They get stuck. A person who is high agency is a person who will find a way no matter what happens. Just find a way. Make it happen some Don't take no for an answer. You knock on this door, you get a no. You don't take no for an answer. Go somewhere else. Knock on another door or ask to to speak to somebody else. Find a way to achieve what you want to achieve. Find a way to get where you want to get. So, that's one thing you can do. Maybe go abroad and then work in a in a firm that that resonates with you. Um but you do have to get a degree for that, right? You are in SYB com. You know that the syllabus, everything is trash. It's useless. It's just a waste of time for young people. But at the end of the day, you do get a degree, I suppose. Otherwise Or or what you could do, you could start your own business. Um but you have to find a way to do that. Uh you love geopolitics. Maybe geopolitics is your is your passion. But you know, it's it's not going to make you money. Geopolitics is not a business, right? Geopolitics is the understanding of the world. Maybe you can If you have a deep understanding of geopolitics, maybe you can become a consultant, a geopolitical consultant. Maybe you can, you know, be a consultant consultant for businesses which are risk exposed because of geopolitical events. So, there's so much you can do if you are creative, if you have the right amount of skills, if you have if you have the skills, the insights at a deep enough level, you can do that. Or if you want to work in a hedge fund, etc., then you get your degree and get the hell wherever you need to be. That's what you do. At the end of the day, you remember that your passion will not make you money. Your skills will make you money. And your skills may not be exactly where your passion is. They may not be aligned. See, your passion is something you can do in your spare time. Maybe you love playing the guitar. But love playing the guitar, there's a gazillion guitarists out there. Only a small handful, maybe 0.01% will make big money. The rest of you guitarists, they they barely survive day-to-day basis. So, if you are a great If you have a great passion for the guitar, well, play a couple of hours every week. Maybe play a half an hour every day. Just do it for your for for your relaxation or whatever. But when it comes to making money, you have to make money. You have to have a career, livelihood. Well, you have to develop skills which are aligned with what the world needs. Maybe the world doesn't need more guitarists. I don't know, right? I'm I'm just saying. I love the the guitar. I haven't played in in a long time. I have a bunch of guitars hanging on the wall. They're gathering dust unfortunately. I would I would love to play them every day. But I don't have the time right now. It's one of my passions. I love it. I used to be pretty good at that. I don't know how good I am right now. I'm sure I play a couple of hours every day for a couple of months, I'll be back at the same level, maybe higher. But I don't have the time. See, it's one of my passions. I have a lot of passions. But you can't indulge in every passion. You have to follow certain certain avenues, and there's only a few things you can do in life. All right, sir. All the best. Geopolitical to be Thank you very much. Um Where is it? Geopolitical to be Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Appreciate it, sir. Always good to see you. Uh, Tanmay Deshpande says, "How will you counter people who say idol worship does not exist in Hinduism cause a very specific religion who hates idol worship is trying to prove it does not exist by misquoting our scriptures." I don't want to counter anybody. It's not my business to so to go fighting with everybody. Right? There are plenty of people whose a whole livelihood is about countering and fighting and all. I am not going to do that. Idol worship does not exist in Hinduism. Well, look around. Look around. Does it not exist? I mean, you have to be either blind or mentally impaired to say that idol worship, Murti Puja, doesn't exist in Hinduism. Come on. So, anyway, I'm not getting into this this fight. It's not my fight. I can't fight every fight, all right? I can only do a few things in life. I will stick to those things. So, I would The only thing I would say is are you are you you are either completely blind or you are mentally impaired if you think that Murti Puja doesn't exist in Hinduism. Yeah? That's all I'll say. Okay. VSVS says Namaste. Well, Namaste ji. Namaste. WBR says, "Some in India believe that large amount of trade Some in India believe that the large amount of trade between India and China acts as a deterrent to prevent war between the two nations. Is there Is this a delusion?" Look. Okay, let's Google this. What's the uh, annual trade between India and China? Annual trade between India and China. Uh, in billion USD. So, uh, 2024-25 127.7 billion. Okay. So, what's the trade deficit like? See, the Chinese enjoy a huge trade trade surplus. Okay. So, in 2024-25, it's roughly a hundred billion dollars. So, if there is a trade of 127 billion between the two countries, China if you China essentially has a surplus of a hundred billion dollars. So, India is essentially funding China in a way. India is importing finished product products and goods from China like electronics, machinery, plastic, pharmaceuticals. And India is mainly exporting raw materials. So, this So, this is a failure of India's manufacturing ambitions. We are not manufacturing. We are exporting raw materials. African countries export raw materials. And China is exporting finished products and goods to India. So, is this 127 128 billion dollars of trade between the two countries, is it Is it a deterrent? Does it Does it Does it serve as a deterrent which prevents war between India and China? I don't think so. I'll tell you why. So, there is something in India that China wants. China wants Indian territory. More than that, China is worried about India. India is the only nation in Eurasia that can stand up to China. And if India gets stronger and stronger slowly slowly every year for the next 20 years, India will be able to genuinely stand up to China, even pose a potential threat to China. And China doesn't want India to reach there. So, how do you prevent India from reaching there? Well, what is it that is ensuring that India keeps growing? It is India's government, the Narendra Modi government, that has changed things for India. And that's why India is becoming more and more confident every year. And India is genuinely growing. You can see You can see the graphs. So, the way to prevent India from becoming a threat to China is to effect a regime change in India. Now, it's not easy to do that. Now, but you can do it using India's own system, which is democracy. Democracy is a weak flawed system. And Indian democracy is especially weak. India is always one election away from disaster. Okay? So, how do you derail India's growth trajectory? You do it by effecting a regime change in India in India, which is essentially by ensuring that the the current government loses the next election. How do you do it? By making people By making people lose confidence in this government. How can you do it? By defeating India in a short sharp war. Right? And China claims Indian territory, Arunachal Pradesh and whatnot. And it would be easier for China to go to war with with India rather than go to war with war with Taiwan. Because if India and China go to war, if China goes to war with India, nobody's going to come and stand for India. But if China goes to war over Taiwan, the US will fight China. Japan will fight China. Even South Korea will be present in the war by the Americans. So, it makes more sense for China to fight India. So, in the future, I think it is more likely that China will initiate a war with India before it initiates a war over Taiwan. So, this is what China is doing right now. It doesn't like India. It It wants to ideally break up India. It wants to effect a regime change in India. India has something that China wants, which is Arunachal Pradesh and another territory. So, China is saying right now, "May We'll wait right now. Maybe this is not the right time to for war. Maybe in a year, maybe in a couple of years. In the meanwhile, let's have India fund our military growth. So, let us have a massive trade surplus with India. Every year we earn a hundred billion dollars from India and we dump it into our military expenditure. So, India is funding our military growth. That's what this trade surplus that in China has over India, that's the function it serves. So, this big trade between India and China, this large amount of trade, it doesn't serve as a deterrent. It serves as something that funds China's military build-up north of the India-Tibet border. China is using India's money to to build up its military strength and power north of the undemarcated India-Tibet border. That's what's happening. So, this trade surplus, it does not act as a deterrent. It acts as something that strengthens China. Okay? Okay. WBR says, "Oh, I I see that you have changed your name." >> [laughter] >> You no longer have that Russian name. Okay. Your opinion on free nations of post-Russia forum. Free nations of post-Russia forum. Which forum is this? A forum? I'm not quite sure what you're asking here, sir. Free nations. Were they unfree nations? Are you talking about the nations that came out of the USSR? I'm not sure what you're asking, sir. I'm so sorry. But, uh, if you could formulate the question better, I'm I'm sorry. I'm not sure what you're asking. Sorry. VSVS says, "Question by Rohan Sehgal from AskAbhijit311. What's your take on the third interstellar object 3I Atlas?" The, you know, there have been gazillion YouTube videos about 3I Atlas. And every two or three days they are saying that, you know what, 3I Atlas is an interstellar object that has come from outer space, which which is not, uh, natural in origin. It's an artificial object. Maybe it is a interstellar spacecraft. Maybe there are aliens in there. Maybe it is showing uh, signs of, uh, of of of of Maybe it is showing signs of, uh, acceleration that is not natural. As in maybe it's accelerating or decelerating. Maybe Maybe it is showing signs of propulsion. Maybe it is showing signs of, uh, you know, it being an alien object and so on. Well, you see, and and they've been claiming people have been claiming that, uh, NASA, etc., are are hiding what's happening. They are They are not giving us the correct data. Well, my point is, look, from where I am sitting, I don't have a massive telescope that I operate. I don't have my own data. I can only rely data on on data that is publicly available. The data that's publicly available from the NASA and other space agencies doesn't show anything out of the ordinary when it comes to 3I Atlas. Okay. Uh, people have been saying that 3I Atlas is going to go around the sun and then return to Earth. Well, is that happen Has that happened? So, now that 3I Atlas is simply going It's It's gone around the sun. It's It's going its own way now. It will be on its way out of the solar system. Now, all this frenzy the YouTube views frenzy is dying down now slowly. So, my point is, in the absence of any data that that shows anything extraordinary, I would just say it's another interstellar object. And now that we have so many telescopes out there, we're going to find more of these. So, that's all I can say. As a scientist, you have to be skeptical, super skeptical. Don't ever rush to weird conclusions. I think even Avi Loeb was saying that this is a This is an, you know, an artificial object. Well, I haven't seen any signs of that. Yeah. Whatever evidence we have, it doesn't show any signs of that. So, that's all I can say. Nano Mountain says, "How do you handle setbacks and failures? How to be optimistic about future goals even if it looks impossible now. Any tips on handling negativity?" How do you handle setbacks and failures? Uh, you have to be delusional. You have to have delusional self-belief. No matter what happens, I'm going to keep going and I'm going to achieve it. Now, first of all, it's like this, look. If you have a goal that makes no sense and you keep working towards it, you're going to go in the wrong direction in life. So, first of all, you need to have a goal that makes sense. And what kind of goal are we talking what what size of goal are we talking about? You need to have a goal that's that's achievable only in 10 20 years. Assuming you're a young person, if you are 55 when you have a 30-year goal, I mean be a little reasonable. Let's say you're 25 or 30 or something, then you can then you should have a goal that is very hard to achieve in 10 20 years. Let's say you need to have a goal, give yourself a 10-year target. And that target should be almost impossible to achieve in 10 years, but not completely impossible. Um It should be such that there is nothing in the laws of physics that prevents it from from being achieved. And then you work as hard as possible towards in that direction. And you just don't work towards a 10-year goal. You need to break it down into a five-year goal, a three-year goal, a one-year goal. And then quarterly targets, that sort of thing. That's what I do. And then when you're going towards the quarterly target, sometimes you may miss a quarter, you may make you may have a failure. So, in that case, you keep going. You work more. You work harder or you work smarter. And you should always have plan B, plan C. In case one goal doesn't work out, maybe then you create a new goal. The point is you need to first of all give yourself the highest chance of success >> [snorts] >> by cutting out all the clutter, cutting out cut out all the stuff by cutting out all the stuff that wastes your time, by cutting out all the distractions. So, give yourself the best chance of success, be healthy, be strong, have the right habits, um ensure that your energy is high. What's what's the best way of ensuring your energy remains high? The right kind of diet. And staying away from the wrong kinds of things like alcohol, tobacco, all that stuff, you know. And whatever else you may So, that's what you do. But even then, you may encounter setbacks and failures because see, there are two issues with goals. One is there's a number of parameters that's beyond your control. Let's say you your your objective is, let's say, that I want to There's a lot of people who go for UPSC, right? So, I want to clear the UPSC exam and and get a and get into the government service. Now, is that entirely in your hands? You may study the hardest, but at the end of the day, somebody else will examine your papers and take your interviews and all. And those people may have their own biases. So, for it is possible that no for no fault of your own, somebody else for somebody else's fault, you may not get through. So, then what do you do? So, then you need to have plan B. You don't waste 7 8 years doing UPSC, right? You give it maybe one or two attempts, then you move on to something else. So, that's what you do. Always be positive, always have this delusional self-belief, even it it has to be you have to take it to delusional level that no matter what happens, I believe in myself. Right? I may have failed in this, I may have failed in that. And always be be honest with yourself. Don't don't blame it on others. So, that's what you do. And it's it's often difficult. Yeah? And what I can tell you is no successful person has had has had straight sailing. The the more successful a person is, the more times they have failed. A person who is super successful is has failed so many times you can't believe it, you can't imagine. And if you show me a person who has never failed, I can I'll show you a person who has never achieved anything. So, the more you achieve, the the more you're going to have have failed. It's like that. So, you need to have this you need to have this high threshold for pain if you want to be an achiever. Yeah? You have to be able to take setbacks. And move on nevertheless. So, that's what you do. WBR [snorts] says, is the greatest asset of the US is geography. Well, it's one of its great assets, right? It's protected on two sides by oceans, the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. And that's one asset, the other asset is its gigantic geography, right? It's gigantic it's it's a it's a continent-sized empire. The other thing is that they have ensured that all other nations in the Western Hemisphere are under their control, right? Especially in the Americas. There's only one or two little nations that the Americans still haven't completely controlled. One is Cuba to some extent, another is Venezuela. Everybody else is completely aligned with the US and they will never do a thing that goes against US interests. So, they have worked on this really really really really hard the past couple of centuries, right? So, it's not just the geography, it's also the fact that they they have worked very hard on it. But yeah, maybe the greatest asset overall is the geography. If you take just a snapshot of the US today, take a look at the map, then yeah, the way things are today, it's incredible. But they have worked very hard to make it happen the way it is right now. Because initially, the US was just a small reasonably small nation compared to what it is today on the East Coast of the continent. And then they went westwards, expanded westwards relentlessly until they reached the Pacific. So, they worked really hard to do that. Obviously, they had to genocide everybody in the who stood in their way and and the natives reduce them. They they they they have been fighting the natives for almost 500 years, exterminating the natives for roughly 500 years. Yeah? Right, okay. James James says, "No Hindu who has received English education ever remains sincerely attached to his to his religion. It is my firm belief that if our plans of education are followed up, we will have zero idle believers." Lord Macaulay. Lord Macaulay was a visionary and an incredibly successful person who whose vision was indeed carried out, was executed by the British overlords, but the British occupiers of India. And and his vision is still being executed today, Lord Macaulay's vision. You know, in India, if you want to succeed in anything, you have to speak good English. You have it is indispensable to have an English language education. If you want to have a job in a good company and a the high position. If you want to want to have a good job anywhere, you need to be able to speak good English. You need to be able to give your interview in English. You need to be able to write very well in English and so on. So, India has been more and more Macaulay-ized, colonized, deracinated, etc. generation each each succeeding generation. And the government of India today is still hell-bent on on making Lord Macaulay's dream come completely true. That's what the government of India is doing right now through its educational policies. So, yes, Macaulay came up with this incredibly powerful plan to totally enslave India mentally. And it's worked. India is super mentally colonized today. So, thank you for bringing drawing our attention to this important important fact, um James. And today, a lot of Indians it's it's quite fashionable to to to to you know, abuse Lord Macaulay. I would say you should learn from Lord Macaulay. See, Macaulay was not serving India, he was serving his people. And if you think what he did was evil, well, so be it. It is what it is, see. In in geopolitics, there's no good or bad, there's no right or wrong. Geopolitics is amoral. The objective in geopolitics is to achieve whatever is best for your nation. Now, the UK was an imperial system. It was an empire, the British Empire. And what was good for the for what was good for for England, for the for the British Empire? The complete domination over India is what they sought to achieve. That was beneficial for the US for the UK. And that's why Macaulay came up with this plan. And the plan was implemented. The point is now that Macaulay is dead, now that India is technically free from the British, why is the government of India still implementing, executing, and still using the Macaulayan system? That's my question. Macaulay did whatever was good for for his for his country. But it's bad for our country. The question is why is our government not dismantling the Macaulayan structure? That's the that's the big question. That's the big question. And that's very very very concerning, very problematic, and one wonders what's going on. Yeah? So, anyway, James, thank you for raising this point, very important point. Okay, VSVS James is Konglu Mia from Superpower Bangladesh. I don't think James is a Konglu Mia. I don't think so. I think James is on our side. And I really appreciate James. He always raises these really important points. You may not like that the way he raises these points, but I appreciate what he's doing. Thank you, sir, James. UMX Glo Haha says, "Ronaldo looks a brown. Why is called the right white person?" I don't call him a white person. You mean Cristiano Ronaldo? He's brown. Cristiano Ronaldo is not white. A lot of Spanish people are not white, really, okay? Um Cristiano Ronaldo. I mean, how can you call this gentleman white? He's not white. He's a brown person. I would say the same applies to Rafael Nadal, okay? Rafa Nadal. I mean, look at this this guy Rafael Nadal. He's not white. This is not a white person. He has the same same skin color as me essentially. And the the same applies to Cristiano Ronaldo. >> [snorts] >> So a lot of people is Cristiano Ronaldo Romani? Is he Is he Romani? >> [snorts] >> Is he Romani? He's He's Portuguese we know that. But he's not typically identified as Romani. Uh Ricardo Quaresma we know is Romani. And Quaresma has the same skin color as Ronaldo. The thing is this. I I spoke about the Romani people yesterday after a while. So there's a lot of people of Romani ancestry in Europe. A lot of people have Romani ancestry. But they are very really afraid to disclose the fact that they have Romani ancestry because then they will be subject to horrible discrimination. There's a lot of people in in especially in in Iberia which is Spain and Portugal. Okay? So there's a lot of people like that. So it's possible maybe Cristiano Ronaldo may have Romani ancestry but maybe he's never disclosed that. Yeah, maybe Rafael Rafael Nadal also possibly who knows. We don't know. I'm I'm saying in any way the people of Spain, Portugal and Italy they are much darker skin than the people of let's say Norway, Sweden, Denmark. Right? I would not consider the people of Spain, Italy even Greece to be white in the sense the same sense as the Nordic people. I would not consider them to be white. The Romans Well the Romans did not consider white people their equals. You know that? They considered white people inferior. The Romans. Anyhow so that's the deal. So Ronaldo does look brown because he is brown. He is not a white person in my opinion. And that's okay. What's the big deal? Why do you have to be white? Just because you're European doesn't mean you have to be white. Okay. Uh Nimish says Nimish Bhardwaj says thank you for the live chat sir. Well thank you so much. Thank you so much for your viewership. Thank you so much for your encouragement. I appreciate it very much. Uh Sagar Gare says World War I book recommendations please. Well I have done so many book recommendations. I need to put out some videos some some um some videos uh video clips. I need to make some video clips about that. Now when it comes to World War I one um I would say there's a book called The War That Ended Peace. The war that ended peace uh by Margaret MacMillan is it? The war that ended peace book by Margaret MacMillan. And this book is about well essentially how the First World War happened. The road to 1914. So what happened in the months that preceded this war? Yeah. Uh so that's a great That's this is a great book. Yeah? And you will see I'm sure good reviews of it on on Amazon. Um The Guns of August is another great book. Yes. Barbara Tuchman. The Guns of August is another fantastic book. So and and I'll tell you what these are great books but they're pretty hard to read. You need to expend a lot of mental energy to read these books. But yeah these two books I would say The Guns of August and The War That Ended Peace. These two start with these two books. >> [snorts] >> Rajat says Pranam GenZ leader. >> [laughter] >> Okay. Did you again a chance to look at the CMB dipole and its alignment with the Earth's equinoxes? Look we don't have the answer. I I did take a look at that. We don't know why it is so. Okay so let me explain what is the CMB dipole and what is the question of its alignment with Earth's equinoxes. The CMB dipole what is the CMB? It's the cosmic microwave background. What on Earth does cosmic microwave background mean? To put it very simply if you go out into outer space empty space you will find the remnants of the first light in the universe. Those photons are still flying around. The afterglow of the Big Bang itself. So for about 380,000 years after the universe was born in the Big Bang the universe was too dense to and it was opaque to light. It was opaque to photons. And then eventually it it became transparent to light and and light started flowing everywhere. So that first light those photons still exist in the universe. You can still find them in in in space. And that's called the cosmic microwave background. It's got a temperature of about 2.7 or something Kelvin. Okay? Almost close to absolute zero. Very cold very faint light. Now the Earth the solar system is moving in a certain direction in the galaxy. Right? The sun is moving around the center of the galaxy like every other star. So because of that because of the movement in the CMB rest frame we the the Earth is moving through space. So it's So in on on one side there is you're going to see um the energy you will see difference in temperature of the cosmic microwave background radiation because of the Doppler effect. So uh on one side you will see colder colder CMB on the other side you will see slightly warmer CMB. So that's called the CM the dipole. Okay what's it look like? This is what it looks like. Okay you can see uh a difference in in in temperature. Where we are coming from where we are going. So when we are where we are coming from on the back it's going to be slightly cooler slightly colder the energy will be slightly lower. And over here where we are going it's going to be slightly warmer. That's the deal. And I'm sure AI will explain to us the largest temperature variation temperature or energy variation the energy of the of the cosmic microwave background photons. Because the local group of galaxies is moving about 600 km per second relative to the CMB's rest frame etc. So that's the CMB dipole. Okay? Now the CMB's dipole that the difference in the temperature it's incredibly shockingly well aligned with Earth's equinoxes. Okay? So see the Earth goes around the sun. And if you take the the Earth goes around the sun in an elliptical path in an elliptical orbit. And that ellipse traces a plane. Okay the plane of the solar system. And the Earth it rotates at an angle to that. Okay? To the ecliptic. So the So the plane of the solar system the plane that that is traced out by the Earth's revolution around the sun that's called the ecliptic. And the Earth is is is its rotation is is at about 23 degrees to the ecliptic. So the plane that's traced by Earth's revolution around the sun it aligns almost perfectly with the CMB dipole. And it is believed that that cannot be entirely random. There's got to be some reason for that. But we're not quite sure what the reason is. And that's the thing. So it's a big it's a big mystery. That's the deal. So it's a really interesting paradox it's a really interesting puzzle cosmic puzzle that we have. And we don't quite have an answer to why this phenomenon exists. And that's one of the big open mysteries in physics today. So yeah that's the deal. Shishir Upadhyay says how will India society progress in the next 30 years? Well ask me to look into the future. I don't know. How will Look it depends on so many things so many factors. Assuming that India keeps on grow India's economy keeps on growing the way it's growing. See right now it's about 8% growth. Assuming it's even 6%. If India keeps growing at 8% per year then in 20 years it's going to be a middle income nation. It's not going to be a low income nation. So India's GDP per capita will be like 12 15,000 dollars in today's dollar terms. Right now it's what? 3 4,000 I don't know what is India's GDP per capita today. India GDP per capita India G GDP per capita in USD 2025. What What do we have? It's about 3,000. Yeah? But if it keeps growing at about 8% per year what will India's GDP per capita Okay let's not ask Google. I'm just saying if if it continues for 20 years at 8% we're going to be a middle income nation. If it continues at 6% per year even then we'll be close to a middle income nation. So if that happens India society will be more prosperous than what it is today. Um that's what I can tell you. But if there is some problem if there's a war and if things don't go the way they go then there could be issues in society. So it depends on a variety of other factors. I cannot see the future. I can only tell you that if things go as they are going right now, India will be a middle income nation in in 20 years, not even 30 years. In 30 years, if it still keeps growing at 8% per year, we're going to be a reasonably high middle income nation. And that's what I hope happens. But it's going to be very inconvenient for some other nations, and they will do their best to prevent that from happening. Which means that nations like the US and China will try and disrupt India's progress. Of course, they will, because it's beneficial to them. It's in their interest to to disrupt India's progress. How could they disrupt India's progress? One thing is they could affect regime change or attempt regime change operations in India. They could tamper with India's electoral system, which has happened in the past. Even in 2020, which year was it? 2024? You know, there most likely was inter- external interference in India's electoral system electoral process. So, they could attempt a regime change operation. They could interfere in India's electoral process. They could induce India to go to for some nation to attack India militarily. A lot of things could happen. So, I have no idea which direction India's society will go in in the next 30 years. It's impossible to predict the future. I think there's a high likelihood of war between India and Pakistan in the next 1 or 2 years, maybe next 5 years definitely. The longer India waits for a war with Pakistan, the stronger Pakistan will get because the US is is bolstering Pakistan, bulking up Pakistan. So, I think there's a high likelihood of war between India and Pakistan in the next 1 or 2 years. There's also highly likely higher likelihood of war between India and China than China and Taiwan. So, we could face serious challenges in the next 5 years. But if we somehow avoid a military conflict and we somehow avoid a regime change and we somehow do everything right and avoid all all all issues, then in 20 years we'll be a middle income nation. So, lots of ifs and buts here. So, I can't really predict what's going to happen. Critical thinker says, "How to develop advanced problem-solving skill in physics?" How do you become a better Let's say you want to be a boxer. How do you become a better boxer? Do you become a better boxer by reading books about boxing? No, right? You become a better boxer by practicing boxing. Yeah? You do a certain set of drills and exercises every day. You warm up. You wake up at 4:00 a.m. You warm up for 5 minutes, then you go for a 5-km run, maybe 8-km run. You come back, you have a meal, then you go and do whatever exercises you do you want to do, you know, your push-ups and your squats and your jumps and all that. Then you go and have another meal, then you go and box. You go and do some, you know, punching bag work. You can you do some speed work, light light bag, then you do some the heavy bag work. Then you take another rest. Then you go and do some sparring. So, that's how you become a better boxer, and you have to do this over and over and over and over again. It's very boring. You have to do it for months on end. You have to do it for a couple of years on end. Then you start becoming a boxer. You go and do some actual bouts. Then you have to progress through the through the ranks, and that's what you do. So, that's how you become a better boxer. Now, how do you become better at solving problems in physics? Not by reading how to solve problems, by actually attempting solve to solve problems. You understand the theory as quickly as possible. Don't waste a half of the time reading theory. Understand the fundamentals from the theory. Understand the core equations. And then grab a book full of problems and start solving the problems. If you fail, if you don't figure it out how to if you're not able to solve a problem, go back to the fundamentals. Understand the fundamentals again. Understand how the equation was derived, what what the equation means, and how to use the equation and the maths. So, which means that you have to be good at math. You have to be See, it's Problem-solving in physics is essentially solving math problems. But the math means something physical. So, you do understand the correlation between the the the math and the actual physics also. So, that's what you do. You solve a gazillion problems. You spend as much time as possible solving problems, not reading theory. That's what you do. And you start with the very basics, with the very fundamentals. You start with the very basic math. You don't start with advanced problems. You start with the simplest problems. You You master that, then you go one level up, then you master that. How do you master? Not by reading, but by solving problems. Solve as many problems as possible. So, that's what you do. All right? All the best. King Ritwik says, "I worked in various states, Tamil Nadu, [snorts] Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra, Kerala. The best people were from Odisha, very well-behaved and treat outsiders very well. We should We should accept Odisha as the best people." Okay, well, that's your experience, and I'm glad that you found Odisha very good. Uh I haven't worked in so many states, so I can't say I I cannot I So, my experience isn't as as as broad as yours. But I have In my experience, the people of Odisha are wonderful people. No question about that. So, um and I I have a special connection with Odisha because I was born in Odisha. So, and I've only been in Odisha 3 months of my life. Okay, so I I I don't really know. The last time I was in Odisha was when I was 3 months old. After that, I've never returned, unfortunately. I would love to. So, I'm I'm glad that uh you like Odisha that much. Though, I'm sure the people are wonderful, and Odisha has a great history also, a very glorious history. Uh So, yeah, thank you for sharing your experience, and thank you to the people of Odisha for for being some of the best people we have in the country. UMX Glo Haha says, "Iran Glo Hal Glo Haha UMX Glo Haha." All right, whatever it is. Iran in India posted Iran in India on X post that Shatrang Shatrang Shatranj, yes, was taught to them by an Indian and they mastered it and became better than Indians, and they introduced the game to Indians that we couldn't even understand the game. Okay. I kind of saw that post briefly. It was about some some there was some video in it. The The see, look, there's no question about the fact that chess came from India. Everyone knows that. Chess was invented by Indians during the Saraswati Sindhu phase of our history. Uh And obviously, if the Persians played chess, they would have learned it from Indians. No question about that. Now, I'm not sure if the Persians mastered it and became better than than Indians about that. I'm not sure if that is what the post was about. And when they introduced a game, which game to Indians? When they introduced a game to Indians, we couldn't even understand the game. Which game are you talking about? Some other game? Are you saying that the Persians introduced some other game into India? I don't think that's what the post was about. The post was only about chess. And I did not watch the entire video because I don't have the time to watch long videos, even if they're 2 minutes long. But uh Yeah, okay. All right. Okay, WBR says, "An Indian vlogger went to Russia to meet a World War II veteran who told how German soldiers would used to put Russian babies under tank tracks. Why is this not talked about? Instead, all the focus is on atrocities in Berlin by Soviets." >> [snorts] >> Look, war is pure horror. War is horrible. If you're a soldier, your job is to kill. Right? And once you start killing killing killing killing, you will see everyone as the enemy who are on the other side. I'm not I'm not trying to justify anything, by the way. I'm just saying that for many people, eventually the boundaries will blur. They should not blur. As a soldier, as a person, you have to be disciplined. You have to be professional. But as we know, all wars eventually lead to atrocities. I mean, look at what the Americans did in Iraq, Abu Ghraib, and whatnot. Look at what the the Canadians as UN peacekeepers did in Somalia. I mean, wars always lead to atrocities. The longer a war lasts, the more atrocities there are. Yeah? In the modern era. Uh And And we know that the Russians suffered a lot at the hands of the Nazi invaders. No question about that. Yeah? So, my point is our coverage of history has to be balanced. It cannot The problem is that, you know, like Napoleon said, "History is a bunch of lies written by the is a is a set of lies agreed upon." And the objective of writing history is to distort what happened and to serve political and other agendas. Sometimes the the the purpose is to justify an invasion. Sometimes the purpose is to justify the occupation and brutalization of a country. That's what the Europeans have done with India. They've sought to justify their their occupation of India for 2 and 1/2 centuries, the British, by claiming that Indians had a horrible culture and that and they had to be civilized. Right? Caste and Sati and whatnot. They've invented all these things, all these stories. And they actually imposed the caste system upon India, the four four fold caste system, which we still continue today. So, the right way to do history is to just put all the facts out there. Uh but history has become a tool of propaganda, and that's why we have these issues. So, why is this not talked about? Because one side won, and another side lost. And that's why the winning side The Which was the side that won? It's not about who won the Second World War. The Soviets defeated the the Germans in the Second World War, right? And yet, the the Nazi atrocities against the Russians are not that spoken about, even though the Soviets won. Because afterwards, the Soviets lost the Cold War. And that's why the Western narrative is the predominant narrative today, even though the Soviets did win the Second World War. So, that's why today we have a certain set of narratives out there. And ideally, it shouldn't be like that, but we live in the real world. Biju Saikia says, you can check it on Google. Since 2021, China's GDP is stuck at about 18 trillion. What happened to the growth? Okay, let's find out. Let's first of all check this. China China GDP uh graph. billions of USD. Okay, so that is done for in rupees. Okay. Show us the graph, bro. What is this? Statista. Let us see Statista. Do we have Statista? Um economy of China China GDP macro trends. Let's take a look at macro trends. Do they have a graph? Okay, 3 years, 17.88. Ooh la la, what has happened here? Looks like you are totally right. Since 2021, it's stuck at 17 or 18 something. Let's go back. Let's check this from somewhere else. Um comparing United States and China by economy. Okay, let's do that. Sure. Let us see. Do they have Do you have a graph? Uh a decline. Go away. Shoo. So, China China is stuck at 18 3 years. What happened? Uh 2020 2019 is the pandemic year. Then 2020 was a pandemic. 21 22 23. I don't know what happened. I think the pandemic did the Was it because of the pandemic? Was it because of something else? I have not really looked into this. Did the pandemic cause a tremendous amount of damage to the Chinese economy? Did the Chinese economy get stuck because of because of it? Is there some other causative factor? Not sure. I will have to actually look into this. Right now, I don't have the answer to what happened to the growth. Why is China stuck at 18 past 3 or so years? Something seems to have happened. Uh it's it's not like the TFR has caused the GDP to suddenly get stuck. The TFR The Chinese TFR has has has collapsed a long time ago. Could be has to be something else. I have to look into it. I don't have the answer right now. Uh Rajat has become a new member. Thank you so much, Rajat. Let us all welcome Rajat to the membership of this channel. Thank you very much, sir. Uh UMX glo ha ha ha ha says, Jihadist terror attack in Australian beach. My thoughts. Horrible, terrible, tragic. Unacceptable. Pakistanis, right? I'm pretty sure at least one of the persons is a Pakistani. This happened today, Bondi Beach, I think. It was some kind of a some kind of Jewish event or something. And a couple At least a couple of Pakistani terrorists At least a couple of gunmen were there. Should we call them gunmen, or should we just call them terrorists? If there's an attack on in India, Western news outlets will say that gunmen have attacked Indians. They won't say terrorists have attacked Indians. They'll say gunmen. Let us Let us see how the Australian media has reported the the Pahalgam attack. SMH. Sydney Morning Morning Herald. Look at this. Sydney Morning Herald. Gunmen killed dozens of tourists at Indian resort in Kashmir. So, this is how Australian newspapers and media report terror attacks in India. Gunmen killed dozens of tourists. Gunmen. Gunmen. Yeah? Worst attack. Not terror attack, but worst attack. Have they used the word terror anywhere? Okay, they say that police has described this as a terror attack, but they refuse to describe it as a terror attack. So, this is the attitude of the Australian media. W- What are the I mean, Australian media. Austra- Militants. Okay, it's militants now. Yeah? SBS Does it say it gunmen? BBC will say gunmen. Um okay. So, look, I am Ob- Firstly, what's happened in in Australia today is tragic. It is horrible. It's unacceptable. It seems to have emanated out of Pakistan. Pakistan is a terrorist nation. I looks like there have been uh I don't know how many casualties. Some people seem to have lost their lives, which is horrible. What can I say? What can I say? Terrible. I also want to point out to the Australian media likes to portray terrorist attacks on Indians as attacks done by militants or gunmen, not by terrorists. It's an Maybe not the right time, wrong time. There's no right or wrong time. So, why does the Australian media like to portray terrorism against Indians as not terrorism? Why is that? And it's also interesting that you know, the United States has decided to ban immigration from certain countries. Countries of extreme concern. And this list of countries from which immigration has been banned, this list does not include Pakistan. Pakistan is not a country of concern apparently for the for the Americans for for for Donald Trump and his regime. And see what happened in Australia. So, the West seems to have a death wish. They seem to be in deeply in love with Pakistan and the kind of ideology and the culture that emanates out of Pakistan. Well, all right. You pay the price for that, then. What can I say? Very unfortunate, tragic, horrible, unacceptable. Biju Saikia says, will we ever find a theory of everything? Probably not. Probably not. Why do I say probably not? Because we are not The universe is most likely too complicated for us to understand. Us as a species. See, our species has a limit to its intelligence. The most intelligent human beings, what is their IQ going to be like? One See, if you are What's the genius level IQ? It's 150, right? If you are 150 and above in IQ, you are a genius. So, I think the highest IQ a human can have is potentially around 180 or 200. Which is like super genius. But maybe you need an IQ of 500 to understand the universe properly and actually find a theory of everything. It's possible. Yeah? So, there are limitations to our intelligence, and that's why it's likely that the universe is so vast and so complex that maybe we may never find a theory of everything. VSVS says, I went to Shanghai and Beijing in 2023. The city centers were beautiful, but literally a 30-minute drive outside led to trash, poor people, and potholes. Do you think they are just better at PR? They are unquestionably a million times better than India at PR. They have many of the same problems that India has. It's not like India is the only nation that is corrupt in China is super corrupt. But China executes people for corruption. And they also you know, brush a lot of the corruption under the carpet. China has corruption. China has pollution. China has potholes. China has homeless people. China has slums. China has all these problems. But this is all kept away from the public view. And what the Chinese do is they hire They pay so-called influencers, etc., to show the good parts of China. The Chinese government is concerned about China's image. That is where China is different from India. The Indian government doesn't care about India's image. Otherwise, they would do something. They They you See, to improve India's image, you have to do two things at the same time. One, improve the conditions in India. Improve the conditions. Don't simply try to hide it. Improve the conditions. So, that takes hard work, but that's not happening. At at various levels. In some levels, a lot of work is happening. See, the government of India, the central government, has done a tremendous amount of work since 2014. Okay, no question. But at lower levels, at state, districts, other levels, I don't know what's happening. And that's where the image of India comes from, right? The ground level. And the central government doesn't have I don't know that Let's forget about the positive factors. But so on the one hand, you have to improve the conditions on the ground. On the second on the other hand, you have to go on a PR campaign to show the good parts of India and possibly not show the bad parts of India. The same thing China is doing. But we don't we don't do that. The government of India, when I say it's not concerned about India's image, what I mean is that they don't invest money for PR. They don't spend money for PR exercises. They don't invest in influencers, maybe 10,000 influencers from various countries, maybe 1,000 influencers from various countries. You pay for the travels, you pay for the gear, you pay them a certain monthly retainer with the with the understanding that every month they'll put out a certain number of videos or reels or whatever showing India in a good light. It doesn't take a lot of money to do that. But India doesn't do that at all. India is not concerned. That's what I mean that by when I say India is not concerned. The government of India is not concerned. The government of India doesn't care about India's image. If it would, it would hire people. It would pay people. It would commission people to to create these campaigns. The Chinese do it. The Chinese pay lots of influencers. Good money to show China in the best possible light. And that's why these these people, these these YouTubers and Instagrammers and all, they will relentlessly put out reels and videos showing the best parts of China and keeping the bad [clears throat] parts out of the frame. The Chinese are super good at PR. India doesn't care about PR. That's the problem. I just don't understand why the government has why the government of India has this strange attitude. WBR [snorts] says mechanical designs engineering or quantum your interests your my interest. My interest is the whole world knows is is quantum mechanics. I am sure mechanical designs and mechanical engineering is interesting. Aeronautical engineering is interesting. Everything is interesting. But if I had to pick a pick one, it would be quantum mechanics, of course. And that's what I've picked in the past. Okay, Al Genib says chances for life as we know to move on or begin chances for life as we know to move to or begin independently on the moons of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune is Neptune is sun gradually becomes a red giant pushing Goldilocks zone further out plus plus life sustaining parameters holding well. Look, when will the sun become a red giant? Maybe in 4 billion years. How old is the solar system? 4. What? 4.54 billion years? So the amount of time the solar system has existed, it's going to have to exist for another that much amount of time for the sun to start becoming a red giant. Around that much time. Yeah? And as the sun slowly expands and becomes a red giant, the Goldilocks zone will move outwards, no question about it. So eventually at the at the peak of the of of the red giant phase, the our earth is going to be swallowed up by the sun. So the so the Goldilocks zone will go outwards, further and further outwards. Uh how will the what will the solar system look like at that point in time? We are not quite sure. The solar system has been evolving over time. There have been some planets that may have been ejected out of the solar system deep in deep antiquity. Um the orbits of the planets have recon- have been reconfigured reconfigured over time. It's possible that uh Venus may be the orbit of Venus may go somewhere else in the future. You know? These are not entirely 100% stable orbits. They will change over over hundreds of millions of years, maybe billions of years. Uh that's one thing. Secondly, um what are the chances for life to to begin in- independently or move on to the moons? Chances, well, to begin independent there could already be life on maybe Europa, maybe Encel- Enceladus, maybe on Titan. A different kind of life than what we can you know, what we can potentially imagine. On Titan, it will be totally different kind of life because the chemistry is totally different there. It's it's methane based chemistry in in on Titan. When it comes to Europa and Enceladus, it's a subsurface oceans that we have there. Even Pluto may have a subsurface ocean. So as the Goldilocks zone goes outwards, maybe Europa becomes an ocean world. Maybe Enceladus also becomes an ocean world and the the several kilometer thick ice crust just melts. Then you you could have life there that could be similar to the kind of life that we have in the oceans of our planet. All kinds of possibilities are open. And the uh the change in the sun and its its transition to becoming a red giant, it it will not happen over a over a time period of weeks. It's going to happen very very very slowly and it will happen over evolutionary geological time scales, which will give life the time to evolve in and and and and adapt to the changing situations, circumstances. Okay, King Ritwik says, "When will India reach that stature, power, confidence and take back what's ours so that China will fear us and call Tibet Arunachal occupied Lhasa?" >> [laughter] >> When will that happen? Look, once again, India is currently growing the last last quarter or whatever it was, India's economy grew at 8%. Despite Trump's tariffs, despite all the issues in India's economy grew at 8%. Assuming India's economy keeps growing at 8%, in 20 years we will be a middle income nation like what China is right now. Even if we grow at 6% per year, in 30 years we'll be a middle income nation. Okay? Uh so when and and China's economy is not growing that well now. China faces issues, but China has advantages that we don't have. China is not a democracy. China has a government that's way more efficient than ours. China already has a massive industrial base. We don't have it. China has a fantastic education system. We have the world's most rotten education system. So we can have an economy that's comparable to what China has today in 20 years, let's say. But if our system is still rotten, then we will never get our act together. So we're going to have to change all those things. It it may if we are to be optimistic, maybe in 20, 30 years we will have that stature, power, confidence, all that. Yeah? Uh we'll have to become an industrial power. We'll have to become a manufacturing power to be comparable to China. It's not just the size of your economy. You can have money, but you if you don't know how to make things, then what will you do with that money? Huh? You may have the greatest culture and your greatest economy, but if you can't defend yourself because you don't have the industrial base, what do you do? But obviously we are going we are taking steps in the direction. We will now soon have hopefully indigenous jet engines. We will I don't know about AI. I don't know what we're doing with AI and so on. But yeah, hopefully we go in that direction. So maybe 20, 30 years if you are to be optimistic. Yeah? Rehman Baloch says, "Assala- Assalamualaikum from Lyari, Lahore, Pakistan." Well, namaste back to you, sir. Greetings and good to have you, Rehman Balochji. Good to have you. Lyari Lyari is in Lahore. All right. Good to see you, sir. Thank you. Um Sangam Kumar says, "Can China beat the US in Taiwan as leaked report says?" Um The Chinese can take Taiwan if the Americans are okay with it. Otherwise, China will get nothing. The Americans are just way too powerful. If China tries to invade Taiwan, they will not only have to fight America, they will also have to fight Japan because the Americans control Japan. So they will press Japan into action. Japan has a frighteningly good navy. Japan is very very good uh you know, technologically. The Americans can allow Japan to become a nuclear power next weekend if they want to. Japan has the technological know-how to do that. The Americans can even press South Korea into action. If China tries to take Taiwan and America doesn't want China to take Taiwan, the Chinese won't succeed no matter what happens. Right? So it's not that easy. It's very hard. Pratham Maydekar says, "To what extent are claims of Durandar true in Lyari?" I still haven't watched it, so I can't say. Hopefully this week this coming week I will watch it. Then next weekend I can answer this question. Right now I don't have the answer. Sorry because I haven't seen it. Right? Sorry about that. Polarized says, "Houses have nully nullies nullies higher than the road, then dust and water stagnates. If nullies are leveled properly, much of the dust would be in sewer and not on road." What's a nully? Nully? Nully means what? Nully? Nully means uh canal? Nully? Nully is a gutter. What is it? Okay, houses have canals or gutters higher than the road then dust and water stagnates if these canals or or gutters are level properly, much of the dust would be in the sewer or not on road. Okay, you are talking about dust dust in India. The dust why is there so much dust in India? I'll tell you okay, let's let's discuss the issue of dust. There's no question that India's cities, towns, villages etc. are very dusty. Let's go to the map to understand what what on earth is happening. Yeah, let's look. So, here's India. Okay, the the subcontinent. Very dusty place. You go and and let's see let's go to the heart of India and just place a marker there. What's the latitude? Latitude is 23° north. Longitude is 79. So, if we go to the to a similar latitude maybe in Vietnam, okay? So, here also it's 20 21 23 23 Okay. So, if you go to Hanoi, which is at a similar latitude, you don't have that much dust. You go to let's say if perhaps uh this place in China, Fujian province, 26° of latitude. You don't have that much dust. You go to for example um if you go See, Mexico has a is at a very similar latitude latitude set of latitudes as India. Here you have today this is very similar to Indian latitude. That's why you know, the climate of Mexico Mexico is so similar to India. But in Mexico you don't have that much dust compared to India. Mexico is dusty but not as much as India. The question is why is India so dusty and all and and what can we do about this? The major reason why India is so dusty is because we have a big desert in India, the Thar desert. See, look here. The Thar desert. Huge big arid barren region. It has sand dunes. It has dust. And that is the reason why there is so much dust in the Indian subcontinent. The Thar desert. Secondly, deforestation. Okay? 10,000 years ago, you had forests all across India. Today about 10 or 15% of India is covered by forests. And uh that is another reason. And third is construction etc. but the major reason is the Thar desert. The major reason why why you have this issue in India so much so much dust is because of the Thar desert. The Thar desert is what uh uh makes India so dusty. And of course we can there must be there are lots of things in the government of India can do to to make India less dusty, but some of a significant portion of it comes from the desert. It's a natural phenomenon. Okay. Biju Saikia says, "Do you think there should be term limits on our leaders? Does India have the potential to be an autar autarky? Autarky. Do you think Do I think there should be term leaders? Well, term term term limits term term limits. Well it has pros and cons. Yeah? Term limits have their advantages, their disadvantages. If you have So, what term limits do is that it they ensure that if you have a bad leader who's not good enough but who's somehow popular then if you have a two-term limit, then even if that person is popular they can't do too much damage to the country because they only have two terms. But on the other hand, if a leader is fantastic for the country but can only serve for two terms, then it's bad for the country. So, it it it works both ways. Now, you have term limits in the United States. In the US it doesn't really matter who's the president because the president doesn't really run the country. The president simply draws attention to himself. It's a himself. And the president usually does whatever the people who are really in power they want him to do. So, in the US it doesn't really matter. And term limits okay, good. So, do I think there should be term limits on our leaders? Term limits make sense if your system is good. What do I mean by a good system? A good system is a system that will no matter what happens give you good leaders. A good system is a system that identifies leadership talent, rewards leadership talent, and elevates leadership talent. That's the right system. That's the right system. The Indian system is not such that it identifies and rewards meritorious leadership talent. The Indian system if you look at the history of India the past 80 years it hasn't given us the best leaders. We are lucky that we have someone like Mr. Modi right now. Imagine the alternatives. Yeah? So, I think for term limits make sense only if your system is guaranteed to give you high quality leadership alternatives to what is currently there. In that case, if there is one person who is in power but five other equally good or even better leaders who could come to power, then term limits make sense. But if you have a situation in in a system where you have one good leader who's in power right now but 78 not so good leaders who are waiting to take over, then term limits will destroy the country. So, so given the current system of India, I think term limits don't make sense. If we change the system and give and you know and and have a system that's guaranteed to throw up good leaders, then term limits make sense. Right now in this system, term limit term limits are very dangerous for India. Udbhav Sharma says, "In a future war with AI systems using AI systems, how could counter AI technology of a country defend against or neutralize enemy AI?" Can't. You can't have AI fight AI. You can have systems fighting systems, not AI systems, physical systems. AI is not a physical thing. Right? It's not like you have a missile that's flying and you have a missile that destroy a missile. So, you shoot down a missile with another missile like what we have today, right? You know, missile defense systems. But AI is is not something you can shoot down with another AI. There is no no such thing as counter AI technology. See, understand how wars will happen in the future. You will have drone swarms. They what as one example of an offensive weapon. Drones can be used as offensive weapons. We know that very well. And the best way to use drones is in swarms. Maybe a hundred drones dwarf drones at the same time. Maybe a thousand drones at the same time. And how will the drones be controlled and coordinated? Through AI. And AI will not be on the drones. The the drones will have onboard chips, but they'll be interconnected through whatever systems and they may be connected to satellites. And through the satellites or whatever the systems, they will get orders from the AI. And the AI will know the AI will be system sitting somewhere else far away. The AI will know exactly which where each drone is in relation to the others and in in relation to the target physically, geographically. And the AI will ensure that the drones have the best survival best chances of surviving against offensive measures. That's And this is the country And the other country will also have its own AI system, which will target which will use the which will control the defensive uh military systems. So, the country with the best AI wins. But it's not like AI is fighting AI. AI is controlling equipment. The both AI is a controlling equipment. And the AIs that have the that have access to the better equipment and the AIs that are more intelligent will prevail. That's how it will work. Pratham Medekar says, "You can go to the midnight shows of Dil Aashiq Now." Uh is the show Is the movie being shown at midnight? That'll be fantastic. Yeah? I'm not sure if See, right now it's almost 10:00 p.m. here where I am. And uh I'm yeah, completed nearly two hours of this live stream. And I still have uh 40 50 super chats left to go. So, I don't think I'll be able to see the midnight show tonight. But that's fine. That's fine. Um Anantha Subramanian says, "Which key lessons from history do most people miss?" I can make a two-hour video about that. It's not something I can explain in uh couple of minutes. There are so many lessons from history. You can write a book about the lessons from history. And it's not like lessons historical lessons are necessarily universal. Each country has a specific set of lessons it needs to learn from history. So, if you are sitting in let's say Romania the historical lessons you the key historical lessons you need to learn may be different from the key historical lessons a person sitting in India need to needs to learn. It will be different from Mexico. So, it it is context context dependent. It's geography dependent. It's it's depends on the context of the geography, the culture, the specific history of the country, place, etc. Uh but overall what what key lessons do we miss? Let's one key lesson that we have to understand is that the system of governance that works the best is not democracy, it is autocracy. It is dictatorship. It is Look at the history of the entire world the past 2,000 3,000 years. The system that has that has been the most enduring is monarchy, which is what dictatorship, right? A democracy is is it is is a facade, it's an illusion. It's a polite illusion created to give people the the the sense the false sense of confidence that they they they have the fate of the world in their hands. It's not true. It's always it's it's a means to mislead people. Democracy is an illusion. That's one key lesson of history. The second key lesson of history I would say is that all major historical change happens through warfare. Okay? All major historical change, every major historical change has happened through warfare, through violence. Understand that. So there's I'm sure there are way more key lessons, but I can't go on forever about that right now in this live stream. Maybe I can make a separate video about that. VSVS has gifted 10 memberships to people. So VSVS I really really appreciate you. You did that yesterday also. You gifted I don't know how many memberships, a lot of memberships and you're doing that today also. Thank you so much for your kindness and not not just to me and my channel, but to the people who are viewers here. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Godliness Godliness says Pakistan now has Saudi bank US patronage and Chinese help also Turkish technology. Do you suspect a more violent and dangerous Pakistan in the future? I expect war between India and Pakistan in the next one or two years. I'll be very surprised if there is there isn't a war between India and Pakistan in the next one or two years. The longer India waits, the more powerful Pakistan will become because of foreign help. There is nothing in Pakistan that makes it powerful. But the Pakistanis have all this help coming in from various nations. At the end of the day it's all been coordinated by the United States. The United States is now implementing a policy of containing India. And the best way to contain India is by using rogue rogue nations, terrorist nations like Pakistan. You keep your hands dirty and help Pakistan do the dirty terror work and all that work for you. You fund them. You give them F-16s. You give them arms, ammunition, weapons, training. You have your allies or your your vassals give them money. Right? And the US and China both agree that India needs to be contained. So even though the US and China are adversaries, they agree about India. So the longer India waits and sits back the more powerful Pakistan will become. I expect a war between India and Pakistan in the next one or two years. Right. Udbhav Sharma says Pak Pakistan to release Mehra Layari movie to counter Dorinda. All right. Let them do it. Ankita Kashyap has also gifted 10 memberships. Ma'am, thank you so much. You also did that yesterday, so I also really appreciate you. Thank you so much for being so kind to this channel and to its viewers. Thank you so much, ma'am. And VS VS has gifted 10 more memberships. Thank you once again. Thank you so much. Really really appreciate you, both of you. Thank you. Okay, My Rhythm says Breaking India by Rajiv Malhotra is genuine. Can I read it? Sir, you decide what you read or not. I Breaking India, Rajiv Malhotra. I haven't read it. But so so I I haven't read it, so I can't say. But uh I have heard a lot of good things about it. And uh Mr. Malhotra has a very good reputation, no question about that, right? So I would say you should go and find out for yourself whether it is good enough and whether you like it or not. Based on what I've heard, I'm sure you will be you will you will gain something from it. Yeah? So yeah. I would say if you are curious about it, definitely go ahead and read it. Godliness says we want Ram Rajya, but the reality is corruption is thriving with no police, judicial, or education reform and now reservation in the private universities of Maharashtra. Are we fighting a lost war? I don't know. I Look, Ram Rajya is the ultimate objective. It is the greatest objective, right? But before we reach Ram Rajya, we need to slowly improve things. We can only improve step by step by step. Eventually someday we will reach Ram Rajya, the greatest state a nation can have, society can have. Look, I think everybody understands that there seems to be a lot of corruption in various parts of India, which is the legacy of the past 80 years of misgovernance. Right? And that seems to be the hardest nut to crack. Because it looks like allegedly the entire system may possibly hypothetically run on corruption. Uh so it's it's it's it's uh I've I've been I've said this so many times. It is the biggest problem that faces India. And if India needs to get it wants to get its act together, it has to launch a war on corruption. The other thing is the reforms at various levels. Yeah, various levels. And the one of some of the most critical, crucial, urgent reforms that we need are education reforms. Now I've been saying this for over like four years now. This channel has been active for about four years. I've been saying that. Uh maybe Are we fighting a lost war? I don't know about that. I don't think it's a lost war. Uh maybe it will take longer. Maybe there are problems and and issues and obstacles that we sitting over here can't see perhaps. Maybe the government is better aware of how things are. Maybe these things will take time. I would say be optimistic. I'm an optimistic person. So I'm I don't think it's a lost war. We will win eventually. UMX [snorts] Gluhaha says B.Com absolutely horrible. Should I leave this degree? I don't know, sir. Do you have a plan B? Okay, so you're doing a B.Com. It's horrible. Whether you're doing a B.Com or a B.Tech or whatever, it's going to be horrible. The Indian education system is garbage, it is trash. Your teachers are trash, your textbooks are trash. The syllabus is trash, the curriculum is trash. The exams are trash, everything is trash. It's a waste of people's time, but without the degree you will you will not get a job. My point my question to you is Yeah, I know, I agree, it's horrible, but do you have a plan B? If you quit if you quit your education, if you you know, if you walk out of college or whatever, like Steve Jobs did, Steve Jobs walked out of college. Yeah? Elon Musk walked out of his PhD PhD program. My point is if you if you do that, do you have a plan B? What will you do? If you have a viable plan which is likely to succeed, then go for it. Otherwise, stick to your degree. Biju Saikia says we Hindus consider asuras evil and devas as good, but ancient Iranians used to worship asuras and consider devas evil. Why did they go into this path? Not ancient Iranians, more recent Iranians, Persians. Look, before Zoroaster was born, India and Persia had the same culture, same religion. We worshipped the same gods, same deities. Zoroaster when he was born, when he was a little baby, his parents were Hindus. He was Hindu. But then Zoroaster came up with this new thing. He inverted some of the elements of our religion. So we consider asuras to be complex. We don't necessarily consider asuras to be evil. All asuras aren't evil. Asuras are complex. And they have slightly more negative qualities than the devas. That's how we look at it. But in Persia, what Zoroaster did was he inverted this entire thing and he made the the asuras or the ahuras, because they can't the Persians could not say sa, they said ha instead. So he said that the ahuras are the good guys and the devas are the bad guys. Uh why did they go in that direction? I don't know. But somehow Zoroaster seemed to seems to have been a very charismatic person and he got the entire population of Persia, including maybe not the entire population of Persia, but he got the emperors to take up his path and that's why it became the official state religion of Persia, more or less de facto state religion of Persia. How it happened, we don't know. The records are lost. Why are the records lost? Because Alexander came and destroyed the Persian empire and and burned the capital city of Parshpur. Parshpur. The Greeks called it Persepolis. The actual name was Parshpur. And the Greeks they the Macedonians they burned it, they destroyed everything and no records are left. So we in India know that our ancient universities and and libraries all across the subcontinent were destroyed and burned by the Turks. Where in Persia that happened century what more than a millennium before. The Greeks destroyed Persia. And that's why we don't know when exactly Zoroaster lived and how he was able to get his religion and make his religion the de facto state religion of Persia. We don't know how it happened. Narendra Reddy Narendra Reddy says, "Can I do a business with no job experience?" You can. But if you have job experience, um it give you it makes you better equipped to understand things. But you don't need to have job experience to do a business. You just need to get the fundamentals right. You need to be very careful with your money and you need to scale and etc. You know, it depends on the kind of business you're doing. So, you don't necessarily need job experience to do a business. There are lots of business people who have never worked a job, but they do business. But you need to learn how to do business. See, there are various business communities in India where you learn from your parents because it's it's it's the family business, right? So, typically if you are a young person in such a household, you will be made to work in the in the family shop. Which is kind of like getting job experience, but you also get business experience. So, if you don't have any job experience, it's it doesn't necessarily mean that you can't do a business, but you have to be careful. You do acquire the right skills at the earliest. Rituparna says, "Lenin versus Stalin versus Putin, who is the greatest? Why?" Lenin, Stalin, see thus far Stalin is the I'm not saying Stalin is good. He killed lots of people. He his policies led to the deaths of millions of his own people. But he is the man, Stalin, who transformed this this destroyed nation into a superpower. So, thus far Stalin is the greatest. Lenin I would say Stalin is way greater than Lenin Lenin. Um Of course, Stalin mismanaged some things. He put Crimea into the Ukrainian SSR for administrative reasons be which caused a lot of problems and problems decades later as Putin knows. Could Putin be greater than Stalin? It's too early to tell. If Putin gets his succession right, then he will be remembered as Putin the Great. But if he gets his succession wrong, then everything he has done will be for nothing. Okay? So, Putin will need to be careful about his succession. He is no longer a young man, Mr. Vladimir Putin. He's in his mid early or mid 70s. Uh let's say he has 10 years more before, you know, he will have to relinquish power at some point in time. So, he will have to ensure the succession goes right and the right person comes to power after him. If the wrong person comes to power after him, then everything Putin has worked for will be lost. So, the succession is what matters. If he gets the succession right, then he will be remembered remembered in history as Putin the Great. Otherwise, mhm. Uh Biju Saikia says, "Do you use any mental models?" I'm sure I do, but I don't know what they're called. I have my own mental models. I've not studied textbooks that this is the mental model called so and so and this is how you use it. I use mental models, but I don't know what they are called. I have my own proprietary mental models, which I use for various things. Um not sure what they're called. Amisha Mishra says, "Skin, hair care tips and as a student care of eyes." Skin, hair care tips. Well, it depends from person to person. Everyone's biology is different. Some people have dry skin, some people have oily skin, some people have certain kinds of hair, some people have straight hair, some people have curly hair. I have curly hair. You may not see it from here because I always keep it nice and tidy, but my hair is pretty curly. Okay? That that's sort of hair. So, everyone's kind of, you know, parameters are different. What I would say is that understand the kind of skin that you have and take care of it. If you have oily skin, make sure it's dry. If it's dry skin, make sure that you moisturize. Keep it simple and have a routine. Similarly for hair. So, ideally you should wash your hair like I don't know, three times a week. Use don't use soap to wash your hair. When I was a kid, I used to wash I I used to use soap to wash my hair. Use shampoo, use a conditioner. I mean, use whatever is good. Ideally, it should be more as natural as possible, as chemical free as possible. Uh that's sort of thing. What about eyes? When it comes to eyes, don't read don't When you're reading, don't keep the book too close to your eyes. Keep it at a good distance. Um and you know, if you spend a lot of time reading, it's very likely that you will end up with glasses. That unfortunately as a student, you have to read. You have to read a lot. And that's going to be a a thing. So, I would say spend some time every day outdoors. Look at allow your eyes to look at large long distances. Maybe look spend some time looking at the sky look looking at objects that are like several kilometers away, hills, mountains, whatever. So, that your eyes get used to different focal focal lengths, not just the short focal lengths, that sort of thing. And yeah, that's what I can say. But as a student, if you spend a lot of time reading as every student does, it's highly likely that you will get uh you will have to wear glasses at some point in time. Hope not. Uh if you're a sports person, if you're a cricketer like, you know, I remember where I had read about Sunil Gavaskar that he used to ensure he never read fine print. He would have somebody else read it for him. He would never read fine print. He made sure that he took as good care of his eyes as possible, which means never read longer than you need to. But as a student, you can't do that. So, yeah, you will have to take as many precautions as possible. And uh what else? Yeah, get adequate sunlight. Not too much sunlight. And um I suppose eat carrots for your eyes. I don't know, vitamin D or something. Vitamin A, whatever it is, yeah. Okay. VSVS says, "If no 2014, then we wouldn't demand anything." Yeah, if Mr. Modi had not won in 2014, then I don't know what's what shape India would be in today. Then Indians would not be confident and not not be as demanding as they are today. So, today Indians have aspirations. Indians say that why is this country in such bad shape? India should be a first world nation by now. Uh Indians want India to be a superpower. That's because of the change, the transformation that's happened in India since 2014. India was in terrible shape in 2014. In young people, people who are what, 15, 16 years old have no idea what India was like 20 years ago. It was in terrible shape. India has come a long way since 2014. And because India has grown and advanced so much, I know the problems exist. And that's why Indians are focusing on those problems now that India's economy is so much bigger now, why do we still have those problems? So, we would not demand these things if we were if if we were still in the in the position that we were in 2014, we would not have those aspirations. We would not have those dreams, those hopes, those demands that things need to change bet for the better much faster now. Right? So, we were at zero. Now we have then we reached one, then from one we have reached 10. Now the question is now that we are at 10, how do we reach to 100? That's the question. WBR says, "Free nations of post-Russia forum claims nations like Bashkortostan Bashkors Bashkortostan, Tatarstan, etc. are colonized by Russia and should become independent. It great it gained traction after 2022." That way you can claim everything needs to be independent. I would say go to France and say that Brittany must be should be independent. Comoros should be independent. Go to Spain. In Spain you have Catalonia. You have a a What is it called? What What is it called? A mhm The Basque The Basque region, the Basque country should be independent. In every nation you can start all these independent independence movements. What about the US? The Lone Star State. What about it? What about Quebec on Canada? So, you know, all these these these ideas that they gained since 2022 because in 2022 the Russia did something that the West did not like. Russia started looking out for his for its own interests. It drew a hard red line when it comes to Ukraine. And yeah, so there was a deal. So, Bashkortostan, Tatarstan, etc. This is these are all you know, it's all a matter of convenience. When the West wants to pull, you know, pressurize you, they will start start uh making these narratives and all these claims popular. And they're doing similar things with India also right now. So, yeah, yeah, yeah, indeed. James James says, "So, we gave you a head start of several millennia, and Clive of India still knocked over your civilization in a few years." Yeah, well, Clive of India, yeah. Robert Clive, such a Okay. It's a live show, I should be polite. I should maintain some some politeness and not use certain words for the person. The point is this. Look, India had a head start of several millennia. No question about that, yeah. What happened? Why did Clive get the opportunity to do what he did? Because before the the Christians the before the the Europeans came to India, India was already in bad shape. It It got into bad shape because it was occupied by the Turks for several centuries. Various parts of India, not the entire subcontinent, various parts of India reaping expansion of the occupation, the Turkic occupation. How did the Turks get into India? Because they started invading India, attempting to invade India when India was fragmented. India was no longer under one single empire. The The previous empire was the Gupta empire which had which occupied which which encompassed the entire subcontinent. But empires come in cycles, come and go in cycles. So, the imperial cycle ended. After an empire ends, there's a period of maybe a couple of centuries or multiple centuries of fragmentation. The same thing you find in China and every other imperial systems. So, the Turks invaded India when India was fragmented and that's why they were able to over a period of like three, four centuries make inroads into India and eventually by the 1700s, they occupied a very large portion of the subcontinent. Then the Marathas took over. And the Marathas had this great opportunity to eject all foreigners from India. But there was infighting among the Marathas, too, and the Maratha empire collapsed rather sooner than it should have. And that's why Clive and his and his likes were able to do what they did. And they were pretty rapacious, evil, despicable people, weren't they? I mean, so were the Turks, no question. And that's how it goes. So, my point is there's what's the point of having a great culture? What's the point of having great civilization or a great economy when you cannot deal with barbarians? And that's the lesson of history India needs to learn. It's not enough to develop your economy. We are growing at 8% per year. We will be a middle-income nation in 20 years. Good. But what about your military power? Your military strength should also increase proportionately. Right? Maybe more than proportionately. If you're growing at 8% per year, your military expenditure maybe should grow at 10% per year. Because the larger your economy is, the more valuable your country is. And the more others will be tempted to to to do something about it. So, yeah, that's These are the lessons of history that we have to learn and I appreciate James and thank you, James, for pointing this out and having me speak about this. James. Godliness says Pakistan, even after May conflict, was ready to go all out against India. That 3,000 kg explosive in Faridabad was enough for mass casualties. Their intention is clear, war, and we still don't respond. Why? So, the Pakistanis launched a missile at Delhi. And it was intercepted over Sirsa in Haryana in Haryana, right? A couple of hundred pretty close to Delhi. It was intercepted by one of our air defense systems. And you know, there are these CCTV videos that you find that you will see on social media. There's this big flash. You can see the Indian air defense missile being launched and there's a big flash in the sky and later there's this gigantic bang. Huge bang, which means that the missile the Pakistanis launched had already re-entered the atmosphere. Because otherwise, if it was intercepted outside the atmosphere, there'd be no audible bang. So, the missile was intercepted within the Earth's atmosphere over Sirsa in Haryana. So, that was a missile that was launched at Delhi. I'm not sure what it contained. Did it contain Did it contain conventional explosive or was it something else? So, the Pakistanis Yeah, they they had decided to go after Delhi. And Pakistan, as long as it exists, is going to be a threat to India. So, the only solution to the Pakistan problem is the Balkanization of Pakistan. That's what India has to achieve. Now, why are we not responding as you say? Because Pakistan is not merely Pakistan. When you fight Pakistan, you're not only fighting Pakistan. Pakistan is backed up by the most powerful nation in the world. And the nuclear weapons Pakistan has are most likely American nuclear warheads. So, that also is something we have to factor in. We are not fighting See, when Russia is fighting Ukraine, who was Who is Russia fighting? Is it really fighting Ukraine? Ukraine would The Ukraine war would have ended in 2022 itself. Why is it still going on? Because all those arms, ammunition, weapons, money, funds, everything that Ukraine has, it's coming from the West. What is the West? It's NATO nations. Who controls NATO? The US. Russia is actually fighting a US proxy in Ukraine. Similarly, if India and Pakistan fight, India is fighting an American proxy once again. So, that's the deal. And if we initiate a war, the Americans will impose sanctions on India. So, we'll have to be very careful about how to deal with Pakistan. But the next time there is a fight, we have to break Pakistan into pieces. We have to end the threat once and for all. We can't keep living with this permanent blackmail on our western frontier. So, it has to This This issue will need to be fixed at the earliest. I expect war in the next one or two years. Fast snail. Love that. Fast snail says, "Wouldn't Russia want to fix India-China relations?" No. First of all, Russia can't fix India-China relations. Secondly, understand the dynamics. Russia is currently in the position of being a junior partner of China. Right? And Russia understands that India-China relations It's not some some some machine that you can put a few screws and bolts on and fix the problem, right? It's not like that. Understand what's central to the India-China issue. Why are relations bad between India and China? Relations are bad not because India has been poking China and harassing China, but because China first firstly refuses to demarcate the India-Tibet border. And secondly, China claims more Indian territory. That's why relations are bad, not because of India, but because of China. China is more powerful. India is less powerful. China is about four times more powerful than India. Now, what can Russia do to fix this? Nothing. What can Russia do? Russia can do nothing to fix it. China is right now economically more powerful than China than Russia. And Russia is significantly significantly dependent on China for a variety of things. Um So, that's the situation. Now, if India gets more power becomes more powerful, it would be beneficial for Russia. Because then Russia will have a more powerful ally in India. So, it's it's complicated. And even if And And So, it's not about Russia wanting to fix India-China relations. It's not like we create a cozy company, cozy cozy group. Each nation has its own interests. For Russia, China is a threat. But right now, China is indispensable. But long term, they know that China will is going to turn on Russia. China is going to turn on Russia in the next 5 years. Okay, that's going to happen. And Russia knows this. So, if Russia is going to if China is going to turn on Russia and start threatening Russia and creating problems for Russia in 5 years, why would Russia want to fix India-China relations? Even if it could. Doesn't make sense. Okay, Fast snail says, "When and how did Russia become a Christian nation?" Interesting question. So, the Slavic people So, the Russian people are Slavic people, right? It's an ethnic ethnic group. Who are the world's Slavic peoples? The Russians, the ethnic Russians are Slavs. The Ukrainians are Slavs. The Serbs are Slavs. Okay, so that's how it is. So, the Slavic people historically were followers of the old Indo-European religion. The old Indo-European religion is this religion that was found all across Europe in different manifestations. It is nothing nothing but a different form of the Vedic religion. Okay? That's what it was. Now, now over time you had, you know, for example, when you had the king the European king Charlemagne He lived in the first millennium the last half of the first millennium AD. What was it? 800 AD, 900 AD? Let's quickly take a look at that. He did the northern crusades, very brutal crusades. Let's see. Uh Charlemagne. He was also called Carolus Magnus. He was king of the Franks. Yeah, 774 king of the Franks, 778, died 814 AD. So, the second half of the first millennium AD. And he did this northern crusades. It was pretty brutal. Massacres and whatnot. And he converted a lot of people forcibly to Christianity. So, Christianity the conversion of people to Christianity became this great pan-European project of the church. And over time various parts of Europe were converted to Christianity. The further you were from Rome, the longer it took for the conversion to happen. So, the Vikings were doing raids in in in the British Isles from the 8th to 11th centuries. and it ended with the defeat of Harald the Hardrada in 1066 AD. And after that, the Vikings became Christianized. Their great tree Yggdrasil was was cut down. Uppsala was vandalized. The temple in Uppsala was vandalized destroyed, I'm sure, replaced with a church. And you know, it was all brutal. Now, Russia as a nation has a history of maybe a thousand years. Yeah, with the Kievan Rus, who were of Viking origin. And when did they become Christian, the Kievan Rus? Probably about uh thousand years or 900 years ago. Were they already Christian by the time Probably 800 900 years before today. And there are parts of Russia where Christianity came only in the last 2 300 years. And there are parts of Russia where people still practice, [clears throat] let's say, hybrid Christianity, Christianity with very old pre-Christian traditions intermixed, yeah? And the form of Christianity you have in Russia is is is Orthodox Christianity, which is which is very similar to the Greek form of Christianity. Which is Orthodox Christianity. So, it's been a process. And it's not like Russia became Christian nation like that in all at once. Various parts of Russia became were were converted to Christianity by force in various centuries. And there were people, you know, who were burned alive because they would not convert to Christianity. That happened what, four five six hundred years before today. So, it's been a process, a long process over the past roughly 900 or thousand years. And still, even today, there are some Christians who are recent Christians who recent converts, and they still practice elements of their pre-Christian culture, you know? Uh There is this god called Triglav. Triglav. Tri gla glove god. Slavic mythology, Triglav. So, Triglav in mythology is a three-headed god. Okay. >> [laughter] >> What are the names of the three heads? Um Let's see. Vision vision vision. Okay, in Indo-European mythology, these dark gods have a vision problem. Odin, Velenus, Varuna. Who is Varuna? >> [laughter] >> As you can see, Triglav, Slavic god. Three-headed god. So, the the this god Triglav essentially is Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva. That's what he is. And >> [clears throat] >> this god in was worshipped until pretty recently in some parts of Russia. So, it's been a long process, all right? Uh Fast Snail says, "Musk attributes his son's name to S. Chandrasekhar Subramanian Chandrasekhar." Which son? He's got lots of sons, right? He's got like 11 12 kids. I'm not sure which son it could be, but interesting. Musk Subramanian Chandrasekhar. Let's see. Let's Let's Google it. Uh Elon Musk son dra dra Let us see. Shivon. Okay, Shi Shivon his his partner Shivon Zilis, who is half Indian. Okay, one of their twins has the middle name Shekhar, honoring Subramanian Chandrasekhar. Okay. Okay, interesting. Fantastic. Interesting. Yeah, so so his So, he has two children with this lady, right? Shivon Zilis. Shivon Zilis, I believe her mother was Indian. So, she's half Indian. And yeah, okay. So, one of their kids has the middle name Shekhar. Okay, interesting. Aries Manticore says, "Um I think something interesting is happening across Europe and Asia. Christianity is creeping back slowly within the Gen Z men, and Gen Z hyperliberalism is increasing among the women. Engineered Uh engineered as well as a reaction. Look, what's happening in Europe Forget about the US for now for for a minute. Let's talk about Europe. In Europe, what's happening is that there is an invasion that's being engineered of Europe. An invasion of Europe by people by young military age males who come from specific nations and who have a specific religion. That invasion of Europe is being engineered by the European Union. And some nations who that don't want to accept these immigrants, they have to pay protection money. Protection money essentially to Brussels. Some of multiple millions of dollars every year so that they don't have to accept migrants. So, the immigration is horribly damaging to European societies. And if a nation doesn't want the immigration, they have to pay money to Brussels, which is like paying the local goonda so that the goonda doesn't come and beat you up. That sort of thing. So, that's what's happening. Now, most nations in the EU, they have they are being forced to accept this this immigration. And this immigration is causing a reaction in European society. And the males, young males, are getting radicalized. And they That's why they are going back to Christianity. Right? Gen Z men, Gen Z young men, etc. And hyperliberalism is increasing among women. I think, you know, men and women, they have very different psychologies, very different uh um the way they see the world, etc. It's It's pretty different for men and women. So, maybe maybe this is women are more susceptible to liberalism. I'm not sure what it is, but it looks like that, yeah. So, there's this polarization of society that's happening. Men are becoming more radicalized. They're becoming more more traditional. They are going back to Christianity. And women are becoming hyperliberal, that sort of thing. And maybe in the US also you you are seeing more of that now. Now. Uh now that Biden the Biden regime is over and Trump is back, and Trump is more of a conservative, and now that this wokism is now kind of on the back burner in the US to to a certain extent, it is you are seeing this resurgence of of of slightly more traditional values in at least in some sections of society. Mainly among young men. Yeah, so partly engineered, partly backlash, and partly partly natural. Narendra Reddy says, "What's with recent rise in hate on Indians online?" We've discussed this so many times. Um It's engineered, right? It's been engineered since February 2022. In February 2022, Russia launched the special military operation on Ukraine. And the West, the US, expected India to tow its line. They expected India to participate in US and Western sanctions on Russia. They expected India India to condemn the invasion and and uh you know, decouple from Russia. And India did the exact opposite. And that's why there was this big outlash backlash against India. This outpouring of hatred towards India, which was manufactured on social media. It starts with all the big media outlets like the BBC, like this like the CNN, New York Times, Washington Post putting out daily articles castigating India and raking India over the coals. Then you have think tanks like Rand Rand Rand Corpora- corporation. And god knows how many think tanks all putting out anti-India articles. And then there was this concerted campaign on social media of demonizing India and and you know, all kinds of nasty things about India being said by bots, anonymous accounts. And that has continued since 2022. It's been what, more than three three and a half years. So, over time, that that that compounds. And that's why it is now very fashionable really fashionable fashionable to to hate on Indians and be racist against Indians online. And then you have the Chinese and the Pakistanis piling in. So, you have all these, you know, accounts on on X and whatnot, which are super hateful towards Indian Indians. And now that X is making it mandatory to show your region, you will see all those accounts based in so-called South Asia. So, you can choose your country or region. If you don't want to see say Pakistan, you have to say South Asia. So, when it says South Asia, it's either Bangladesh or Pakistan. So, it's a bunch of Pakistani and Bangladeshi accounts who have been masquerading as Indians, who are now saying they're South Asians. And they're all anti-India accounts. And the Chinese also are involved in this. So, that's why there is this massive hate against Indians online. Neil says, "Your thoughts on three uh Atlas alien possibilities?" I don't believe it's an alien thing. I have seen no evidence of that. None whatsoever. Rahul says, "Shed some light on Devadasi propaganda." I don't know sufficient I don't have sufficient information about this. What I know is that these were temple dancers. And I eventually some kind of distortion of the historical facts happened because of the missionaries in the British, but I don't know what the details are, so I can't say, sorry. Aries Manticore says, "You need not be discouraged about the horrendous education system and declining culture. Our civilization will evolve and survive in its own unique way by sheer necessity enforced by the public." I really hope so. I am a very optimistic person. It is very hard to discourage me. So, I will follow your instructions and I will not be discouraged. So, thank you so much for for the encouragement and for reminding me not to be discouraged. Thank you very much. Ankita ji says, uh question by Annamalai uh in in Yamaraj Sydney attack, what's going on? How to stop such attacks in India? Sydney attack, it happened today, right? Um Bondi Beach, an iconic beach in Sydney. Sydney, probably Sydney. And there was some kind of Jewish Jewish I don't know. Festival was it? Some kind of Jewish event was there at the beach. And it looks like a bunch of Pakistanis came with with with with weapons, rifles or something. And they shot a apparently shot a lot of people. I don't know how many people have been shot. I don't know how many casualties may or may not have happened. Let's let's quickly take a look at what's happened. Yeah, let's see. Bondi Beach uh beach attack. Attack. Okay, so do we have Okay, there we have this. It's already there, Wikipedia article. Okay, Hanukkah celebration hosted by the Chabad of Bondi. And 12 people were killed. Good lord. Including one of the two shooters. The second shooter is in custody, okay. Do the shooters have names? Let's see. Okay, we know what Bondi Beach is. Two men pump action shotguns, bolt action rifle, red dot sight. One of the shooters blah blah blah, response casualties, assailants two men dressed etc. Killing one gunman, another one is shot and taken critical condition. What are their names? What are their names? What are their names? I would like to know the names. Um various nations, Prime Minister Modi offered condolences. Um beach shooting. I'm pretty sure at least one of these two gunmen was of Pakistani origin. So, yeah. Okay. So, that's what's happened. Looks like uh there have been casualties, sadly. Um What's going on? Well, there is this great hatred towards Jews from people who belong to certain countries. And that's why this has happened. Right? And um the Western world, see Australia is part of the Western world even though it's in Oceania. The Western world has been very somehow likes these people very much. People from certain countries, especially Pakistan. So, they are importing them and this is what this is the consequence of that. So, that that's what's going on. It's it's terrible, it's tragic that these gunmen have shot people. Uh how to stop such attacks in India? By being constantly vigilant. There's no solution, no other solution. Be constantly vigilant. That's the only thing. Sadly. Vinayak Naik says, a big admirer of Nala. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you very much. Could you please share your insights on Odisha's history, particularly the role role of the Khandayat community in shaping it? I don't know anything, sadly, about the Khandayat community. There are thousands of these very interesting communities all across India with their own rich and deep history going back, I don't know how many centuries, how many thousands of years. But I I don't know about this particular community, so I can't say. But yeah, Odisha's history, I've spoken about this at great length in on multiple occasions. Great history, glorious history of Odisha. Odisha, it is Odisha, it's the people of Odisha that Indianized Southeast Asia, that brought Indian that took Indian culture to Southeast Asia. Uh the people of Odisha, the people of Kalinga were trading with Suvarnabhumi, which is Southeast Asia, from at least 3,000 years before today. At least 1,000 BC, most likely before that. And to trade, they had to cross the so-called Bay of Bengal, the Kalinga Kalinga Sagar. You can't cross that with small boats. They they used big ships for that. So, that once again is an example of how ancient our seafaring, our maritime traditions are. India is the world's oldest maritime civilization. So, the people of Odisha of of Kalinga would cross the the ocean, go to Suvarnabhumi, trade with them, and this happened for centuries and centuries and centuries. Eventually, the whole of Southeast Asia became Indianized. They absorbed our culture, our religion, our civilizational traditions, not through force, but just by constant interaction. Yeah. So, if you had Hinduism all across Southeast Asia, Indonesia, etc., it's thanks to the great people of Odisha. So, that's just one small aspect of the history of Kalinga. So much more, of course. Uh Honey Sharma says, "21 million gave CAT this year and won't get 21 M. Okay, you are 21 male. You're male, you're 21 years old. I gave the CAT this year and won't get the college I desire. I'll give it next week. If I make it then, I'll be 25 when I'm out of college. Then education loan, want to travel the world before getting married married. I'll be 28 by then. Is it too old? Mm. This this is the dilemma everybody has. Young All young people have. So, you gave CAT this year, did not get the college you want you desired. You will give it next year. If you get it by next year, then you'll be 25 by the time you're out of the college. Then there's an education loan that you will have take for going through college. Then you want to travel the world while getting before getting married. So, let's say you travel the world for 3 years, you'll be 28. And then by by then, is it too old to get married? I would say Look, let's say hopefully you get the college you desire next year. You're 25 by the time you're out of the college. I would say you you get married and travel the world. I know it will cost more. But I it'll be a better experience, perhaps. Or maybe you have Okay, it's up to you. >> [laughter] >> It's up to you what you want to do with life. Is 28 too old to get married? A little old, I would say. But there are people who get married in the in their 30s and have good lives. So, it it depends. From my perspective, I urge all young people to get married at the earliest. Uh before 25. When you will be for in your 40s, you will realize I was I was right. At this time, you might think I'm not. So, I would urge everybody to get married by the time you're 25 or something. But if you want to get married by 28, I don't think it's too late. It's entirely up to you. So, all the best, sir. Do well. Yeah, I hope you get the college you desire next year. And uh go follow your dreams and ambitions and do well in life. All the best. I don't think 28 is too late, right? Okay. Hrithik Pawar says, "Is it is it possible for humans to destroy Earth into debris?" No. We don't have that power yet. We don't have the Death Star like like in Star Trek. It's not possible for humans to destroy the Earth into bits. No, we don't have the power. Rajat says, "We have we have DRDO We have GTRE, the Gas Turbine Research Establishment. We have DRDO uh Defense Research Development and Development Organization. We have Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. What has stopped India from manufacturing its own jet in the past 40 years? We are begging for engines. Where is the technology gap?" Yeah. We have all these fantastic organizations. What have they been doing? Some of the blame lies with the organizations. Some of the blame lies with the government. For example, if you see DRDO. DRDO was founded what, 1958? It was founded the same year as DARPA, D A R P A, DARPA. DARPA is the United States version of DRDO. And DARPA has given the US some of the greatest technological breakthroughs in human history. Stealth technology and so much more. DARPA. DARPA was founded in 1958, DRDO also 1958. DARPA today has about double the budget of DRDO. Not 10 times, not 100 times, only double. So, DRDO has a similar budget as DARPA. But DARPA has 150 employees or people working for DARPA. 150. DRDO has about 20,000, 30,000. That's the difference. And out of those 20,000, 30,000 employees that DRDO has, 5,000 are scientists. So, why are 25,000 non-scientists working for DRDO? This is how we sabotage ourselves. I don't know what DRDO was Okay, let's find Let's Let's Let's do this right now. Yeah, DRDO. DRDO. Um let's see. DRDO founded which year? 1958. See, I was right. 1958. What is the budget? Annual budget is 3.2 billion for DRDO. And I was right. 30,000 employees with 5,000 scientists. So, what are 25,000 non-scientists doing with these with this money that is scientific budget the R&D budget. This is how we mess everything up. Why are 25,000 non-scientists leeching off that money? This is the problem in India. We mess everything up by design. Everything is designed wrong. And then then how will anything happen? And then you have administrators and and managers and bureaucrats telling each employee what to do. They will report to one guy who will report to another guy who will report to another guy. This this detailed pyramidal structure hierarchical structure. In DARPA, there's no hierarchy. 150 people work for DARPA and they get the entirety of the budget. No no not a single non-scientist get gets any of the budget of DARPA. Let's see DARPA also since since since since since we saw DRDO. So, when was DARPA established? I just checked DRDO. DARPA was established when? 1958. See, I was right once again. How many employees do they have? 220. Okay, not 150, 220. Annual budget 4.122 billion, which is like double roughly of DRDO. But think about what DARPA has given to the US. The technological breakthroughs DARPA has given to the US. And think about what DRDO has done. Has DRDO since 1958 produced a single groundbreaking world-class technology? No. All we are doing is trying to replicate what the West did 20 30 years ago. That's all. And it's not like the scientists are bad, the engineers are bad. They can only do what they are told to do. They can't take up a project they want to take up because it's good for the country. They can only work on projects that are sanctioned from all the way up. And that vision comes from politicians. So, look, these are the problems. And that's why we are still begging for engines. You see the problems? The problems are designed into the system. If there are problems, they are the problems are part of the design. Whoever designed this, they introduced problems knowingly into the system. And we are just continuing that all year after year after year, decade after decade. What are we doing? I just don't get it. Okay, Animesh says, "Any great movies you'd recommend that come to mind?" Any great movies? I should make list of movie recommendations, maybe 50 movies or something. Great movies. Look, some of the greatest movies of all time are from the 20th century. In compared to today's movies, you may think it's these are quite slow. For example, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. One of the greatest movies I've ever seen in our entire life. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. Good God, what a great movie it is. But you may find it slow. You want action and explosions every 2 minutes, it's not for you. But if you want a true experience, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, The Seven Samurai, uh movies by Akira Akira Kurosawa, Japanese director. When I was a small kid, I had this this movie came out. Kagemusha. I never saw it, but I I should see it. I'm not sure how good it was or but it's a Kurosawa movie. So, movies by Sergio Leone, um movies that star Bud Spencer and Terence Hill, outstanding movies from the 1960s, 70s, perhaps even 80s they were they were getting old. Bud Spencer, Terence Hill were Italian actors actually. Um I love Jim Carrey movies. I love comedy movies. The Mask, um The Godfather one and two, the Star Wars trilogy, the original one, not the later one. Um The greatest science fiction movie in the past 20 years, 25 years is Interstellar. I hated Arrival. Arrival is a is a art movie trying to pretend to be a science fiction movie. Garbage. I didn't like it at all. Not garbage, well-made, very cinematic, very you know, well-produced movie etc., but didn't do it anything for me. I loved um Interstellar. Great. Um so, maybe I should make a separate list for that, yeah? Aries Manticore says, "I think they are geoengineering a radical Muslim population in the West on purpose to radicalize their own citizens towards soft authoritarianism. National Socialism is rising fast, especially in the United States." Uh that could potentially perhaps uh explain some of what's happening in the Western world, in Europe, in the United States. Yeah, maybe maybe. Geoengineering. Maybe it's social engineering more than geoengineering, but it has geo the geo element too. Of course, it's happening over a wide geographical um expanse, let's say. Indeed. Aries Manticore says, "Hi sir, lately you seem exhausted. Please take care." I I seem exhausted? See, lately I've been doing very extended sessions. Usually, I used to do these two-hour sessions. Now you can see it's 2 hours 53 minutes. You speak speak speak for three, four I've I've done four-hour sessions. I've done six-hour session. I did one almost nine-hour session. So, you do those very lengthy session sessions sitting in one place, you're going to be a little tired eventually. But anyway, thank you so much for the concern. I do take care. And uh yeah, thank you. >> [clears throat] >> Abhinav says, "Why doesn't the US force all its vassals like the EU, Japan, South Korea to impose uh sanctions on India if it wants to contain India's rise?" Well, have you heard of Mexico? Mexico has recently imposed tariffs on India. Let's see. They will do it in a phased manner, not not all at once. You see, Mexico tariff on India. There we have it. Check it out. Mexico has imposed 50% tariffs on Indian goods. Would you believe it? Mexico is Mexico is a friendly nation. Nothing explains this except that Mexico has been pressurized into doing this by the Trump regime. So, anyway, it's not like we have a huge amount of trade with Mexico, but you know, this is what the US is doing. It's not like Mexico suddenly decided I'll impose tariffs on on India. Mexico and India have friendly relationship, good relationship. The Americans, the Trump regime have forced Mexico to do this. So, they may do this vis-a-vis other nations also. They may ask European nations to do that. They may ask Japan, South Korea perhaps. So, wherever India has significant substantial amount of trade, they could force their vassals to do that in those cases, yeah? Rajat says, "What does What What does it mean that identical fermions cannot have the same state? How does it affect atoms in matter?" See, in quantum mechanics, there's something called quantum statistics. And there are there's Bose-Einstein statistics and Fermi-Dirac statistics. Particles, so you know, fundamental particles or subatomic particles that that that follow Bose-Einstein statistics are called bosons. And particles that follow Fermi-Dirac statistics are called fermions. Bosons have integer spins, spin What spin? Well, when we think of spin, we think of this, right? This, that. Well, you can think of it that way, but quantum spin is something different. It's not exactly particle spinning, but yeah, let's let's think of it that way. So, bosons have integer spin. And and fermions have half integer spin. And fermions follow the Pauli exclusion principle. And we don't know where it comes from, what causes it. Okay? But what the Pauli exclusion principle says that, you know, you have energy levels in bound states in quantum mechanics. And the Pauli exclusion principle says that no two identical fermions can occupy the same energy level in a quantum system. So, think of it as a quantum system like let's say let's say the hydrogen atom. The hydrogen atom has two elements. One is the nucleus, which is simply one proton. And the other one is the electron that orbits the proton. Think of it very crudely and incorrectly as the the moon orbiting the earth. It's not like that, but you can think of it like that just to just for the sake of, you know, understanding. So, that's what you have. A proto electron going along going around neutron about proton. Now, the electron can occupy various energy levels. Now, if you have a more a complex atom with let's say 50 electrons or whatever, then each electron will have a certain energy state. And electrons are fermions. Protons, neutrons, electrons are fermions. So, electrons if it is in an excited state, higher energy state, then it's going to the it's going to affect the the mass and the energy configuration of the atom. And the point is that when it comes to the lowest energy state in the in the atom, it's going to be only one electron that's going to be there. So, the point is the what this says, what the Pauli exclusion principle what the effect it has is that matter occupies space. Okay? So, when you try to squeeze an atom, there's going to be a pressure outwards that comes from the Pauli exclusion principle. Because no matter how hard you squeeze, the Pauli exclusion exclusion principle ensures that no two identical fermions can be in the same uh state, the same energy state, which is why matter is spaced out. And that's why matter occupies space. You see? You see, why does this ball occupy space? Because of the Pauli exclusion principle. Why do our physical bodies occupy actual space? The Pauli exclusion principle. And you can make jokes out of it, but I will not do those here. Okay, Abhinav Singh, thank you very much, sir. You did this yesterday also. You gifted memberships. Thank you so much. Thank you to everybody who's doing this. Abhinav Singh ji, thank you very much for gifting memberships to our viewers. That is so kind of you. I really appreciate that, sir. Rahul Lak says, "Have you read or watched The Expanse?" I haven't watched it or or read it. Brief review review comments opinion on the science and politics of it. I haven't watched it. I I would love to watch so many of these science fiction another series, you know, but I just don't have the time. So, I haven't seen it. I haven't watched it. I haven't read it. So, I won't be able to comment on that, but I've heard it's interesting. Well, let's see what is the IMDb rating of that, The Expanse. Let's see. Expanse. So, The Expanse came out in which year? 2019. It's got 8.5 on IMDb, which is outstanding. Does it have a diverse cast? Does it have a strong female lead? I don't know about that, but it looks like it's interesting. Uh but I haven't had the time to watch it. It's available on Prime Video, apparently. Okay? Haven't read it or seen it or read it. Sorry. Uh Neal Singha is a new member. Thank you so much, sir, for becoming a member. Let us all welcome Neal Singha ji to the membership of the channel. Thank you very much, sir. Appreciate it very much. Biju Saikia says, "Is China hiding its economic crisis?" I don't know. I'm not sure. Um Is China hiding an economic crisis? Does it have a crisis? See, its GDP doesn't seem to be growing very fast anymore. It's stuck at 18 trillion dollars roughly thereabouts. Um But is there a major crisis that's brewing in the Chinese economy? Is it Is it hiding that? I am not quite sure about that. Not quite sure about that. Uh Critical Returns Returns says, "Finite Hilbert space imply time and that heat death?" I'm not sure Hilbert space has something to do with time. Um The time is is Yeah, the question essentially is about time, right? When does time begin? When does time end? That's what you're asking. And uh the heat death of the universe, does time end there? Yeah, we don't know about time. Time is the biggest mystery. And even in quantum mechanics that you're referring to, uh time is an external parameter. It's an external parameter. It's a classical parameter. It's not a quantum parameter. It's not an observable. Is it an observable? Position and momentum are observables, right? Time is not an observable. No. Time is an external parameter. It's a classical parameter. So, time quantum mechanics cannot explain time. It does not It's not in a position to explain time right now. There are some theories that say that, you know, time emerges. It's an emergent phenomenon. It emerges from emerges from quantum entanglement, etc., but that's theory. There's no actual experimental evidence of that. So, we don't have an answer about time right now. Does time end at heat death? Does it have something to do with you know, Hilbert space? Um No, we don't have the answers. Rajat says, "As asked by you, Vedantic definition of consciousness is it It's that which is different from things which are known and unknown to mind." It's that which is different from things which are known and unknown to mind. It's I I first thought it's philosophical, but it's the most scientific answer. Scientific. Okay, I'll think about it. Is it Is it philosophical or is it scientific? A scientific definition of something means it's it's it's something that's physical. See, in in science, let's come to the subset of science that we're dealing with with with physics. In physics, something When you say something, that something has to be observable, quantifiable, measurable. Now, is consciousness observable, quantifiable, measurable measurable? It's not. So, I'm not sure this is a scientific or or physical answer. This is definitely philosophical. It's an interesting It's an interesting definition. It's that which is different from things which are known and unknown to mind. But when we are dealing with knowns and unknowns, it's not very very scientific. That's how I see it. I'll I'll I'll have to think about it a little more because this is the very interesting definition. I'll I'll revisit this. But well, thank you for sharing this. This is definitely interesting, very interesting. I will spend some time thinking about this. Maybe I'll get back to you about this in a future episode. Thank you. Okay. Prabhu to P says, "Thought on Quest for Love book." Why Indian people are not responsible independent like we see in other Asian countries, although all colonized? Quest for Love book. What is that? Quest for Love book. Let's see. Quest for Love book. What is that? Good God. Oh God, I'm not sure this is my going to be my favorite thing to read ever. >> [snorts] >> Anikya Lucas. Who is this? Is this a real thing? Anikya Lucas is a blah etc. Oh God, this will be harrowing to read. I don't think I am going to read this thing. This is Look, uh I like as much positivity in my life as possible. I know you have to read and learn about the world and all, but I don't think this is something I would ever want to read. So, yeah, I I haven't read it. I was not aware of this. And I don't think I'm going to read this. It's not what I need at this point in time or ever. I know these things exist and there's a lot of horrible stuff in the world. So sadly. Yeah, but um whoever that lady is, I I sorry for whatever she went through. I hope I wish her well. But uh I'm not going to be reading that. Yeah, sorry. Uh why are Indian people not responsible independent like we see in other Asian countries? Even though all were colonized. Different different forms of colonization, different time periods of colonization. When we say colonization, we are we mean foreign occupation. Now, India has been under foreign occupation for a thousand years. Okay? The Turkic occupation starts on the northwestern fringes of India, and it eventually came all the way into other parts of India. So, all of India was not under foreign occupation a thousand years ago, but it starts about a thousand years ago. And then further north you go, the more mentally colonized people are. This is something many people will observe. But not necessarily that the further south you go, the less mentally colonized people are. It depends on so many different factors. But when a culture is under foreign occupation for a thousand years, it's going to have deep scars. It's going to leave leave behind deep deep scars. And we have introduced a very poisonous thing in our system, which is the colonial education system that was crafted by the English. And we still continue that. So, we have been we have been indoctrinating and brainwashing generation after generation of Indians for about since about what? The 1860s, 1870s. And we're still doing that today. It's been what? 150, 160, 160 years. More than 160 years. So, that's why generation after generation the same system is being used to brainwash and mentally colonize and indoctrinate our people. That's why we are so uh the way we are. Incapable of thinking independently. Indians are like goddamn sheep. The moment you you you show independent thinking, they will all descend upon you with their parroting the thoughts from their teachers and textbooks. It's it's so sad to see Indians relying on dogma. Dogma, as like Steve Jobs once said in some address, dogma is nothing but the product of other people's thinking. Dogma is the the result of other people's thinking. Every idea that most Indians express is the result of other people's thinking. They don't have original ideas and thoughts. That's what the system has done to Indians. That's why they are like this. The system is designed to turn Indians into zombies in this manner. And this is what we what we tom-tom as the great wonderful new education policy. Yes, there have been some little small changes that are good. This change of syllabus, etc., but the overall system is still based on rote rote memorization and absolute obedience. And third-rate teachers. What will change? Nothing. King Ritwik says, "Middle-aged people are taking trips to Ladakh and Sikkim because of hype of mountains. They suffer from breathlessness. Precautions they should take." Um You have to be careful going to Ladakh. Sikkim is not that high. Ladakh is super super high. Uh what precautions do you have to take? First of all, if you are a smoker, don't go to Ladakh. You will not regret it. Okay? Secondly, uh you will need to ensure that you you have good car- cardiovascular health, good lung capacity, and um you need to have good endurance. If you have these qualities, then you will be able to uh survive Ladakh and tolerate the the high altitude. See, what happens at high altitude is that there is less oxygen. So, your cardiovascular efficiency needs to be high in order to be to able to to be able to tolerate this. When you're at high altitudes, even your vehicles perform poorly because your vehicles need oxygen for combustion. So, if you have a four-wheel drive SUV that performs at a you know, has a certain horsepower rating at sea level, you take it to Ladakh, it's going to be like 1/3 of that or something. I mean, it's going to be way less than what it is at sea level. It's going to when you drive, you'll feel it's much weaker than what it is. The same applies to us, human beings, our our respiration. So, my the precautions you should take is if you are a smoker, don't go to Ladakh. If you have any breathing issues, don't go to Ladakh. If you are reasonably healthy, but you're overweight or whatever, then I'm not saying lose weight. Just you know, work on your endurance. Go for, you know, practice jogging like 30 minutes a day for for a couple of months before you go to Ladakh. That That should That should ensure that there's no issues. If you have diabetes, if you have any pre-existing health conditions, I would recommend don't go to Ladakh. You need to be strong, sturdy, and healthy to go to Ladakh. I went to Ladakh a couple of years ago with like three young three young guys who are part of my team. And one guy who's 20, I'm I'm climbing a monastery and that guy is like all dizzy and has to sit down. So, even young people will face issues if you are not careful uh when you go to Ladakh. So, my point is so, and and there is this this one pill I don't remember what it's called, but you know, if you take that one pill that that pill, then um you will not be that susceptible to to altitude sickness or something. I'm not sure what the what the pill is called, but you can look it up. I have never taken it. But uh yeah, I I think it helps. It helps. So, yeah. [clears throat] Do some research. If you're reasonably healthy, make sure that, you know, your endurance is good, your lung power is good, your cardiovascular system is in good good shape. Practice jogging 20 30 minutes a day for a couple of months before you go there. And take the pill. Um ask your travel agent for what pill it is or look it up online, right? All right. All the best. Um Anantha Subramanian says, "What key lessons of history do do most people miss?" Don't Didn't I take this question about a couple of hours ago? Same person, I think. We've taken this question, sir. We've we've taken this question. Maybe I'll I'll expand upon that upon this in a future video or something. But yeah, it's definitely like it's it's certainly very interesting and very important topic. But I did speak about this a while ago, couple of hours ago. We are like 3 hours 10 minutes into this episode. In the first hour or so, I took it. Okay. Ares Manticore says, "I came across a mathematical research focused on proving that the selfish gene theory to be false. Will AI be used to accelerate evolution for say life extension or interstellar adaptation? What's my take?" Okay. Selfish gene theory, I haven't read Dawkins and his work. Is it Dawkins Richard Dawkins Selfish Gene? Let me see. Gene. Richard Dawkins. Yeah, I am not a big fan of all this popular science crap. I haven't read this book. Yeah. If if I read science, I actually read research papers and go deeper into things. Anyway, uh so, I am not sure about this selfish gene, what the theory is, what the book is about. And um so, I won't be able to comment about that. Now, will AI be used to accelerate evolution for various things? Yeah, suddenly. You can accelerate [clears throat] evolution through genetic engineering. For example, you can create uh you know, customized babies. When your baby is an embryo, you can do some genetic engineering genetic genetic modification using maybe CRISPR or something. And and create a super baby with with all the best you know, genetic advantages you can possibly have through genetic engineering. And you can use AI to to you know, to do genetic engineering better than you can do it right now. So, it's definitely going to AI is definitely going to be used in genetic engineering to to target specific genes and to to introduce specific traits in your offspring and future organisms and so on. It can also also be used for genetic warfare using gene drives and whatnot. So, there's it's going to have all kinds of applications in genetics, for sure. So, that when you when you edit your genes and you pass that on to the next generation, you are interfering in the process of of evolution. And you it can be said that you are selectively um you you are you are you're selecting the direction in which evolution goes. And you are accelerating the process of evolution because it would not have happened naturally. Yeah. >> [clears throat] >> Gajapathi Deva says, "Have you read Delimitation by Professor Desiraju views?" I have read the book Delimitation by Professor Desiraju. I've had him on a podcast in which we have discussed the book. My views, I think it's a very good book. Uh what he what Professor Desiraju suggests is very good. He's suggesting that India should He's recommending that India should have 75 states instead of the number of states we that we have today. I pretty much agree with what he says. I would take it one step further. I would say maybe we need to have 100 states. I'm not sure what is the right number. 75 seems to be a good number. And that would have all kinds of benefits like better governance, better better administration, a better access to to power to for for ordinary people and and so much more, you know? So, yeah, it's it's a great book. It's a great um recommendation. And it would be great if it happens. Yeah. Chirag Yunat says, "I have always wondered, why do why do rich people and countries always turn more always turn socialistic after getting rich and they want to entrench the same bad behavior that led them to being poor?" Um see, >> [clears throat] >> when when do you How does somebody become How does a society become rich? A society becomes rich when it is lean, when it is deprived of things, and when it is strongly desirous of of a better lifestyle, of better living standards, of better of of better circumstances. So, when you are in living in hardship, that's when you have the highest motivation day after day after day. You don't need to look for motivation, it's all around you. You are very uncomfortable. You are very unhappy. So, you have the greatest motivation to to escape that. So, that's how you work really hard and you become powerful and rich. Once you are rich, you become soft. You enjoy the fruits of your labor. Subsequent generations don't understand what the previous generations had to go through so that the nation could become rich. Right? They are born into into into luxury. They are born into into into wealth. And they think that that's how things should be. And that's the That's when so, they are born into an era where there are no problems in the nation. No no real problems in the nation. But the human mind is such that we seek some struggle in life to give us meaning. Without struggle, life has no meaning. Without a prob- without problems to solve, life seems meaningless. So, we look for problems. Then we look at small problems, you know, social stratification, social status, and some people have less wealth than us, and we should make everybody equal, and all that nonsense comes from there. So, that's what happens. And that's why we have imperial cycles. Empires come, rise and fall, rise and fall, rise and fall. Always happens because of this process. See, and that that's an issue. >> [clears throat] >> But it's it's part of human nature. Looks like we can't escape that. Okay. Kiki Sushant, well, thank you very much, sir, for your contribution. Really really appreciate that. Thank you, sir. Fast Snail says, "I admire how you can switch switch context and answer questions spontaneously. I need some tips for job interviews when I when I fail to convince, but I know the answer." You have to practice. You know the answer, but you haven't practiced answering it. You have to first of all, you need to first of all, anticipate all the googlies they can throw at you. In American parlance, they say curve balls. In Indian parlance, we'll say googlies. You have to be able to anticipate all the tricks they can spring upon you as interviewers. And then you need to practice. Have somebody play the role of interviewer, give them a list of all the tough questions, all the questions you expect, all the unexpected questions, and have them interview you over and over and over again. And practice your delivery. Practice giving the right answer. You know the answer, but maybe the first time you did not give it properly in the practice session. So, then think about what how you could have done better. Then do another practice session in which you do a better job. And you do it over and over again. Maybe 10 20 times you do the the process of the mock interviews. Then you're going to be confident. And ask your friends not to be very friendly to you. Ask them to be, you know, that sort of thing. So, put yourself in that situation in in in in a situation that would be very similar to the actual interview. That's what you do. And in case you don't have friends who who will do this for you, well, practice in front of a mirror. In case you don't have privacy, do it at night or whatever. Find a way. Go to the forest and talk to the trees like Abraham Lincoln used to do. So, the point is practice, practice, practice. Then it becomes natural and spontaneous. All right. All the best, sir. Fast snail. Uh Prashant Sharma says, "Bondi Beach incident, what will leftists say now? Terrible, horrible, tragic, ghastly, unacceptable incident." I have no idea what the leftists will say. The leftists will still say that let's import more Pakistanis. I'm sure. Australian leftists, right? Um and leftists across the world will say that you know what, Pakistan is still a peaceful and nice nation. So, they will not change their attitude, their behavior, their approach. But we know what Pakistan is. Looks like at least one of the gunmen was a Pakistani. Looks like that. So, my question is why is the government of Australia importing Pakistanis, and especially Pakistanis who are prone to such such activities, actions. I don't get it. Terrible. Horrible. So, it's it's terrible that this thing has happened. Um unfortunately, it looks like there have been some casualties. Just just bad, terrible, avoidable. Hyphen says, "I grew up in India. I moved to the UK when I was 18. I'm a truck driver in the UK, but not comfortable driving in India anymore. Always wondered how over traffic and driving problems can be solved. Look, so you drive in the UK. In the UK, in any Western country, you're going to have traffic rules that are followed. You're going to have high-quality road surfaces. No bumps and craters and potholes. You won't have that. It's It's unheard of even in the countries and countryside. And um for people that that break the the traffic rules, etc., there's going to There's always consequences, right? In India, we don't have that. In India, when you go for the uh driving test to get your license, they're going to grill you over the rules, traffic rules, and driving rules, and whatnot, regulations, and so on. The moment you get your license, you can forget about that because nobody follows any traffic rules. Go outside of your house, no matter where you are in India, and if you are wondering what the problem in India is, go out and look at the traffic. Does anybody follow traffic rules? Nobody does. So, that's the number one problem. There's no enforcement. It's not like people don't want to follow traffic rules. It's that people over generations have not been policed and enforced. So, the traffic rules have not been enforced. So, the just people just drive. And yet, you don't have those many accidents that you would expect because what what what reasons. So, firstly, there is no enforcement of traffic rules. Secondly, you have terrible roads in lots of many parts of India, right? So, um how can all these problems be solved? First, through proper enforcement of the rules. Second, consequences for those who break the rules. Third, by improving the surfaces, the the quality of the roads by having a uniform standard across the country, and a high standard, not a low standard, right? The solutions are pretty simple. But enforce But implementing those, well, it can be implemented in a in over the across the country in 2 3 years. But looks like it's not high on the list of priorities for the powers that be. UMX Glow Allah ha ha says, "How is air quality index calculated? Is the air really bad that bad here?" I'm not sure how the air quality index is calculated. I I calculated. I have never looked into it. So, I could start looking into it, but it'll take time. But I'm sure there's a you know, a standard way of calculating it. Is the air really that bad in India? Not all across India. You go to different parts of India, you'll have different kinds of air quality. But yeah, in certain parts of India like during the winter time in northern India, there's terrible air quality. You can see that. I mean, whenever I land in Delhi when it's in winter, starting from what, October, November, typically November onwards all the way to February, the moment you land, before you land, you can see it, you know? When you're flying, you can see there's a there's a clear separate layer of haze all the way down. And above that about 10 km up, there is blue sky. So, once the aircraft reaches an altitude of of 8 9 km above the surface, that's when you see that you are above the layer of haze. That layer of haze is just just smoke. And when you are flying above the Delhi region in the darkness, you can see fires dotting the landscape. Fires that are lit by farmers, apparently. So, there are all these issues, you know? And even in other parts of India, if you go to southern part of India, eastern, western, you'll see a lot of haze and smoke and all that. And there are well, various reasons for that. India is a developing country. Lots of vehicles, lots of people. That's why there's going to be all these combustion engines that are burning churning out um you know, hydrocarbon emissions of various kinds. So, yeah, the air quality is definitely Even China has had all these problems, but they've solved it for Beijing. Not all across China, but for Beijing, they solved it before the 2008 Olympics. So, it can be done. But if you're if you are a developing nation, if you're growing very rapidly, pollution is going to be an issue. There's nothing you can do much about it, you know? Okay. Tejas is a new member. Thank you very much, Tejas. Good to have you as a member. Let's all welcome Tejas into the channel channel's membership. Thank you very much. Honey Sharma says, "I meant I'll be 25 when I get out of college and 28 when I'm free with my educational loans. Then travel the world for 2 years and then get married." Traveling with a partner is too expensive, I guess. Otherwise, meet me, please. Okay, you'll be 28 when you are done with repaying the education loans, and then you want to travel the world for 2 years. So, you will get married when you are 30. Well, I suppose it can work. You get married when you're 30. By the time you're 50, you will have maybe kids that are a kid that's 18 if you wait for a couple of years to have a kid. The the thing about the reason One of the reasons I say you should get married early is because you need a lot of energy to raise kids. Kids will take a lot of a lot out of you. The older you are, the less energy you have. If you have kids at the age of 40, they'll grow up If you have one kid at the age of 40, that kid will become 18 or 20 when you're 60. You're going to have to go through a lot in that time period. But if you have a kid when you're 22, by the time you're 40, your kid is grown up. Then you can do whatever you want life. So, that's why having kids early is the best. But I suppose it works if you are 30 when you get married. Traveling with a with a partner is very expensive. No question about that because it's twice the expenses. And then there's shopping and much more, as we know. Um Look, if you want to do this, you you go for it. You you'll be free from your educational loans by the time you're 28. Travel the world for a couple of years, then get married. I think it works. You can make it work. So, yeah. Go for it. Go for it. All the best, sir. All the best. Do well. Um Shivansh says, "How to work with incredibly political toxic boss?" Ideally, you quit. Move somewhere else. But obviously, not everyone has that luxury. That you know what, if my boss is terrible, very toxic, plays politics, I just walk out and find another job. Maybe there's not um there's a scarcity of jobs, perhaps. So, then what do you do? I don't know, man. I don't know. I've also dealt with toxic bosses. The best thing you do is move out. Because a boss is a person who is in a position of more power than you. So, either you outmaneuver them politically and get them sidelined them if you are good at politics, or you seek a better working environment. So, that may not happen immediately. So, maybe for a while you will deal with it. The the ideal situation is you move elsewhere. That's what I can tell you. Uh Shivansh says, "What do you think about the Escatian hypothesis?" I don't know what that is. What is that? Let me quickly take a look. Escatian Escatian hypothesis hypothesis What is that? The first confirmed detection of an extraterrestrial technological civilization is most likely to be an atypical example, one that's um you know, like um Escatian hypothesis. I haven't read this yet. Let me take a look at this. The history of rather Okay, I am not aware of this. I think it's reasonably interesting. Let me see the PDF. Let me download that, and I shall read it read it at my convenience. Thank you for pointing this out. I don't know what about what it's about because I haven't read it, but I will check it out. Thank you, sir. Uh Deva 72,000 says, "How can a think tank be built to foster long-term economic and foreign policy thinking to develop and and develop high-quality alumni who advance India's development regardless of the ruling government?" For a think tank, first of all, you need to have money because you want to employ people who will work in the think tank and produce original thinking. So, you need some money. Then you need to hire the right people. People who have high-quality original ideas. So, you need money, then you need to seek out and identify the right people. Then they have to be willing to work for you for whatever money you are providing them. Then you need leadership to tell them what to do. You need leadership, you need a direction. The leadership needs to come from a person who understands the world, understands the issues, understands the problems that India is facing and can align everybody in the direction that will be beneficial for India. Then you need a place where all this can be all this work can be published. So you have the you have the right leadership, one person or maybe a committee of people. Then you have the money. Then you have the right people who are working for you. Let's say 10 people, five people also we can start with this can even start a think tank with three people, five people, whatever. And work on a set of issues. Then you have to give them guidance about what kind of you know research to do, what things to work on and in what form the output should be. It should be ideally you tackle a problem, you identify what the problem is, what are the root causes, what are the consequences, how is it hurting the country, how can it be resolved and you give recommendations. And then the think tank should be able to reach out to the leadership. But here is the problem, here are the problems, here are the here are the problems, here are the recommendations, here are the here are the solutions. Now you need to implement that. So you need to be able to reach out otherwise you you you just publishing stuff but nobody's reading it. So all of that needs to happen, you know, that's how a think tank is built. Sometimes some people build think tanks to to cater to other audiences, maybe not for the government, maybe not maybe for other corporate masters or something. So you know, there are various kinds of think tanks. Would you like me to create a think tank? >> [laughter] >> All right. Sid Barka says, can ChatGPT put an end to Indian entrance exams and tuition coaching mafia? I'm preparing for GMAT using it and surprised it answers all questions correctly and explains concepts really well for quant quant quantitative stuff. Uh chat G G GPT, I suspect it will do really well. Uh I'm sure it doesn't cost a lot of money. And I it will definitely cost less than the tuition coaching mafia, right? So all you have to do is you you have to I think input the the course material. So let's say I don't know. The I suppose everybody has PDF versions of course course material these days. You have to just give it to ChatGPT and tell it, you know, this chapter explain to me step-by-step. All the first section of of the chapter explain it to me in a way that I can understand the easiest way. And then you can ask it to to coach you through it and you can ask it to to test you. And then you can give of the past 5 10 years sample question papers and ask it to to to to to test you on that. So I suppose you can replace all your tutors etc. with ChatGPT. I It's definitely possible that ChatGPT can replace all your tutors, all your coaching mafia etc. The thing about tutor is that you know when you have ChatGPT you are self-motivated. So you have to make sure that you study a certain amount of hours every day. But when you have a tutor who you go to then then that that much study is done and that's it's a little more automatic. So pros and cons but ChatGPT can definitely replace any tutor today. Abhirup Sarkar says, any suggestions for overthinking? I don't see it bad enough from introspect I don't see don't see it bad though from introspection and unlearning perspective especially coming from a troubled childhood. Suggestions for overthinking. Well look first of all I'll tell you I'll tell you that I am not somebody who overthinks. So it's not something if I tell you something, if I give you some kind of recommendation, it's not from personal experience. I don't overthink. Or maybe I What is overthinking? I think constantly. My mind is always working, it's always thinking something or the other. But it doesn't harm me, hurt me or burden me or anything. I think I think every human brain works all the time, right? You're always thinking something or the other. But for some people it becomes problem it becomes a burden when maybe you have negative thought patterns or something. So if you have positive thought patterns, it's not going to hurt you, harm you at all ever ever. But if your thought patterns are negative you're focusing on things you can't control all the time, you think about the same thing in a loop over and over again. So that it's it's not the fact that you're thinking all the time is the fact that your thought patterns are negative and harmful. So that is when it becomes a burden on you. So my suggestion would probably be I mean you should actually consult a professional for this but I am suspect my I suspect that overthinking is actually negative and and harmful thought patterns that don't give you any benefits but have lots of drawbacks and and cause more trouble than they do good for you. So you have to break out of those thought patterns and replace them with with more constructive and better thought patterns that will actually be beneficial for you. That's what I can what I imagine. It's not a problem that's it's never been a problem for me. But yeah, so I am not an expert on this matter, okay? So this is just me thinking aloud right now. But I'm sure there are experts who can coach you through how to recover from overthinking or from negative and harmful and and non-helpful thought patterns. I suppose there could be YouTube videos also about that or maybe articles about that. So I would say you should actually look into those things. Uh take advice from people who actually are professionals or people who have successfully solved this problem for themselves. I probably am not the right person to ask this because I've never had this issue. Anyway, all the best to you, sir. Do well and and I hope that you are able to solve this issue. And this is the last question for today, it looks like. Okay. Shivansh says, any reason why India has one of the worst cultures in the world? Look the culture comes from the leadership. The culture comes from the leadership. In the West, what do we have? In the US companies are geared for success, for competition, for quick execution. And especially in in in tech companies you invest a lot in R&D, you invest a lot in long-term success. Look at the AI companies etc. Look at how much they are reinvesting into R&D. In India, when a company does well, they give dividends to their shareholders. Right? So in India there's no focus on R&D, there is no focus on creating real long-term value. There is there is focus in for example in the Indian IT sector on arbitrage the arbitrage is model. That in the US one hour of of software work costs let's say $100. But in India I can do the same one hour of software work from one person in in $20. I can I can I can pay my employee a fraction of that and I will charge the US company $20 per hour. And I'll pay my guy maybe $5 an hour. So I'm making 15 rupees $15 over here and and I'm charging something else to the to the Americans. So I can make a lot of money through this through arbitrage. But you're not creating any any real value, you're just just providing a service. So there are all these harmful there are all these you know, legacy issues and and and there's no culture of excellence. There's there's over-management, too much management. Each company has different issues. But overall in India the focus has always been on on on all these these these these models, you know, arbitrage and all that. It's a there's no culture of excellence, unfortunately. And much of this comes go goes back to the education system. In the Indian education system a good student is one who is obedient and who is like a parrot who can parrot everything teachers teacher tells them. And uh once again there is no merit in so much more. So all of that you know, percolates down into the corporate culture also. And when the corporate leadership tolerates toxic bosses, toxic managers and all then the whole culture permeates the company. There's too much reliance on HR. I would say all all the non-performing, non-working staff should be cut down to the the you know, smallest possible number. But that's how it is. That's that's the kind of culture you have in India. In startups I think the culture is better because startups startups ideally have to sink or swim. Of course when become unicorns without actually breaking a profit that's again going to be an issue. So there's So India is is going through the growing pains. And hopefully things improve. Yeah, okay. All the best. Uh VSVS again has gifted five more memberships. Thank you so much, sir. You are on a spree today. And also yesterday. So thank you so much. I really appreciate that. And Arnav says, I'm about to give my JEE exam. Which college I should prefer to actually learn great engineering like IIT and bits? Please suggest good branch. I don't know anything. I have no idea which are the good IITs. I don't know which are the good colleges. I am not in touch with the details and intricacy intricacies of the Indian education system. I I may be perhaps you could classify me as an educator educationist whatever. But I operate outside the Indian education system. I have no idea which college is good. In the past certain IITs used to be good. I have no idea how they are today. I don't hear very good things about them. So I am not the right person to ask this. I don't know. Which branch? I don't even know what branches are offered today. So I don't know. I'm very sorry but I am not the right person to ask these questions. You'll have to look at look at ask ask somebody else. So sorry. All the best sir. Do well. Crack your JEE and and find the best possible college or IIT to go into and do well in life sir. All the best Arnav. Arnav. And that brings me to the end of today's live stream. It's been almost close to 4 hours. Okay. So thank you so much everybody. I really appreciate all of you all your questions. It's incredible the kind of questions I get week after week. Very interesting new questions as well. So thank you so much everybody and I look forward to taking more questions from from you in next week's live streams. Until then take care. Keep learning keep keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards and I will see you very soon in the next live streams. Take care everyone. Over and out for today. See you next week. Bye.