Heat. Heat. N. Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the ask show. Today I'm doing this on Monday because yesterday there was a cricket match that everybody wanted to watch and it did not make sense to go live yesterday. So I am doing this today and welcome to all of you. Good evening to those of you who are in the evenings for whom it is evening and good day to those of you who are somewhere where there's a date where it's daytime and I'm going to take questions today from the super chat and live chat as as many as possible. Right? So before we get into it let's see who is there on the live chat. Today is an unusual day Monday not Sunday. So let's see who is there. I can see Katos Ariasi Shivasai GV V2 L Anikit Aniket is there. Who else do we have? Baskar Bandit. Hello Anik once again. Ritik Paw, Geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor. Good to see you as always. Honey Sharma. Um Hani Sharma is also here. Incredible. Adwit Ashwani Hani Sharma once again the only mighty warrior. Basar Bandit once again. Honey Sharma SK SKR7733 Har Banana Higard Rei now Miss Patel Subg Kushal Mangal yes indeed sub Kusha Mangal Vikash PJ Baskar Bandit Har as well once again Rohan Biri Mandatram sir Nirana Shanks Kodin Shiva Kodi Chiva Somi hello uh Baskar Bandit is here from Moscow good evening to you sir go to U Ram Ram subco yes indeed Pratik Vora Adbat Ashmani Abishek Shukla live India won. India won. Well, big surprise here. I mean, was it even a contest? I mean, if you look at the result, it was exactly as expected. So, India won. Yes. Outstanding. Brave robot says, "Time to cook dinner. It's it's ramen time." All right. Tech G78807 is here from Delhi. Hello. Mac 4 Janu Namaskar. Tam Tanesh Pandi. Hello. General Subutai. Hello. Uh Swami is here from Jaipur. History G O T H L N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D T Patil Namaste G Rahul is also here with an interesting surname. Okay. Cast Jana. Kastana. Hi. Random skull. Jri Krishna. Good to see you sir. Random skull. Akash not zul 7138. Hi. Anand pai. Namaskar. Swami says have I seen silence of the lambs? Yes, I've watched it. Yes, good movie. Meteor smasher. Namaskarum indeed. Agam senpai. Amisha. Good evening ma'am. Good to see you. Kushbu art. Namaskar. Humanity survives. Did I watch the match? Says humanity survives. I I saw some portions of it near the end and it was not even a contest. Hope. Yeah. Anyway, good result for India of course and no surprise. Pandu rang ruler. Namaste. Go to uh Dashan Patel. Namaste G. Namaste. Happy Monday. The only mighty warrior. So good to see you as well. Uh real bad Jam G. Ah Shuklive is here from Kpur. Hi on hope. Priyanka Javala. Namaste ma'am. Namaste. Abishek Bardaj. Hello. Vishal Patro. Namaskar. Tech G is here from Delhi. Nodzul Sumit Z4 I9X. Good evening. Good evening to you. Swami Vikash PJ Blue Guy07. Hello. Uh Dashan Patel the only mighty warrior global citizen say 2862. Thank you so much sir. Global citizen G. Thank you so much. Very nice. Very nice of you. Thank you so much. Ritij Pranam G Chan Priya good evening ma'am good evening. Ashley Moody is saying says listening while working 16:32 in the afternoon here. Well from Twitter. Thank you so much. Uh Dak Ram Ram sir Shiv Shivang Sharma Vikas PJ Mahishta hello Viprit hello Dashan Patel Nudzul Shady Coster ZSF no likes given Saturday is here. Rit Nishant Sharma Jham Nul is here from Pakistan. Good evening to you sir from Pakistan to Pakistan right. Vibri Shivang Sharma Dashan Patil Akil Pratam Kalawia hello uh and so many other people. Manish Gi Namaste. Namaste ma'am. Lalit tan namaste G. A Vanish is also here. Takina is here from Dadun. Good evening to you. Good to have you from Dadun. Uh toxic Katos says did I watch Knights of Seven Kingdom? Night of seven kingdoms. I haven't seen that. Mi Meit Raj Singh Chadasa. Namaste. Hello. Basar bandit once again and everyone else. Okay. Okay. Tech G Omar Kumbar Hatim Electric Walla. Hello Vihankuran. Good evening Jotumar Namaste Gul Namaste Pram Sahil Das Gupta Skype the Skype Prime Namaskar okay so let's get going with some questions Nikesh Dahal also is here namaste adila okay omar sahil das Gupta from Kolkata okay what what questions do we have let's get going with some questions Aryaasi says some kings in Rejewish Israel had mitani inspired Arian names. Okay. Search Marwan, Kilani, Amara, letters, local rulers research paper like Indar, Indaruta, Surat, Surata, Maranu, warriors, etc. And let me know if you need the PDF. Well, let's quickly take take a look at this. It's an interesting um uh data point here that we have. So mari ama letters letters local rulers what do we have uh is this one naming practices and identity in the early late bronze age Dr. Marwan Kilani uh Marwan Kilani this is about multiple names of local rulers are attested in the amarna letters of course armana amarna letters are diplomatic correspondence between the Egyptian pharaohs and various local regional rulers um linguistically west symmetic huran or indooran the names have been variously discussed and so on okay so that's uh that what do we have here journal of ancient Egyptian interconnections once again by uh professor Marwan Kilani it's the same paper I could download the full text but we will not do that right now and so on so looks like we have some interesting revelations over here so what we are talking about is pre-Jewish Israel that's an interesting thing yeah so what part of the world are we referring to we're talking about the uh the 11th right over here so let's go there we're talking about the region that is you know the the eastern seabboard support the east east coast of the Mediterranean region. Um this region here which includes today's Israel, Lebanon, uh western Syria, the west coast of Syria and so on. That's the region we're talking about. And if you go north of that, if you go to Syria and Anatolia, that's where we had the Mitani Empire and the Hittite Empire. And the Mitani Empire and the Hittites, their rulers were of Arian or Indo-arian origin. They were of Indian origin essentially. when they had Indian or Indo-arian names uh their rulers like Tuarata and uh Paratwa and and so on you know Sanskrit names essentially and that is the time period we're talking about is about from 1600 BC to about let's say 1,00 or 900 BC that's the time period we're talking about that's when you had the Hittite and Mitani empires in this region in Anatolia and Syria okay um and the oldest uh Sanskrit inscriptions are found from this this region surprisingly. Yeah. So this was an out of India migration back in the day right about let's say about 4,000 years before today must have started and it's around 4,000 years before today that we find the sudden appearance of Indian uh zebu cattle in the region and also in Egypt. So clearly there was a migration of Indians out of India around this time and this is definitely the pre-Jewish period because the oldest attested Jewish names and inscriptions etc are from about 1100 BC or thereabouts. So it is after the Mitani and Hittite period. So it makes sense that several kings, numerous kings in this region, including in present day Israel, right, would have had Arian names, Indo-Aryan names because yeah, they would have Indians ruling Indian origin rulers ruling this region. Uh very interesting revelation and I shall check this out in detail uh later on. But thank you very much for this very interesting piece of information. Thank you very much. I really appreciate that. I will find the PDF. I I'll find it. Thank you sir. Anik says, "What is 12,000y old bugas sphere which reacts to sunit?" I'm not sure what that is. I've heard about some bug sphere which is uh which has some connections with UFOs and whatnot. Booga sphere. Uh I'm not sure how old it is. It is claimed it's so and so. So let's quickly take a look at this bug sphere. Booga sphere. So, it's a mysterious seamless metallic orb discovered in Buga, Colombia in South America in March 2025 that's generated global speculation regarding its potentially extraterrestrial origin. Uh, it reportedly exhibits or exhibited anomalous behaviors including weight increases, electromagnetic responses to Sanskrit mantras and internal complex fiber optic structures, its soccer ball-sized metallic sphere. Uh it apparently showed erratic non-aircraft-like flight before falling. Uh no visible welding in the object, increasing weight. It increased from 4.5 lbs to 22 over 22 lbs. Apparently the ability to cause nearby vegetation to die and uh three layers of metal 18 18 microsphheres and so on and so forth. It reportedly responds to 190 to 300 Hz frequencies specifically to Sanskrit mantras by vibr vibrating and emitting electromagnetic surges. Uh some believe it's an advanced alien sphere and some suspect it's a hoax or a humanmade object. Uh so that's what we know. What's it look like? Let's take a look at what this thing looks like. So this is what the object looks like. It seems to have some inscriptions in some kind of heroglyphics or something or some kind of ancient or or unknown uh script possibly but we don't know what the origins of this object are. So um it doesn't say how old it is. I mean you can't really date a metallic object. Carbon dating is done only when it's possible only when you have organic material organic matter. And that's where organic matter like like you know human tissue etc or animal tissue or plant tissue that contains uh you know carbon and there's a carbon isotope called carbon 14 that decays at a certain rate and that's why we can date uh you know these ancient artifacts if they contain organic residue. But this metallic sphere obviously won't have any organic residue. So you can't do carbon dating on it. So I'm not sure on what what basis whatever dating has been assigned to it if it has. So uh yeah so I don't really know much about it. I haven't studied this. I haven't uh looked into the details. Uh is it real? Is it authentic? Is it a hoax? Can't say for sure. Aniket says report says that Russia will resume trade in USD. Okay, I'll keep an eye on it. I'm I personally haven't seen this thus far. Uh okay, I'll keep an eye on this. Anik says Dval said won't be bullied will wait out Trump's term. Well, it's a it's a reasonable approach to have. See Trump's administration is well clearly uh their policy is to bully everybody including their allies including their close allies and vasals including the European nations their close allies including everybody else and obviously u they have this uh this policy towards India that's of containment and bullying and uh arm twisting and so on. So obviously we would like to have a productive and uh reasonably fair relationship, mutually beneficial relationship, friendly relationship with the US, we would like to have that. The US is the most important nation in the world. We can't ignore it. So we would like to have a good constructive positive relationship with them. But as long as their approach is such is that of bullying and all that and arm twisting and having maximalist demands and uh demanding concessions and demanding essentially vasage uh it doesn't make sense to uh bend the knee and cave in. So uh I haven't seen this particular report of what Shidal said but if he said that it obviously makes sense right and uh I'm not sure if we if the US approach will change after this current administration um leaves office the Trump administration but let's wait and watch. Yeah because see uh things change the world changes the world evolves and uh as the world evolves the approaches of various nations evolve. So it makes sense to not get bullied. Don't give in to armwisting tactics. Don't give them everything they want. Yeah. Uh don't give in to maximalist demands and wait it out. Makes sense. It is a reasonably it's a not just reasonable it's a very good approach to have. Aniket says India is reducing oil imports from Russia but the reduced oil purchased by some unknown the reduced oil purchased by some unknown country in Asia. Yeah. So look, it doesn't really make sense for India to give up purchasing Russian oil. Russian oil is discounted. That's number one. And number two, we have a very good, very strong and very important relationship with Russia. It's our, you know, longest close partner. longest is in the it's the longest relationship in you know with the nation that we have where the nation is a close partner and it's a pretty good relationship and it's very important for India to continue this relationship and to and to take this relationship further and not allow third parties to dis to to dictate how this relation relationship goes with Russia. Um so the Americans are claiming okay Marco Rubio is claiming in the US statements if they whichever they put out they claim that India has committed to uh stop buying Russian oil. Well that's what the Americans are saying. India has not said any such thing. No Indian statement has uh agreed to what the Americans are saying. So maybe it's this this this this may be just one more American arm twisting tactic where they claim that India has committed to doing so and so even though India may not have committed to doing that and then by making this public claim that India has committed that committed this then they can exert pressure on India to actually make this happen. So uh India is obviously in a difficult position. Um we do want access to the US market. It's important for India's exports right? It's the biggest market in the world. So we do need access to this market but at what cost will we are we willing to uh what cost are we willing to pay to get to obtain access uh at 19% tariff rate to this market? That's the question. Um so it's you know it's it's quite likely that a lot of this oil that was being purchased was coming through intermediaries and third parties and whatnot not directly from Russia. So let's see how this goes. I I am hoping that you know we don't just cave in and stop purchasing Russian oil which you know it sends messages to the world. It sends a message to the BRICS nations. It sends a message to the global south. It sends a message to all of India's partners that India will be bullied and India will cave into arm twisting right and that has a big effect on our negotiations with other countries. So we can't afford to let this happen. So hopefully India will you know tough it out. Aniket says compare KR KP relationship with inpk KR KP what's KR KP similar difference KR is Korea is it KP is what I'm not really sure KR and KP India Pakistan I understand KR Kyrgystan no Korea North Korea. What What nation is KR? Uh KR nation nation abbreviation. What's KR? South Korea, I suppose. What's KP? What's KP? KP. Nope. Nope. KP. North Korea. Okay. So you you asked me to compare the relationship between South Korea and India Pakistan and North Korea and India Pakistan. Well, South Korea you have to understand what what is the nature of the nation. South Korea is a US personal and their relationship with India and Pakistan will be dictated will be essentially dictated either overtly or covertly by US interests. Now South Korea has a reasonably good relationship with India. I'm not sure about its relationship with Pakistan. Pakistan is an economic non- entity more or less. Uh but I suppose they may have some kind of relationship with with Pakistan. With India we have a good good relationship mutual trade and whatnot. Ship building also I suppose to some extent and other things as well. We import South Korean products like electronics and other things. Uh Pakistan also would do that but does Pakistan have a different kind of relationship with South Korea? I'm not sure. North Korea we have reasonable relationship with North Korea. with North Korea and Pakistan. It is alleged that North Korean missile technology was used for Pakistani for the Pakistani nuclear military program etc. It's possible. Yeah. Because see North Korea is a Chinese asset Chinese and China and Pakistan had this long diance which still continues to to to a certain extent. So so North Korea's relationship with Pakistan will be mediated you could say strongly affected strongly by China. Yeah. Bascar Bandit says, "Piety, sir, well, Pyat to you. Hope you had a great Mahashatri." Uh, yes. I hope everybody had a great Mashivatri. Uh, if no one will be arrested after the Epstein files, assuming nothing happens to powerful people, who benefits from this? What long-term game is going on here? Okay, let's assume hypothetically that nobody's arrested, nobody's prosecuted, everybody gets just gets off scot-free. Yeah. And it looks like that's what's going to happen. I mean, Bill Gates is very clearly implicated in uh what's happened in the Epstein files. Clearly implicated and what's come out with respect to Bill Gates is very damaging. Very damaging. Even his wife, ex-wife has put out statements about this, right, which kind of kind of indirectly implicitly corroborates or doesn't deny the Epstein filed claims about Bill Gates. And yet Bill Gates is traveling the world. He's being hosted in India. He's giving speeches in India. He's visiting various states in India. He's been given he's being given the red carpet treatment. Right? So Bill Gates looks like nothing's going to happen to him. What about Howard Lutnik? Uh Trump's minion, the Secretary of Commerce. I suppose what what is his designation? Howard Lutnik. Howard Lutnik. Secretary of Commerce. This fellow, this fellow is all over the Epstein files in the most disgusting manner. And yet he is very much in power. He has not been thrown out of the cabinet by Donald Trump. Donald Trump, what about him? So the point is it looks like all these people who are high and mighty, super powerful, super elite in the US. Looks like so it's the super wealthy and the super powerful and the super connected looks like nothing's going to happen to them. So the question is who benefits from this? Why has this disclosure or or huge number of files why has it been disclosed? Lots of redactions obviously the FBI and the US government are protecting the accused not the victims it looks like right who benefits from all this uh in a lot of cases you know various names have come out Deepak Chopra has been exposed Stephen Hawking apparently has been exposed Elon Musk well his name does figure but doesn't look like he visited the island but not because he didn't want to because Epstein didn't want him to uh Bill Gates and so many of these people so a lot of these people are essentially people who they are older people and people whose actions and activities and and relevance was in the past they are no longer that relevant today right so maybe it's it's a way of retiring these people at least even if no prosecution is done even if nobody's thrown into jail their credibility is gone now right Elon Musk seems to be shielded to some extent uh Bill Gates will continue whatever he But he will no longer be in a position of real power. He's in a position of influence now perhaps. So it looks like there's a big set of people who are being retired, forcibly retired. You people are now tainted, tarnished. Your reputations are gone and it's a new bunch of people who will now be in the corridors of power, positions of power and who will essentially wield the levers of power and to some extent rule the world. Looks like it is these newer people who are the powerful people behind the scenes in the US who benefit from this long-term game. Take a whole set of people who are very powerful, very rich, very relevant in the past in the 70s, 80s, 90s, 2000s, 2010s, and you retire. You sunset them now. Okay? And there's a new group of people, the young people, those who in the in their 30s, 40s, 50s, okay? And those who are not mentioned in the files who are now going to be the movers and shakers and the wielders of power who will now shape the future of the world. That seems to be the long-term game that's going on. that as far as I see. Pascar Bandit says uh how does a guy like Mandani Mandani become mayor of New York starts talking about socialist policy is in the most capitalist city and country on the globe rather how is he allowed to do all this well Bamani has won because the the um what is it what's the word I use establishment the establishment wants people like him. Now, why would the establishment want socialists um to essentially rule over cities like New York? So, New York is the financial capital of the world, isn't it? It's the most capitalist city in the world. The US is the well the most capitalist country in the world. And you have people like Mamani and various others Alexandria Okasio Cortez and Ilhan Omar all these lefties socialists who are now in increasingly in positions of power. What is going on is the question. Why are these people allowed to rise and acquire what seems like positions of power? How powerful are they actually and what purpose do they serve? Maybe the purpose they serve is to obfuscate the truth. So just like see the US president is not really the person who rules the country of the U of the United States. His the US president's job is to divert attention away from where the real power lies. Right? So it reminds me of Douglas Adams. Okay. Douglas Adams, president of the galaxy. Let's see what did Douglas Adams say about the institution of the president of the galaxy. Let's say um so the president of the institution of the president of the galaxy is a cynical absurdist joke designed specifically to hide where real power lies. It's really interesting, really precient. So this is a science fiction book. It's a it's it's a really funny science fiction book and yet it is it's it's still so relevant today. Yeah, it is kind of you know in a sense a commentary on on today's world. So according to the guide, the president of the galaxy is merely a figurehead with no real power whatsoever. The actual job is not to lead but to draw attention away from the real power holders. Only six people in the galaxy knew that the job of the galaxy president was not to wield power but to attract attention away from it. Qualifications for the role. The position does not require leadership skills but rather a capacity for finely judged outrage. It's designed to be a controversial and infuriating role. Anyone who is actually really capable of getting themselves made president should on no account be allowed to do the job. Uh so he suggests that those who most want to rule are by definition the least suited to do it. Um okay so that kind of does in a very strange sense explain the institution of the president of the United States where the the objective the purpose of this of the president is to draw attention away from those who really have the power who really wield the power. And similarly when it comes to lower levels like Mandani and mayors of cities and all once again possibly the the purpose of these people is to draw attention away from where the real power lies. And if you want to know well where the real power lies or maybe lay in the past in a city like New York City read this book called the power broker by Robert Caro. this it's a massive book okay it's it's a massive book huge book not an easy read but if you want to understand how power really works well check this book out so I think it's possible that the object the the purpose of having people like Mamani and whoever else these these lefties these socialists who who who have values that are essentially counter to the American values. The purpose of having these to the purpose of elevating these people to various positions of power is to hide to obfiscate where the real power lies. That is most likely the the purpose and objective of allowing such people to rise to these so-called seats of power. Nikit says why are some people upset about India's 0% and US US's 18% tariffs which are less than our competitors when tariffs are paid by Americans not us uh continued there's a continuation somewhere let me see where is the continuation anit I'm trying to see if Anik has asked a continuation I don't see I don't see that okay so the question essentially is which is kind of self-contained why are some people upset about India's 0% uh and US's 18% tariffs when tariffs are paid by Americans, not us. Well, it's because of of misreporting, misinformation and so on. It's true that India will be paying 18% tariffs on no India won't be paying the US will be imposing 18% tariffs on a variety of goods that flow out of India and enter the US. Indian exports to the US. Now when it comes to other nations, the tariffs are much higher that the Americans have imposed. Um let's see. Okay. What tariffs what tariffs has has the US imposed on the uh top 10 economies? Let's see. Um what tariffs has the US imposed on the Okay. Is there is the I mean one second let me just uh let's try it again okay top 10 economies it won't tell you tariffs in the second Trump administration let's see it's going to be a gigantic article okay uh on India China Um, France, uh, UK, Germany, Italy. Let's see. Once again, it's not telling us. I'm not going to an old article. Okay. Do we have something here? US tariffs by country. Reject all. Thank you. Um, Australia 10%, reciprocal tariffs. Bangladesh 37%, Brazil 10%, Cambodia 49%, Canada 25%. China 34%, EU 20%, India 26. It's 26. Uh, India is 19 now. This seems to be outdated. Okay, that's February 1, Indonesia 32. So, India is 19, EU, European Union is 20, Indonesia is 32, Israel is 17. Okay, that's a special nation. Japan 24%, Mexico 25%. China 34%, 20, Canada 25%, uh Pakistan 29, South Korea 25, Switzerland 31, Taiwan 32, Thailand 36, UK 10, US, UK is a special Vietnam 46% and so on. As you can see, as you can see, India has got one of the lowest tariff rates, one of the lowest tariff rates. Right now if you expect that we would have we should have absolute reciprocity that India should also impose 18% tariffs on American goods but it's not going to happen. It's not going to be an equal relationship. The US is it's not an equal of India. India is no equal to the US. Right? So if you look at it relative to the tariffs the US has appi imposed on other countries including its allies you will see that India has got a great deal. But people won't see this right? People will just listen to some YouTuber somewhere or the other or some news reader somewhere or they'll just see whatever is there on social media and whatever people are outraging about and based on that based on several various headlines and things they'll they'll form an opinion and they'll get upset about it. It takes time to analyze things right I mean even if it takes a few seconds actually but still even that is too hard for most people to do and that's why people will just do this outraging. Basker Bandit says, "We know aliens and UFOs only visit the US." Oh yes. Oh yes. They only visit the US and they allegedly are distractions for the public. But how exactly is the American public made to be distracted by such things? What is the process of this disinformation? Well, the process of this disinformation is various podcasts, various books, uh news reports, social media reports and so on. you all you have to do to create a certain uh to to to to create and maintain and maintain a certain narrative is to feed the public constant bits and bites and pieces of information from various channels distribution channels. That's all it takes. So social media is is a great medium for this whether it is uh X, Twitter or Instagram or Facebook or whatever you know various videos and reports of UFO activities. they will various UFO believers uh who will do podcasts uh then news reports. So by by constantly drip feeding such you know pieces of information at a certain rate you can keep the public engaged in in these matters right and uh if you want the public to have a surge of interest in UFOs and aliens then you suddenly increase the rate at which this information is fed to the public. So like uh late 2024 there was this huge surge of UFO sightings in the US, right? New Jersey, you had like hundreds of UFO sightings every night. You you still I'm sure if you look at uh X, you can still find uh I'm sure you'll be still able to find videos from late 2024 from New Jersey and other parts of the US where you have all these UFO sightings. So if you want there to be this upsurge in interest, all you have to do is is is increase the tempo at which this these pieces of information are released to the public. And that that's that's the process of this disinformation. So what do I believe about UFOs and aliens? Look, as far as aliens are concerned, aliens, alien life in the universe, non-human life outside of planet Earth, I'm pretty sure it must exist. The universe is just too vast. How many stars do we have in the universe? maybe 10 raised to 23 which is one followed by 23 zeros. That's how many planets we that's how many stars we most likely have in the universe roughly. Roughly give or take. Okay. And assuming each star has just one planet. Well, we have 10 to 23 planets. If one out of a billion are capable of harboring life, then that's 10 to 17 such planets. If one out of a billion of those life harboring planets are capable of intelligent life, that's 10 to 11 planets with intelligent life, intelligent life. So you have what 100 billion potentially planets in the universe with potentially intelligent life just, you know, by plugging in those those very approximate numbers. So, I'm pretty sure there's life out there, but the universe is so vast and it's so empty that it's it's impossible almost impossible for us to possibly ever find out, ever detect the signature of life. So, so that's where I stand when when it comes to life in the universe. I'm pretty sure it exists, even intelligent life. But have we encountered it? I am very skeptical, extremely skeptical. I haven't seen any hard evidence. So, that's where I stand with respect to this. Baskar Bandit says immigration in Japan people are not happy. The leader Madame Sai Takichi says they will take care of it. Uh surely this can't be just bad policies. Now since they are vasads of the US have the masters decided to change their demography. Well of late in the past couple of years the the the nation of Japan has been allowing all kinds of immigrants to come in. bunch of Bangladeshies, a bunch of people from god knows what other countries and the Japanese people are very very upset with that. Pakistanis, Bangladeshies who are carrying out religious process processions on the streets of Japan, the kind of things that people in the UK are familiar with, they have started doing that. Uh they have been demanding land for cemeteries, for bur burials, Japanese land for that and so on. So uh the people are very upset with this. The people the people of Japan are are are very concerned about their culture. Um and they they are very anti-immigration. Japan as a society is very anti-immigration and we've got to respect that every society should decide its own policies. Every nation should have the absolute sovereign undeniable right to decide its own policies. And if a nation decides that they don't want immigrants, well good. It's their right. Who are we to judge them for that? So the people aren't happy. Clearly the people aren't happy and now it looks like these policies will be reversed. Now you are right to say that Japan is a US vasal. No question about it. So since you had this happening the past few years. It looks like the US had decided that Japan will now become this nation that will accept immigration. It looked like that. The Americans seem to have decided. Now, Madame Sana Takichi is against that and looks like she will implement policies that will end immigration. So, does this bring her into conflict with the US or has the US agreed to this? That remains to be seen. Japan obviously does face a massive demographic crisis. Their birth rates have plummeted horribly. The population is aging rapidly and it's it's a major crisis for Japan. It's an existential crisis for Japan. So the US will say, "Oh, the solution is immigration. Bring in people from other countries." But then Japan is no longer Japan. Eventually Japan loses its own cultural and civilizational identity. Right? So uh what does Japan do about this is the big question. I think uh I think ending immigration makes sense, but how will that produce more children? It's not that easy. I mean look at the structure of the society. It's very hard for people to to take care of kids and so on. So it's it's a big challenge for them but looks like this new government is going to shut the doors on immigration. Uh will this bring them into conflict with the US? That remains to be seen. So let's wait and watch. As of now I don't have an answer to that question. Whether the Americans have agreed to this or not because these decisions happen behind closed doors. They never never spoken about in public. So let's wait and watch. Ritik P says why is the US ambassador Sergio Gore visiting India's western command? I don't know. Right. If we if we look at this Sergio Gore Gore, uh where's this Twitter account? I'm not a robot, sir. Traffic lights. Okay, let's find some traffic lights and buses. Okay, let's find some buses. This proves that we are human, right? Now, we will decide, oh yeah, this fellow is human. So Sergio Gore, let's go to his Twitter account. Dark mode enabled. And now we have bright mode. Sergio Gore. So let's see what he has been tweeting about. Just landed in Chandigad. Looking forward to visiting the western command of the Indian army. Right. So clearly the US ambassador is visiting the western command of the Indian army. Why is it doing this? Well, from his perspective, he would like to visit every command of the Indian army and find out exactly what's what the Indian army is up to. He would like to visit the Indian Air Force commands, Indian Air Force bases, Indian naval bases. He would like to visit Indian submarines. He would like to visit Indian nuclear reactors and nuclear facilities. He would like to visit everything. The question is why are we allowing the US ambassador to visit the Indian army's western command? Why is the Indian government allowing the US ambassador to visit the Indian army's western command? That is perplexing actually, right? It's perplexing. I don't have an answer to this. It's perplexing and concerning in my opinion. I am concerned. This raises questions in my mind that I will not air right now that I will not speak right now. But it raises question concerns in my mind. So I am not sure why the government of India is opening the doors of the Indian army's western command to the US ambassador. Are we so friendly in with the US now? I mean which other countries do we give s this sort of access to? Why the US? I I don't have an answer. It's it's concerning. Basar Bandit says did we have the concept of psychologists or therapists in ancient Bat as we have in the as we have in the present day West where two or more people sit and talk or listen or did this entire concept originate in the west itself? It's a very interesting question. But do I have the answer to this? I don't have the answer to this because we don't have the records of uh the past. We have some texts that that have survived the the Turk destruction of India and the British destruction of India. We have some texts that survive like the Sushut Sam and so on. A few texts about India's medical practices and so on. But the majority of our ancient texts were destroyed with the in the destruction and burning of our of our great libraries in the great universities of India. Right? So if we had the concept of psycho psych psychologists and therapists etc it would have been recorded in those texts millions of texts but those texts are lost. So as of today we can't say I don't know if we had this concept. I mean our our society was very advanced. Our civilization was very advanced people where everyone specialized in something that was the the basis of the Jati system, right? Everybody was part of a lineage that was based in a certain occupation and everybody specialized. So children would initially get basic education in temples, you know, basic stuff like language, grammar, arithmetic, basic history and so on. And then they would be educated by their own by their own families or clans or or jatis specialized uh professional education. So I'm sure we would have people who may have been engaged in uh the profession of of psychology perhaps that would have been potentially a jati but uh you know the records are gone so we can only speculate as of today. So as of today when it comes to psychology it looks we have to say it originates in the west and I'm sure we must have had these things but can't say for sure because we don't have the records anymore. Hanish Sharma says sir since you don't look abused enough I'm guessing you haven't watched tumb yet. I haven't watched it yet. I I haven't watched it. I do I'm I'm grateful that you keep reminding me I still haven't watched it. Uh I'll try and find time for it in this coming week. Tumb it's not a very long movie, right? About one and a half hours, two hours maybe. I'll try and watch it. Thank you for the reminder, sir. Thank you. Basket Bandit says, "Sir, why military powers have their eyes on Antarctica? It's all ice today. Maybe it was different before." Yeah, it was different before. What's the geostrategic significance? Also, the story is about Operation High Jump. Okay, what is Operation High Jump? I'm not sure. Uh, sounds vaguely familiar, but yeah, Operation High Jump. High jump. What is that? Um, US Navy Antarctic Developments Program 1946 to 47. What was it? What was special about it? Deployed 4,000 over 4,000 men in 13 naval ships to test the ability of military operations in the polar environment. Established a functional base at Little America 4 and learned some of these shortcomings of heavy groundbased equipment on snow and ice. Okay. So, it's some kind of military expedition in Antarctica, short-lived, 4748, that sort of thing. Um, yeah. So, I haven't studied Operation Him, so that's all I can say. Now, why do most major powers have their eyes on Antarctica? Obviously, it's all eyes today. I mean, if you look at the, you know, if you go to the map, you will see that it won't the maps won't even show you the features, you know, the geographical features on Antarctica. Here's the map. We go straight south from India. Here we have Antarctica. If we look at uh satellite images, well, it's just it's all just white. It'll show you some features in some part of the the continent as you can see a little bit here, but the rest of it is just white and maybe it's deliberately blanked out. some coastal regions you can see some features some terrain features even not a lot right I mean if I look zoom in here I don't think it's showing me actual images is it looks like it's showing some kind of images but you never know uh so the thing is the deal with Antarctica is that it's a massive continent you know the south pole is located in Antarctica it's massive And there was a time when Antarctica was green, okay? A long long long time ago. Uh there was a time when it was green and it was not located all the way down south where it is today. There used to be this superc continent called Pangia and Antarctica was very much part of that and there were there were forests and animals and whatnot on Antarctica back in the day like millions of years ago. So what's the deal with Antarctica? What's the strategic geostrategic significance? First of all, Antarctica most likely has a lot of natural resources. Um, oil and gas, various minerals, uh, possibly metal, iron, ore, and maybe other things, maybe maybe boxite. So, various kinds of natural resources are found in Antarctica. I'm sure the Americans and others have have done some some digging, some searching, some some research, and I'm pretty sure Antarctica is is is rich in natural res resources. So, that's one significance. The other significance is that it's it's an empty continent and uh whoever controls that controls one more chunk of the world. Uh obviously it's very hard to live there. The temperatures are frighteningly cold like minus god knows what minus 50 perhaps maybe below below that as well. So it's it's very cold of course but if you have technology I mean you can definitely have bases there and have people survive there. India also has a couple of research stations there on Antarctica. So what's the significance? The significance is that it is rich in natural resources and it's empty territory that that obviously is is you know it's lucrative for for any major power. Han Sharma says what killed Bob Wulmer was it his upcoming book about spot fixing? Was it Jamaat or simply he knew too much about Pakistani fixing scandal? Bob Vulmer was this uh cricketer, wasn't he? English cricketer who was the coach of the Pakistan cricket team. Um was it the coach of Sri Lanka? No, that was Davmore, wasn't he? Okay. So Bob Woomer was a former cricketer who was the coach of the Pakistan cricket team and he was found dead under very strange suspicious circumstances. I think in 1999 was it right after Pakistan lost a match to Bangladesh. That's what I recall about about him. I think he was a left-handed batsman and something. Let's let's try and Oops. What is that? Give me a second. Let's try and find out details about Bob Woomer. So, what's up with the search? Search is lagging. Okay. 2007, not 99, 2007. So, uh English cricket coach, cricketer, commentator. Okay. the the 2007 World Cup in the West Indies. Oh, the all the Pakistanis lost to Ireland, not Bangladesh. They lost to Ireland and he died a few hours after that. And he played cricket for whom? Playing career. He played cricket for England. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So, he was a allrounder. Okay. And he died in 2007. and uh the circumstances of his death seem to be suspicious, but maybe it's kind of been brushed under the under the carpet perhaps. I'm not sure. Uh Peter Robuk also died under circum strange circumstances. That's another suspicious and strange death in cricket. Peter Robuk who was an English county cricketer and then he moved to Australia. He was a phenomenal writer, cricket journalist and then yeah so the question Hanish Sharma is asking is what killed Bob Woomer not sure see the Pakistanis lost to Ireland which is so strange Pakistan has this strange habit of losing to losing unexpectedly to teams that they would typically not lose to. So in 2007 Pakistan was a pretty strong team. See today's Pakistan it's not a great team right? I mean they regularly lose to India and they are no longer a top team but back in the day Pakistan were one of the top teams in the world when you had people like Wasimi Makram Vakarunas Imran Khan in Zamam Javeid Mandad and so on top it was a top team there was a time when India could not defeat Pakistan in world cups we always did but otherwise India could not defeat Pakistan India was like that and today it's the other way around so but Pakistan obviously has this great tradition you know this glorious tradition of match fixing and You know Sal Malik has been banned for banned for life for match fixing. Wasim Makram was implicated but it looks like he has been able to escape that. So Sali Malik was definitely implicated. A number of Indians were also implicated. Yeah. So we'll not discuss that here. And uh who's that guy? Muhammad Amir was found guilty of spot fixing his bowling no balls like 3 m ahead of the of the of the crease and of the of the line. that sort of thing. So Pakistan has has this great uh tradition of match fixing, spot fixing, whatever. And it's possible the Pakistanis were doing that in the 2007 World Cup as well. And the speculation is that maybe Bob Wulmer discovered some of this and was was about to reveal that disclose what he had discovered and maybe that's why he was taken care of. So it's all speculation. the official I don't know what the official narrative is but it looks like it's not no longer under investigation Bob Wulmer's death but it was very strange that he would just die like that. Yeah. Basar Bandit says Shri Kingish Teujin Khan's empire was five times larger than Alexander the Barbarian. But why Mongolia did not industrialize or accumulate wealth within Mongolia? Today geopolitically they are not big. Um, why did Mongolia not industrialize and not accumulate wealth within Mongolia? That's a great question. Looks like Chingishan's philosophy was not that of extraction like what you see with the western colonial powers in the past 500 years. So even when India would expand, for example, let's take just one data point which is the Chola conquest of Shiv Vijaya of Indonesia. So about 1,000 years before today roughly Rajendra Chula decided to go and invade Indonesia right Shiv Vijaya the the Shiva Empire and he crosses the the Bay of Bengal the the the Kalinga Mahasagar he goes all the way to Indonesia conquers Indonesia and vasalizes the whole of Indonesia but he did not go and extract anything out of Indonesia he did not plunder Indonesia and take take away their wealth and enslave them and extract their resources. Right? No such thing. That did not happen. So what Rajendra did was simply effective regime change and come back home. He did not extract any wealth. He did not plunder the place. Similarly, Chingis Khan was not did not have a policy of extraction and plunder. His policy was that of well because of various reasons eventually what ended up is that he ended up doing was expanding his empire significantly hugely right and whatnot uh karakai uh karaz China and so much more so uh he expanded his empire but he did not extract any wealth out of the places he conquered so I think it's a cultural thing that you know you don't steal So, so that's why you will see that Mongolia never accumulated wealth. Uh, I suppose Changistan believed that his wealth was his people. Yeah, pretty idealistic way of looking at things. But yeah, Mongolia never extracted wealth. Why did Mongolia not industrialize? Well, I suppose Mongolia never saw the need to industrialize. The Mongols were simple people. They still are, right? They their their entire philosophy, their entire lifestyle was nomadic and they did not see the need to create big industries and extract things out resources out of the bowels of the earth and create mega cities and mega industries and whatn not right they never saw the need to do that they said let's let's you know live in an orderly fashion so if my empire has China it this karaz and the Chinese way of life is different from the quarasian way of life which is different from other parts other other parts of the empire let them all have their way of life but I will interconnect everything and create one system for my entire empire but I want extract wealth I want plunder I want industrialized there's no need for that everyone's living happily peacefully everyone's happy as they are everyone's wealthy as they are nobody desires accumulation of wealth so let's not do that right so it's a it's a it's It's a philosophical thing. It's a cultural thing. It's a civilizational thing. The eastern cultures never were such that they would they wanted to hoard all the wealth of the world in one place, extract everything out of other places and hoard all all wealth for themselves. It was never that way. And that's why Chingishan did not do that. Pascar Bandit says, "How absurd or naive it is is it to think that $1 will be equal to three Indian rupees by 2029." I am not sure who would imagine that this will happen. Look, anything is possible but what's the mechanism by which this happens. So has somebody given this sort of deadline or this sort of has some somebody made this sort of prediction that $1 will be equal to three Indian rupees by 2029 and by what mechanism have they proposed that this will happen? Um I don't know. Uh I think it's a really far-fetched thing. If it happens, I'll be very pleased. But will it be great for India? Will it be bad for India? There's a lot of factors that go into these things, right? If the Indian rupee appreciates in value, then it's a problem for uh it's it's a problem for exporters, isn't it? So yeah, you know, I'm not sure if if you want to become an export oriented economy for example, then I don't think it's great for the Indian rupee to appreciate significantly. So yeah, I don't know. There are all kinds of people who make all kinds of you know such claims. Yeah, you decide whether you whether you believe or not. Uh Hanisha says, "Ishan Kishan take a ball. What an innings. What are my thoughts?" Well, outstanding innings. Ishan Kishan was out of the Indian team for a while, wasn't he? For for some reasons. I don't know. The BCC had kept him out of Indian cricket for a while. Was it disciplinary reasons? Was it some other reasons? I'm not sure. But he's back and it seems to be in the form of his life. Clearly, Ishan Shankishan. And maybe the break has done some good to him. Maybe it's it's, you know, given him more hunger, the more of a desire to prove himself and to, you know, prove his doubters wrong. And that's that's a great fuel for an athlete. the desire to prove everyone wrong. Those who who wrote who wrote you off. So clearly he seems to be in tremendous touch right now. Tremendous form and uh he should keep going. His innings yesterday was I I've seen the highlights. It was pretty powerp packed. He should have gone on actually to at least triple figures but okay not bad. So overall great great innings. Harisha says, "You talked about why India should not allow dual citizenship, but I really couldn't understand it. Would you be kind enough to explain to us one more time maybe with an example?" Sorry, no issues. No issues. So, uh why should India not allow dual citizenship? H So let's say so let's understand what citizenship means. If you're a citizen, you can you have certain privileges that a non-citizen doesn't have. You have the right to vote. You have the right to prop to to acquire property. You have the right to own the majority share of a company. Uh you have all kinds of privileges as a citizen that non-citizens don't have. You may, if you're a citizen, you can even become prime minister. You can even become a minister, cabinet minister. you can become the head of the RBI right so we've had Raguram Rajan was a US citizen right when he was the head of the RBI I'm not sure how that works but okay so there's a lot of privileges that citizens have that non-citizens don't have now let's say India allows dual citizenship India US that means that technically a US citizen can potentially become in the prime minister of India technically hypothe Hypothetically it's possible is that good for India's national interest that a person who is India's prime minister holds foreign citizenship which means who has at least 50% allegiance to a foreign nation is that good for your national interest and understand this when it comes to the India US relationship it's not a symmetric relationship it's an asymmetric relationship there's a massive power asymmetric country. The US is about 20 to 25 times more powerful than India. So if you are a citizen of both countries simultaneously, the US can ensure that you have way more allegiance to them than to India. They can engineer that through a variety of means. Right? So if if that is the situation that India allows dual citizenship that let's say the US then the US is a past master at playing certain games they can engineer the rise of certain people within India who are dual citizens and who will then take over power in India and by doing that the US can remote control the future the fate of India is that a good idea I'm just taking the example of the US it could be some other nation too So why does the US allow this? Because the US is the most powerful nation in the world. And whenever they have citizens who are dual citizens, they will ensure that the cards are stacked in such a manner that these dual citizens can't do any harm to the US and they typically will have more allegiance to the US except for maybe one or two countries which we will not discuss here. Okay. So, so these are some of the issues right with dual citizenship. The US will ensure that nobody can uh can harm their interests but India we are more compromised. So we have to be more careful. Bhaskar Bandit says how to be like Abijit Chad Chava in real life. Thank you sir for all you do endless gratitude and support. You inspire us and make all of us to be better every day. Love you and Jay Paradam. Thank you so much for your very kind words. How to be like me in real life. Well, I would say why do you have to be like me? Be yourself. Be the best version of yourself. Um, that's what I would say. Everyone's different. Everyone's unique. Be the best version of yourself. Understand who you truly are. Take the time to understand yourself. Understand your true nature, your true characteristics. Understand why you were put on this planet. What was the purpose of your existence? Right? Most of us as we go along, we kind of forget who we are and why we are here. Most of us never figure out why why we are here. What is the purpose of this specific lifetime? This specific life that we have and who actually are are we? Most of most human beings don't even ever in their entire life truly figure out who they really are. So I would say figure out who you are. Figure out your purpose in life and and try and be the strive to be the best version of yourself. That's what I would say. Don't try to emulate other people. And if you want to emulate, well, find out what is it that you admire in a certain person because in every person in every person has a combination of good traits and not so good traits, strengths and weaknesses. So I would say make a list of the top five people you admire or maybe top 10 persons you admire in the world and make a list of the characteristics and traits of each of those people that you admire that will tell you what is it that you are drawn to attracted to and what you really value in human beings and then try to inculcate those traits in yourself that's what I would say right so that is my actual advice to you don't try to emulate one person completely Um, how to be like me in real life, I don't know. I just be myself. All I do is try to be who I am. Um, I do have to improve a lot in a in a variety of ways. So, yeah, be yourself. That's what I would say. All the best and thank you so much, sir. Agam Senpai says, "I just came back from South Korea. In reality, most people look very pale, lighter than southern Europeans who look more yellow olive golden. Why called yellow? Um, so the Asiatic race, right, is it's called the yellow race or something. I don't know why Eastern Asian people are called yellow in the west. It's one of those old racial stereotypes from the 19th century, I suppose, 18th or 19th century. Uh, maybe these see even even if you look at the native Americans, they are called red Indians. I mean, if you look at Native Americans, they are not red, they're brown, right? Native Americans in the US, in North America or in South America or Central America, they're brown. Native Americans in the far north of the of North America are typically paler skinned and when they are exposed to the sun, they their skin becomes reddish. So maybe that's why the plains Indians or whatever, they were called red Indians, but they are actually brown people. They're not white or they aren't red. Similarly, when it comes to various Eastern Asian people, the the Koreans are pretty pale skinned. The Japanese are also pretty pale skinned. The Chinese, well, they their skin tone varies and not exactly white. Uh, but some other tone, I would say. Is that what they call yellow? I'm not sure what why it's called yellow. Look, I've never seen a yellow person in my life. Okay. Only the Simpsons look yellow. The cartoon series, you know. I haven't seen a yellow person in my entire life. They Oh my god, this person is yellow. I've never seen the person who looks like that. So, I have no idea why the why the why the Europeans called the Asian Eastern Asian people yellow. U I suppose it's one of those racist stereotypes. Mac 4 Janu says, "Your view on Chinese education? Any lessons for us? Chinese education is brilliant. China probably has the best education system in the world today." probably right and if you want to know my views on Chinese education once again I will direct you to my old live streams in which I have discussed this in detail so let me find that find that and I will I will give you the pointers so if you go to my channel okay my channel is on the screen right now if you go to the live tab uh right now episode 331 is live but let's go to the oldest okay and uh this is old episodes and if you go to episode 28, 30 and 31 that's where I discuss education and I think it's in episode 30 that I discussed the Chinese education system and and and and all the strides they have taken and how they have systematically step by step reformed their education system. It's it's I mean you really have to appreciate what what China has achieved with their education system. Tremendous tremendous work they've done. They probably have the best education system in the world today. And in 1980 they have one of the worst systems in the world. Yeah. Probably the Indian education system was better than than the Chinese system around 1988 maybe in 19 1985. But from the 19 late 1980s onwards the Chinese started systematically reforming their education system step by step by step. So let's say it's 86 86 to 96 2006 2016 that's 40 years. In 40 years they've taken one of the worst education systems in the world and transformed it into the best education system. Step by step they've gone step by step in doing that. And there are so many things they've done to to make this happen. So I can't explain all of that to you right now over here. It'll take a long time to explain. Check out that those those three episodes especially episode 30 in which I have explained in detail. So lessons for us. Yes. Yes. A lot of lessons for us. Watch those episodes you will know. Rishi Barot says how are almost all Chinese Communist Party leaders aligned towards their national interest and not corrupted by power? Has there been a case otherwise? Thank you. Are all Chinese Communist Party leaders aligned with their national interest? See, one of the factors you have in China, the Chinese Communist Party is that it is permanently in power. Okay? There's no democracy there. There's no um you know, the the country is is not hostage to votes. And the Chinese Communist Party decides the long-term future of China. They have this five year plans, 10 year plans, five year plans. and they know what direction they want the country to go in. They have a vision for China in 2049. They have a vision for China where China needs to be by 2100. And because the Chinese Communist Party is permanently in power, they can work towards that long term. In India, we have this 5year election cycle where every 5 years you don't know what's going to happen to the country. If the government changes, if the people vote in a new government, policies can take a U-turn, right? and everything that was done in the past can be completely undone in a few months. So in the Chinese Communist Party, it's not like that. Now the Chinese Communist Party has this social contract with the people of China. The contract is that we will rule over you as dictators and you will allow this because we will give you the best living standards in the world. We will improve your living standards and we will make make China a great country. So we will give you this and in return you will allow us to keep ruling as dictators. That's the social contract the Chinese Communist Party has with the people of China. So for this to happen, every action has to be aligned with the national interest. Otherwise, you lo you break the social contract. And obviously there's some there's been, you know, corruption in China and there have been high-ranking leaders who have been executed for for corruption. There are people who are jailed for corruption. Corruption in any society, you're going to have some corruption. But in China at least there's a egregious corruption is is punished very harshly and non- egregious corruption is perhaps tolerated to a certain extent as long as it does not come in the way of the national interest. So what kind of corruption may you have in China? Let's say you are let's say you are a person wealthy person who wants to set up um a new new industry. Okay. and the process is taking time. So maybe you put some money below the table and the process gets gets gets shortened. So maybe hypothetical example maybe it would have if if the approvals may have taken 2 months maybe they'll now take 5 days or maybe 2 days. So that actually helps the Chinese national interest you see. So that sort of corruption is is tolerated. And when it comes to corruption by corrupt being corrupted by power well I'm sure every leader has this you know every leader depending on the on the person and their their their psychological profile. Everybody will be affected by power in some way or the other but you know there there's the system of checks and balances in China which ensures that no leader becomes too big and if a leader gets too becomes too big they they are you know they're taken care of. know it's a pretty complex system. It's a very very um competitive system. The political system in China is a dog eats dog world. Only the toughest and the most capable rise to the very top. So the system is such that the right people rise to the top otherwise they'll be eaten up somewhere on the way. So that's how China is and that's why China is able to do things that well India lags behind it very badly. Rohan bidi says origins of Russia India Russia friendly relationship India and Russia well India and Russia have had relations for centuries actually um so the the origin of Russia the origins of Russia are go back about a thousand years with the Kievan Roose people okay um the first capital of the RS people was Kiev which is now the capital of Ukraine Ukraina and then I'm giving you a very fast speedrun of history here and then uh for a couple of hundred years Russia was under the Mongol yoke for a couple of hundred years Russia was ruled by the Mongols. Then the Mongols eventually became weaker as every empire does and Russia became free again. And then instead of having the capital in Kiev, you had the rise of the duchi of Moscow and Moscow became the new center of power. And then you had various kings and rulers and eventually Sars, right? And during these times you had Indian merchants who would go and and trade with with Central Asia and Russia. So for centuries Indians were trading with the Roose people, Indian traders, Central Asia etc. You even find there's this uh you know there was this Lakshmi statue or Vishnu statue that was found in Russia. Let's let's uh let's look into that right um Vishnu statue Russia. So where was it discovered? Why is search so slow? Why is it lagging today? Anyhow, an ancient Vishnu idol estimated to date to the 7th or 10th centuries AD was discovered in the Tara Maya village of Russia's Walular region. So, u WGA region. So, this is what the the the Morty looks like. So, we had so my my point is there were this ancient ties between Russia and India mainly trading ties and all. had Indian priests who uh Indian Indian merchants who would go and trade with Russia who would live in Russia. Um they would do their Hindu rituals of bathing in rivers and all in the Bulgar river the freezing vulgar river and all that. So we have these ancient ties with Russia and then in the 20th century after the after the transfer of power in 1947 Shir Neoji was very friendly with Russia. He was very impressed with Russian uh socialism. So he ensure he he he went ahead and uh engineered developed strong relations with Russia and that's kind of the origin or the continuation of the India Russia relationship uh and that continued even after the the sad demise of Shin Aruji. Rahul Mishra Rahul Mishra has no question but thank you very much sir. Thank you very much indeed. Rahul Vishra says, "Can you tell more about the Bor Stone shrine, please?" Bagor stone shrine. I am not aware of this. Let's let's Google it together. I am not aware of this. Bore stone shrine. What is this? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. The Bagor one paleolithic shrine located in the Son Valley of Madhya Pradesh uh dates back to about 9,000 to 8,000 BC which is about 11,000 years before today. Excavated in 1982 circular platform with the centy place triangular stone uh continue concentric laminations. It's a shrine of a goddess. Um okay. The central stone is naturally formed rectangular triangular piece of sandstone with concentric reddish brown and yellowish red laminations. Uh early evidence of shaki worship. The stone is a yantra. Uh right. All right. So let's what's it look like? Let's see. So bghur stone. Okay. Okay. So this is uh apparently how it was discovered. One of the oldest uh evidences of shism, shaky worship, goddess worship. That's yeah, I just read it out. I I have heard of it, but I have neverh had the time to look into it. That's what I can tell you. So that tells you, my friends, that's what this this is another example that tells you how ancient our civilization is. If it's 9, if it's from 9,000 BC, that's 11,000 years before today. The oldest Saraspati Synindhindu archaeological site is Birana in Hana which dates back to about 7,500 BC which is about 9 and a half thousand years before today. Then you have another archaeological site in Ladak which is about 11,000 years old. Then you have the Bagor stone shrine temple which is also about 11,000 years old. The more we look into our ancient past archaeologically, the older we're going to find that our civilization gets because of new evidence that emerges. So it tells you and this is an example of goddess worship, Shaki worship, right? People still worship Shy today. 11,000 years we've been doing that. Yeah. So that tells you how ancient our civilization is. Adi Brahdan says alternative education in India current education is dumb. Current education is rotten. It is it is rotten to the core. Yeah. The current education system. What about alternative education in India? Um well one thing people could do is can do is uh homeschooling right? Um don't send your kids to schools. Have them schooled at home. Maybe parents can do it themselves if they have the time or they can uh hire tutors who can do it if the tutors are good. And then you know you have these uh there are these boards right open schooling boards 10th standard 12th in national institute of open schooling and all that you can do. So you can get your 10th and 12th00 degrees even if the kids are homeschooled right. Um and you can use whatever curriculum or syllabus you want for homeschooling and you can inculcate the right ideals um the ability to think critically the right knowledge the right information the right thought patterns the right analytical patterns in kids you know scientific thinking uh thinking from first principles all of that and so that's definitely possible apart from that there is the gurugul system that some some places you know in some places some parts of India we have gurugals revival of gurugals that also is another option So we have some options like that but the at the end of the day you still need degrees because without degrees you will not get a job. So whatever happens at the end of the day you still need these pieces of paper which means you have to somehow reinsert yourself into the education system and get those damn degrees and then go through the grind of getting into the job market and becoming another corporate drone. I suppose Ranir Ratur says what was the Vagna coup 2023 any strains between Russia and China? The Vagna coup. Well, I have discussed that live. The Vagna coup. The Vagner coup, right? Uh there there is see during first of all let me see my old live streams where I may have discussed the vagna. Give me a second. Uh once again let's go to my panel. Okay. And uh Okay. Let's discuss. Let's see where we can discover the vagna. So, there's a lot of history here. I've done more than 300 live streams, but we're going to have to go further down, further down, further down. Further down. Okay, give me a second. So many live streams I've done, haven't I? So, do we have something with Vagna? 2023 Vagnner I'm I I'm sure I did live streams around that time when the Vagna Wagner incident happened. When was the first live stream after the uh Russia Ukraine war? It was 97 98 around that. Um yeah 91 no 89 was when the Ukraine invasion started and then eventually 23 we had the Vagna. So the the question you're asking is what was this Vagna right? Um what was his name? The guy who died in the plane crash what was his name? Um definitely not pregoin uh Wagner group former leader Yini uh let's see yeahghini precaution right precaution he died in a plane crash in August 2023 and he led this uh this coup attempted coup in uh 2023 so the coup was he entered it was about the an attempt to perhaps take over Moscow or something right so let's see how it happened if I recall correctly so the Vagna group was obviously uh involved in fighting in Ukraine right and they they re-entered Russia around Rosto on dawn and then made a move on Vosco on on on Moscow. They went north towards Moscow and somewhere along the way they were stopped and eventually um later on Yavghini Pojian died in a plane crash. That is what happened. Now the details obviously you can look up that's what it was. It was an attempt by Yini Pojin to maybe oust Putin. Didn't work out obviously. Pratip Kumar Roy says about Bal statue burning in Iran. There was also a pillar Ashwarath which they burned. She was the wife of Bal. I researched the internet and found out about Anat Bal's sister and others. The thing about this name Bal. Bal means Bal meant Lord in in the which Sumerian or Mesopotamian language whichever language it was. So it's not like Bal is one god. There were multiple gods who all had the title of Bal like Lord, Lord Shiva, Lord Ganesh, Lord Dish, Vishnu, Lord Brahma, Lord, Lord, Lord. Right? In English, in English we say Lord. So Bal means Lord or Master. And there were multiple gods with the title of Bal like Bal Hammon, Bal something else, Bal Malok I suppose. So if you look here, Bal Hammon, Bal Hammon was the supreme deity of the ancient Carthaginian religion. And uh then you have another Bal uh Hadad. Bal Hadad was a west symitic deity of storms, thunder, rain, fertility etc. Bal. Uh so once again this is another god with the title of Bal. Now the the Bal statue burning in Iran probably is one of probably Hammon. But this is a Carthaginian god, right? Not what about Bal Malok Malok and Balakanite blah blah blah blah blah. Malik Malik king Bett. So, it's it's kind of hazy. It's kind of murky. I can't tell you for sure which Bal is which. But when it comes to the vilification of Bal in the Hebrew Bible, one of the Bal gods is mentioned as a god that demands child sacrifice. And there was this place near Jerusalem, near Shalain back in the past where you had this group of people, this this culture where they allegedly passed young children through fire to make their bal god happy. And this bal god was called Moolok. Now who was Mo is a big question. Maybe molloc is an entity and we mollocit or or or a code word given to a god who doesn't who they don't want to name perhaps. Is maloc actually Yahweh? Is Malok some other god? We're not sure. So Bal is not one god. Bal are there are multiple bal gods and many of the bal gods it looks like there was child sacrifice offered to them. uh and the wife of Bal there was a pillar which the word Ashira Anat okay what is Asher let's find out who was Asher um Asher was a major ancient west somatic mother goddess uh consort to the supreme god L also called Bal in Kananite Phoenician etc etc etc Ashira. And who is Anat? Anat prominent northwest Semitic goddess of war, hunting, fertility, etc., etc. Sister to the storm god Bal. Okay. Why does she wear Assari? I wonder. Okay. So, um, right. So, that's what I can tell you about Bal. When they say Bal, they sometimes mean one of the Bal gods. Which one? I'm not 100% sure. Um, and I heard about this news of the burning of a statue of one of the Bal gods in Iran. Yeah. All right. Amisha says, "Have you heard of Jack the Ripper, the serial killer?" Very famous or rather infamous, very notorious serial killer in 19th century London. Right. 18 what? 1880s, 1890s. around that time and which part of London I forget the name of that part of London today apparently it's dominated by Bangladeshies so the that that area of London where this this serial killer operated today that area of London is is populated by mostly Bangladeshies apparently uh let's look it up shall we so first of all Jack the Ripper right and and his identity has never been actually uh confirmed Jack the Ripper. White Chapel. White Chapel. So 1888, that's when he did this murders. He u he he murdered some uh some uh women apparently prostitutes or something. And White Chapel district. So today it's it's full of Bangladeshes. Apparently 56% of White Chapel residents identify as Asian. I suppose they would all be majority Bangladeshes. It has yeah all that but going back to this guy so he he has never been identified. There have been various uh suspects that have been presented but the the identity of the of the serial killer Jack the Ripper has never been identified for sure. There are some people who were prime suspects uh when it comes to the London police but nobody was arrested, nobody was uh prosecuted. Nobody was punished for this and even today it's kind of an open open area of research and uh people are still kind of obsessed with Jaktar even today. Pratip Kumar Roy says so these were the original pagan gods of Israel. Now I somewhat understand the fight between this and the Abrahamics spearheaded by Freemasons. The ancient original pagan gods of Israel. So Judaism was originally a polytheistic religion and later Yahweh became the primary and on eventually the sole god the only god of the Israelites. So let's let's see this uh uh Judaism uh polytheistic originally. Let's see. Was Judaism originally polytheistic? Yeah. So Judaism or protojudaism evolved from polytheistic canonite roots? The canonites. Yes. Transitioning through monolith to strict monotheism over centuries. Originally Yahweh was part of a pantheon headed by El alongside other deities like Asharak and Bal and eventually became exclusively worshiped around around the Babylonian exile. So so Judaism originally or the roots of Judaism were polytheistic but eventually Yahweh became the only god. Uh yeah so you had pre-Abrahamic gods in Israel, multiple gods, gods, goddesses and all of that and then Yahweh becomes the soul soul god. dur once once uh Judaism becomes monotheistic and yeah I'm not sure about the Freemasons I've never really studied the Freemasons what their agenda is what their purpose is and what connections they may or may not have with Judaism or or Abrahamic religions I'm not really sure about that Rohan says why did Janism never grow as much as Buddhism see why did Buddhism become such a big phenomenon is the big question right over Why did Buddhism bodh the dharma become such a big big big phenomenon? It was an obscure fringe path of dharma. Here are all these dharmic paths right every all all kinds of uh spiritual leaders, philosophical leaders, philosophers etc. who had various conceptions of what the universe is like and they had their own um own philosophies which were part of the dharmic umbrella. So many of these came and went. Many of these are probably lost. So Buddhism was one of these both the dharma. Goautam Buddha was a religious leader who was uh active in north in northern eastern India sarnath and so on. And during his lifetime Buddhism was not a big thing. It was pretty obscure. And then Emperor Ashoke for political reasons makes Buddhism mainstream. So before Emperor Ashoke makes Buddhism mainstream, nobody in the subcontinent knew about both the Dharma. Nobody knew about this. And then because of imperial patronage, Buddhism explodes in popularity. And that's why that's how it suddenly goes all over the all over the subcontinent and eventually beyond the subcontinent. See for any religion to thrive or any religious path to thrive you need funding you need patronage you need a champion. And when the emperor himself is the champion well the path is free for you. Right? So it is Ashoke who artificially transformed Buddhism from a from an obscure dharmic path into a global phenomenon. He did this for political reasons. Ashoke now for when it comes to Janism Jina Dharma they never Ja never had the sort of imperial patronage. Of course you have uh one of the descendants of Ashok who was it who built lots and lots of Jane monasteries. Okay let's let's see okay Ashoka Ashoka the great let's see his descendants let's let me tell you one of his descendants maybe great-grandson or something um Mahendra Kunal Kunal was blinded wasn't he? Uh D is the father successor Srati. Srati. Yeah. Srati Moria the grandson of Ashoke. He according to Jane tradition he built 150,000 Jane das and made 15 million Jane Mortis idols. He had taken an oath to dig the new foundation of a new janal every day and that sort of thing. This is what Wikipedia says. As always, as always, statutory warning, Wikipedia is not necessarily a reliable source of information. I just use it for you know so that because it's quick but don't always rely on Wikipedia. Be very careful with it. The point is we had Srati Moria who was uh who was a big patron of of uh Janism right um and Ashok was a great patron of Buddhism but Srati wasn't as powerful and as influential as as Ashok. So you had times in India where journalism was a big deal in South India you know for a time in Karnataka etc journalism was a very big deal. So these waves ups and downs come and go. VS says if Epstein files caused so much controversy and havoc I wonder what would happen if they release all the JFK files. What's your take on this? They won't release all the JFK files. Um yeah, if they release the JFK files and we truly find out what happened, it will be a massive massive massive controversy and even today it will be very controversial and it will possibly show various US institutions in in a certain light that they don't want to be seen in. Right? See, it's very clear that what they the official narrative about the JFK assassination is false. It's a lie. There is the Warren Commission report, right? Warrant Commission. Let's see. Warren Commission. The Warren Commission. Come on. Why is Google lagging? The Warren Commission investigated the assassination of President JFK. It concluded that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone and Jack Ruby acted alone. Okay. Okay. The warrant commission. Uh so according to the warrant commission, okay, uh what's his name? Lee Harvey Oswald. The guy who said I'm a pati. That guy, he acted alone. He was on top of a big build of a tall building, maybe 10th, 11th or whatever floor. He had one rifle with him, a single rifle with a scope and he shot JFK from behind. That's what the Warren Commission says that Lee Harvey Oswald shot JFK from behind. Means the bullet came from behind his head. It hit him behind on the in the back of the skull. If you watch the Zapruder video, which is the video in which JFK is shown to be assassinated, you can see that the killing shot comes from the front. His head is snapped back like that. his head is snapped backwards, not front. If the bullet hits from the back, the head will be snapped forwards because a bullet cont has a tremendous amount of velocity and momentum and it's going to snap a person's head forward or backward depending on what side of the head it it's from. So, it's very clear that John F. Kennedy's head head snaps backward like that. So the killing shot came from the front, the one that blew his head up. And yet the Warren Commission says that there was only one guy who shot the guy, the president, and the killing shot came from behind, which is obviously such an obvious lie. So if the JFK files are released, it's going to cause a political earthquake in the US. Yeah, the US still won't be able to take it even now, decades later. Pratip Kumar Roy says, "I recently found out about the blood curling oaths of the Freemasons. Also, there is a Freemason symbol in my engineering degree certificate." All right. What is the Freemason symbol? Let's shall we find out? Um, Freemason symbol, it's some ge geometrical thing, right? Ruler and something like that. Freemason symbol. Okay. Okay. The square encompasses, right? Square and compasses. Um, this thing here. Okay. Uh, I am not aware of the blood curdling oaths of the Freemasons because I have not studied their history and their whatever. So, I don't know about that. But, uh, if you have Freemason symbol in your engineering degree certificate, it may or may not be a coincidence. Maybe it's a coincidence because those are square and ruler. It's kind of square and compass. It's kind of something that you associate with engineering anyway, right? Maybe it's just a coincidence. Uh Jagjit Bida says gold and silver history and future value replaceable. See, gold and silver have historically been stores of value. Why is gold a store of value? Why is silver a store of value? Gold is a a reliable store of value because gold is rare. It's a rare element. You don't have tons of gold lying around on the planet, right? There's only a finite amount of gold that can be extracted from our planet and it's very rare. So that's why gold has gold gold is that's why a historically reliable store of value. Even silver is a metal. It's pretty rare. It's more commonly available than gold. I mean back in the day people used to have silver plates and silver cutlery in India. It was very common. But still silver is still a precious metal. And there was a time when the Indian currency was back backed by silver not by gold. But historically gold is the real uh store of of value when it comes to uh monetary wealth. So uh that's in brief the history of gold. The reason why it's so valuable is because it's so rare. Um, and you can't produce gold out of thin air. You can print paper notes, paper currency out of thin air. You can print it. Paper can be printed, paper currency, but you can't print gold, right? That's why gold is so much in demand. That's why people buy gold. So gold is a reliable store of of value. Is gold replaceable? It's not replaceable. Unless we can go and start mining asteroids and and bring millions of tons of gold back to Earth. In that case, the value of gold will go down. It'll devalue, right? But that that's not going to happen anytime soon, at least the next century or two, right? Because mining an asteroid is it's obviously it doesn't break the laws of physics. possible, but it's a monumental, almost impossible task because you're going to have to go and look at lots of asteroids and discover gold somewhere and then mine that and bring it back to Earth. Very, very difficult. Almost impossible with today. Today's technology impossible. So, gold is not replaceable. Neither is silver actually. But gold obviously is more valuable. Even copper is becoming valuable actually now. Yeah. Golden Bird says, "What if pharma companies are act are already spying on North Sentinel Island with biometric drones, animals, and collecting human waste for their research?" Well, what if I am not aware of any such thing. Um, it is the government of India's responsibility to ensure no such thing happens. Uh, North Centelland Island is, you could say, a protectorate of India. It is part of Indian territory. It is part of um India but the way we have positioned it is as a protectorate of India. So we have essentially given it de facto sovereignty. The people of North Sentinel Island have their own culture, their own language, their own way of life and the government of India has decided we will not interfere in their affairs. We will not impose Indian laws, Indian constitution, Indian reservations etc. on the people of North Central Island, Indian um judiciary, Indian police, Indian whatever. Let them live their life the way they have been living for tens of thousands of years and we will ensure that nobody interferes in their internal affairs. So we are going to protect them and we will not interfere which means that if we have decided upon this then we have to protect these people and ensure that nobody is able to interfere in any way. No pharma company, no no no no other nation, no travelers, no vloggers, no YouTubers, nobody should be allowed to go there, right? Um, so it's the government of India's responsibility. That's all I can say. Pratip Kumar Roy says, I recently started watching videos about this Chinese professor Jang YouTube channel, Predictive History. Very interesting channel. All right, sir. Thank you for that recommendation. I shall check it out. Jang Adish Adish Readish Hir says, "Was the Axis defeat inevitable once the US entered the war or could different strategic decisions have changed the outcome?" Okay. um could different strategic decisions have changed the outcome. So the outcome is the outcome that we got is that the the uh the allies led by the US won and the axis which was mainly uh Nazi Germany, Imperial Japan and fascist Italy those three together they lost. That was the deal that was the outcome. Um so was this defeat inevitable once the US entered the war or could Germany, Japan, Italy etc. have done something that could have u changed the outcome. I think I think the access defeat was not inevitable once the US entered the war. It was the decisions and choices of of the of of Nazi Germany of Adolf Hitler that led to the defeat of Nazi Germany. See, one of these strategic choices they made was to abandon the the attacks on Britain and focus on the USSR. So they made a choice. Okay, let's So they had this blitz creek going on, the blitz on London and the UK and the UK was was under siege. It was under siege. If they had continued that and taken the UK, which they possibly were capable of, then the whole of Europe was under their dominion. And if they had then not attacked the USSR but consolidated their gains and stopped it over there then it was very difficult for the US alone without the UK's help to you know turn the tide. That's one thing. So one ch one really bad choice was abandoning the attack on the UK and turning attention to the USSR. They had this pact with the USSR, right? the Nazis, the Molotov Ribbons fact and they broke it eventually. So then they turned their attention uh on the USSR. They launched operation Barbarosa and there also instead of going straight for Moscow and effecting a proper regime change and taking out Stalin, the Nazis decided to go south to the Caucasus because there was a lot of oil and gas there. Aaranbaku or that that region, right? Kokas region, lots of oil and made made sense from a strategic from from a certain perspective that you want access to the energy there. But what about Stalin? What about the the Soviet regime, right? So if they had focused on straight away going after Moscow and defeating Stalin right away, they could possibly have done that. Yeah. So these choices changed the outcome of the war. So if they had not made those choices, if they if they had first gone for the UK and taken it, then the U US would have found it really really difficult to defeat Nazi Germany. White user says US helps Pakistan and also funds it with which it launches terror attacks on us. But I don't see Indians boycotting and hating the US. We only boycott countries far smaller than us. Don't you think it's hypocrisy? Say the US is is a special nation. It's the most desirable nation in the world for individuals. Every everybody wants to go and settle down in the US, right? What do most Indians want for the children? Study hard beta. Get a great degree. Then I'll take a big loan of 1 cr or whatever from the bank. I'll say send you to the US to study there. Study very hard. Get your degree. Get a job there. Get a H1B visa. eventually get a green card, settle down, become a citizen and that's the path right so when you have this aspiration for the U with with respect to the US why would you hate the US right and most people aren't aware of the fact that the Pakistani terrorism is funded and financed by the US so today Pakistan is not able to launch terror attacks on India mostly but from the 1980s all the way to the 2000s All the Pakistani terrorism was essentially funded and financed by the US. But Indians don't realize that most Indians don't realize this and even if they do then they kind of turn a blind eye to that because US best country in the world number one country right is it hypocrisy maybe it's hypocrisy call it whatever it is. Pratep Kumar Roy says Sar previously you said there are only four sovereign nations in the world later you added Israel to the list. Why do you think Israel should be on the list? Yes, I had not thought it through properly. If you are a person with a functioning brain, then you will keep on evaluating the way you see the world and sometimes you'll find that you made an obition somewhere. So you correct that and if you have said something in public, you said you correct that in public. There's nothing wrong with saying that you know what I missed something in the past. Earlier I said there were only four. Today I have realized no no I made a mistake one more nation exists that should be on the list. So that is called correction. So yes I initially said the four there are only four sovereign nations the US, Russia, China and India. Then I realized let me think properly. Oh no no no no Israel is also independent and completely sovereign. So yes then I made this amendment this change that yeah it's actually five sovereign nations is why do I think Israel should be on the list? Why do I think Israel is a completely sovereign nation? Because it is. It is. It's it's the one nation that has a genuinely special relationship with the US and it has unconditional US support no matter what happens. When you have the unconditional support of the most powerful nation in the world in a way that the most powerful nation in the world does not interfere in your internal affairs, then you are not just sovereign, you are super sovereign. Yeah. So, so Panduranga says Vijayagar Empire significance and downfall. Vijayagar Empire significance and downfall. I am not an expert on the history of the Vijayagar Empire. But I will give you a recommendation. Let me give you a recommendation. Okay? If you want to know the history, learn the history of the Vijayagar Empire in brief. Uh let us go to YouTube. Adijit Chavda Chavda Sepalak Krishna and uh not these two but um no no now no journey into Vijay Nagar. So this is a 48 it's it's a 50 it's almost a 60-minute video that in which I had a discussion with sep and in which sepalak krishna has explained in brief the history of the vijayagar empire. Okay. So yeah watch this video and in that that video will give you uh the information that you seek. All right. Uh Bat SF says what about medical mafia destroying health of Indians and its cronies like liver do destroying our faith in traditional systems like Ayurveda and Siddha. Uh I am not you know an expert on these matters. I don't know about this. I I know this this guy called Liveroc on Twitter and it appears that he's controversial in some way. I have not interacted with him. I have not checked out his timeline in any great detail. So I am not aware of uh what his stand is. He is he destroying our faith in traditional systems like Ayurved za. There are some people who have this crusade right this crusade of attacking everything that is traditional in India attacking it through rationality and modern science and whatnot. So there there are these people who have this agenda this this this crusade that they are on. I use the crusade word you know consciously. So there is that but I am not aware of this guy. I I'm not aware of what his actual you know agenda is. Now medical mafia destroying the health of Indians. I once again I am not an expert on these matters. I have not studied this. I've not looked into this in detail. What I can tell you indeed in in the high level is that u India's medical system is is is a business. Healthcare has become a business in India just like education. Education is a business. It's where people can make huge amounts of money and healthcare is a business. So if someone is sick, that person is is a valuable resource to the medical industry because you can extract money out of that person. So it's it should not be like that. I've said this in the past and it's it's kind of controversial but my opinion is that in a civilized society the government should extract taxes from the people. Yes, but in return the government should give the people free totally free healthcare and totally free education as it used to be in India when India used to be civilized. So take taxes from the people. Sure. Make the people pay taxes but give them free healthare healthare and free education. That's what a civilized society is like. We are not no longer a proper civilized society unfortunately. I mean if you turn health care and education into businesses then you are ruining the future of the of your of your civilization. So yeah, Pratib Kumar Roy says, "I discovered recently about early Freemasons had all the knowledge about architecture, engineering, science. After European renaissance, they were responsible for the scientific developments in Europe. Sir, are you Freemason?" I am the last person who will be a Freemason. I am I I will categorically state this. I am not a Freemason. Okay? I am not a Freemason. I will never be a Freemason. I don't even know who the Freemasons are and uh what their agenda is, what their origins are. I haven't studied them so I can't say. But yeah, it's an interesting group of people. So yeah, I am not a free nation. Come on. Abishek Singh says Indo-China battle of Rzangla 1962 120 versus 3000. the battle of Rzangla. I will invite you all to visit Ladak if you can and if you visit Ladak I'll tell you where to go. Okay. Uh where's our map? Here is map. We go to Ladak. So the capital the largest city in Ladak is Lei. When you go eastwards from Lei you will reach Pangong. So the Pangong lake. Now you have places like uh Spangamik. Spangmik is a village. Man is a village. Mira and you can stay in this villages on the banks of the of the lake, great lake. But go further and visit Tushul. Okay, visit Chushul. Chushul is is a essentially a village, small town. And if you go further, you will reach the Razangla war memorial over here. And if you visit this place, they will show you a movie, a a short movie of about 15 20 minutes in which they will show you all the details of this battle, the battle of Rjangla in which 120 or so Indian soldiers fought against 3,000 Chinese nearby in this region. Okay, somewhere here. Rzang lies right over here somewhere. And yeah, so you this Razangla war memorial is right it's just a few hundred meters away from the battle battlefield actually and if you go further go back what you will find is that there is this border meeting point you will not be allowed to go there is this border meeting point and you have this Chinese uh installation here and then you will see this this Chinese road So this is Chinese occupied territory. This is Chinese military infrastructure and you can see the Chinese when you are going back to you know going back to Tushul or whatever from the Zangla war memorial. So uh I would highly highly recommend people those of you who have free time and who want to see more of India to go to Ladak and visit uh the Rzangla war memorial and find out what actually happened from the Indian army themselves. The Rangla war memorial is an army installation. So when you go there you you have to enter your details, your name, your address, your phone number and so on and then you'll be given a tour by actual army personnel. It's a great experience. Go for I I would I will highly recommend everyone to to go and have this experience. Sam the gamer says how to stay calm like MS Dhoni. Well, I suppose MS Dhoni is the right person to answer that question, right? I can't answer on his behalf, but how to stay calm? Well, develop a calm mindset and uh be be prepared. You can be you can stay calm in all situations if you are prepared for the situations. If you've done your practice and you know how to deal with everything, then you can stay calm. If you haven't prepared well enough and you don't know how to deal with very situations, then it is hard for you to stay calm. So, MS Dhoni was always well prepared, wasn't he? Right? Tremendous amount of practice and fitness and all that. So, he's prepared. He knows how to deal with things. That's why I suppose he was very calm. One of the reasons why he was very calm. Okay. Pratep Kumar Roy says, "Did you see the film The True Man Show 1998? Hollywood is so much more than Bollywood. We are far behind everything from the west, Asia and everyone." I haven't seen The True Man True. Jim Carrey, right? Uh Jim Carrey and he lives in this fake makebelieve universe and um yeah, he's being uh every action of his life is being recorded and broadcast to the world. That sort of thing. Uh I haven't seen it. There's so many movies that I have missed. I'm sure it's it's a great movie. Yeah. Um Kit Gupta says, "Howdy, sir. How how to you? Uh can you please help me understand the Nagorno Karabak and Kosovo conflicts respectively?" Well, that's two massive conflicts and that will take a lot of time to explain both. But how about we discuss one of these conflicts, the Nagoro Karabak or Artasak conflict, right? So let's go to the map and we shall discuss the Naguro Karabak conflict in detail uh in brief in detail detail it will take hours to understand okay I'll tell you in brief so when we're talking about the Naguro Karabak conflict we're talking about uh a conflict between Armenia and Azarbaian okay so when the USSR disintegrated in 1990 1991 all these Republics like Turkmanistan, Usbakistan, Georgia, Armenia, Azarbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgystan and so on so forth. All these became independent. They declared independence. So Armenia and Azarbaijan also declared independence. Now when they were part of the USSR, they were all you could say de facto Russians. They all spoke Russian. Russian was the main language and so on. But once they became Armenian Azabajan again their old ethnic rivalry came back to the four and and there were regions there is this region called Artasak okay it's also called Nagoro Karabak Artasak it's now called Artasak Ajar by John so it's this region you'll the map won't define it it's over here which is claimed by both countries so in 1991 when Armenia was stronger and they they they took over Artasak after after a brief war essentially and later Azarbaijan by the 2020s had become more powerful. They had the support of Turkey, they had the support of Israel and then they went to war with Armenia and then they took over Artasak most of Artasak. So Arthasak the the term that was used in the 1990s was Nagoro Karabak. Today it's called Arthasaka and uh it's it's a pretty old and very nasty rivalry that these two nations have. It's an ethnic rivalry. The Azarbaijanis are Turic in uh by by culture and religion and language. Armenians are Armenians. So the Azarbaijanis have support from Turkey and also Israel. Why does Israel support Azarbaijan? Because Israel buys Azarbaijani oil energy. So it needs to support Azarbaijan. For that practical reason they support Azarbaijan. Turkey supports Azarbaijan because Azarbaijan is a Turk nation. Okay. And Turkey wants to create a pan to run corridor all the way from Turkey all the way to the Turk nations like all the way to Kyrgystan, Turkmanistan, Usbakistan, Kyrgystan, Kazakhstan, Turk nations. So the inconvenience over here geographically is Azarbai is is Armenia and Turkey wants to wipe Armenia out of the map of the world and that's the whole thing. So that in brief is the Nagoro Carabah conflict. Okay. This region that both countries claim. See historically you go back 200 years, 300 years, all of this was Armenia. There was no place called Azarbaijan. It was all Armenia. It was all the kingdom of Armenia. Armenia is a very ancient kingdom that's that dates back more than 2,000 years. It's one of the first Christian countries in Asia. Okay. And before Christianity, it was Indo-arian, Indo-Iranian, probably Zoroastrian. And before Zoroastrianism, well, you know what? So that's this that's the story. So the conflict is about territory. And now uh Azarbaijan has the upper hand. Sam the Gamer says, "Next science episode. What are rogue planets? You would you like a science episode? If I do a science episode, the viewership will be like 1/4 of what it is right now." But I I'll be happy to do it. What are rogue planets? What are rogue planets? I don't know what a rogue planet is. Does the term rogue planet exist? Is it a planet that that has broken free of the gravitational influence of a of a star? Is it that rogue planets? Let's see. Uh rogue planet free floating. Yeah. Okay. So, okay. I was not aware the this term is being used right now. Rogue planets. So, free floating planets, planets that have broken free, like I said, of the gravitational influence of their host star. So, in a in a solar system in a stellar system, you have a star at the center and you have a bunch of planets that go around the star because of the stars massive gravitational influence. Now, when it comes to all these planets, there are planets of different sizes. And these are in different orbits. Sometimes the orbital interactions are chaotic. It's a multi-body system. It's an endbody system. And sometimes the the planetary interactions because of the influence of the planetary of the gravity of each of the planets. Sometimes it causes a planet to be flung out of the orbit and out of the solar system. Somehow a planet may get enough escape velocity to escape the gravitational pole of its own star and then this planet goes free floating in the universe. Right? So it is no longer attached to a host star. It's just out in space in in interstellar space. And apparently these are now called rogue planets. So very hard to detect them but they can be detected through various means. Maybe through gravitational lensing, through microl lensing perhaps. There is gravitational lensing which through which you can detect black holes and very massive objects. Dark matter can also be detected through gravitational lensing. But when it comes to smaller objects like maybe rogue planets or small black holes, you have to use microlensing. Well, through microlensing, I suppose you can detect rogue planets. Um I don't read cerillic so so I won't be able to read the name but okay. India is the second largest beef exporter and as cattle once stop producing milk they are sold to butchers. That raises question on being vegetarian who consume milk but cares about animals. What's your take? Don't drink milk to save cow. H that is um well so is India the second largest exporter of beef? First of all, let's see this uh largest beef exporting nations nations. Okay, let's see. Give it a second. Brazil, Australia, the US, and India are the world's top beef exporting nations. Brazil is number one. Australia, India is a major global supplier particularly for buffalo meat. So buffalo meat is also I suppose called beef. Yeah. The top three countries by volume are Brazil, Australia and India. Would you believe it? India is a major beef exporter. And let's say it's buffalo meat. Still buffalo is almost a cow, right? It's the same face. Color is different. What's my take on this? H what's my take on that's a very difficult question right there right our culture you don't kill cows right so how has India ended up becoming a major beef exporting country even if let's say 80% is buffalo meat why is 20% cow meat so the question you're raising is what you're saying is that once a cow stops producing milk that cow is sold to butchers Because otherwise you going to keep feeding the cow until the cow dies and that's a drain on your well on your wealth from a financial standpoint. Yeah. Okay. Um so the question is let's say you're vegetarian you consume milk. Of course if you're vegetarian in India you consume milk but you care about animals. So should you stop drinking milk to save the cow? I don't know. Most people won't be able to stop drinking milk, right? Indians love milk a lot and most Indians won't be aware of the fact that you know um this issue that that milk cows once once they're old they are sold to butchers. Um I'm not sure what the solution is. Should people stop drinking milk? But for vegetarians milk is a major source of protein. Otherwise vegetarians will be like what what protein do they have? Pulses. Yeah, milk is a major source of protein for them. I I don't know. I don't I don't think there's an easy answer anywhere here. I think the government of India has to take a stand about this. I mean on the one hand, it may be a major booster for our GDP. Yeah, I think the government has to take a stand on this. Of course, our culture says you you don't kill cows. So why is India a major beef exporter? I don't have an answer here. I don't have an answer. If I was the person taking making the decisions, I would ban it. But I'm not the person making the decisions. Dangra says profang var Judah subi ra Jerusalem key or Israel may Nvidia investment barat may roch child YouTube does not let me see did not let me see this in send this in English okay professor jang pravishar so first of all my Hindi I know how to read and write Hindi but my reading speed is very poor. Why is it very poor? Because I spent a bunch of time in outside of India as a kid. Okay. So once I came back I had to I had to learn Hindi as if I was a foreigner and I never developed that speed in reading and writing especially in reading in Hindi but of course I can read. So, professor Jang pervar pax judika ra jerusalem or is nvidia investment ro I I'm not aware of this professor jang I've not seen professor jang somebody else recommended him professor jang just now a while ago few minutes ago an hour or so ago so I'll check out professor jang in his channel I have not seen that now pax judika I'm not aware of what he has said about pax judika sabir uh sabir jerusalem key or so Does Professor Jang speak about tax Juda and all roads lead to Jerusalem? Israel uh Nvidia investments in Israel. So I I don't know. I'm not aware of this. Um but I will check it out. Maybe next time I'll have an answer for you. Right now I don't know. Barat Moschields really ros are investing in India. Really? Obviously they won't do it directly indirectly. It's somehow I suppose I don't know. I've not seen I'm not aware of it. But uh thank you for the the the pointer. I will pick out Professor Jang. The second time someone's recommending Professor Jang in today's live stream. So I'll check it out. Lassia has become a new YouTube member of this channel. Thank you very much Lassia. Welcome to the membership of the channel and I am very grateful. Thank you sir. Oh ma'am thank you. Rrook Nual says is Pakistan changing? I hear voices against radicalism. I think it's changing in Pakistan. Are you hearing voices where exactly? Are you hearing voices on Pakistani social media? Are you are you hearing voices elsewhere? Uh from what I see nothing is changing in Pakistan unfortunately. I would love Pakistan to change and become a civilized nation. Right? Revert to their roots. But I don't see that happening. I don't see it happening. You will always see some people raising voices against radicalism. Some people trying to be the voice of reason. There are always see Pakistan isn't filled with barbarians right there are good people too in Pakistan they are a small minority I'm sure but there are good people too in Pakistan and they will probably raise some raise their voices against all the terrible things that are happening so you'll see that from time to time but the majority is not like that unfortunately that's the problem I mean I have people from Pakistan who are longtime viewers of this H not a lot but a few and clearly they are sane intelligent good people right but unfortunately they are a minority in Pakistan the majority of Pakistanis are they hate India they have been taught to hate India it's not even their fault but it is what it is right that's why Pakistan and India are adversaries not through our we didn't engineer the situation we did not okay um Only gems says how did current civilization went from planes to moon landing in 60 years and batwash was not able to do it in for 6,000 years. Oh so look there is something called a tipping point right when everything converges all the technological advancements converge and all the right conditions are present in one part of the world where sudden technological leaps can happen and that's what we have seen in the 20th uh 19th and 20th century. So how did we go from planes to moon landing is the question right? The moon landing it happened because of a number of technologies not just rocket technology but also quantum technologies and uh so much more. So in 1900 we did not even know what quantum mechanics was. Without the knowledge of quantum mechanics no moon landing would have happened. none of the present day technologies would have happened. Um it's in the early 1900s that the first aircraft was flown, right? And then by 1969 you had the first moon landing. So so much progress happened in about 60 years. Tremendous progress. The question is why was Baratwash not able to do it in 4 6,000 years. See 1,000 years ago around 10,000 AD bhat was the most advanced civilization in the world. 1000 AD Europe was was in the dark ages right the Islamic uh golden age was beginning to set beginning to start around 1000 AD because of knowledge extracted out of India so at that time Bat had the most advanced knowledge structures the educational system um universities all of that in India India was a fully industrialized fully developed and full fully urbanized civilization all of that was there. So we were the most technologically advanced civilization at that time and yet and yet the technology was not advanced enough. The kind of advancement you had in Europe in 1900. So in around 10,000 AD the downfall of India as a civilization starts because of the Turk occupation and that's where the education system is completely destroyed. Right? So around 100 AD the knowledge that we had and the systems that we had had not yet reached that point that's called a tipping point where suddenly all these very rapid advancements happen right if India had not been destroyed civilizationally in the past 1,000 years we would have been probably the first to to uh discover all these things. Okay. But that's all ifs and buts. It's all hypothetical because somebody else made those discoveries. Puchun says, "Sir, don't you think there are too many incidental um Don't you think there are too many incidental conspiracy theories about the small hats? Do you believe in any conspiracies?" Um, I stay away from conspiracy theories. I um stay away from things that are based on speculation and are not grounded in hard evidence. I mean, if you start going down those rabbit holes where people make all kinds of stories and claims without hard evidence, then I mean, that's not for me. So, I stay away from conspiracy theories. There are all kinds of claims about small hats, big hats of this hat, that hat, whatever hat, black hat, red hat, whatever. Uh, but many of these theories are based on very flimsy claims that are not backed by hard evidence. I stay away from that. So yeah, Brahmaputra Mosqua says why is vasal inevitable for us in 3 to 5 years? I have never said that vasal is inevitable for us in 3 to 5 years. I've said that the probability is high. It doesn't mean inevitable. Let's say you have a 60% probability of something happening. That is not inevitability. It means there's a 40% probability it will not happen too. Right? So I have never said that vasal is inevitable. I've said that there's a higher more than 50% probability that India becomes a vasal of the US in the next 5 years maybe 60% probability but I am still optimistic it won't happen please please when I say something please pay attention and and and understand the context and don't just take out one or two words from it understand exactly the full thing I'm saying okay it's not inevitable it is likely the probability is high but it's not inevitable I am hopeful Hopefully it doesn't happen and I'm optimistic it doesn't happen. Okay. So let's be optimistic shall we? Mohit Raj Singh is a new member. Thank you very much sir. Thank you very much Moit G and welcome to the membership of the channel. Thank you so much. Mohitp says is it fair to blame Emperor Ashok for the fall of Gandhar? Now when you say fall of Gandhar are you referring to the fall of Gandhar around 1000 AD? Of course, that's when Gandhar falls, right? That's when Gandhar is no longer part of our civilization. Uh with the uh rise of the Guri uh dynasty, the Gurid dynasty which gives us the monsters eventually like Gori and then later Gaznavi who was part of the Gaznavvid Empire. So of so Gandhar falls around 10,000 AD. Gandhar was the original Kashmir. The question you're asking is is emperor is it fair to blame emperor Ashok for the fall of Gandhar? I suppose you could blame him. And then the my viewers will say what is the Bijit talking about? Ashoke lived what three whatever 300 AD or somewhere around that time. Let's say 300 AD. Uh let's see. Okay. Okay, let's let's see his uh when did he when did he ru a shoke the great Oh, come on. I'm not a robot. Traffic lights. Oh, bro. Okay, here we go. Verify. Ashoke Moria. 268 BC until his death. 232 BC. So, let's say 250 BC. That's Ashoke, right? So what is the connection between an emperor who ru ruled in 250 BC and something that happened in 1 AD? That's a gap of 1,200 years. So how is he to blame? Well, he brought this obscure fringe religious movement that nobody had heard of called Buddhism and he turned it into a global phenomenon. Right? Buddhism both the dharma. And when it comes to Gandhar, 1,000 years before today, around 1000 AD, Gandhar was almost well significantly Buddhist, not entirely Buddhist, significantly Buddhist. And large parts of Central Asia were significantly Buddhist. And when the Turks invaded Central Asia, then India, wherever there was Buddhism, there was the almost instantaneous conversion of the populations to Islam. The Buddhists did not resist Islam. They converted. The Goris were Buddhists. The Goris were Buddhists. They were Indians. They were not Turks. And what happened? They are the first to destroy Somnat. So wherever you had Buddhism, you had the almost instantaneous conversion to Islam. Whenever you had what we now call Hinduism, there was resistance. You had Hindus in in in six in Gandhar in Afghanistan until like a few years ago we resisted. So Ashuk propagated this new dharmic flavor that was unable to resist uh you know conversion to Abrahamic religions at all. So yeah in a way you can indirectly blame Ashoke for the fall of Gandhar. Yes. A Rahul says almost 23 joined an MNC bank after undergrad as SDE. two years scene, I regret it. Corporate politics, unskilled managers that treat employees unfairly. Well, that's that's uh not an unusual story. Okay. What's SD? Let me see this. Okay. Uh SD full form senior development engineer or something. Um software devel Okay. What what am I talking software development engineer? Okay. You've joined an MNC bank as a software development engineer and 2 years in you regretted corporate politics, unskilled managers. Well, that's the scene in India. That's the scene in it in India. That's how it is. So, what can I say? If I were to be harsh on you, I would say deal with it. If I don't want to be harsh harsh with you, I'll still say deal with it. you are in this now. Um, obviously the the conditions aren't optimal. Politics is the most desperating thing for for meritorious people. Merritorious people, people who have who have talent, people who have some quality in them. They hate politics because politics is about bypassing merit merit and talent and progressing up the corporate ladder through underhand means that is that is office politics. Right? So that is the most annoying and and nasty thing about corporations but it's there in any office any corporation you will have office politics any will of unskilled managers who treat employee all that stuff. So my point is look you have chosen this this this uh particular career as of now the choice is deal with the minefield that you're in and excel no matter what happens find ways of dealing with it or maybe move to some other line of work I suppose um so this sort of thing you'll find everywhere even if you move to an academic job you'll find academic politics there politics you will never be able to get rid of it. Wherever you have a collection of human beings you will have some form of politics. Um so what you can do is after if you have spent two years you have gained some experience if this place is toxic move to a different company perhaps. So find a way find a way. All right sir all the best all the best. Mohitp says is polytheism the lack the reason for the lack of unity among Hindus and Indians? If so that what's the solution? What is the reason for lack of unity among Hindus and Indians? Is it polytheism? Is it polytheism? Wasn't Rome united? Massive empire. Polytheistic empire. Did polytheism come in their way? No, it did not. So what is the reason for the lack of unity among Hindus and Indians? You know when the Americans talk talk about India and Pakistan they talk differently right? When they talk about India about America's relationship with India they say shared values. When they talk about their relationship with Pakistan they say shared interests. Remember interests always trump values. The problem for the lack of unity among Hindus and Indians is that we have too many groups within India who have shared interests that are at odds with the interests of other groups. We don't have common interests. We have common values polytheism. Yeah, sure. But we have groups this cast, that cast, this region, that region who all have different interests. Interests that are clashing with other people's interests. And these divisions have been created in India artificially and these divisions are still being maybe deepened today by politicians to create groups who have different interests from other groups. That is the reason for the lack of unity. So how do you unite Indians? By aligning everybody together and giving everybody shared interests, common interests. Not just common values but common interests. For that you need the right leadership. That is your solution. For that you you need you need the right leadership. Okay. Rarun Rajar good to see you sir. Good to see you back after the Epstein files. I can totally see them as evil enough to stop cancer, cure AIDS, cure etc for profit. I used to think these are so evil to be true. After the Epstein files all the evil has come out in public. these people the kind of things they do the the things they do are unspeakable unspeakable the more I see this stuff on I have not even visited the website website of the Epstein files okay I have not dared to do that whatever I see is what I see on my uh ex timeline time to time some screenshot comes out of some Epstein email from the Epstein files and every time I see some one of these things it's it's more and more horrifying absolute monsters Yeah. So, look, one of the things in the US is the pharma industry. The pharma industry is all about profits. It's not about finding cures. It's about maintaining patients, keeping them sick for their entire lifetime. It's about creating chronic conditions that have to be treated throughout a person's lifetime. If you look at Americans, every American is is on pills. Most Indians don't take pills, right? You may take pills maybe once a year or once in two years if you are sick if you have some illness but otherwise on a day-to-day basis do you take pills you don't take pills Americans take pills every day like twice a day or whatever they're on all kinds of pills anti-depressants anti this this that that I don't know what else so everybody is hooked on all these medicines and without those medicines they can't perform they can't function properly so yeah it looks like cure to cancer must be easily available but these people have suppressed cancer and god knows what other illnesses. Absolute evil monsters. Dark side of the moon says proof of ISI funds uh lashkar a taiba j a muhamad attacks on India. Uh why does US help and give aid? Why do it despite ruined economy? Why no big international outrage on innocent deaths? So you want me to provide proof of ISI funding these attacks on India? I proof of ISI funding. I mean isn't it enough to know that Ajal al- Kasabu came from Pakistan? I mean the proof India has given dosi after dosi to Pakistan and the United Nations in the US about this. Why are you asking me for proof about these things? It's it's everyone knows. It's an open secret. It's not even a secret. Everyone knows this what Pakistan does. ISIL, LE, JM, they're all part of the same same thing, same organization essentially, right? Uh and now why does the US help and give aid? Look, the US doesn't give aid. It funds it has historically funded Pakistan. See, like this um in 1979, the USSR invaded Afghanistan. Okay, Christmas Day 1979 was the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the US was very concerned. They did not want the US USSR to expand their footprint. So they decided to set up to to to use Pakistan as a proxy against the USSR. So they gave Pakistan various kinds of help. One is um um people who are experts in guerrilla warfare who will train Pakistanis and Afghans to fight the Soviets using guerrilla warfare. So the Americans trained these mujahedines in Pakistan who were recruited from Madras and whatnot and from the Afghan population who had fled to Pakistan. These mujahedines were recruited from these from these groups and they were given training initially by Americans. Maybe the Americans trained the Pakistanis who then trained the mujahedines. Okay. And then the mujahedins will need weapons. They they'll need funding. They'll need ammunition, arms, all that. All of that was routed into Pakistan by the Americans but through third parties. And that's how the there was this decade long mujahedin war against the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. Eventually the Soviets had to leave. So after a decade there were so many mujahedin camps in Pakistan and so much over capacity for producing mujahedines. So after the Soviets leave Afghanistan, what do you do with this? Divert that into Kashmir. And the Americans knew it very well what the Pakistanis are doing. And maybe the Americans suggested that. And during the 1980s, the Pakistanis were training all these sick Kalistthani terrorists and pushing them into India and there also the Americans knew and much of the money and funding in arms and ammunition was coming through the same channels that the Mjahans were getting. Right? So that's the deal. So why did the US do this? Why did the US fund and finance Pakistani terrorism against India? because the Americans know what India's potential is in the uh in the middle of the 20th century the Americans used to talk you know some dossier some documents have come out where they are expressing concern about India's potential rise that if India gets its economy right then India can rise way ahead of imperial Japan where Imperial Japan used to be if India gets the right kind of leadership then this small island of Japan set of islands the way it rose as an empire India can dwarf that rise And India was not aligned with the US. So the Americans wanted something to counterbalance India and keep India off balance always. That's that's Pakistan. That's why they eventually gave Pakistan nuclear weapons. Right? And the Pakistanis why do they do it despite the ruined economy? The Pakistani generals and army people do they care about the Pakistani economy and the Pakistani aam? They don't care. They simply don't care. Right? So that's real. Okay. Subs says Sar was dhananda cruel and how was he defeated? Danandanda he is said to have been a very cruel king. He said to have been a king who taxed his people very harshly and hoarded all the money did not use it for societal welfare for the welfare of the uh of the of the empire right and yeah maybe cruel as well in other ways. So that's the kind of uh king Dananda was. He was obviously a very powerful king. It is his massive military that scared off Alexander soldiers, right? Dan. So how was he defeated? Uh a regime change led by um um Vishnu Gupta Chanaka and Chundra Gupta Moria. Chanaka was the brains. Moria Chandra Gupta Moria was the guy who actually did this. And what were the mechanics and dynamics of this? Well, that's a long story. Even I have not read this in detail. But yeah, there was a war. It was a military campaign in which the Nanandha was defeated and that's how Chandra Morya became emperor. Rahul Lak says, "How did you publish your books on Amazon? By what method? Have any become bestsellers? 10,000 plus?" No, I haven't promoted them that much or something and none of these are bestsellers. These are not books yet. These are individual chapters of what will eventually become a book. It's just uh you know trying something out different that's all. How do you publish it? You can anybody can publish original works on Amazon. There is something called KDP right? Amazon KDP. Look it out. Check it out. uh what you have to do is you need to have an original work that you have created yourself and and that you if it's you have to format it in in a certain way and then you have to upload it to Amazon you to create an account and do all that and you have to fill up the form and give a title and keywords and whatnot and uh and the book cover and that gets published that's how it is done NPS says why physicists get excited about oldest galaxies like mom D14, GNZ11, but ignores Milky Way ancientness. Milky Way is 13.6 billion years old. Uh, they can study stars here only and figure out how the first galaxy is formed. Is the Milky Way 13.6 billion years old? Um, look, the universe is 13.8 billion years old. Is the Milky I've not checked out the age of the Milky Way. One second. Uh, Milky Way age. How old is it? 13.6 billion years old. Well, that's interesting. Um, it formed about 2003 300 million years after the big bang. So, now we are talking about oldest galaxies like MOS even 4. These are the oldest galaxies that have been discovered by the James Web Space Telescope. Yeah. JWST. Now the JWST is discovering these old galaxies really really ancient galaxies that are so old that I mean they kind of uh break the models that we have of the universe. Uh the the our understanding of the universe was that galaxies would not form in the first couple of 100 million years but there we have well-formed galaxies. So the point is this the Milky Way is let's say it's 13.6 6 billion years old like it like we saw. But the Milky Way is a well-formed massive galaxy today. But when the Milky Way was first formed, let's say 200 million years into the into the birth of the universe, was the Milky Way already wellformed then? Probably not. Maybe only the seeds of the Milky Way had formed at the time. At the time, maybe it was a small mini baby galaxy. But when we see these old galaxies, MO Z14 etc. they are already fully formed galaxies at 200 million years or whatever. So let's see the age of MO Z14. Yeah, lag. Google is lagging for some reason today. MOMZ4 the most distant known galaxy red shift of 14.44. It existed only 280 billion million years after the big bang. And it's unexpectedly bright and chemically enriched for its age. The point is it's already well evolved. It's not a baby galaxy at 280 million years after the big bang. It's already a fully formed, well evolved galaxy. And that is the issue. The Milky Way must have been a baby galaxy at the time. It would not have been a massive like m4 or the other one, right? So that's the issue and that's why this is so exciting and also very well yeah very exciting and definitely challenging because it now challenges us to to reformulate our our our models of how galaxies form and at what period of time in the universe's evolution to the first galaxies form. Clearly we have evidence that kind of runs counter to what we understood thus far. So that's the deal. Kirmava Jones says, "Are Indians truly one people with a shared history? If so, how do we reconcile this with our entirely unrelated language families?" See, language families and all, yeah, we have according to the the consensus linguistics, we have two language families, Arian and Travidian, right? But that's what the colonials taught us and we have simply continued teaching that. Have we tried to study linguistics a priority from the very first principles all over again without keeping without incorporating the colonial baggage? It is very likely that the so-called Dravidian and Arian language families two different language families also had a shared ancestor in the subcontinent. Maybe two groups of people got separated for maybe several thousand years because the subcontinent is so large and today it's open but in the past it was like the Amazon rainforest. It was so densely densely forested. So humans first reached the subcontinent let's say about 75 80,000 years before uh before today about 80,000 years before today. That's the out of Africa migration. And maybe it separated into two groups perhaps at some point in time and they got they got separated for maybe several thousand years because of the incredible forestation of the subcontinent which you don't see today at all. So today's subcontinent is not the same as the subcontinent of subcontinent of 20 30 40,000 years ago. It was way more forested. It was like the Amazon rainforest. So these people clearly had the same origins but got separated. That is a very plausible scenario. Has any historian has any linguist considered that? Have we tried to go down and find the deep roots of the so-called Dravidian and so-called arian languages? It's very possible that the the roots are the same, right? How do you know these language families are unrelated? We have never bothered to dive deeper. Our historians, our linguists remain at the superficial level deliberately right now. When it comes to shared history, maybe the two groups were separated for maybe 10,000 years. It's possible for that to understand that we'll have to dig deeper into archaeology to to to levels of soil of straighta soils which are like 20,000 years deeper or deep 20 30 40,000 years deep. The further you deep under the soil the the the deeper the further back you go in time. But we haven't done that. We haven't done that. We are looking at something that's 2,000 years old maybe 2500 years old. We don't dig deeper. Our ASI doesn't care about that. or maybe they don't have funds or whatever. We simply don't research our history. We don't try to discover new things about our history archaeologically, linguistically, culturally, whatever. Let's say I create a new organization which is a parallel of the ASI but professional and I get funding of let's say $10 billion. I will set up archaeological projects all across the country, north, south, east, west. Dig deeper. Dig deeper. find the truth of how ancient how old the human presence is in various parts of India and by that you can find out if there was a separation for a certain period of time and I would also fund a bunch of of linguists young linguists who will ignore mainstream linguistics but drill down in linguistics based on first principles only and I promise you you'll find ancient connections between the two language families but in India no one does this. Nobody has the vision. Nobody has the has the inclination to do these things. And that's why we are taught that we have two unrelated language families. It's a pathetic state of affairs in this country. Instead of unifying the country, we seek to divide the country. We are one people with a shared history, shared ancestry. Our ancestry goes back 70, 80,000 years in the subcontinent. But your teachers and your textbooks won't won't teach you this. Genetics tells you that. tells you that Brahma Mosqua says as populations rise and some attain more are new souls made the south won't accept Sanskrit as Tamil developed quasi separately from its solution the solution is proper is is high quality leadership today we have politicians who seek to divide us we need politicians not politicians we need leaders who unite us. That's what we need. The cholas, what are their inscriptions in in India? Tamil and Sanskrit. Outside of India, all Srit. When the chasalized the whole of Southeast Asia, which language did they bring to Southeast Asia? Sanskrit. The chasers are the greatest of Tamils, aren't they? But today Tamil Sanskrit Tamil people won't accept Sanskrit. Why? It's not foreign to Tamil people. It's their own language. It's our common civilizational language. So the solution is the right kind of leadership which we don't have today. As populations rise in some moas are new souls made. Well, every living being has a soul, right? Every living being is an atma. Even a cat has an atma. Even a dog has an atma, a horse, a cow, an ant. So if a if a cat does some good karma in its life, maybe in the next life it will attain a higher level of existence and be and and transition from being a cat to maybe a human being. That's the only thing that can explain the number of human beings we have on the planet today. A lot of them have risen from the lower levels and become newly minted human atmas. That's why the quality of the population is human population is so is is is deteriorating kind of you know okay slay says don't don't worry guys hurry is coming like he had promised well hurry please hurry up yeah I would like to see hurry in my lifetime I'll be the happiest person feel strong says are you feeling strong Man, I always feel strong, man. Should always feel strong. Strive to feel strong, work hard to feel strong and feel strong. Love your um love your the name display name feel strong man. Awesome. Uh Rudra says, "How should we balance dark tried traits and dharma on?" How should we balance dark tried traits and dharma on nation's point of view? Absolute approach either of it is disaster. How comes how some can balance it so great is mind-blowing. Dark tried traits. Uh what are the dark tried traits in psychology? Um narcissism, psychopathy, and one more right. Um what are the dark tried dark tried traits? Uh dark tried traits. Oh, come on Google. What are you up to? Um give you a second. Okay. Narcissism, makaveism and psychopathy. Okay. So these are three uh malevolent subclinical personality traits. Uh and individuals with high scores in these traits. So this is psychology, right? It's a psychological framework, the dark triad. So the question Rudra is asking is how should we balance these three dark triad traits? narcissism, mavalism and psychopathy and dharma or nation's POV. Um I'm not able to understand how these psychological traits have something to do with the nation's point of view and dharma. Okay. So if a person has these dark tried traits, can the person be dharmic? Well, I suppose if you control yourself, you can be dharmic. I suppose I'm not sure. Um, see if a person has these three traits, I suppose that person will not be a very nice person. May perhaps have criminal tendencies of some kind. I'm not sure how it works, but okay. So, yeah, that person will be less likely to be a dharmic person, I suppose. Yeah, in every society, in every population, you will have some people who have these traits. Hopefully, it will be a minority, but yeah, you will have people and some of them will obviously have criminal tendencies also. Um yeah so I am not an expert in this matter so that's all I can say I suppose that if somebody has these traits all three uh then they will not be very dharmic fields strong man says 2008 global crisis was a tipping point for the rise of China did India miss out opportunity in 2020 when the world was locked down or is our pivotal point yet to come see China had done the hard work of fully industrializing by 2008. So when 2008 came, it was able to capitalize on the opportunity, right? China had put in the hard work over decades. That's why it was ready to seize the opportunity in 2008. Now what hard work has India done in the past few decades? Have we become a fully industrialized civilization? Have we become a major manufacturing power? Are we a major military power? Are we uh $10 trillion economy? We are not any of these things as of now. Right? So in 2020, India for some some reason decided to lock down the country along with everybody else. Maybe it made sense at that time. Nobody knew what kind of virus this was. Corona virus, Wuhan 19, Covid 19. No one knew knew at the time. Maybe it was something uh maybe it could have been something as bad as the Spanish flu. That was devastating, right? So we didn't we didn't know how bad this thing was. So that's why we locked the country down and then we went with the second wave, third wave and all. I think that was overdone. But whatever the government decides, right? Uh so that's why our economy went went backwards. Uh so the whole world was locked down and so were we. So I don't think and India wasn't ready to take over the world or something, right? India was still it still is a minor economy only the fourth largest in the world right now uh not exactly minor but middling economy fourth largest uh so is our pivotal point yet to come I hope so I hope our pivotal point is yet to come but we'll have to do a lot of lot more hard work before we can reach a pivotal point we'll have to become at least a $10 trillion economy we'll have to do make significant reforms significant reforms before. Yeah. So yet to come. Okay. Bhagya Bhagu says, "Your opinion on Ambedkar, is he a divisive figure?" My opinion on Ambedkar is no comments. Yeah. Ian says, "Sanskrit Tamil script discovered in Egypt recently. It was the Brahi script, right? They call it Tamil Brahi because it has some some additional characters. So Brahmy uh Brahmy uh inscriptions were discovered in u some royal tomb or something in Egypt recently and it dates back to about 2,000 years or so or so before today. So clearly Indian travelers went there and wrote something maybe a dedication to some god or goddess or something that sort of thing. So it's it's no nothing surprising Indians were in Egypt in 2000 BC, right? Jatin Kumar says why English kid talk maturely than Indian kid. English kids speak in a more mature manner than compared to Indian kids. Uh probably because of the of the superior education system and the overall millure that you're in. So for example, if you watch Indian cartoons for kids, h the kind of cartoons Indian kids watch, those cartoons their their purpose is to create people with low IQs. If you watch the cartoons like Chabin, it is a recipe for creating people. It's a recipe recipe for lowering people's IQ. And I'm sure that this is going to make lots of people very angry who watch Chota Beim as children. I can't stand Chabim. Okay. So our cartoon, our our cartoons, our entertainment, they're all recipes for lowering children's IQ. And you compound that with the rotten education system that also lowers children's IQ. So obviously you'll have children from other countries who will be more mature and sound more intelligent and perhaps be more intelligent than Indian kids. See game changer says was adultery present in Indian society from 500 BC to 1500 AD all casts included in this question I am not aware not aware sir to know this you would need ancient records right ancient records maybe ancient records of legal proceedings or whatever all our records have been destroyed all our records have been destroyed so I don't know the shastra does speak about some punishments for adultery and so on. So looks like all deviant behavior such behavior is also present in Indian society but I'm sure it was not common place. So just like every society has a certain percentage of people who have criminal tendencies. Similarly every society will have a certain percentage of people who will also have adulterous tendencies. I suppose it must have been there but if it was definitely not encouraged it was definitely not glorified it was definitely not widespread. A&M says could you please explain the major attack orchestrated by Israel's Mossad against the pager attack. So uh is this uh was it was it Hamas? First of all, let's check that out. I think it was Hamas, right? Major attack. Okay, it was Israel. It was It was Hezbollah because it was Lebanon. So, uh Hezbollah is a Lebanese organization and Hamas is the uh Palestinian organization. So, these pager attacks, what was that? So apparently these um members of Hezbollah used to communicate using pagers because they knew that if they use cell phones their communications can be tracked by by external actors maybe the US maybe Israel whatever and USI Israel coordinates or so so let's use pagers you know an ancient device a 20th century device let's use pages to communicate so they were using pagers And Israel found out that these people are using pagers. And apparently the Isra the Hezbollah people were they had given a big order of pagers to some Malaysian or Indonesian or something company and Israel infiltrated somehow that company and and they they inserted somehow explosive components inside the pages manufactured by this company. Maybe it was a company created by Israel and made it look like a foreign company or something like that. Okay. And these pages were where they they they inserted u explosive devices in the pages and then in a coordinated manner all these pages were were blown up blown up and this uh killed or severely injured scores of hisbah operatives. So that was the pager attack. There was a brilliant piece of uh counterterrorism or whatever. Brilliant. Israel is a is brilliant people and brilliant operations. Mossad is well legendary for a reason, right? Sager Gare says, "Could you please list the invasions of India century wise from the beginning to the end? Also, could you mention which territories we lost and how and in which we were able to defend overall successes and failures?" Look, century wise, it's hard to do, but let me try and do it off the top of my head. Yeah. Invasions of India. So okay. So let's start with about 300 AD around that time. Do we have something before that invasion of India? I can't think of any invasion of India before any major invasion of India before that. There were some battles. Okay. Let's start with Alexander. So Alexander's attempted invasion of India 327 BC or wherever it is. You can look up the exact dates. I don't remember exact dates. Around that time Alexander attempted an invasion of India. It was a disaster for him. So that is Alexander. Um then you have uh the Seucid war against India which was the army of Salucus nicator which went to war against India briefly. It was kind of a handshake actually. Hi I'm here. And then India and Greece made an alliance and we became allies and friends. So there there was a solucid brief attempt to invade India half-heartedly. They didn't really want to do that but whatever. Uh solucid invasion. Uh then you have the um then you have the Greek city states that small states the bacter gicoactran kingdoms and indogreek kingdoms as a consequence of the uh disintegration of the solucid empire that's northwestern India including Gandhar and uh Tajakistan Turkmanistan not Turkman Tajakistan that region uh then what happens is uh the skitian invasion of India India the Indoskeian invasion of India there was a domino effect the the the eruption of the Jonu out of Mongolia Huns that precipitated the precipitated the exodus of the Kusans from the Tarim basin region which precipitated the the exodus of the Smithians from central Asia into India a domino effect. So the schizian invasions of India we had then the Kushan invasion of India then the Hunik invasions of India around the fifth sixth centuries AD right um what else do we have the Hunik invasions of India which eventually succeeded kind of right um then then you have the Turk invasions of India starting about then you have bin Kasim around 800 700 AD 800 AD tries to invade Sind then succeeds to some extent bin Kasim Arab. Then around 10,000 AD the Turk invasions of India start and that's wave after wave after wave and it goes on and on and eventually it succeeds. Um then the then the European invasions of India uh in so you have initially Europeans setting up trading posts and then starting to take over Indian territory. So that is European occupation of India right and then if we look at other parts of India early early 19th century the Burmese invasion of Manipur which led to seven years of disaster that's also an invasion of India um then 1962 Chinese invasion of India and I think I think that's about it. I'm sure I've I must have omitted some minor things here and there, but kind of that's that gives you an overview, a high level overview. All right. Okay. Dendor says, "Are you into hi-fi audio?" If yes, your favorite bands. Hi-fi audio. I'm into music. I love music. I am kind of a lapsed musician myself. I still have a bunch of guitars waiting for me to pick them up. Every few months I change the strings of the guitar and play a few play a little bit and then it goes back and I Yeah, I should reconnect with music, shouldn't I? Uh, so I don't know what hi-fi audio is. Let me Let me look up. Is that some special kind of audio? Hi-fi audio. What's hi-fi audio? Let's see. High fidelity audio. Um, yeah, that's high quality music, right? Okay. So I am definitely into uh music being a lapsed musician myself. What kind of my favorite bands? Well, first of all, my favorite genre of music is Indian classical music. Raas there was a time when I used to when I used to experiment playing raas on guitar you know using alternative tunings not the standard egbe tuning but alternative tunings. Each raa would have its own tuning depending on its drone notes its its uh surren and consonant note and so on. So Indian classical music and uh who are the great musicians of Indian classical music? Uh Pandit Nikl Banerjee uh Pandit Ravish Shankar Uh Hari Prasad Chasia Palos um Aliakbar Khan uh Amjadi Khan Rajan Sajan Mishra the Dagger brothers so many so many so many Yamunar um Beim Jooshi So so many so many Indian musicians and Indian classical music is the greatest genre of music, the greatest system of music ever invented. But it's dying a slow death and nobody's even noticing. When it comes to western bands, yeah, sure I I don't listen to contemporary music anymore. It's garbage. It's trash. It's industrial mass generated music. But uh the bands of the 20th century were outstanding. Some of them Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd, um Beatles Beatles, Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd, two of the greats, two of the all-time greats. I'm sure there are many many more. Uh the Doors, it's an American band. Um so many so many. Yeah, I I'm into all kinds of music. I will listen to music from Africa. I listen to music from Mali. Alifaka T. Ali, Farcatur, Tumari, Diabate. Nobody has heard of the names of these musicians, but I listen to them. Um, music from Mongolia, The Who. I'm sure you heard of The Who now? And and so on. So, yeah, I'm into all kinds of music and bands. Ceret says, "It's is it fine to be 100% sure about assumptions we make in daily life? I find myself anxious when I am unsure of something. I've heard physicist Steven Weinberg said saying I am absolutely sure of nothing. So you find yourself an being anxious when you are unsure of something. See the the the trick is to think in terms of percentages. You can be sure of 100% sure of everything in in in life. Okay? You never know what's going to happen tomorrow morning. But you can assign probabilities to things. So think probabilistically. That's quantum mechanical thing actually. No probabilistic thinking. So I am 99.9% sure tomorrow morning I'll wake up alive. So that's a very high probability. I am maybe 80% sure tomorrow will be a hot day. I am 60% sure of something. So think in terms of probabilities. In that way you'll be able to manage the anxiety perhaps better better and perhaps think of ways of dealing with the other the the the other situation that may that may um arise you know or unexpected situation that may arise. Think in terms of probability. Think in terms of bets. What would you bet on if you had to put money on something? What is more likely to happen that you you would actually be willing to put your money on more? Or is it like 50/50? Is it FE? that that's another way of thinking. So yeah, it's about probabilities in error bars. So how likely is a probability and what is the um you know what's the what's the amount of error that this probability may have. If you look at things that way, you may end up with a different way of thinking and maybe not being so anxious. Okay. GX KS says, "Leopard spots Mars. Traces of ancient microlife." Leopard spots on Mars. Really? Well, that's new. Cats on Mars. Leopard spots spots on Mars. Really? What on earth are we coming to? Leopard spots. What do we mean by that? NASA's Perseverance discovered leopard spots on a rock as potential, albeit unconfirmed, bio signature, millimeter sized white spots surrounded by black rings. Well, well, okay. So, we have these leopard spots. These could be potentially bio signatures is what they say. Yeah. It's not life on Mars. It it is potential bio signatures. And who is this? Okay. Poppy seeds, leopard spots. Okay. So, this seems to be similar to bios signatures that we find in uh fossils on Earth. So, it's potentially traces of ancient microscopic life, but not guaranteed. So, what do we do to find out? Maybe we have to transport that rock back to Earth and then examine it or I don't know. Yeah. So, it's not uh it's not certain that it's a sign of ancient microscopic life. But looks like we are finding more and more clues that could potentially create a pattern that points to maybe ancient life existed on Mars perhaps. Let's see. We're in watch. Uh Dark Orion says, "Sir, you sir, were you trying to say that India is about the Gore visit?" That's a good question you're asking. There is India, India is not a vasal. Even if Gore visits the western whatever the army base, army command, it doesn't mean that India is a vasal. It is very concerning that are we now walking the door walking the road are we walking down the road towards becoming vasals. Let's say see vasal hood is a series of steps series of actions in it's a pattern. Let's say we stop buying Russian oil that is concerning which means that the Americans demanded we stop it and we stopped it then let's say the demand that we will visit this this army headquarters then we accept that then maybe we accept something else. So if we see a pattern over and over and over again then you would be very concerned about being a vasal. At this point in time I'm not concerned about India being a Wasal but I'm concerned that we are giving too much access to the Americans and this sort of access is unusual. So I am still at this point in time not saying India is a vasal and but I'm concerned that are we are we now beginning to slowly give in to their demands still too early still too early but concerning Vive Singh has become a new member thank you very much Vive Singh G welcome to the channel's membership I very much appreciate it thank you sir Victoria says if we Move all upper casts from the general category to OBC and put all and place all the Muslims in the general category. Then what happens? What are my what are your views? Look, it's a nice thought experiment. Victoria G. Look, what needs to happen is remove all all categories of people, all all casts, all categories, general category, some non-general category. Please make everybody the same category. And if you want to give reservations, give reservations based on a family's financial and economic conditions. If a family is below a poverty line or below whatever line, then you give them reservations for maybe 5 years, 10 years, 20 years, whatever, not more than 20 years. And please don't discriminate based on people's so-called casts or category or whatever. The politicians say that we have to annihilate cast. Cast is a big issue in India. Annihilate cast. But they have created a system which solidifies cast which perpetuates cast. Let us destroy cast completely. Right? Annihilate cast. Remove all mentions of cast from all official documents. Make people genuinely castless. That solves the problem. And then if somebody discriminates based on cast, put them in jail. So the solutions are simple, but they don't want to do it. Okay. Vive Singh says, "What kind of reading should students and working-class folks do to face the brunt of motivated arian invasion theory talks in colleges and office spaces with facts? What kind of reading could you do?" Well, unfortunately, there is no highquality popular, you know, non-technical, non-scientific book on the arian invasion theory. I can recommend one article which can be your starting point for understanding and and countering uh these lies. Okay, this article is here. Um, give me a second. Arian invasion myth Dava. So, it's my article from 2017 which set the whole ball rolling. After that, everybody started looking into the iron vision theory. This article was written in 19 in 2017. That's 9 years ago. In this article, I have put across all the facts. This article is the first time somebody put across all the facts from all these different domains of archaeology, linguistics, mythology, uh genetics, all of these things together in one place from from hydrarology, from geology, all these facts together. Okay. And I've I have given references at the end. So archaeological evidence u hydraological evidence uh archaeological evidence genetic evidence um there's more literary evidence from the Bodhi Sutra. Uh once again more archaeological evidence this is uh yeah more of that more of that genetic evidence mythological evidence and so much more all of this I have collected together and I've put it over here and uh I have put I've given a bunch of references at the end so the title of the article is the Arian invasion myth how 21st century science debunks 19th century Indology just Google this you will find it all right That's what you can begin with to arm yourself with facts against these this colonial lies. All right. Pratip Kumar Roy says, "I saw on predictive predictive history channel where professor Jang explained how Stalin played Hitler in great detail which eventually led to the massive industrialization of the Soviets supported by US." continued. He explained multiple possibilities using game theory. He explained how west thinks versus Russell, empirical versus intuitive. Interesting channel. Okay, sounds really interesting. Uh, thank you once again for the reference and I certainly shall check out the channel of Professor Jang. Thank you, sir. Next. Riu says freemasonry founded by Bacon, Francis Bacon. Francis Bacon is it under the Venetian Empire's influence aimed to spread early atheism and shaped the future British Empire's world view. They aimed to spread early atheism. Very interesting. Let's check out this Bacon character. Francis Bacon. Francis Bacon. Was it founded by Francis Bacon? Uh, pre-masonry. Let's see. Let's find out. Um, masonic is a foundational and hidden influence in the development of speculative Freemasonry philosophical all that stuff. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. Okay. Thank you very much for this uh very interesting fact over here. Interesting. So, its objective was to spread early atheism and it shaped the future British Empire's world view. Well, that's fascinating. One of these days I'm going to have to dig deeper into Freemasonry. Well, thank you so much for this interesting fact here, sir. Viju, thank you. Arian Rocking Gaming says, I scored 93.6 percentile in J, but I'm preparing for Indian statistical institute for pure math research. ISI Kolkata is it? I think so. J test speed. Indian statistical institute undergraduate entrance tests proof and depth. How do I explain this difference to my parents? Okay, you want to explain the difference between u the testing methodology of the JE versus the testing methodology of the Indian statistical institute. J tests for speed. How quickly can you solve a bunch of problems and ISI tests for proofs and depth. So you need to have depth in your knowledge. You need to be able to prove, you know, give proofs for various uh yeah problems. Prove this, prove that, whatever. How do you explain the difference to your parents? Explain it in terms of I don't know if there's a good explan good good way of explaining T20 versus test cricket. So, let's say how long is the J exam? Is it 3 hours, 4 hours? What what is it? It's still a long exam. I'm sure but it looks at you. It looks at how quickly you you you solve problems small problems. So it's like you know playing a T20 match in cricket but J is about sorry ISI entrance exam is about proofs and depth. So it's it's more of you know yeah deeper preparation clearly. So maybe you could explain by comparing one with T20 cricket and one with test match cricket. Perhaps that's may go into their heads. I mean, why can't you just explain the way you explain over here? Maybe they want maybe. Yes. So, uh perhaps that is a is an interesting appropriate analogy perhaps. Perhaps what how else would I explain this to somebody who has no understanding of of science? Um, yeah, I suppose that's what I would say. That's that's perhaps an appropriate analogy. Okay, Din. So, so, um, Arian Rocken Gaming, all the best. All the best. Do well. Do well. Okay. Din D says, "Can we expect Mr. Abigya Anand on on my podcast, please?" Who is Abigy Anand? Let me see. Abiga Anand. Let us see. Abigy Anand. Who is Abigy Anand? Uh official jotisha. Astrology. Astrology. Yeah. I I don't understand astrology. I have no understanding of astrology and I stay away from things I don't understand. So, as you will see, I have never hosted an astrologer on my podcast and I think that's a policy I will continue. I I have absolutely zero understanding of astrology and um yeah, so I think Mr. Abigan won't appear on my podcast. Not I'm I'm sure it's a he's a fantastic person and so on, but I have zero zero understanding of this. So, makes no sense for me to go into that. Sorry. Sorry. Um, Brahma Mosqua says, "Why is Vasal probable for us in five years? Within the next 5 years?" Why is it probable? That's a good question. Because of the way the world is changing, the world is the way the world is shaping up. because of the way the Americans are now exerting their influence and power in reshaping the world. It's clear that they are they they have identified a bunch of nations that are the targets. Uh Syria is done, Venezuela is done, Cuba will perhaps be done, Iran will perhaps be done. So essentially the entire world has to bend to America's will. Okay. Now let's say America you know takes over all the global sources of oil apart from Russia and then they force India not to buy Russian oil then they then we are completely at at their mercy unless we discover oil of our own right there is that and if they can um so the Americans are now being nakedly openly imperialistic see Marco Rubio's recent speech wherever it He wants to revive western colonialism and imperialism and the US is way more powerful than India and they definitely want India on their list of vasals and they have so many ways and means of making this happen right so that's why I say vasal is probable there's a higher probability of vasalaj than sovereignty in the next 5 years but I'm still optimistic says Sri Lanka just won against Australia Well, well, Australia lost to Namibia or something. No, Zimbabwe, right? Recently, uh, Enawara, that that tall bowler, Enawara, whatever his name is. Um, so the Australians lost to Zimbabwe. They now lost to Sri Lanka. They're out of the tournament. What happened to them? I don't know. Did they eat uh some dodgy prawns somewhere or something? I don't know. I don't know. Very strange. Australia, really? highly unusual. It's like 1992 all over again. The 1992 World Cup, Australia was out very fast. They defeated India by one run in one of the matches in 1992. Anyhow, Pratip Kumar Roy says, "Professor Jang has made various predictions like Donald Trump winning with JD Vance being his VP. He also said Trump was historically involved with some intelligence guy. He knows tricks safe from Epstein files." Professor Jang seems to be really impressive as a person. Yeah, interesting. Thank you so much for for these pieces of information about Professor Jang. I will check out his channel. Sounds like a really interesting gentleman. Anka Kashab has just just gifted five Aijit Char memberships. Thank you so much Ankita G. Thank you so much. So kind of you and yeah, let me thank you on behalf of the people who have received the memberships as well. Thank you so much Ankita G. Chanak says your thoughts on barat following allowing roshield and company as individual advisor to nse IPO black rockck with go they are all in epste major players deep state entering India for its host USA will be dead concerning concerning concerning see I have said there is a high probability of India becoming vasalized in the next 5 years are Are we seeing the signs and symptoms of the beginning of that? I hope not. But it's very concerning. I hope not. But I'm concerned very much so. So what are my thoughts? My only thoughts are this is I hope this doesn't become a pattern and I'm very concerned about this. Kosian World says, "Is Nepali currency pegged to the Indian rupees? Does this make Nepal in Indian vasal to a significant extent? Is Nepali currency pegged to Indian rupees? Let's see Nepal rupee INR pegged is it pegged to the INR? It's officially pegged to the Indian rupee at a fixed rate of 1.6 Nepal is rupees to one Indian rupee. A policy in place since 1994 regulated by the Nepal rush bank. This arrangement ensures economic stability, erases trade and limits exchange risks despite restricting Nepal's monetary effect flexibility. You know what to be very honest this makes Nepal to a certain extent an economic vasal of the of India but it is beneficial for Nepal's economy because the major financial and economic transaction transactions Nepal's people have are with India right we have an open border we are the same people and so many Nepalese people work in India live in India so it makes sense for this arrangement to exist. But yeah, you could say that this kind of to some extent vasalizes Nepal to some small small extent small not major but yeah to some extent it does. Yeah. Humanity survive says converting to foreign religion means becoming zombies. Well, it depends on the religion I suppose. Um if you if you convert to Shinto Shinto religion the Japanese u traditional faith or system do you become a zombie if you become if you start practicing Shinto I don't think you become a zombie so look my point is it depends on a foreign which foreign religion you're talking about right all religions don't make you zombies some some may perhaps I don't know which they are but whatever Amirup Sharkar says Europeans even in dark ages seemed practical and strategic. Despite India's deep knowledge, they colonized us. Why are we still so emotional today? See, everybody in in some sense or the other is practical and strategic. In the dark ages, the Europeans were well very primitive, right? Life was held in Europe at the time. And they colonized us despite our deep knowledge. Not in the dark ages, but uh in the past 500 years when they rose out of the dark ages, right? Um so why are we so emotional today? We are emotional today because so what you mean by this is that most Indians are they they they react emotionally rather than rationally. Right? Um it's because we lack the ability to think critically. Our education system is has destroyed that part of our intellect and that's why we we react emotionally to everything to to a lot of things especially to things we don't understand. So when you lack intellectual tools you will resort to reacting with emotions and that's why a lot of Indians are so emotional. We are very emotional people right? Okay. Uh wrongwan says wrong one back of the hand if we can make cavary why not focus transport aircraft too I think we should focus on transport aircrafts also yes right we should focus on transport aircrafts we should focus on all kinds of different aircrafts we should try and build everything in an atmar way within India certainly I agree with you pratip kumar royes s 1 million lakh world three and third temple construction about hea abdu also if they worship bal we're going to worship Indra too 1 million on on my channel yeah it will happen maybe after the after the third world war yeah YouTube has a has a certain policy towards my channel so it doesn't matter it's okay look what we can't control we don't worry about right my channel is going to stay for for the foreseeable future at 951k or something yeah I can see every subscribers rise then they come down then they rise then they come down. So whatever YouTube will do whatever it does. Um third temple construction about that's that's funny isn't it? Uh if they worship Bal we can worship Indra too. Well who's stopping us from worshiping Indra? Do worship whichever god you you feel inspires you right? We can certainly resume the worship of Indra if you want to. Uh Pratip Kumar says about cicada 3301. Do we have something similar here? I've heard of some conspiracy theory called Sicada 3301 on the internet. I'm not sure if we have I don't remember what it is first of all. So let us go to internet. Sicara 3301 dark web or something was it? I had seen this a long time ago. um highly sophisticated oh anonymous online puzzle designed to recruit intelligent individuals with with expertise in cryptography, steography and data security. These puzzles released between 2012 and 2014 are considered one of the most elaborate unsolved mysteries of the internet age and there are videos made about this and so on. Um okay so yeah this very mysterious stuff right? Do we have something similar here? I am not aware of it. Vihang Kuran says, "Hello, sir. How are you?" I'm good, sir. I'm good. I'm very well. I hope you're doing good too. I recently read the news of discovery of Tamil Brahi inscriptions in Egypt. Are there any historical evidence of what kind of relations were between existed between India and Egypt? Well, the historical evidence is the records are gone. In India, we would have had records of diplomatic correspondents and travels and and accounts of travelers and textbooks and whatnot in our ancient universities in their libraries. But everything has been destroyed and also also in ancient court records of our kingdoms and empires. But even that is destroyed. So we don't have any evidence from our side any records from our side. When it comes to Egypt again most of the Egyptian records have been destroyed. Egypt has lost its own original culture, language, religion, everything. Egypt first transitioned from its culture to Greek culture after the after Alexander installed Tommy as the governor of Egypt who then became the king of Egypt. So then for a while Egypt was under Greek rule. Then it was under Roman rule after Julius took over and then eventually it became Christianized and then it came under Islamic rule and today Egypt is Islamic and all the records are gone. So whatever evidence we have, historical evidence is only on those from those inscriptions on walls and the presence of Indian Zebu cattle 4,000 years ago in Egypt and so on or only that sort of evidence we have. We don't have any records of diplomatic correspondence or or whatever else. We don't have that. It's all gone. Pratip Kumar Roy says predictions about the future of Bengal in India. Uh Bengal I don't I I don't make predictions as such. Um uh predictions I am I I all I'll say is that I'm optimistic. I choose to remain optimistic. Bengal I hope Bengal sees much better days. Yeah. Bengal was a fantastically developed, incredibly prosperous, culturally great part of India. Today, not so much. Right? I hope Bengal sees great days again. But predictions I will not make. India's future. Well, I've said there is a high likelihood of India becoming vasalized in the next 5 years. I hope that also doesn't happen. I choose to remain optimistic. But yeah, Pratit Kumar Roy says, "Old Cartoon Network was a gem. Now it's shit." Okay. I have not seen new Cartoon Network, so I'm not aware of what's there now. Old Cartoon Network 20, 25 years ago was outstanding. Outstanding. Gear TV says, "First of all, hi, good to see you." So the question is if a person loses interest in society, marriage or starting a family and is solely focused and interested in gathering as much knowledge as possible like sort of a polymath where do you see such a person leading in life? Well, there are multiple paths such a person can take. So let's say a person has lost interest in society, marriage, uh starting family. All the he or she wants is to gather as much knowledge as possible and that eventually makes you kind of a polymath. Yeah. Okay. Where do you see such a person heading in life? Well, a person like that can be someone who is a mentor to people in society, right? It it depends. If you are that sort of person, you have multiple choices. One, you gain a lot lot of knowledge and then you spread that knowledge to the world. Maybe you write books, maybe you do some through some other means, you spread the knowledge. One of the way is you mentor people because you have so much knowledge, so much understanding, so much wisdom. Then you can mentor people. Maybe you can be a government adviser. Maybe you can, you know, depending on depending on what you choose. Of course, becoming a government adviser is not something you choose. You have to be really good for that. But yeah, so you can be a writer, you can be an author, you can be a mentor. Uh obviously, you have to make money in some way, right? So hopefully you have money also. Otherwise you won't be able to take this path. So there are multiple parts in this matter but from from a practical perspective make sure that you have a you know reliable source of income or good savings enough savings for the rest of your life then you can take this path. All right. Rudra says, "My question was not about person POV at all but about how India should balance Makaveinism, absolute pursuit of self-interest regardless of others versus dharma for other countries." Okay. Or the the dark triad you are talking about, right? Okay. So the question you're asking is what should India's approach be? Should India have a dharmic approach towards other countries? Oh, all countries are part of the same family. uh we will not exploit you, we will not hurt you, we will not harm you, we will help you whenever you need without asking anything in return. Is that the dharmic approach we should have towards other countries or should there be absolute pursuit of self-interest? See decide understand the rules of the game first of all let let's say I want to be dharmic but everybody is a dharmic then can I play that game the game is rigged right the game what are the rules of the game the rules of the game are the dharmic rules but I am trying to play a dharmic approach in that so let's say you have a football match in which you want to to play in in a way that is non-physical contact way, not doing any fouls, not jostling anybody. But the other team is all about jostling you and pushing you down and kicking you down, then who wins? They win. So if the umpires allow that sort of play from them, and if you choose voluntarily not to have the same approach against them, then you are putting yourself at a disadvantage. So when you talk about dharmic approach, understand that this is the era called kalyuga in which the dharmic approach doesn't work the makyan approach works. So if you are a leader of India you should be dharmic towards your people your people are your family your citizens are your family and everybody else they're fair game that's how you do it. Vihang Quran says I am interested in learning a new language. I am fluent in Hindi, Barati and English. I know very basic Sanskrit. What language should I start with? Does India have good research going with regards to AI and linguistics? I'm not sure what research India is doing with AI. Linguistics we are doing nothing whatsoever. Yeah. Zero in linguistics. AI maybe we are doing some research. Maybe some uh some startups are doing research in AI perhaps. Yeah. uh I've heard of uh some new startup recently that came up and seems to be good. So there is some uh work being done on AI in India but definitely not in linguistics that as far as I know now um you want to learn a new language you're fluent in Hindi, Marati and English and you know very basic Sanskrit. So one option you have is to go forth with Sanskrit and learn advanced Sanskrit that's that would make you like it will really expand your mind and brain you know so that's one one thing you can do maybe double down on Sanskrit and go from beginner all the way to advanced that's one thing you can do or if you want to learn a different language well first of all decide whether you want it to be part of the Indo-Uropean language family or a different language family if it's part of the Indo-Uropean language You could learn a bunch of languages you know take one far is a very closely connected related language language to Indian languages right parsy it'll be very easy to learn if you want to it's got a different script it's got the uh Persian script which is the derivative of the Arabic script or if you don't want to learn a new script then you can learn one of the one of the European languages if you know English then perhaps German will not be that hard because German is English is a Germanic language related to German so maybe German if you want to learn one of the Romos languages in the Indo-Uropean family, maybe French, Spanish or Italian. Yeah. Um, if you want to learn a non-Indo-uropean language, well, you could learn Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Swahili, African language, something Arabic, some people learn Arabic. So, look, there are plenty of choices, plenty of options out there. Depends on you. I can't tell you what to learn. You, it has to come from inside you, you know. All right. So all the best. All the best sir. Lalit power has gifted one membership of the channel. Thank you so much Lali G. Very kind of you. I'll thank you on behalf of the person who received that as well. Thank you so much. Godliness says why US admiral and ambassador have free run today in our western command. Even for the group pictures, US admiral was sitting in the center and our own left general in the side. This is not normal. This is concerning. Like I said a while ago, concerning very concerning the US is not an allied country. The US is a country that doesn't see India as an ally or a friend. The US has a has a policy of containing India containment policy. The US is a nation that has funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against us for decades. The US is a nation that is currently siding with Pakistan. They sided with Pakistan during operation zindu. They took Pakistan's side. They intervened in the war and made us stop the operation. It's not exactly a friendly nation, right? It's a nation that seeks to vosalize us and what's happening. Very, very, very concerning. Very concerning. Adian has become a new member. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Gear TV says, "What's your view on Karna from the Mahabharat? Do you think he was superior to or at least equal to Arjun? Karn was a nasty person. Karn was a nasty person. He was a friend of Duryodhan. He instigated Duryodhan to go to war against the Pandavs. He if you read the actual Mahabharat, you will see that Karna was not a nice person. His behavior was poor. He had a nasty temper. He was no equal of Arjun. Arjun had it had had his flaws. Sure, some flaws. But he was a great warrior. Karna no karna was no equal of Arjun. Karna is a negative character in the Babarat. And some people today are glorifying Karan Arjun and all that nonsense. Yeah. To some extent he's a tragic figure. That's why some people feel sorry for him. Yeah. But he was the king of Bangladesh. Sure. He had a bad childhood. Sure. Okay. But he was the king of Bangladesh. He turned out well. And see then see the choices he made. Karn is a negative character in the Mahabharat. No superior of Arjun not even an equal of Arjun. Let P says I think deep state knows that such harsh harsh step will be taken only by Trump. So they rely on Trump. Now I think deep state tilts to right or left based on public sentiment and strong president. So the way I see it, the deep state uses presidents as tools. they decide who is the right person for the right time. So maybe for from 2020 to 24 Biden was the right guy or puppet Biden. Puppet Biden was the right guy. Uh and maybe Trump made a deal and kissed the ring of the deep state which is why he was made president now. So the US president is simply a tool of the deep state. The deep state is the bunch of people where the real power lies. Okay. So I agree that they will rely on Trump for now because they want to get things some things done that Trump can do and Trump is the right person for doing those things. Uh and you think that deep state tilts right or left based on public sentiment and strong president. The deep state doesn't give a damn about public sentiment and the president the president is a puppet of the deep state and in the public they are simply assets and resources. They don't care about public sentiment. They decide what public sentiment is going to be. They engineer public sentiment. They don't give a damn as to what the public thinks. They tell the public what to think. They engineer public sentiment. All right. That that's the way I see it. Val G. Okay. Kiki Kiki Susan says, "Thank you." Well, thank you so much. Thank you to you as well. Thank you very much. U Samr says, "Australia lost as many key players took retirement." Okay. Okay. I see. I haven't seen the team composition of Australia. I know that they lost to Zimbabwe recently which was strange and uh many key players have taken retirement. I see. Okay. I haven't seen their uh team composition so I was not aware of it. Anyway, thank you. Yeah, Dreas Mitra is a new member. Well, thank you very much Shreas and welcome to the membership of the channel. Thank you. Riu says later Adam founded a new version of Freemasonry including occult elements. He formed a new organization called the Bavarian Illuminati. Oh, Illuminati confirmed. Uh, and there seems to be some connection between the Illuminati and the founders of the United States. If you see the US dollar note, there's the Illuminati confirmed theme there as well, right? So, looks like there are these deep subterranean connections all over the world which connects the Freemasons to perhaps the Knights Templar. to the Illuminati. Yeah. The Bavarian Illuminati which was a real thing and there is some connection with the founders of the United States. George Washington is supposed to be have been a Freemason. Very interesting stuff. Very interesting. So thank you for this this new revelation for me at least. Thank you. Pishma says Sar do you think some threeletter agencies may hypothetically allegedly perhaps may or may not have been an eye on you? Does it scare you? Um, it's possible. Uh, it's possible. Does it scare me? No. No. I mean, it's you do your thing. Don't worry about the rest. Doesn't scare me. I I don't think I do anything that in any way hurts them. Right. Do they have their eye on eye on me? It's possible they may, right? It's possible because I'm pro- India and I'm kind of a public figure and I'm kind of um teaching Indians common sense and and critical thinking and opening hopefully people's eyes to where the world re the way the world really is. So I suppose they some of them may have their eyes on me. It's all right. It is what it is. Hanish Sharma says one can learn Krav Maga at home simply watching or learning from YouTube. I think you can learn the basics you know footwork etc. You can learn the basics uh when it comes to various patterns of self-defense and movement basic stuff you will need a partner to to do that with somebody but eventually you will have to join a dojo or some kind of a school. Eventually you can learn the absolute ground level basics from YouTube basic absolute basic stuff but eventually you're going to have to join a school or or a class or something. Um Hanisha says my father watches you and every time he watches you he says why is this guy not in government? He should he could do so much better. He sends his love. Thank you so much Hanish Sharma G's father. Thank you so much sir. Uh it's very kind of you and I'm blessed to have your blessings. Thank you so much sir. Thank you. Okay, that brings me to the end of all the questions. It's been almost four of us once again. So, thank you so much everybody. It was an unusual live stream on a Monday, Monday evening for us here in India. But thank you so much for all your questions as always. Keep okay, there's one more question that's come in. Let's take this one. Hopefully the last one for today. So CIA retired guy said at CIA they could convert the speaker in smart TV into a mic and listen what's happening in the room. This is something he has been allowed to say. I wonder what else he the CIA could do. The CIA can do all kinds of stuff that we can't even imagine. Okay, understand if you have a smartphone with you, it's always listening to you. Okay, I am aware of it. I know it's listening to me right now. I know that. So it listens to your most intimate con conversations and whatnot. Your deepest thoughts, not thoughts but conversations. Your TV is listening to you. All smart devices are looking listening to you. Maybe they are even watching you. We don't know. Maybe they can even uh read your brain waves and thoughts perhaps. I don't know. Anything's possible. So be careful. Um humanity survive says uh converting to uh these two religions is becoming zombies. All right. Sir, if that is what uh you believe, sir. All right. I could not possibly comment about this. Okay, that brings me to the actual end of this live stream. Thank you so much everybody for the questions for your viewership. I really really value that and appreciate that. Thank you so much once again and I look forward to seeing you in the next live streams at the end of this week. Until then, keep learning, keep raising your standards, keep asking questions, take care everyone. See you very soon. Bye-bye.