Hey. Hey. Hey. Heat. Heat. Good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask a Bijit Show. This is episode 344. We are discussing what's happening in the world. We are going to discuss Iran, the war on Iran. We're going to discuss that. Uh and always as always before we begin, let me see who all is there on the live chat. I can I will greet some of you. Uh Daran Patel Mojour uh geopolitical dub from Indor good to see you sir Alkashikari good evening Anush Ankush Sharma photography here we are really now Miss Patel namaste abishekla live uh 24 bharat abishekla live once again dhiraj kamat mna kotari says it's a very pleasant evening in Bangalore it's raining I'm glad uh mahul rajesh babu wanendra up hares madu real painter Good to see you. Sam Brahmanic namaste. An du namaste. Sar Ashwani Sharma. Uh hello Nirj Bhardwaj. Arvind KR Singh. Nirvana Shanks. Uh a Nirvana Shanks son. Uh Arvind KR Singh once again. Um who else do we have? Uh okay. SKR 7733 Akam Jot Abishek Shukla live once again from Kpur I haven't been to Kpur love would love to come there prardana namaste Nirvana Shanks once again so 0709 from Jaipur I think yes uh geopolitical dubal Vladimir Putin who else do we have uh good to see real Vladimir Putin as always and polomial 4 kahan from sake Delhi swastik good Morning Ashwin R9889. This is Harsh Kapoor. Full support. Full support to you as well. Swastik Koh uh Kahan Tech G Chat DSP. Namaste. Good to see you. Chat DSP. It's been a while. Good to see you. Um Vehav Kumar Deangan. All right. Meet Mistri Kamcho. Yes. All good. Shishri Sriuri. Good evening ma'am. Shishir. Greetings. Kahan Sastik Koh Yashwant Sudir Raguir Soleni Shre Smitra is here from Moscow. Good uh good evening gravity ab111. Okay, Pranam U sorry this is Hush Kapoor Nutan Roshan good to see you O are precious talks good evening uh Vibhav Vincadesh Dirj Kamat U Sagar G Namaskar Ready always ready good to see you Ankush Sharma once again u and lots of lots of other people Saturu Guru good to see you Saturu Gojo Jay Guman is from Montreal good morning to you sir Jay Gumman and so many other people Satu Gojo Arya Uh Anime Paratia, good evening. Namaste. Uh Aneruda Rajniker Anu and everybody else. Cintillating kids. Uh Ajinka Pawar JRXna. Hello. And Jagdish Mali Shiv Kapoor from from LinkedIn was joined from LinkedIn. U Kit S is here from Dublin, Ireland. Ankit. Ankit. All right. Okay, good to see you all. Good to see you all. So good to have you all on this live stream. Uh before I take some questions, let us see what's been happening in the world. The Americans looks like they are planning for a ground invasion. A ground invasion of of Iran. It looks like that's what they are planning. Maybe it's a bluff. Maybe it's a real thing. But let's see what have been the developments in the past 24 or so hours. Let's see. So here we have this. It's by this is a message by the lieutenant general of the US Marine Corps. The the commander of the Marine Forces Reserve and Marine Forces South. Uh it's from 26th of March. He says Marines, our nation is in a consequential moment. Global events are shaping our nation security and we must be ready. I asked you direct I ask you directly are you truly ready to deploy, fight and win? Are your skills sharp, your standards high, and your gear packed prepared for immediate in uh movement? Is your desert marat readily available? Is your gear packed and ready to pick up and move or is it stored away in a corner of your home? Are your family's affairs in order when the call comes? Readiness will be assumed, not questioned. Your readiness is not a declaration. It's a daily commitment. This is not a theoretical exercise. Our forces are currently engaged in in operations connected to Iran to Iran and our position to preserve stability in the Western Hemisphere. Our enemies get a vote and a mass mobilization could become reality. A mass mobilization could become reality. We are operating in this environment now. History demands our readiness today, tomorrow and every day. Your preparation for for combat is forged in your daily actions, your training and the seriousness with which you uh tackle to you handle every responsibility. We are we are measured not by by our intentions but by what we can do right now. Check your readiness, tighten your standards, prepare your family. Our nation expects a disciplined capable force ready for immediate action. That force is the marine forces reserve. That standards begin that standard begins with and must be held by you. The fight is on. So, American Marines are being told to prepare for combat. Prepare for your family. So, looks like a ground invasion could be on the cards. Okay. Uh here we have more breaking news. The US is preparing for a potential ground invasion into Iran that would last for up to two months. As per the Washington Post, thousands of American soldiers are arriving in the Middle East for what could become a dangerous new phase of the war. Any invasion would involve raids by a mixture of special operations forces and conventional infantry troops. As per American officials, uh the American president, Mr. Trump, has wavered between declaring that the war is winding down and threatening to amplify it. As we know, as we know, every other day he says that the war is almost over. We've almost won it. Uh discussions over the past month have touched uh upon the possible seizure of Kar Island and raids into other coastal areas near the straight of Hormuz. The Iran war enters appears to be entering a new era. So we could be in for massive uh you know escalation of the war. What else do we have? This is the US Central Command Twitter account. Okay. And they've posted these photographs of their assets uh being deployed into the region. US sailors and marines aboard USS Tripoli LH A7 arrived in the US Central Command area of responsibility March 27. The America class amphibious assault ship serves as the flagship for the Tripoli amphibious ready group 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit composed of about 3,500 soldiers, sailors and marines in addition to transport and strike fighter aircraft as well as a amphibious assault and tactical assets. So I'm not sure what the central command area of responsibility is. I suppose we could Google that. Okay. What's sentcom? What's the area of responsibility? So this is that area of responsibility. Okay. So this uh the US strip has arrived in the US US sendcom area of responsibility. So it could be anywhere between the Red Sea to the U so-called Arabian Sea to u the Gulf of Oman or maybe even the uh Persian Gulf. Entering the Persian Gulf is almost impossible for them because the Iranians will take them out. But they could be somewhere in this region, the scentcom region. This is the scentcom region. You have US EU com, US Sentcom, US Afric or something. So that's where they have entered. So the looks like the war could be escalating soon. And this is an update from US sentcom the Twitter account March 28th update. Today is March 29. US Central Command commenced operation epic fury against Iran at the direction of the U president. uh on February 28 as we know um sentcom forces are t striking targets to dismantle the Iranian regime's security apparatus prioritizing locations that pose an imminent threat. They see they claim to have struck more than 11,000 targets. They claim to have undertaken 11,000 more than 11,000 combat flights and they claim to have damaged or destroyed more than 150 Iranian vessels so far. And they have all these assets that they have deployed in air and sea and land. Patriot interceptor missile systems, THAAD anti-bballistic missile systems. Those have been destroyed mostly or they've run out of uh interceptors. But yes, they have put this entire list out of all kinds of aircraft and naval assets and land assets. What else? Type of targets. What are the different types of targets they've taken out? Yeah. Yeah. So they've listed the the types of targets and that's yeah that's an update from these folks here. Um you know as we know oil is becoming a major issue as a consequence of this really stupid war. Okay looks like various parts of the world are going to start running out okay of oil or at least the deliveries from the Persian Gulf region the straight of Hormuz region will stop soon. So uh for the US region it will stop by April 15th. For the EU region, it will stop by April 10th. For Africa, by March 22, April 1st, which we are already into. For Australia, by April 20. And for East Asia, April 1st. India is the closest to the straight of Hormuz actually, right of of among the major civilized nations or major nations. So, India is the closest to the straight of Hormuz. And uh we will have to see what happens visav India. So India consumes about 2.3 uh million barrels per day okay of uh of oil. China consumes 5.2 million barrels per per day per day. Taiwan 0.65, South Korea 2.2, Japan 2.3 and so on. So uh this is the situation and depending on how Trump goes ahead with his escalations and a potential ground invasion, things could get worse potentially. So we will have to keep an eye on this. Um and at the same time there is escalation happening in the Ukraine theater right uh so this accounts as oil seems to be on on its way to potentially exceeding exceeding 150 uh dollars per barrel. Ukraine has again bombed Russia's second largest refinery causing causing a massive escal explosion. So yes, Ukraine is working in conjunction with the Americans and uh as we can see what's happening in Persia, it's tied into what's happening in Ukraine and in Russia and the Ukrainians are hitting very hard at Russia's oil production and transportation export capabilities and Russia seems to be sitting and taking it right. So this is going to be a major major problem for India because see our option our alternative to what comes from Hormos is what comes from Russia in terms of oil. But if Russia's ability to deliver oil to India is impacted that's going to be a very significant problem for India as well as China. Right? So this is what's happening. Uh the Iranians are taking out American aircraft. This is an AVAC aircraft. E3 Century Avac completely destroyed. The Americans say that it's been damaged. This is not damage, this is destruction, right? Um, and this is a very expensive aircraft and there's only about 20 something of this aircraft in in existence and the production line uh stopped a long time ago. So there these are precious assets that the Americans have and the Iranians have hit very precisely at at this specific point in the aircraft. So this is what it looks like. As you can see, it's got this major this massive radar, you know, that's that's above the aircraft and that's what the Iranians have very precisely very precisely destroyed. Uh so the Iranians uh they have targeted the key rear housing surveillance radar which is the key component. It's an very expensive and very rare component and the Iranians have completely destroyed that. So here's some analysis by Captain Titan. Targeting the rear housing surveillance radar rather than the aircraft's more obvious components reveals Iran's targeting Iranian targeting intelligence office sophistication that goes beyond knowing where the aircraft is parked. Right. The knew which specific subsystem to destroy to maximize permanent mission kill probability while minimizing the munitions required to achieve this. So the Iranians have been studying American military doctrine for over four decades. They've been studying aircraft architecture and operational vulnerabilities produced by So this all of this it produced a targeting decision precise enough to obliterate an irreplaceable $500 million asset through its most critical and least armored component. Right? So that's what the Iranians have achieved. U now Iran says that the US has until March 30 which is tomorrow 12:00 p.m. Thran time to condemn the bombing of Iranian universities. And if the US doesn't do this, Iran will carry out strikes against multiple American universities in the Middle East. Right? So escalation, escalation, escalation. What else? Okay, this is interesting. So CNN satellite analysis and Alma research findings show that Iran's underground tunnel cities with internal rail systems that move missiles to blast door exits, they have survived the bombing campaign largely intact. Largely intact. And the geology is the real defense. So it's been a month now. The Americans have been bombarding. They've been striking at these uh Iranian tunnels. Okay. Internal underground cities. Uh but uh it's Iran still keeps firing. It's not stopped Iran from firing. Of of course the the number of uh of missiles launched per day have come down by by 90%. Right. But the precision targeting it's intact and the number of hits are actually increasing potentially per day because the Americans and Israelis have run out of interceptors mostly. So the that's why the renants have you know brought the number of launches down by 90%. Um but Iran keeps fighting and the reason is that u the reason does not lie above the ground but hundreds of meters behind beneath the ground inside a network of integr underground missile cities connected by internal railways that have been carved into mountains that no bomb in the current American or Israeli arsenal can actually reach. Right. Um, so, so what happens is after the Americans and Israelis bomb the tunnel entrances, construction equipment appears there within 48 hours and it digs out the blocked entrances and restores access to the tunnels below. So, the strikes on surface infrastructure had only temporarily rendered large missile launch bases inoperable. any Iranian asset located within an underground infra within underground infrastructure the center concluded survived. So whatever is below the ground deep inside all of it survives. The entrances are destroyed and within 48 hours they are operationalized all over again. Uh the central constraint is geological and it's been publicly stated by Iran itself. So Iran has built its missile bases across provinces and cities at depth at a depth of 500 m. You simply can't destroy something that's 500 m underground. The American the most powerful American uh you know bunker bust bomb. It can penetrate about 60 m of reinforced concrete or 40 m of moderate rock. And these in uh Iranian assets are built under granite granite which is harder than moderate rock. So it's almost impossible. It's it's not almost impossible. It is impossible for the Americans to destroy these Iranian underground uh cities. So yeah, this is something we discussed yesterday. That's why I thought I'll uh I'll show you this thing. Uh then this is a a comment. This is a tweet by an Indian former diplomat uh Madame Nirupama Menendra. Who is this lady? She is a retired civil servant u who served as India's foreign secretary from 2009 to 2011 and she was also India's ambassador to the US to China and Sri Lanka during her career. Okay. Very senior retired diplomat. Um now what has she said? This is this is her uh geopolitical take. She says that the world is being reordered by those who act and by those who define. If India she says if India wishes to be counted among those who define it must ensure that its silence does not speak louder than its convictions. We are living she says through a moment when the rules of the international system are being rewritten in real time. Assassinations of leaders, the killing of civilians, open assertions of force. These are no longer aberrations but instruments. In such a world, silence is not neutrality. It is read, interpreted and often misread as consent. India has long claimed a distinctive voice in distinctive space in global affairs, not as an appendage to power, but as a voice shaped by its own civilizational experience and its history of speaking for sovereignty, restraint and balance. India has had a history of moralizing and lecturing the world. That's what she is essentially telling you. Okay. And that voice mattered, she claims because it was consistent even when inconvenient. Strategic autonomy cannot mean adjusting our language to the hierarchy of power. Restraint has its place. Calibration is necessary. But when fundamental questions arise arise, EM dash about sovereignty, about the limits of force, about the protection of civilians. EM dash India cannot afford to be silent. A moral compass, a moral compass is not an instrument of foreign policy. A moral compass is its direction. Without it, realism drifts into accommodation and autonomy into ambiguity. This war has damaged India's interests in every practical sense. Yes, that's true. I agree with that. It has raised costs, narrowed diplomatic room, stress shipping, etc., etc., etc., etc., and injected fresh instability into a region vital to India's economic and external strategy. It's done. Yes, correct. She's right about that. Even if New Delhi can cushion the blow, it cannot plausibly claim that the blow itself serves India. Nobody is claiming that. Who is claiming that? The deeper question is whether India is willing to say so without with sufficient clarity. So she's putting out facts here. But over here she's claiming that India needs to moralize and lecture the world. And what does that achieve is my question. She's saying that we live we are living through a moment where the rules of the international system are being rewritten in real time. That's not the case. We have always lived in such a time whenever the US has wanted to wage war, they have waged war. What was what was 1991? What was 1991? The uh Iraq war, the invasion of Iraq. What was that? The same thing was going on at the time. 2003, the second Iraq war. The second invasion of Iraq. Same thing, right? A killing of civilians. Million, maybe a million Iraqis were killed in this 2003 invasion, right? Open assertions of force. Exactly. That's what I'm talking about. Open assertions of force. Uh assassinations of leader leaders. Well, the Americans have done that too. Okay. So, um it's not like it's something new as she is claiming. But she is claiming that India should not keep quiet. India should lecture the world. India should moralize. We need to have a moral compass because the war has damaged India's interests. So by lecturing the world and saying that you are evil and you are naughty and you are bad, how does that serve India's interest and how does it stop the war from damaging our interests? Uh I'm not really sure what she's claiming but this has been historically India's diplomacy. It's historically Indian diplomacy was all about taking the moral high ground and lecturing the world and telling the world how it should behave and it never ever served India's interests. My take is very clear. My position is very clear. India should keep quiet about these matters. This is not our war. We did not start it. India to should take action that uh limits the damage that this war is causing to India's interests in India's economy and so on. India should take vigorous action as much action as possible to limit the damage this war will is causing and will cause potentially to our interests. That what that is what we should do. We should not go and lecture the world and take the moral high ground that you cannot do these things. uh you can't assassinate world leaders, you can't kill civilians, you can't show open force, naked force, blatant force, you can't violate the international uh law, the UN charter, all those things. What how does that serve us? How does that serve our our interests by by lecturing not the world but the US? Essentially, she she is implying this lady that India should lecture the US that you are doing very naughty stuff. You are being very evil. That's what she's saying. That's not for her to do. That's not for the government of India to do. The government of India has to act according to certain parameters. Certain guard rails have to be in place. Right? India has to be very diplomatic about this. See, we cannot afford to offend Donald Trump. We don't have to go and suck up to him or like he like like Donald Trump says, kiss his ass. India hasn't doesn't need to do that. But India should do everything possible not to offend the guy and the best way to do it is to keep quiet. Stay out of this matter. We didn't start this. It doesn't involve us. It hurts us. So we'll do everything we we can. We will take actions to minimize the the damage to our interests. But we will keep quiet about this. That is what India should do. India should not follow the advice of Madame Nirupama Men and Rao. This is what India has historically done under previous governments and it's never ever served India's interests. It's always been harmful to India's interests. Nobody likes somebody who lectures you. Yeah. So the world is being reshaped by those who can act. So India should take actions. India should act vigorously to preserve and safeguard its interests and to mitigate whatever to to whatever extent the damage that the war is causing to to our interests. But there's no point lecturing Donald Trump and lecturing the world. That is super annoying and for someone like Trump it's even more annoying. So we should not do that. So I completely disagree with Madame Nirupama Menan Raalo and her uh take about what India should be doing. Yeah. Um, see her her style of diplomacy, it's outdated. Okay. It's it's it's now it belongs to the time of the to the era of the dinosaurs. Hopefully, as far as India is concerned, hopefully India's diplomacy today is very different. It's nation first, national interest first and we will do whatever it takes to to to serve that to serve the national interest and we don't lecture anybody anymore. Right? when we are asked about our interest and why we behave in certain and we act in certain ways we can explain that and that's what our foreign minister has been doing Dr. Dr. Jashankar for the past I don't know six seven years yeah he's been doing about five six years six six plus years he's been doing that and he's been doing a good job of a very good job of communicating our interests and u our actions the reasons for our actions to the world and he's done a good job of that so and and it will be very clear that Dr. Jashundra has or Prime Minister Modi has never lectured anybody as to how they should behave, what's right and what's wrong and what is the moral morally correct thing to do. None of the nonsense we've we've done the past uh I don't know 10 11 years and that is the right approach and that is what madame minra disagrees with and I completely disagree with her. All right. All right. Now let's take some questions. Let's take some questions. What's going on in the world? Let's answer your questions. Divu says 1947 balkcanization of BAT was primarily a geopolitical move not a religious one. Agree or not? Can you please do an analysis by of why it was strategic for the British to make the border specifically where they did? Look um Bat was balconized in 1947. We know that right now was this a geopolitical move or a religious one? So if you read Indian authors, Indian historians etc. they will say India was divided on the basis of religion. It is religion that caused the balkcanization of India. That's what you all believe. But the truth is religion was weaponized to bal to achieve the balkcanization of India. Okay. So various see for example the kilafhat movement the kilafhat movement um I suppose a lot of people at least in previous generations before today were under the impression that kilafhat meant kilaf means you're opposing the British and it was Mr. Gandhi who mainstreamed the kilafhat movement right the kilafhat movement was started what was it all about say in 1918 1990 1920 around that time Mustafa Kabalat the great Turkish dictator the great man he was in the process of abolishing the institution of the caliphate the kilafhat okay he he his objective was to make Turkey completely secular completely democratic and no Sharia law, no kilaf, no khif, no nothing. And the last sultan of Turkey, Abdul Hammed, he was expelled from Turkey. He was exiled from Turkey by Mustafa. So this process was ongoing between 1918 to 1920 something early 1920s and the world began to sense that the the institution of the caliphate would be ended by Mustafa Kabal and that's why various Muslims around the world wanted to protest that. So there was this movement that began in India as well a fringe movement that nobody knew about excuse me and it was Mr. Gandhi who mainstreamed this movement and urged every Indian to participate in the kilafhat movement and most Indians I suppose imagine that this was a movement to protest the British occupation of India but it was a movement to preserve the caliphate and to preserve Sharia law and even later in the 1960s '7s ' 80s ' 90s the way this was taught in India's history books it was like it was this moment was opposing the British. It was never explicitly spelt out that this was a movement in support of Sharia law and the institution of the caliphate. So Mr. Gandhi and and this this the kilafhat movement failed. Obviously Mustafa did indeed abolish the caliphate. It still stands abolished today. Right? But this movement the kilafhat movement which Mr. Gandhi championed what it did is that it became the precursor the chemical precursor to the Pakistan movement. Okay. And the British knew that eventually some at some point in time they will have to vacate India. They will have to leave India. But they wanted to leave India in a certain shape and form that would be beneficial and advantageous to their continuing geopolitical interests in this region which is the subcontinent and beyond which includes West Asia okay and also central Asia and the Indian Ocean region. So the British had decided they would partition and balconize India so that India doesn't remain unified so that they have access so that the the the Indian nation doesn't become great. It is denied access to central Asia and there will always be a mercenary garrison state an artificial temporary nation called Pakistan or whatever it would be called that will continue to serve British interests because the British will have caused its its creation. So those who who rule Pakistan will always always be subservient to the British. It was structured in that manner. Right? Um so what were these interests of the British? What were the interests? The interests first of all was first one interest was to ensure that India doesn't become remain unified and become powerful and become quickly in 2030 years a challenger to the west. Right? That is that was always a possibility. If someone like Subbash Bose had been the leader of India of and and he would not have allowed a partition then in 2030 years India would have become a different kind of beast. Right? Because he would not have applied the Nuvian rate of growth of 3% per year. He would have done reforms that would have shot up India's economy and the Indian economic growth rate would have been maybe 8 10 12% per year. When you are a destroyed economy, it's very very easy to rapidly build it up, right? So they didn't want that. They did not want India to rise up again and become a challenger to the west to British interests because at the time Brit Britain was the major superpower, right? Well, until the 1920s at least, but they still imagined that they were a major global power, the British. Secondly, they wanted um something to counterbalance a broken India. Counterbalance India and always keep India off balance. That would be Pakistan, right? And Pakistan would also serve the purpose of denying India access, its historical access to Central Asia. In the past, our ancestors whenever they had to go to Central Asia, they would just walk into walk into Central Asia. It would take the process would take a month or two, but you could reach Central Asia just by walking or by going on horseback or whatever. So, India historically had for thousands of years access to Central Asia. That was cut off for India. And then Pakistan could always u you know supply soldiers and supply military um you know give military support to any British actions in in in West Asia in the Gulf region. At the time we do not have the UAE and all these nations you had the crucial states. So the Gulf region was being reshaped at the time by the British and by the by the by the west right u so all these things. So there were multiple interests that the the British had and these were geopolitical interests. The British wanted access to central Asia through the subcontinent region and Pakistan would provide that. Right? So by by so magnanimously allowing uh the the proponents of Pakistan to create an artificial nation and by supporting that artificial nation through economic and other means they ensure that it will it will always remain loyal to the west for a price. But that is fine. Everything comes at a price. So they weaponized religion. Okay. And the roots of this go back to the 19th century of weaponizing religion, non-Indian religions, right? Those were that those that one religion was weaponized. The roots go back to the 19th century. Uh and that's how this was done. So this was primarily I agree with you this was a geopolitical move not a religious one but it was done under the pretext of religion. the religion was weaponized and that's how this was made to happen. Okay. U the borders exactly specifically it's not like the borders exactly had to be the way they are specifically right now. The borders could have been whatever could have been something else potentially they wanted to give as much land as possible to Pakistan even land that was not supposed to be part of Pakistan. That's how the British that's why the British started the Kashmir issue. The first time the flag of Pakistan was raised in Jammu and Kashmir, it was done by British officers under the command of British officers. So the British ensured that the Pakistanis, you know, grabbed some portion some pieces of Kashmir and Mr. Nehu ensured that that remained with Pakistan even though Mr. Patel wanted the Indian army to you know take P back PJK back. So yeah, long story but it was primarily a geopolitical move not but yeah we Indians see everything from a religious perspective. So Indians think of this as a religious matter. Aditya Achara says a little off topic but if karma can't be scientifically proven then why isn't it if karma can't be scientifically proven then why isn't it marketed as something that one has to pay back in the same lifetime only the world would be a much better place out of fear at least so you saying that maybe it should be marketed as something that one has to pay back in the same lifetime only uh book let me so I'm not sure exactly what you're asking but let me explain the way I see karma okay the concept of karma is has a very strong connection to the concept of rebirth reincarnation so what is karma to put it very simplistically the way a physicist would see things karma is a law of conservation it's a conservation law in physics we have laws of conservation of physical quantities law of phys law of conservation of energy, law of conservation of mass, law of conservation of um of of momentum and so on so forth, right? We have conservation laws in physics. Now, the law of karma is a conservation law, but it relates to something that is non-physical. The law of karma is the law of conservation of the merits and demerits of your actions over multiple lifetimes. That is the law of karma. Okay. So, it's not a physical law. It's you could say it's a spiritual or religious or whatever it is. Yeah. It it it goes beyond physics for sure. It's non-physical. So, that's what karma is. The it's a law of conservation. Law of conservation of the merits and demerits of your actions over multiple lifetimes. Now, in the west, we have these they have these sayings like karma is a and karma bites back and all that stuff, right? So when somebody is is known to be a bad person and something bad happens to them, they say you know that's that's karma in action. But that is not correct. Karma is something that that you know operates over multiple lifetimes. So that's why you know according to Indian philosophy in India's Indian um culture lots of people get away with with very bad things in their lifetimes. You know you will see many there are people who are really evil really bad and nothing bad happens to them. So the law of karma is that you know what you wait let the guy die let that person be reborn. We will never know where the person is going to be reborn but they going to experience the merits and demerits both of their actions over over multiple lifetimes. So that's what karma is. So you so that's how it operates. It's not supposed to operate in the same lifetime. It's supposed to operate or multiple lifetimes. So, you may get away with very nasty stuff in one lifetime, but when you're reborn, you're going to pay for those actions. That is how it works. And that's how I see it. Um, and uh I don't know how it can be marketed or not. It I would say you can't uh distort what it is, right? Um, none of these things can be proven scientifically. But you cannot distort the meanings of what these what these of of these concepts. You can't otherwise you are doing exactly what the west keeps doing. They appropriate our culture and distort it and distort it out of shape. So I would highly recommend we don't do that. Okay. PP Singh says, "I heard on a podcast a retired Indian Navy commander after the sinking of the ship of Sri Lanka say in tropical waters around India submarines are near undetectable. Then why does the Indian Navy keep building them?" So a retired Navy commander said that submarines are nearly undetectable. Right? Isn't that a great thing that if you have a submarine, nobody can detect it or it's nearly undetectable? Then doesn't it make sense for the Indian Navy to keep building more and more and more? These are very dangerous assets that operate unseen below the waters of the ocean and it's almost impossible to detect them. So why should we not build 500 of those if we have the funds? The more the merrier. If they are undetectable, isn't it a good thing? Isn't it a valuable thing for the navy? So, doesn't it make sense that India should India will build more of those? Will will want to acquire more of those? Why does it perplex you, sir? And it's not like they are nearly undetectable only in tropical waters around India. They are undetectable in all kinds of waters. They are undetectable in Arctic and Antarctic waters, in the antl in the in the Atlantic Ocean, in the Pacific Ocean, in warm waters, in freezing waters. They're undetectable everywhere. They can be detected only when they're close to the surface. And you know, then you have these magnetic anomaly detectors in certain aircraft that can potentially pick up signatures, you know, magnetic signatures of uh submarines. And you can perhaps try to detect them through sonar and so on but it's very very hard to detect submarines and that's why the Indian Navy seeks to have more of these. All right. Sergeant Skylin says your thoughts on drill India drill. I am not aware of what that is but I would imagine that it's about drilling for oil. Is it is that what what it's about? Uh so if it is that then I would say it's a great thing. India needs to drill and and look for oil and and discover uh reserves of oil. India has been very lax in this matter. Yeah. So it's important for India to to to discover its own sovereign reserves, resources, petroleum and oil uh reserves or gas as well. Sachv Satyajjit says will try to occupy what's will try to occupy Iran or parts of Iran especially after a AF is Afghanistan. What's um I don't know what is. I suppose it's US. US US will the US try to occupy Iran, parts of Iran, especially after Afghanistan? Looks like they they may be in the process of uh you know planning an invasion looks like that. I in my opinion it's going to be extremely extremely difficult for them to make this happen to successfully even hold on to a to some territory. um attempting an invasion of Iran is nearly suicidal in my opinion, but let's see. Looks like they're going to attempt this. Rush Bir says central higher authority is taking emergency meetings as like COVID. So, as citizen, what steps should we take or how worse will it be? See the problem is the short potential impact on oil deliveries to India and gas deliveries to India. Right? So that's what the government is trying to take steps to mitigate to maybe some some steps that will mitigate the uh effects of this right the delterious and harmful effects of this on on our nation. So what what steps can we take or should should we take as citizens? Well, don't waste energy, right? It's summer time, so obviously you're going to need ACS. You can't I can't tell you all to not use ACs, but uh and when it comes to cooking gas and cooking all of that. So don't take trips you don't need. So that will ensure that you know you're not wasting petrol, diesel, whatever, right? Stay in your home. If you have a car, if you got a vehicle, use it only when required. Don't go for joy rides. Cut cut down on that. If you're cooking, don't overcook. Don't don't waste gas if you're using, you know, LPG or whatever gas. So, there's a small things citizens can do and hopefully it makes a difference. Beyond that, what can citizens do? Nothing much. Nothing nothing beyond that I suppose, right? Individually, we can ensure that we don't waste energy. That's what we can do. Beyond that there's nothing citizen can do and the government needs to take care of the rest. YT beyond border said says India could help Iran now for breaking Pakistan later. Um see I know that we in India are very very focused on Pakistan. We are laser focused on Pakistan. Uh but Iran is not going to help India achieve its its objectives right now. See, Iran is is fighting for its survival. Okay. Now, if India helps Iran, do you understand the consequences of that? Do you understand the consequences, sir? What happens is any nation that helps Iran is going to be automatically seen as an enemy, as an adversary by the United States. Now, do you want the US to categorize India as an enemy? They will not simply put a tag on India as an enemy. They will take actions against India. We want access to American markets. We want American goodwill. Okay? And that's why India should remain neutral in this matter. Oh Pakistan break, let's go and help Iran. It doesn't work like that. And even if we help Iran for example, how does it break Pakistan? How and don't you think that we our our military resources like missiles, arms, ammunition, drones, whatever we have. Don't you think we need to conserve those so that in case the Chinese do some mischief, we can deal with them. Don't you think that these are things that we have to conserve? Right? So it doesn't make sense for India to get involved in this matter. the war against Iran or the war or on whatever side India should remain completely neutral. All right. Al Kashukari says, "What happens to gases, ice, water vapors left behind by a comet in outer space? What happens to these things?" Um they become more and more diffused over time. So let's say you have a comet. Okay, a comet. What is a comet? A comet consists of multiple things. There is rock, there is ice, and there is dust all over. So it's a comet is like, in case you know what snow is like, it's like a dirty snowball. Not a white snowball, but a brown or black snowball. Dirty snowball. That's what a comet is like. Some comets are rocky, but they have a lot of, you know, ice on in them. Some comets are mostly ice. So typically a comet is a rocky core, a core which is rocky and around it it's it's got ice and all that. So a comet typically originates in the earth cloud which is way way beyond what we see of the solar system. Okay. But sometimes because of some you know u collisions or maybe because of some object that that tugs it gravitationally sometimes these dirty snowballs they get pulled into the into a different orbit which then takes them near the sun. Okay it's typically an elliptical orbit elliptical orbit. Some comets they they come once in a million years. Some comets come every 76 years like Hal's comet and so on. uh some comets are short period comets every every few years like 5 10 years they come right near the sun. So when a comet comes near the sun the when it starts approaching the sun and comes close it's close enough for the sun's heat to start affecting it that's when the the the ice starts melting and it starts shooting out dust into space and that's how when the comet comes near the sun it starts developing this tail this glowing tail the tail is the tail is mostly water vapor and dust Okay. So that's how and a comet will then go around the sun. Okay. And then go back and once it starts going back, it starts getting colder and it stops having the tail. So it's it's a fleeting phenomenon. It lasts a few days, a few weeks, right? Uh a few months sometimes. So what happens to the ice, ice, gas, water vapor? It all disperses in space and it becomes eventually part of the vacuum. So it just disperses, right? it stays there in space. So eventually the water molecules, so let's say it's water molecules, H2O molecules, right? So eventually they'll start dispersing and the mean distance between two water any two water molecules, it keeps increasing, increasing until it it's like they're essentially isolated. That's what happens. They disperse and diffuse away. Rush BR says the US playing on more than one front. Cuba at Cuba, Russian aid gets attacked. eventually it sports by Ukraine. Let me um US playing on more than one front at Cuba. Russian aid gets attack eventually its ports by Ukraine. She pledged for Taiwan 2027 Iran war month world war. What is the question? Russian aid gets attacked eventually it's okay. So are you saying that there have been attacks on Russian aid in Cuba? Uh I know that Russia has been attacked in its ports by Ukraine. We know that she pledged for Taiwan 2027. Well, that's a rumor that we have. uh we don't have confirmation of that but it looks like potentially she may have president of China may have given a deadline of 2027 to his armed forces for taking Taiwan which is next year. Yep. Um yeah okay there is that cub Cuba is being blockaded by the United States. Cuba is being deprived of power. Okay. So Cuba is a nation that doesn't produce oil. So they need to import oil from wherever Venezuela, Russia, whatever. The Americans are blockading Cuba and preventing anyone from delivering oil to Cuba. Okay? Whether it is processed or refined or or unprocessed, whatever. And that's why Cuba is is now facing power shortages. There was this hospital in Cuba that went dark and apparently everybody who was in the ICU died who was on oxygen, babies, elderly people, whatever. So that's what's going on. And maybe the Americans are planning to invade Cuba sometime in the future, sometime perhaps near future. I don't know. We'll see. Um, Ukraine is attacking Russian ports. I discussed that in detail multiple times. Uh, she's pledge on Taiwan. That's a rumor. We don't know about that whether it's true or not, but uh, we'll see. Iran war month war. I don't know what it means. The question you may be asking is, is this going to lead to a world war? I hope not. But if there's a American invasion of of of Iran, I think China and Russia may get more involved than what we what they are right now and that could lead to a situation where this escalates and more nations get dragged in. If the American if a hypothetical American invasion of Iran doesn't go well, okay, then they may force NATO nations to get involved and that could then, you know, we could start considering this to be a world war. So, I hope it doesn't happen, but it could happen. It could happen. Yeshuan Prakash, thank you very much. Yes Prakash. Aiden Trestler says, "We elected a clown. He made the world a circus." I'm Yeah, it is. I can't It's It's hard to disagree with what you're saying. Yeah, unfortunate for the entire world. Okay. Rahul says, "How to learn French or German for masters abroad?" I don't know how to learn French or German. I mean the best way to learn a new language is by immersing yourself in that 24 hours by 7. Yeah. You do that for a couple of weeks where you all you do is you communicate in that language. So that is the fastest way to learn a language. Um um yeah but I suppose there are courses and apps and whatnot. There's Dualingo that you can download on your phone. I don't know if it's a paid app or not but um there are apps that are available that will teach you other languages or there are courses available um we have what we have these platforms called uh Corsera, Skillshare whatever on which you will have courses uh for various languages. So I I don't know how to learn languages. I I speak non-Indian languages. I speak French, right? How did I learn? I was a kid. I don't even know how I learned. I was immersed in a French-speaking environment. I suppose I just picked it up within 3 months. I was speaking French within 3 months. So I did not ever go to French classes or whatever. One day I I discovered I'm just speaking French. Yeah. So that's how I learned. So I don't know how to learn a language formally. You don't start by learning grammar, grammatical rules and all that. The best way to immer is to immerse yourself. Try and communicate start communicating as quickly as possible. Learn the first, you know, the most important 100, 200 words. Learn basicish grammar-ish, basicish grammar and start communicating in in broken German, broken French, whatever. So the the the see how do you learn how to ride a bicycle? You don't study the mechanics and physics of bicycle bicycles, right? You sit on a bicycle and somebody pushes you and somebody steadies you and you do that for a few hours and eventually you find that you're balancing yourself, right? So, and and you fall a few times, you get hurt a few times, right? That's how you learn learn to ride a bicycle. The same thing goes for languages. You don't learn by by studying the language. You learn you learn by doing by speaking the language and eventually start writing. Yeah. So, okay. Okay. IPK Vanessa says Major Dij on Twitter said things about you. I'm sad. Who cares? Who cares? Somebody said something about me. Who cares? Why are you sad? I'm not sad. Don't be so um I would I would recommend to everybody. Don't let words affect you. Someone said something nasty. Why does it hurt your feelings? Laugh it off. The problem, See, it's it's it's something that's routine for me. People take digs at me. People say nastiest things about me on Twitter or in in YouTube comments. And I suppose the objective is to lower my morale, make me feel bad. But those people don't know that I have very thick skin. It makes no difference to me whatever what they think, what they say. I don't care one bit about what somebody thinks of me. I simply don't care. So let somebody major diguja whatever say whatever they want to say I simply don't care it makes no difference to me it doesn't affect me at all so please don't let it affect you all right unless it is something unless this this gentleman is somebody you respect in that case well what can I say all right so so don't be sad okay praash thank you very much indeed sir thank Wun Bajaj says, "Please you use Grock for YouTube live streams research. It's the most truthful AI far better than Google's. Yesterday Google AI lied on the UN slave trade thing, but Grock did not. I tested Grock. Should I use Grock?" So, uh, I don't use it for research, right? I simply Google something and Google has its AI. So, for example, let's let's do this, right? Um, let's let's try this. It's an interesting thing you're saying. So let me let's test this out. Uh so let's try the same thing on Google. So I am simply doing a Google search but now the first result is always AI. How did India vote on the recent UN resolution about the transatlantic slave trade? Let's see. So now okay where is AI mode? Here we have it. So sometimes you have to go into AI mode. sometimes it it throws the AI stuff AI summary at you without you asking for it. So I generally prefer not to use AI. I prefer to just you know search for things on Google itself, right? Uh but but yeah, AI is becoming ubiquitous today. AI is entering all all spheres and all domains of everything. Facebook, the Guardian. So I actually prefer to do a Google search but then Google throws it AI at me. So what is Grock like I suppose I want to log into Grock and all. So actually I I don't trust AI summaries. I like to see news from a Google search. Uh but but thank you for the suggestion. I will look into how useful Grock is or not. I suppose you'll have to buy some kind of subscription, right? The free version of Grock won't be very useful. I'm pretty sure how much the cost is not an issue, but uh I I'll look into it. I'll I'll I'll play around with Grock and see see how how useful it is and okay. So, thank you for the recommendation. I'll I'll I'll take it take you up on this. I'll look into grock how how good or not gro Grock is polomial says gate 26 exam was compromised okay statistically impossible scores and exam center clustering gate is for entrance to IIT for masters PhDs jobs in public sector units ISRO DRDO education and research not a priority for this government I'm sad to hear this I am not aware of this let me see what's happened so let's so let's see gate 2026 exam Um I said exam not exams but okay duh. So it doesn't say anything about um what happened. So this is the this is the Google AI summary right I am looking for this stuff here but it it gives you a summary without you asking for it. Okay problems the controversy. Okay. Controversy um technical glitches suspected cheating incident shift towards complex application based questions over direct formulas. Uh let's see controversy. controversy or like you're saying compromised what happened significant allegations and controversy surrounding the integrity of the GATE 2026 exam conducted by IIT Guhati allegedly okay potential compromises allegations of cheating compromised centers some top ranks belong to individuals with no clear documented history of high level preparation of coaching or coaching uh hana module allegation whatever that is demand for action data science and AI focus okay unfair AIdriven practices so this is so I I don't know exactly what the deal is but this is nothing new for the Indian education system it's a rotten third grade education system I promise you that Iran has a better education system in India way better than India's education system and some individuals in India imagine that this is how India will become a vishwaguru with having a third rate education system like this right so what can I say it's it's just sad the situation the state of the education system and there is no plan for improving things because there's already this new what new education policy 2020 or whatever that is that's been that is in the process of being implemented and the government claims this is going to solve all our problems it's not going to solve any problem and this will be implemented by I don't know 20 let's ask the Google AI what it says okay by when will the new education policy 2020 be implemented in India what's it say by 2030 2040 so next 20 years they will slowly implement this thing and it is not the right solution so it means that no new solution will be looked for until 2030 2040 that's it we are cooked we are cooked I will recommend those of you who can for education please go abroad India's education system is rotten rotten very sad very unfortunate and I promise you that Iran has a far better education system than India you think of Iran as this poor miserable little broken nation it's got a far better education system than India it produces worldclass talent yeah Okay, Chetan says civil war in India after 189 years and why I am not talking about this end of civilization when no I don't want any civil war I have never said there's going to be a civil war in India right after 80 90 years and why no end of Indian civilization look the way things are going India is becoming more and more dassinated right the education system is a very major factor in this in dassinating Indians today Indians don't even know what their culture You destinate multiple generations over you know one after the other. Then people become more and more detached from their culture because 20 years ago 25 years ago years ago your parents also went to this rotten education system. They also spent hours every day embibing knowledge from compromised teachers and compromised textbooks. And our textbooks and our teachers don't teach you about your culture about our culture. So your parents were detached from Indian culture to a certain extent. Now they raised you and they're already detached from culture to let's say 30% detached. You will be detached from c your culture maybe 50%. There's going to be more right and your kids will be detached from the Indian culture by 70%. Eventually after five six generations more Indians will know nothing about their culture. They will think of Indian culture as the same way thing they think of Egyptian culture or Greek culture or Roman culture. That's what the Indian education system is designed to do generation after generation. So yeah in 50 years 100 years you may no longer have any anything called Indian civilization. By the time India probably you know will have converted to some foreign religions. Most of most of the Indians it's already happening you know large scale uh industrial scale demographic re-engineering projects are going on in India right as part of Indian democracy apparently a civil war I don't know about that but yeah okay v says interesting numbers US total senates 100 you mean senators 100 nine are Jewish 85 are Christian yet pro-Israel votes 85% plus AIPAC backed uh 361 out of 468 candidates in 2024. How many senators do you have in the US? It's a 100. Okay. So there are 100 senators in the United States Senate. So each state throws up two senators. Okay. So I will not ask the Google AI to look into the religious demographics and pro-Israel votes because that will be controversial for the AI. It'll flag me. So let's not do that. But interesting. So AIPAC backed 361 out of 468 candidates in 2024. So the majority of candidates whichever way were backed by this thing called AIPAC. What is AIPAC? On second let's find out. AIPAC. What is that? American Israel Public Affairs Committee. It's a bipartisan lobbying group. So, it doesn't matter whether it's Republicans or Democrats that they're supporting. Bipartisan, influential American US lobbying group that advocates for strong USIsrael relations. Founded in 1954, it works to secure US security assistance, promote diplomatic ties, and influence federal elections to elect pro-Israel candidates from both parties. So when you have a lobbying group that works to influence federal elections and it has strong ties to a foreign nation, would you not consider that to be foreign interference in your electoral process? Or maybe not. Maybe I'm too stupid to see it that way. Or maybe I'm stupid to see it that way. I don't I don't know what it is. So if you had a lobbying group in India with very strong connections to a foreign country and their job would be was to influence elections in India, I would see it as interference in my nation's internal affairs. That that's logic, right? Yeah. Okay. So interesting. Interesting indeed. Uh Harsh Raj says do you have any part-time job for students? Um no I don't. Um I do not have a part-time job for students. Yeah, I can't think of anything. If if if I if I need something, I will post it on um on the community posts page. But right now, I don't have any part-time job for anybody. Yeah. Okay, DJ says karma is a FIFO Q CS first in first out Q computer science concept. Okay, first in first out Q. Is it like that? Could be perhaps I'll have to think about that. That's an interesting way of looking at it. Yeah, first in first out Q or is it the cumulative merits and demerits of your actions or does it follow a sequential order? I'm not sure about that, but it's a really interesting way of looking at things. Yeah. Okay. JRXNA says, "Some countries have only a few weeks of oil left now that a ground invasion is likely. Won't this delay hormone opening? How will these countries react? How can they join the war without oil reserves?" Yes. So, uh see Hormos, the state of Hormos is controlled by Iran now. They have never closed the straight of hormones in the past. Never once. This is the first time in history that the Iranians have closed the straight of Hormos. And it's not closed completely. It's closed to some nations for shipments of oil that are destined for India. It's open right for shipments of oil destined for or is it completely closed right now? Let me see. Has Iran completely closed the straight of Hormuz as of right now? Uh, it is effectively closed to most international shipping. Uh, so forcing a 95% drop in traffic. Or is this propaganda from the west? Um, Iran is allowing select nonallied vessels passage reportedly charging some for tra for safe transit. They have instituted a toll booth or shakedown system. Oh, very nasty word to use shakedown. What is what what is SW? Isn't that also a shakedown system? What is Panama? Isn't that a shakedown system? So, they're charging a toll. It's a toll. It's not shakedown. So, they're allowing some uh Asian flagged Chinese and Indian tankers to pass while blocking vessels linked to the US or Israel. Okay. So it's uh so so the Google AI is is claiming that this uh straight is about 95% closed and some vessels are being allowed to to to transit if they pay a toll. That's mainly Chinese and Indian vessels apparently. So that's the situation. Now some countries obviously they're going to have just a few weeks of oil left. Um and those countries could import oil from Russia. But the Ukrainians are in the process of destroying Russia's oil export capabilities. Ukraine well it's at war with Russia so you can't say it's doing something that's very nasty but the timing is obviously impeccable right the timing is it's coinciding with what's happening in Hormuz and Ukraine takes orders from the US. So that's what's happening. So yeah, it's going to be a it's going to cause a big oil crisis worldwide and then what will happen is that the world will have to buy oil from the US. Can the US supply the world with oil? We'll have to see about that. So a ground invasion seems to be likely now like you say. Correct. And will this not delay the opening of the state of Hormos? It certainly will delay the opening of the straight of Hormos. Absolutely. So how will these countries react? These countries will have to find some way. I think they will have to import oil from the US, right? And can they join the war in without oil reserves? You can't fight a war if you are taught on fuel, right? And it's not like Venezuela wants to join the war. It's not like Argentina wants to join the war. It's not like South Africa wants to join the war. Nobody wants to join this war unless they are forced into it by the Americans. Right? So these nations will will have to look for alternative sources of oil. I suppose the Americans are a major oil producer. Um, which are the major oil producing nations? Let's find out. U top 10 oil producing nations. So the US, Saudi Arabia, the US is the has the top position because of its high shale oil production. Next is Saudi Arabia. And then then you have Russia up, Canada, China, uh, and so on and so forth. Okay. Iraq, UEI, Brazil, Iran, Kuwait. Okay. Um, so you can't join a war if you're short on fuel. And anyway, these most of the nations they don't want to join this war. Yeah. So they will have to buy oil maybe from the US if the US is is capable of supplying them with oil. Yes. Praash says retired bodybuilder for India. Okay. Retired bodybuilder from India. Big fan. You help my students. You're very welcome indeed. Yeshuan G. Let me Google you. Let's see. Yeshuan Praash. Retired bodybuilder. Ah. Oh, you're from the UK. Are you okay? Okay. Okay. Okay. Fantastic. Let's see. That is Mr. Yeshu Praash. Outstanding. Outstanding. Thank you so much for being a viewer sir. Thank you so much for being a viewer and you are very welcome indeed. V says Mir Shimemer argued that dip state deep state deep state was against the U the Iran war. Obama hated Netanyahu. Yes. Biden Trump won were cautious. Vitkov Kushner lobby convinced Trump for this blunder. Well, that's a theory. Now, we don't know what really happened, but it could be a plausible theory. Vitkov and Kushner, the lobby, the the Israel lobby, they convinced Trump to launch this war on Iran. Well, I think that's that's a plausible theory. Logically, if it can make sense, yeah, but is that what really happened? We don't know about that. I mean, at least I don't know what really happened. So, it's it's a good theoretical framework to understand what could have caused the war. It's a I think it's it's a good logically sound theory, but I don't know if it's true. There are other theories as well that you know could also make sense. But, okay. Yeah. Right. And John Mir Shimemer is the author of a book about the Israel lobby in the US. So if he has authored that book about the Israel lobby in the US, he's going to put forth theories that that that that are in line with um the premise of his book. So yeah, makes sense. Uh Kits says EU quietly aids US attacks on Iran, impact on EU. See, uh we know that there are some u there are there is at least one um British air force base that's being used by the US um to launch strikes on Iran or at least it's part of the chain, you know, the chain of it's part of the chain of strikes. Uh about the EU, I suppose the EU is also possibly involved in some way or the other. of some shape or form. Uh but it's uh if if EU nations are indeed helping in that case they're doing it quietly like you say quietly aids. Uh so if it's done quietly it's not very obvious then I suppose there will be no immediate impact on these nations. If the aid they are providing to the US is very open, very blatant and uh blatant and its effects are directly you know visible then I suppose Iran could take some action against those nations. See Iran has besa can reach all almost all parts of the EU. So Iran potentially could take some action if they if they decide to. But right now it doesn't look like there will be any significant impact on the EU at this point in time or in the foreseeable near future. Near future Tresler says US being so powerful why lost war in Vietnam, Afghanistan, etc. Okay, see the Vietnamese understood how to fight the Americans, right? The Americans were far from their territory. Um, and they mis like George W. Bush would say they misunderestimated the Vietnamese. Um, the Vietnamese knew their terrain, they knew their climate, they were great at jungle warfare, they were adept at Ma's people's war tactics and they were determined. They were fighting for the existence and survival of their homeland. The American soldiers were fighting because somebody told them to fight. So it was also a question of of motivation and determination, right? and the Vietnamese so so because of way these factors and because of uh the excellence of Vietnam's gorilla not gorilla guerrilla tactics etc that's why uh they won the war and the Americans eventually had to had to limp away from Vietnam when it comes to Afghanistan Afghanistan is is a very mountainous country and uh the Afghanist the Afghan resistance fighters they simply outlasted the US And the US did not really want it looks like to fully occupy and govern Afghanistan. The best of times the Americans were in position were in actual control of only a small portion of Afghanistan's territory. And in various other parts of Afghanistan, it was various resistance groups that were in control of the territory. The Americans tried their best to to defeat the resistance fighters whether it is the Taliban, whether it is other mujahedines, but they because of the terrain and because of various limitations and constraints, the Americans were never able to do this. you would need u an invading uh invasion force of hundreds of thousands of soldiers to effectively take control of the entirety of of Afghanistan. So it simply would not work right. So because of these limitations um the Americans lost these wars. Um I suspect the American objective was in Afghanistan was never to really take over the whole of Afghanistan and and administer it. The objective was more of money laundering and making money for the for the military-industrial complex, the big companies. Yeah, that's actually what the mo most likely objective of the Vietnam of the Afghanistan war was the occupation of Afghanistan for 20 years. So eventually the Americans ended up replacing the Taliban with the Taliban. Right? So it's not enough to be powerful. You have to be determined. You you have to know what your uh military objectives are. You need to be very clear about the military objectives. And if your objective is to take control of an entire nation, you have to put in the resources for that. You have to be prepared to go all in on that. Not like I'll try something. If it doesn't work out, I'll I'll send a few more soldiers. If that doesn't work, I'll send another 10,000 soldiers. And keep sending more and more overtime gradually. You have to go all in from the beginning. And you can never ever underestimate your opponent. So the US obviously is a nation that suffers from hubris and that's why the last time the Americans wore a won a war on their own single-handedly was in 1898. The Spanish US the Spanishame war. That's the last time the Americans war won a war on their own. Okay. Aaron says, "Would we have survived without the partition with a third of the population being Muslim? How could we implement no Sharia law like what Turkey did? All it would take. Of course, we could have survived without a partition with a third of the population being Muslim. Of course, we could have. Right now in India, what's the population of Muslims? Maybe maybe 20%. The last census was done in 2011, right? Uh let's see what percentage of India's population is Muslim as per the 2011 census. So per 2011 it was 14 or 14%. So today it's 2026. It's been 15 years since the last census. I have no idea why the government has not done a census. I understand there was a um the corona virus uh thing pandemic but that ended long ago. I have no idea why the government has not done a census you know. So uh in 15 years I suppose the the the Muslim population may be close to 20%. With all the tens of millions of Bangladeshes in India, I'm sure the Muslim population is more than 20% in India. So we are doing fine with 20% Muslims. It's not like Muslims are problematic, right? It's not the case. Okay. So um India would have done just fine without a partition even with 33% of the population being Muslim. All we needed was the right leadership strong leadership. If Subashundra Bose was the leader of India was the dictator of India he would have tolerated no communal no religious BS he would have tolerated none of that. He would have crushed any such nonsense with an iron fist. Okay. Would have worked. Subhashundra Bose would never have tolerated partition and he would never have tolerated criminal divisions and religious divisions. They would have crushed it all. Of course, they would have survived without partition. Omnak says your view on yoga cycles any scientific parallel uh the yoga cycles kal yoga dhpad yog etc. Uh is there any scientific parallel to that? Not that I know of. Not that I know of. I'm not aware of any scientific parallels to that. Kub Chob, thank you very much Sergi. Thank you very much. An Divu says 1947 balkcanization follow up. What was the geographical geopolitical significance of cutting off Burma and Bangladesh? See 1947 it was not Bangladesh, it was East Pakistan, right? Uh so the objective was to give away as much of the subcontinent territory to a non-Indian nation as much of it as possible. See Bangladesh it's obviously historically part of Bengal. It's a very resourcerich region, right? The the Ganga River flows through the through this region and flows into the uh Indian Ocean, the Bay of Bengal, the subset of the Indian Ocean and all the all the all the aluvial deposits of the Ganga River, they make this region incredibly fertile. The Ganga delta, right? They call it the Podma in the region. But yeah, so it was very significantly you know resourceri this region. So cut off that region from India and create this far east region that you call the northeast but don't give it access to the ocean by cutting off by by giving chutagong to Burma uh to to Bangladesh or to East Pakistan sorry and Burma the objective was to make India small right Burma was this big big if you look at the map we haven't opened the map today have we terrible let's open the So Burma is a huge territory again very resourcerich very resourcerich and Burma was cut away from India in 1935 Myanmar it's a huge huge country very large okay and as you can see it it has a very large border with with uh with China and uh it's part of Southeast Asia so India would have you know Indian territory would have in Southeast Asia as well if Burma had remained part of India and it goes all the way down south. So we would have been neighbors with Thailand with Laos and with China, Thailand, Laos and and China. We would have been neighbors with these countries directly. Right now Thailand is a maritime neighbor of India. See as you know we have Fuket, we have Phuket is about a thousand kilometers roughly I would say from uh Indian territory. roughly 1,000 kilometers. Let's see here. Okay, it's it's 500 something kilometers from Indian territory. So, Thailand is a maritime neighbor of India. Indonesia is also a maritime neighbor of India. We don't realize that. Okay. Uh so, this huge territory was carved away from India. In 1935, there was an election in Burma and Burma had voted to remain part of India. But the British still nevertheless disregarded the sentiments of the Burmese people and carved Burma out of India. Right? So if so the geopolitical significance is is to weaken India. If India if Burma was part of Indian territory then we would have access to significant parts of central of of Southeast Asia. we would have been neighbors with Laos and and Thailand and with with more regions of China and we would have access to all the resources that you have in Burma. So we have been cut off from that as well. So the objective was to of of the of the balkcanization of in 1947 one objective was to ensure India remains weak. Okay. India is deprived of its historical access to these territories like Southeast Asia, like Central Asia. Okay. Um and the second objective was to create this this artificial temporary mercenary garrison state nation Pakistan, East and West Pakistan, right? Uh so that was what was it and obviously they they ensured that not only is is India balconized and east and west Pakistan created and before that in 1935 Burma was chopped out of India but in 1947 they ensured that their hand handpicked individuals became the the political elite of India and they were handpicked in such a way for the purpose of keeping India weak right so they ensure that India doesn't start growing rapidly. Once the British leave, they ensure that the entire edifice, all the institutions the British had created, those continued intact. Then how have we acquired freedom if all the same laws and all the same institutions continue in place? We may have technically become free, but we never decolonized. Right. Right. Okay. Vive says, "Please help. My brother left school in the 10th standard despite good in social science, chess, poor at maths, says the education system is garbage. Wants to drive trucks in Australia." Okay. Um I is it a bad thing to drive trucks in Australia? I I would say let every person decide what is best for them in their life. I I'm wondering if is driving trucks in Australia a bad thing. If somebody likes that, you want to drive around the outback and whatever. It's a nice adventurous life. I suppose the pay is good. I I don't think it's it's a failure in life. And you can do that for four, five years, 10 years. Then you can go back to education and maybe become a chartered accountant or something or maybe become government servant. Everything is possible in life. So um I I I suspect I'm not giving you the help you're looking for. So what you could do? Okay. So that that's one option. The other option is you know what the education system is garbage. I agree. I I'm I am responsible for for making people aware of that. But what you could say to your brother is consider various options. Let's not jump the gun immediately. One option is you go to Australia, drive trucks. Okay. Another option is you spend some more years in the education system and maybe if you have some other hopes and dreams, maybe getting a degree could help you achieve that. Um that's also a possibility. So, so my point is don't make take a decision immediately. Spend let's say give yourself four weeks to decide and consider all the options. One option, option A is Australia and you drive trucks in the outback. Option B is maybe you continue with the education system for another another five years and acquire a degree and maybe if you have some dream some hope that you may actually that you wanted to become let's say an airline pilot for example or let's say you wanted to drive tanks in the in the Indian army or maybe you wanted to become um a chartered accountant in India. So those options are also there and there are other ways of reaching those options. So at the end of the day it'll decide it will depend on what the what your brother wants the most in his life right. So I would say so sometimes you take decisions emotionally right sometimes you want to go and beat up the guy you don't like. So what what you're supposed to say is okay listen we'll beat him but let's beat him tomorrow. Not right now. Sleep on it. So I would say tell your brother to to think about this for a while. Don't decide immediately. Take take let's say a month to decide then you can still go and do what you want but take a month to decide and consider all the options. So maybe that will help. All right Vive all the best and say hi to your brother. Anabilar says I believe is big. What's I believe is a bigger enemy than China. Your thoughts? I suspect you're saying US. Well, as India's unofficial representative to the world, I will say that let's be diplomatic about this. The US, our relationship with the US is challenging. We allegedly have shared values with them, but clearly we don't have too many shared interests with them. And actually if you look at the matter civilizationally we have way more shared values with Chinese civilization than with the US empire. Right? And China obviously is a is a real and present danger for India because of the way it has behaved since Mahatong took took control of of of the country 1949 right was it right they have behaved as an imperialistic nation as a hedge they are very hegemonic and they bully all their neighbors that's why China is obviously a problem for India but it's not like the US isn't like that the US is it takes that to the next level the US is like 10 times times China when it comes to its imperialistic practices, its regime, it's meddling in every country. So I would say both nations are major challenges for us. Which is larger, which is less large? I think the US is more of a challenge for India. Dir Kh says Google AI cloud and GPT are better than Grock. Okay. Okay. So Dj Kamat is of the opinion that Google AI claw and GPT are better than Grock and I'm doing good by using See my objective first of all is never to use AI. I simply look this is not the first episode of the Askab show. This is the 344th episode of the Askab show. I have been using Google as a search engine since episode 1 probably since episode 1. I don't remember what happened in episode 1 but from the beginning I've been using Google uh to clarify things. And when I started at the ask show, there was no there was no AI, right? At least not that I knew of. But now when I do the same Google searches that I was doing 4 years ago, now you have AI generated, you know, synthesis of uh or summaries. So it's it's something that I've started using unwittingly. I have always been using Google search, not Google AI. AI then eventually started intruding into my Google searches. So I have become an unwitting user of Google AI during the ask show. It's never been my intention to do it and clearly it's uh it's not always reliable as we discovered yesterday very clearly when it it was repeatedly lying about how India voted in that UN resolution about the transatlantic slaves slave trade. The Google AI kept saying that India had abstained when actually India had voted in favor of the resolution. So clearly AI is not necessarily going to be 100% reliable and that's something we have to be very very aware of. So I have become unfortunately an unwitting user of Google AI or whatever AI. Uh my my intention is never to use AI. My intention is to just do Google searches. But yeah uh so you are saying that Google AI and cloud and GPD are better than Grock. So I've used Google AI GPD everyone has used Grock I haven't really used much so I don't know how good it may be uh Elon Musk obviously will claim it's the best in the world but hey so okay so one my point is one has to be careful with AI don't ever you know take what AI says as the gospel truth very dangerous to do that AI you know can can be misleading. Jagara says, "What happened to your right eye? Are you okay? Did you cry or sad?" So, this is my right eye. What happened to it? What happened? Let's Let's take a closer look, shall we? Let's zoom in. So, here's my right eye. What happened to it? I have no idea what happened to it. My The right eye is completely fine. Completely fine. Did I cry? Am I sad? Uh, and Golibar says, "See a doctor ASAP. Your right eye looks odd. Not sleeping." What? What happened to my right eye? I I I wonder has something happened to it? Let's see. I think it looks fine. I don't see any problems. So as far as I'm concerned, I have not seen anything wrong with my eye, right eye. It's I'm able to see just fine with it. Uh did you see something? Did you notice something? I even yesterday somebody asked me asked me about my right eye. Am I turning into a werewolf or a vampire or something? I don't know. Look, I really appreciate the concern. I don't see anything wrong with my right eye. It's functioning perfectly fine. I am um I didn't cry. I'm not sad. I am sleeping just fine. Uh but yeah, after this show this episode is over, I'll go and check it out in the in in the mirror and I'll have somebody check it for me and uh if there is an issue, I'll get it addressed at the earliest. All right. Thank you. Aon says, "Aon aon d nice dice." Aon Timoth yeah key and peel of course. So Aeron says should we blame the illiterate polit politicians in power or bureaucrats for ruining our country awful education system the system being corrupt as a whole. So it's a chicken and egg and egg problem. Who is what is the problem? Is it the system that's the problem or is it the politicians and bureaucrats that's the problem? Because a system is made up of the politicians and bureaucrats. It's it's a self-perpetuating system cycle, isn't it? So look, this system was created by the British and they deliberately designed it in to be such that it oppresses the people. It would serve the British and at the same time it would oppress the people. That's how they designed the system. They designed the corruption as a feature not as a bug. Okay, it was designed into the system. It was a feature not a bug. And after 1947, the system has continued exactly the same without anything being changed. Maybe uh if no um IC became IAS. So they changed some titles from the even Indian civil services to the Indian administrative services and some things gradually changed but overall the system remained the same right so whatever features the British had introduced into the system they had designed into the system those still continue and that's why the system only accepts certain kinds of people the the other kinds of people are shoved away and even if you come in with the best of intentions once you see how the system works you have no choice but to become part of the system or move out. Okay. So you so so somebody will have to you can't reform the system. You have to dismantle the system and replace with a new one. It's very hard to to change the system from inside. It has be it has to be changed from outside. And that's next to impossible in the current scheme of things. So who do we blame for this? I would say the people who should be blamed primarily are those who after 1947 did not change the system. They simply continued it. They you blame them because they are deserving of the blame. Um and well who else do you blame? The top leadership I suppose at various points in time in Indian history since 1947. Aniket says why nose and ears never stop growing? Um why do the nose and ears never stop growing? I I don't know. I've never thought about that. I don't know. Okay. Secondly, your podcast with Major General Rajiv Narayan was great and his insights especially about Nav'i were solely Singh. Okay. First of all, thank you about uh the I'm glad that you like the podcast. Now about Navik, I did not wish to argue with the general. So I did not. He said there are 8 nine satellites and so on right that are functional including LEO satellites low low earth observational satellites low earth orbit satellites LU see if you want Navic to be functional you need at least four functional satellites that are in geostationary orbit geostationary orbit is roughly 36,000 km above the planet surface let's let's fact check that okay uh I'm obviously saying This is from memory. Maybe my memory is wrong. Let's ask uh Google. At what altitude are geostationary satellites positioned? 36,000 km roughly. Yeah, roughly 36,000 km. Okay. So geostation for Navik to be operational you need at least four functional satellites to be placed in geostationary orbits. Okay. Now General Narayan was saying that we have 8 nine satellites that are functional. He was including low earth orbit satellites. Low earth orbit satellites cannot be part of NAVIK. NAVIK is a satellite positioning system. Low earth orbit satellites are spy satellites. They will give you high resolution images of the earth's surface and other data. High resolution data from close to the earth's surface. Low earth orbit satellites are typically between 200 around 200 300 kilometers above the surface. not 36,000 km very close to the surface. The atmosphere ends at about let's say 100 km and these satellites are about 200 or 300 km above the surface. So that's the 8 n see total he is saying there are 89 satellites of which there are three navic which are still somewhat functional and maybe five six low earth orbit satellites. You put that together it does not give you a functional navic system. Our navikism is no longer functional. It's it's not functional anymore. Okay, that is the truth. We have only at most three functional Navic satellites. At most, maybe even not three. And that is not sufficient to give you satellite satellite positioning data. So if you try to you know uh find an information find find your location specific exact location the coordinates using Navic with your phone right now it's not going to give you an accurate uh fix on your location. It's not going to do that. Navic is no longer functional. Okay we have messed up with Navic. those those other low earth satellites those are those are military spy satellites then we don't talk about them but they don't give you the positioning fix that Navik is supposed to give you so is not real solace I did not want to argue with the esteemed general Narayan that's why I did not say after anything after that but Navic is not functional it's those spy those those spy satellites are a whole different matter. Okay, it's like comparing u huge it's like comparing those huge uh transport aircraft with the theasis fighter jet. You can't compare. Those are totally different rules. It's like comparing a helicopter with a submarine. There's no comparison. Right. Right. Hershu Jane says, "I don't think Kirk Island is the target because everyone knows it's 100% suicidal. Do you think all this drama is for something totally different that will catch all of us offg guard? What can it be?" So, I discussed this yesterday. So, I agree with you. Kirk Island doesn't seem to be the right target. Let's let's uh let's look at the map and understand why Kirk Island is suicidal. So, where is Kir Island? Okay, so here we are off the coast of western India. Let's go westwards into the Gulf of Oman. Let's go into the straight of Hormos. Let's transition into the Persian Gulf. Let's go past Qatar. Let's go past Bushar. Let's go close to Kuwait. And here we have Ka Island. Okay, this one here, if you look at the satellite imagery, you will see it's got all these oil storage facilities and so on, right? oil boulevard and oil storage facilities etc. What is that fountain? Netorian. What's it look like? Okay. So that that's okay. So Kirk Island is about what 35ish kilometers from from um the coastline of Iran. 30-ish kilometers. Right now, if the Americans try to take this island, they will have to send an amphibious assault vehicle ship of some kind like the Tripoli, which will have to sail through the through the straight of Hormuz. If it tries to stay sail through the straight of Hormuz, it's going to be obliterated by Iranian drones and missiles. It is guaranteed to be completely destroyed. Guaranteed. 100% guaranteed. Because the Iranians have so many drones and missiles, the Americans simply won't be able to survive this. So the question is if they try to come here they'll be destroyed. Then how will they reach Kar island? They can't. Another option is they perhaps land somewhere in Saudi Arabia or Kuwait and then perhaps take helicopters to parachute over there or something. But even that is suicidal because the Iranians will shoot down their helicopters. Or maybe it takes some boat or ship to reach there. How do they do it? So that's why reaching Kirk is almost impossible. And even if they are able to reach K and they are able to take Kirk hypothetically, how long will they survive there? Because when you do an amphibious amphibious assault on a place, you come with maybe one day of water and food, not more per soldier. So how do you survive there? And if you take Kirk Island, they want the Iranians completely flatten the island with their missiles and drones. Nothing will nothing, nobody will survive. Which is why I agree with Harshett that Kirk cannot be the target. It's suicidal. 100% suicidal guaranteed. So what could be the actual target in that case? If the USS Tripoli like the Americans are claiming has reached the Sentcom area of operations, then it's somewhere here. It's somewhere here in the so-called Arabian Sea or the Gulf of Adan, the Red Sea, I don't know, the Gulf of Moan somewhere. So I would say that it is more probable that they will try to make a move on Shabahar or Kodarak. Kodarak here or Chabahar here. Where is Chabahar? This is Chabahar. I think that's more likely and they could even have support from Pakistan because the Pakistani border isn't really far away from Chabahar, right? 100 km away is Pakistan. So the Americans could make a move on Shabahar potentially with support from Pakistan which means Pakistan gets directly involved for the first time that I think is more likely than the Americans trying to take uh KUR in a suicidal operation. If they take Chabahar they could they may be able to potentially sustain their occupation of Chabahar with Pakistani help right and then I suppose Trump could claim victory of some kind. I don't know because even if they take Jabahar they don't have they haven't defeated Iran. They haven't defeated Iran but u I don't know maybe it's some kind of empty hollow victory that they want. So I think u that you know Kirk Island seems to be out of the question. It's it's impossible to take and it's suicidal to take and it's suicidal to defend. Right. So I think Chawahar makes more sense and obviously the Iranians aren't stupid. They will be thinking thinking along those lines too. They will be thinking of all potential scenarios of what the Americans could try to take and um you know try to take an occupy from the Iranians. So I think it could be Chabahar. I think it could be Chabahar. Let's wait and watch. Okay. 24 Bat says the RA lady is silly. Uh Madame Nirup Minra. Okay. If India lectures the US, the US will stop war. I mean that's what she seems to imagine. Or maybe she thinks that whether the US stops the war or not, India should lecture the world and India should lecture the US. That way we absolve ourselves morally that we have done our duty and lectured the Americans because our duty is to lecture. That's what she seems to think and that's that's what she's recommending that we should lecture the Americans. Staying weak and verbal lectures are over. I completely agree with you. It's high time we move past that and we have moved past that. Okay. Everything we do should advance our interests. Everything. Even if it is a statement, that statement should advance our interests. Don't do anything that doesn't serve our interests. So why should we make these moralizing lectures? Why? Right. So what you're saying is that only action, growth, and strength can defeat imperialism. Completely agree with you. I could not dis I could not agree more. I could not agree more. Agree more. Absolutely correct. Yes, Kiki Susant says, "Thank you, sir." Oh, thank you. Thank you so much. You You are very welcome and thank you very much. Harsh Jin says, "Trump has already said that Cuba is next. Do you think Russia will proactively protect Cuba more than it's helping Iran?" No, I don't think so. Why do I say I don't think so? Why do I not think so? Well, ask yourselves, what did Russia do when the Americans took over Venezuela? They didn't physically take out Venezuela, but they kidnapped Maduro and installed a government which was already there, but they ensured that the government flipped and became pro-American. And now the government of Venezuela does whatever the Americans want them to do. So when the Americans did this, did this regime change, de facto regime change, what did the Russians do? They did nothing, right? Russia did not do a thing to help Venezuela. Or did they? The Russians had supplied Venezuela with air defense systems. They had supplied Venezuela with potentially intelligence. The Russians had done whatever they could to help Venezuela. But Venezuela the the the the leadership they decided that let's give up Madur to the Americans and then yeah, let's become American an American vasal. So Russia is physically very far away from Venezuela. Once again, let's go to the map and let's find out. Okay. So where is Venezuela? Venezuela is here. How far is it from Russia? Okay. Let's let's try and calculate the distance from Russia. So Venezuela, we measure the distance to let's say um here that's about 10,000 kilometers. Russia is roughly 10,000 kilometers away from Venezuela. What can it do to help? It can't do much if the Americans invade. And similarly, Cuba must be about more than 10,000 km. 1 second for Cuba. How far is Russia? Let's go and measure the same distance. It's more than 10,000 km. So, Russia can't do much. Russia doesn't have any power projection capabilities in this region. Russia doesn't have any military bases in this region. Right? So, Russia can't do much to help them. Um, that is the situation. So, if Trump makes a move on on Cuba, there's nothing the Russians can do to help Cuba. Cuba is a setting duck right now. Okay, that is it. Okay. Rahul says, "I have a promising transformer architecture improvement for top computer science conference like ICRL, ICML, New IPS, but no GPUs to train or test it. Any suggestions?" Well, what suggestions can I give you? You have to acquire GPUs. Can you hire GPUs? Can you I I'm not sure. I've never thought of this problem because I'm not into this into this field. Can you I mean ideally you should have your own GPUs but can you rent GPUs by the hour or something? Is that possible? Let me um ask Google. Can you rent GPU clusters by the hour? Let's see. Yes, you can rent GPU clusters on individual GPU instances by the hour. Numerous cloud providers offer on demand, hourly, even per second billing for high performance GPUs, allowing you to scale from a single card to large clusters for AI training and inter in inference without long-term commitments. So multi-node clusters you can rent multiple interconnected GPUs for distributed trading workloads scaling up to 10,000 plus G,000 plus GPUs in some cases. Um Jarvis Labs offers Nvidia A10 800 and H100 GPUs starting from about 40 cents per hour to 269 per hour. And obviously this is going to be expensive. The the costs add up rapidly. Yeah. So I suppose you can rent GPUs but the costs will add up very rapidly. You can buy GPUs. GPUs are very expensive. Uh so uh if you are in a university or college I suppose you could ask your department to acquire this in case they think that you know you should do sovereign AI research in India. Otherwise you'll have to somehow find the funds to do it. Right? That's all I can say. Um yeah so these are the these are the problems Indian researchers face mainly the shortage of funds so um that's what I can say if you are in a in a college department or university department ask your department request your department to supply you the funds or to simply buy the hardware themselves and then you can you know set it up and use it and you can say it's not mine it's it's it's going to be it's going to belong to the department and you can do future research on that. That's one thing you do or otherwise uh you find some source of funds and acquire it. All right, sir. All the best. Yeah, I I understand how these these constraints can be real problematic but yeah. Okay. All the best sir. All the best. Rahul WBKT says is it safe to say that India cannot dismantle Pakistan until the US decides your opinion on Jeffrey Saks also even MAGA people are critical of the attack on the girls school is it safe to say that India cannot dismantle Pakistan until the US agrees to this yeah as long as the US has its gives it its blessings to Pakistan India can't do a So India will be able to dismantle Pakistan only after the US loses interest in Pakistan and if China doesn't come in and you know take over the role of the US as long as there's a more powerful nation than India who is protecting Pakistan we can't do much until unless we want to risk a major war that could be against more than one nation. My opinion on Jeffrey Sax. Who is Jeffrey Sax? I'm not sure. Let me check out who is Jeffrey Sak. I'm sure I know who it is, but let me see. Jeffrey Sak. Yeah, American economist and public policy analyst, professor at Columbia University. I do recognize this gentleman's face. I am not aware of what he has been speaking about. So, I don't have much of an opinion about him. What his positions are. Is he does he uh what does he do? geopolitical analysis, international affairs analysis, economic analysis. I'm not sure, I am not aware of what he has been saying. So I don't have much of an opinion about him and even MAGA people are critical of the attack on girls school. I think any sane any decent human being will be critical of the of the horrific attack on the school the the the girls school in in in Iran. How many girls died? How many kids died? Definitely more than 100. more than 150. So any any any sane decent human being will will be critical of that. Nobody can support that sort of horrific atrocity. Hyphen says if the US pressures India to align more strongly, can India realistically resist without economic or geopolitical consequences? I suppose we can. Right now India is aligning away from the US not completely but uh like we discussed yesterday India has gone ahead with uh deals with Russia worth about cumulatively $25 billion. We're going to be purchasing drones. We're going to be purchasing missiles. We're going to be purchasing uh transport aircraft. We're going to be doing nuclear cooperation with the Russians and and and other things as well. And that's something that's and of course of S400 systems we're purchasing more of those. This is going to displease the US very very greatly. Right? So we are clearly resisting American uh pressures. Clearly we are resisting. The US is of course pressurizing India right now to align very strongly with them. The US wants India as a vasal state. It's very clear. They have made it very clear and India is now taking various uh steps that essentially are taking India away from the alignment with the US and more of a and and more towards an alignment with Russia at least some alignment with Russia right and more than what we have been doing in the past and now we are also increasing our our our intake of Russian oil uh and this is Because as a consequence of the past month of the Iran war, the US its leverage over India has reduced. The the the the standing and stature of the US in the world has come down several notches, right? And India seems to have calculated that it now has more leverage than the US or at least the balance is is is is better now. Uh, of course there's going to be consequences. The US will will take some steps eventually. Maybe more tariffs, maybe something or the other. We'll see about that. Tariffs, sanctions, something. But of course, you know, you there's always a price you to pay for sovereignty when you are not the most powerful nation in the world. Yeah. Stick life says, "Do you think that the US and Israel have achieved their key goal of stopping Iran from getting nuclear weapons?" Thanks for the great content. Love you. Thank you so much. Thank you so much indeed. So the question really is what was their key goal? What was the objective of the US and what was the objective of Israel in starting this war? The Americans say that we want our objective is um the opening of the straight of Hormuz and Iranian guarantees that they will not uh you know uh develop nuclear weapons. Well, before the war started, the state of Hormos was already open and Iran already had committed to not developing nuclear weapons. So the US already had that and they still started the war and now they are saying that we want to achieve those things which already had. Iran had signed the GCPOA, the joint comprehensive plan of action in 2016 or whatever it was 2015 2016 around that time and they had committed to not enriching uranium beyond 60% and whatever the commitments were. So the and this was all verified by the IAEA, the International Atomic Energy um whatever it is IAEA, International Atomic Energy Association or a agency agency, right? They their inspectors had come and and inspected all the Iranian facilities and they found that Iran was complying with this and even until February 2026 before the war began, Iran was not deploy developing nuclear weapons. The supreme leader of Iran had imposed a fatwa against nuclear weapons. So Iran was definitely not deploy developing nuclear weapons and Iran had not closed the straight of Hormos. The Americans already had those conditions. Then they launched the war and now they want they said that these are all goals. So why did you start the war? You already had those conditions. Uh so I'm not sure what the objectives of the war for the US are right now. I have no idea. They don't seem to have clear objectives. The objectives have kept kept changing. For Israel, they want to do regime change. nothing less than regime change will will be sufficient for Netanyahu and for for Israel. So Israel has not achieved its goal and now it makes sense for Iran to develop nuclear weapons. It makes sense for Iran to develop nuclear weapons. That just makes sense logically because without that there's no guarantee that you know if even if the war ends at some time point in time it won't resume in a couple of years. So maybe the war ends hypothetically now. Okay, let's say hypothetically the war ends now and the US and Israel say okay okay we are done with the war we will not fight anymore let's have a ceasefire and all three sides say okay it's a ceasefire what's going to prevent the Americans and Israelis from regrouping taking a couple of years to rebuild their their arsenal and then attacking Iran again in two years what's going to stop them from doing it the only thing that can stop them is if Iran develops nuclear weapons so I think now Iran will develop nuclear weapons and they're not going to clo open the state of H foremost anytime soon. Um so I don't think the Americans have achieved any of their military objectives. I don't think Israel has achieved its political objectives, military objectives. So yeah, I don't see this war ending anytime soon. Yeah. Okay. Uh 24 BAT says M. No comments. No comments. Hey, listen. No comments. No comments. Okay. Wy BKT says, "Did you saw tweet by by somebody called Bhar Mudan whitewashing arrest of US and Ukrainian nationals claims that even Great Britain interfered in the US civil war but later became allies. I have not seen this tweet and um uh so yeah I'm not aware of this. I I will look into that later and let's not call people names. Okay, let's be a little more dignified. What's the point of calling people names? Let's not do that. Please, please, let's maintain decorum on this channel. All right, it's my request. Please. Okay. Okay. Uh or should I look into that later? Later. I'll look into it later. Okay. Uh 24 Bat says, "Perplexity is better than Grock. Sorry for making you angry yesterday." Uh was I angry yesterday? I may have been very briefly slightly annoyed, but that's okay. I I I it doesn't matter. It's fine. It's fine. No issues. No. No issues whatsoever. So you were saying that perplexity is bedding rock. I see perplexity. Perplexity is like a search engine on steroids, right? An AI enabled or something search engine. So okay. So it's better I look into perplexity also in that case. Do you all think that it's better that I search on on an AI system for information rather than doing Google searches? Because Google searches anyway come with with its own Google AI thing, right? I look into that. I look into that. But anyway, thank you for the recommendation for perplexity. Better than Grock. Interesting. I suppose Grock searches X, right? Grock, I mean Grock owns I mean Elon Musk owns Grock. He also owns owns X. So Grock, I suppose, has been trained on the massive volume of data that you have on X. and Grock will be aware of everything that's happening on X. So, who's saying what? So, I suppose Grock would be a good search engine for Twitter or X, but not necessarily for other things. But I suppose Perplexity is a global general search engine and it uh pulls up results from relevant uh parts of the internet and then summarizes them properly. So, I think yeah that that way should be better. Interesting. Okay. Okay. Okay. WBKT says, "Please see photo of E3 sentry that got allegedly got damaged." Well, I shall show you the photo. Yes, indeed. So, where is that? Here we have it, right? It's an Awax system. Awax uh aircraft. So, here we have it. Here we have it. Uh what is this? This is something else. Okay. So um this is the AVAC E3 AVAC that was damaged damaged into quotes. Do you call this damage? It's been obliterated. It's been destroyed. The aircraft is in multiple pieces. And the most valuable part of the aircraft which is the rad is entirely obliterated. The rad is this big big thing like a mushroom that's on top of the aircraft. It's a gigantic radar dome, right? And see what what's happened is that the Iranians have destroyed all the all the all the all the powerful radars the Americans have in the region. The THAD radars, which are the terminal high altitude area defense radars and other radars. These radars cost like close to a billion dollars a piece and there's only a few of these radars in the world. The Iranians have destroyed these radars and that's why the Americans were using these Awax aircraft to put radars in the air to ensure that they they're still able to see what the Iranians are doing, what they're launching and what not. So now three of these aircraft have been destroyed or at least at least one of these aircraft have been destroyed. And the Americans only have 21 or so of these aircraft, right? And this is not damaged. This is obliterated. It's destroyed. And the like like this tweet says, the Iranians have targeted the key rear housing surveillance radar, the big radom on top of the on top of the aircraft. So yeah. Yeah. So the Iranians are doing rather superior job than the Americans of targeting the enemy's u um assets and infrastructure. Okay. Omniak says, "Can it be said that the US doesn't have any selfidentity as a civilizational nation? Every person within leverage works for self-interest or foreign interest. The US is not a civilization. The US is an empire. You know what I say about Pakistan, right? Pakistan is an artificial temporary nation. What is the US? It's an artificial nation. It's a nation that's been constructed on stolen territory. It's a nation that is founded on genocide and slavery. The stolen territory belong to the natives of the Americas. Okay? And to justify the theft of the territory, the Americans have invented their own history of the Americas. And in that in those histories, they portray the natives as savages. the savages with no culture with with no society very backward primitive people which makes sense that's why it makes sense to take over the nation and civilize the savages so the US is an empire it's not a civilization what is American culture is there such a thing as American culture yeah So um so the US it's an empire. It's not a civilization. It doesn't really have a culture of its own right and it's a out andout capitalist nation. So yeah everybody works for their own self-interest and some people I suppose potentially work for foreign interests. So I cannot disagree with what you're saying. I agree with you Omni. I agree. Okay. Vijaya Patel says your views on Sir Other Cotton and Andraas worship him. Sir Other Cotton. What is Other Cotton? Um let me try and Google this. Author Cotton. Let's see. Sir Other Cotton. Oh, you mean Sir Arthur Cotton? Who is this fellow? He was a British army officer and irrigation engineer who worked in the Madras presidency. And what did he do? He devoted his life to the construction of irrigation and navigation canals throughout British India. Well, if he did build canels, canels and all that in India while he was constructing the infrastructure of the British occupation of India. Oh, sorry, did I not? Sorry, I Okay, I need to put this on the screen. Okay, so this guy Arthur Cotton, he was a British army officer and irrigation engineer who worked in the Madras presidency. he uh devoted his life to the construction of irrigation and navigation canals canals throughout British India. So if he was constructing canals in British India, he was constructing the infrastructure of British occupation and extraction. The infrastructure he was constructing its objective what what was it being going to be used for? It's going to be it was going to be used for the British occupation of India in the extraction of India's resources out of India. So that's what I can say. I don't know this person. I've not studied this person's life. I don't I was not aware of his existence and he's just another British occupier of India. Why do some person people worship him if they do? I wonder. But that's the problem with India. You know our textbooks glorify such people instead. They they really did a great great job for India. They served us. That's what we are taught. That's why our people unwittingly start worshiping them some of them if poss potentially. Okay. A Ron says, "Should we follow suit with China and abandon religion altogether instead of converting? No religion means no cast reservations, no religion hatred and hopefully more development." I completely disagree with this. Why should we abandon our religion? Why? Why should we abandon our religion that our ancestors followed for 10 for like 10,000 or more years? Why we should abandon cast reservations and religion? Our religion has never stopped anybody from developing. There is a phase of Indian history called this araspati sindu phase or the indust value or harpan phase. Right? India was fully urbanized, fully industrialized at the time and we were still Hindus. Our religion does not prevent us from us from developing. It is not anti-development. It is some other religions that are anti-development by the way. Okay. We should abandon cast reservations. We should abandon cast. Okay. Not abandon our culture and our religion. Absolutely disagree with that. Absolutely disagree with that. Why should we make concessions? Why should we make compromises in our own land? Why? I don't get it. We should not. Vinodab says one day take a full history session slides on Iranian history 920 to 2026 covering structure and key figures like Sulmani Ayatah's lari gi well Solmani larjani raj gi are very recent history I mean they are relevant today was was assassinated a few years ago okay you want me to do a whole thing on Iranian history well the thing is that Iranian history doesn't start in 1920 right but yeah of of course interesting uh recommendation suggestion should I do that would people be interested in that I suppose I could do that it will take me some time to prepare that but it's not a bad suggestion yeah it's not a bad suggestion let me take a note of this let me take a screenshot of this u suggestion by way here we have it and I'll save that. It's not a bad suggestion at all. Well, thank you VA for the suggestion. I will take this up. I am Duresh says, "Ever let go of an opportunity to settle abroad. Why have I ever let go of an opportunity to settle abroad?" I'm sure I have. Why? Because it felt like the right thing to do, I suppose. Yeah. Soldier boy says, "What's your take on FC? Did that please you?" Yes, I am pleased. I'm pleased. It's good. Yes. So, we are we are strengthening making making the rules more stringent. Yeah. See, FC is is the channel through which foreign funds flow into India. And there's a lot of misuse of FC. So the new FC rules are going to be more stringent and they're going to have more conditions and they hopefully that leads to improvements and uh you know that sort of thing. So I think yeah overall I'm pleased. Yes. WBKT says UA. Why is it always UA? It should be US, right? Are you saying Ukraine? Oh, UA is Ukraine. Is it UA is Ukraine? It should be UK, right? No, it's UK is UK UK R or it could be UK UA. Okay. So, Ukraine had great industry like Antonov but comedian messed it up. Yes. Uh the Ukrainians had good good industries, excellent industries, aircraft industries and other things. But today we have a comedian who's running the running the show. Very unfortunate for Ukraine. Yes. Um, noise says Gia Taylor bronze g Pepsi Pepsi P. What are you talking about? Um, I have no idea what this is about. Okay. 24 Bat says, "What is India's ideology? Is it socialist, secular or integral humanism? NK has jina has socialism or Chinese characteristics or confusionism? Ideology guides sovereignty. India's ideology I don't know what it is really I don't know what it is I don't know what integral humanism is I've not studied it so I don't know what it is okay uh but it definitely not is not India's ideology India is more of a social even today the policies are very socialistic right I think India's ideology is socialism and secularism yeah like the constitution says secular sovereign republic or that sort of thing So uh if you see my Twitter account, have you seen my Twitter account? I'll show you in case some of you have not seen. So India's ideology is socialism, socialism and secularism today. So if you see my Twitter account, if you see the biography, it says that I'm neither secular nor socialist. So that's me just Yeah. Uh but yeah, India's ideology is socialism and secularism and that is what it it it guides it determines the long-term future of the nation, doesn't it? It does. And what should our ideology actually be? It should be dharma. That's what it should be. But we are secular and socialist. That's sad and unfortunate because neither secularism nor nor socialism is Indian. It's it's all foreign sad. Anand but says Anandbut says my wife says I can listen to you for 3 hours with full attention but not her but not her for 3 minutes sending this message based on her advice. Big fan. Thank you very much for being being a big fan and thank you very much for being able to listen to me for three hours and u uh please give my regards to your wife. Please give my regards to her. Thank you so much and thank you for making me laugh. Thank you to your wife for making me laugh. Please give her my regards. Hyphen says, "Does India benefit more from a stable West Asia or from a weakened divided region where no single power dominates? also means also miss the science streams. Thanks. Okay, science streams. Well, nobody watches those science streams sadly. It's it's like a 150 people watching at most. So, um Okay. So, coming to the question, does India benefit from a stable West Asia or from a divided weakened region? I think we benefit from a stable West Asia. The West Asian nations most mostly are friendly to us and we are big customers of their main product which is which is oil. So it's a win-win the relationship for us as well as for them. So we benefit from a stable West Asia. We would like the region to be stable and peaceful. Okay. We don't want war in the region. It messes things up for us. We want Iran and the Gulf nations to all be friendly with each other and peaceful. That's what India benefits from. Yeah, a weakened divided n region where no single power dominates. If you have a weakened divided region where no single regional power dominates, what will happen is that a a non-regional power will dominate and that is that has been the situation that's been the case for decades. The region is divided. It is divided and the US dominates the region. The region is divided. How? You had Iran versus Iraq in the past? You have Israel that many nations oppose in the region and then you have various rivalries between the other nations as well. So you keep the nation region divided so that a foreign power can actually dominate which is the US and that's what you had for the longest time. So what we would like to have is no foreign power dominates the region. There is a balance of power in the region and peace and stability. That is the ideal situation. Which means for India what's ideal this war ends the Americans withdraw and then there is peace in the region. That is ideal for us. 24 Bat says Sidan Sibil is a great exac account for Indian news. Yes, he is. I follow him. Yes, he's he's a great exac account. He's like he knows, isn't he? And uh you get the latest updates from him like Yeah. So he's a great account for news related to India. I agree with you. 24 Bharat says Indians complaining about missing Chinese officials is amusing. We should be the we should be doing the same idiots and purging corruption and firing corrupt babos and opin and officials. So if Chinese officials are missing it means they have been purged right and they in China officials are typically purged if they go against the nation or if they are corrupt. And it's not something amusing. It's not something to make fun of China for. You should respect China for doing that. For cracking down on antinational activities and cracking down on corruption. Yeah, I agree with you. Yes. And ideally, ideally India should also do that. India should crack down on antinational activities and on corruption just like China. I completely agree with you but that's not what happens. It doesn't happen in India doesn't it? Sadly. Okay. Dhir Kamat says Bobby Een is taunting Dharmic people in the chat trying to intimidate us insinuating that Christianity is dominant and we should be afraid. I Bobby Epen is a longtime viewer of this channel and even yesterday people were complaining about him. I find this very unfortunate that we have this disruptive behavior in in this channel. So I'm going to have to take some action about this sadly. Okay. Well, Djam, thank you so much for bringing this to my notice. Thank you. Villiant Prince says, "If Persians and the Alina Greek clan were both among other clans defeated by King Sudas, would the Greeks also be considered Arya like us and Persians?" See, Arya from our perspective, from an from an Indian dharmic perspective, the word Arya means civilized. area. Whether you're Arya or not is determined by your conduct, by your behavior, not by your blood, not by your ethnicity. Okay? But today Indians imagine that Arian means an ethnic thing and white people are arians. That's what we have been taught, right? Arya means civilized. Your area or not based on your behavior and your comportment you conduct. But if you want to give Arya racial the word Arya or Aryan racial a racial meaning like the Persians did later on then who would be the the be the area? It would be us and the Persians not the Greeks because the Greeks they went into Europe and they intermarried as opposed to the Europeans and they became whiter didn't they? So look, if you look at whiteness, okay, whiteness, then Indians, we are brown. Persians are somewhat lighter skinned than us today because the Turks brought in lots of foreigners and and settled them into Persia. But 2,000 years ago, the Persians were looked like people from Western India, light brown skin, etc. Uh, but the Greeks, they went into Europe and they intermixed with the Europeans. That's why they became whiter than the Persians. And uh so that's why they would not be considered to be fully pure blood aras like Indians and Persians. But from the proper meaning of the word area. Okay. If you eat beef, you're no longer Arya. If you no longer practice vic rituals, you're no longer Arya. And the Persians did practice Vic related rituals like the yesnas and all. So let's say the Persians were still Arya but the Greeks no longer did that. So you could not call them Arya. So from our perspective blood doesn't matter behavior matters. Okay. If you no longer behave like a civilized person you are a matcha. Hershit Jane says if they take Chabahar port will India have a problem. Moreover you have just slight redness in your left eye. Now it's my red left eye. Is it now? Oh, it's my left eye. There's a slightly red. Okay, I'll not zoom in again. But okay. Uh, all right. Just slight redness. I think there's a red light in this region. So, everything appears red. You see everything in this on this side appears reddish because of this here and so on. So, don't worry, I'm fine. The redness is an illusion. It's all Maya. So, now the question is if they take Chabahar port, will India have a problem? No. We have already walked out of Chabahar. We have liquidated our our um stake in Chabahar. We have paid whatever we were supposed to pay to the government of Iran and and we have we are out of it. So we no longer operate any part of Chabahar. It will not cause any problems for us. Iran says, "Should we Indians, not the government citizens, be pro-Israel after what happened to the girls school and how much we citizens have suffered for their war?" See, we Indians, forget about the government of India. What should our position as Indian citizens be? What should our stance be as Indian citizens? Our as Indian citizens, our business is to be pro- India. That's all. only be pro- India. Don't don't be pro any other nation. Why do we have to be pro some nation or the other? We should only be pro- India. Be very narrow-minded in this matter. Only pro- India, nothing else. Don't be pro any other government, any other nation. Um, so that's how it should work. And what happened to that girl school is obviously horrific. It is unforgivable. Whoever did that, it looks like the Americans did that. Okay, not Israel. Most likely it was the Americans who did that. They most likely uh fired a Tom to Tomahawk missile on that school. And it's not the first time the Americans would have done done something like that. Um so my my my simple recommendation is don't be pro any other nation only be pro- India when some nation cooperates with us it's they are cooperating with us because it serves their interests okay international relations are all based on self-interest. So if you have good relations with the nation, it's because it's only because it is serving that nation's interests and it's also serving our interests. It's not because they love us or they have something in common with us. Okay? Please understand this. Be realistic. I am not saying be anti-sumnation. I'm not recommending any such thing. I'm just saying be pro- India only. No, don't be pro any other nation. Craz says weak people give rise to tough times. Tough times give rise to strong people. Strong people create good times and good good times create weak people. The cycle continues. How to break the cycle at an ideal situation? That is strong people and good times. You can't it's human nature that the cycle continues. You can't break this. You can't break this. Uh this is in the context of uh dynastic cycles and imperial cycles and that inevitably happens right inevitably happens. So if you want a dynasty to last long or an empire to last long you have to ensure that the succession process always gives the baiton to the best possible candidate at all times. But that obviously theoretically everybody understands that but still it doesn't work that way in in in real life. So you can't break this cycle. This is simply um it's caused by human nature and you can't change that. Yeah. So can't break the cycle. Maharana says is hormones the multip multipolar killsh shot for the dollar. So, you've been a member for 49 months. Good God. That's how many? It's over four years. Thank you so much. I have no idea. Thank you so much. I really, really appreciate that. Okay. The question is, is Hormos the multipolar kill short for the dollar? For the dollar, US dollar? It could become that if this situation persists and the Americans even after attempting land invasions, ground invasions whatever are unable to have to open the the straight of Hormos if if they are unable to open it at all then and this situation persists let's say hypothetically 6 months then yeah the petro dollars could could start crumbling because if Iran becomes the dominant power in the region they would force the the the regional nations, the Gulf nations to start selling the the you know their oil, the product in in other currencies, maybe the Chinese yuan or something else. So this could be the beginning of that process. It will all depend on how things go in the next in the next phase of the war. Siddesh Pandar says Siddesh Pandar okay Modi G mentioned seaweed in his latest speech are we finally trying out seaweed bofuel it could be a huge advantage given our massive coastline okay I'm not I'm not aware of this let me see what Mr. Modi has said um okay Narendra Modi seaweed what do they say? Prime Minister Modi is actively promoting seaweed cultivation India to boost the blue economy enhance fisherman's incomes strengthen the rural economy. His government supports the sector through the Pradhan mantra matya sadaijana with special emphasis on establishing cultivation clusters and empowering coastal communities. So seaweed production could be a key non-traditional income source. Uh promotion of se blah blah blah munchie bath fisher folk strong foundation fisheries and seaweed. I'm not sure what uh is to be done with the seaweed. Um see what are the uses what are the uses of seaweed? People consume seaweed in some countries as a food. You can turn seaweed into bofuel. You can can you use it as a fertilizer? I suppose you can transform it into fertilizer. So some of some seaweed species have medicinal properties. So I'm not sure what the what India hopes to achieve through seaweed. Um okay let's see how is seaweed used in India raw material for industrial ficoids aigar and all these things organic bio fertilizers and agriculture pharmaceutical and neutrautical products um yeah so we are not really looking into looking at making this turning this into bofuel doesn't look like that. So I'm not aware of what Mr. Modi has said. I'm just trying to quickly take a look at what the Google AI is saying. And it doesn't look like there's any emphasis on turning seaweed into bofuel. And to turn seaweed into bio, you'd have to extract massive quantities of seaweed, which could devastate the seaweed populations actually. So I think better than that it makes sense to to use the biomass which that is a waste product from the 1.4 billion Indian people that should be used to to produce bofuuel that makes more sense in my opinion and you would have to create a whole infrastructure for that but it's certainly possible. Uh so yeah it doesn't look like we are looking into turning seaweed into bofuel doesn't doesn't look like that. Pratik Kumar Roy says, "I have seen some people on the internet telling that Pakistan is the next target of US and Israel. So we should support them against Iran. Why would they attack Pakistan? I wonder. So some people are the theory that some people are proposing is that once Israel and the US are done with Iran, they will attack Pakistan. And that's why we should support the US and Israel against Iran. What is the guarantee that once they done done with Iran hypothetically they will go against Pakistan? Pakistan is their asset. Why will they destroy it? I don't know who comes up with this theories but I don't agree with this at all. Yeah, I agree with the question. Why would they why would they attack Pakistan? I don't see any logical reason why the US and Israel would attack Pakistan today. Pakistan is their asset. They will not attack it attack it. So I I don't agree with this theory. I think it's um it doesn't make sense. Godz says news from the last few weeks stating heavy casualty numbers for for Russia and now UK is using its navy to seize Russian tankers. It seems Russia is stuck worse than Ukraine than worse in Ukraine than the US in is in Iran. Yeah, it looks like that from whatever we are hearing in the news. So the question is why is Russia not fighting back? Russia has a massive military. It's not used its air force essentially at all in the Ukraine war. Very, very minimal air force involvement. And I'm sure they have plenty of missiles and they're producing missiles in very large quantities and roads in very large quantities. So why why isn't Russia employing the same tactics and methods and strategies the Americans are employing in Iran? Whatever options the Americans have on the table in Iran, Russia also has the same options on the table visav Ukraine. They can destroy Ukrainian power plants. They can destroy Ukraine Ukraine's um water supply. They can destroy they can do other things the Americans have done. So why is Russia not doing that is the question that I am unable to answer. Is there some kind of secret understanding with the US of some kind that once the Americans are done with Iran, the Russians will be given Ukraine? Is there is there some such thing? Does Mr. Putin still believe American promises? I'm not sure what the deal is, but looks like Russia is being hit hard right now and it's not able to respond and it looks like it's stuck really bad in in Ukraine. Looks like that. So I would agree with you. Yes. Gorov contractor says your take on Islamabad beat that happened today. I am not aware of this. I'm not a news surfer. I don't know what's happening in real time. It doesn't matter what's happening in real time. Long-term is what matters. But let me see what is this Islamabad meet. Islamabad meeting. What happened? Pakistan hosts talks with Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Egypt or Iran war. See, Pakistan doesn't matter in the Iran war. Saudi Arabia doesn't matter. Turkey doesn't matter. Egypt doesn't matter. The nations that matter in the Iran war are the US, Israel and Iran. Okay. So what was the objective of this uh of this thing of this conference or whatever? Um let's see. Dawn is a Pakistani website. Yeah. Ways for early and permanent end to the Middle East war discussed at quadrilateral moot says Dar. Foreign ministers of Pakistan, Egypt, Turkey and Saudi Arabia photographed during a quadrilateral uh huddle. Okay. Okay. So they are trying to uh they're trying to find ways and means for an early end and and permanent end to this war. Look, as long as the US wants to fight and Israel wants to fight, what can these nations do? Okay, so I don't think it's very consequential what's happening in in Islamabad. Doesn't really make much of a difference to the war. It's the US and Israel that are calling the shots. And it's Iran that's fighting back. These nations can't do much about it. So unless they can persuade the US and Israel to end the war, there's nothing much they can do by holding these conferences and talks. Nothing much. Push Suri has become a new member. Thank you very much, sir. Push G and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Neil Shaw says big fan. Thank you. The Uttarakhan state government has introduced the Ramayan and Gita into its school curriculum to promote value- based education thoughts. Well, as long as these uh subjects are taught properly, that's good. I think it's good. See the Gita, the Bhagat Gita gives you incredible life lessons. The Ramayan is is one of the core foundations of our culture, right? And the Mahabharat is a is I think it's it's a little more you know chanakin than the Ramayan. The Mahabharat came later of course. So I think Ramayan and Bhagat Gita of course the Bhagat Gita is something that is that is embedded in the Mahabharat, isn't it? So uh I think my thoughts what are my thoughts? I think this is a great idea as long as the these concepts and and these these these subjects are taught properly. Yeah. Without any distortions. In that case, it's excellent. I'm very pleased to hear this. Amit Sharma says, "How strong is the relationship between China and Iran? And is China secretly supporting Iran?" China is not secretly supporting Iran. It's essentially openly supporting Iran. In what sense? No. no direct involvement of China in the war but China has given Iran access to its uh BEu satellite positioning system. Beu is the Chinese version of GPS. The Russians have also given Iran Glonas which is the Russian version of GPS and the Chinese BEu seems to be in some way superior to the American GPS system. So that's one thing. Second thing is that there are Chinese spy satellites uh that are giving Iran information about what's happening on the ground in close to real time. So that's another help that China is offering to Iran. Now why is China doing this? Because China wants Iran to continue to exist. Iran is an opponent of the US. China, Russia, Iran are the three major powers that still stand up to the US. almost nobody else does. Right? So, and China it it imports oil from Iran. Iran is a major supplier of oil to China. Between 50 to 15 to 20% of China's oil comes from Iran. And if the Americans win this war, then that will be shut off to China or it will be available to China only if the only uh under American conditions. So that's why China wants Iran to not be defeated and that's why the Chinese are supporting Iran and the Chinese have uh a 25-y year strategic agreement deal with the with the Iranians and the the terms of the deal are uh not known. They're secret. So this relationship is pretty strong. Yeah. Any plans for long content based on books like UA? What's UA? Oh, understanding America. Uh, right now that is not on the cards, but that that uh project is right now on ice, but it's not it's not been cancelled. So, in the future, it may I will resume it at the right time. Uh, but right now, no other plans because of the way things are going right now in the world. WBKT says, "Thad Tad IRGC's targeting precision is underrated." All right, sir. Okay. Uh, Jimmy Lee says, "How was your childhood growing up in a EU nation during the Cold War?" I grew up I spent a few years in Switzerland in the city of Geneva mostly. Janev Switzerland is not part of the EU as far as I understand. Is it now a part of the EU? It was not a part of the EU. There was no EU back in the day. Uh, so my childhood was nice. Switzerland is a very pretty place. Yeah. Uh, my primary language was French. There was a time when I used to think in French. So it was my primary language for a while and it was nice. It was nice. Yeah. Godliness says hypothetically if this US Iran war turns into an energy disaster causing famine in countries like Bangladesh cres of people can line up on our borders for refuge then what? Many will illegally enter. Well, if crows of people line up on our borders, they should be kept out. Our responsibility is towards our citizens. Okay? We are not responsible for the citizens of other nations. That's not how it works. So if crows of people hypothetically line up on our borders for refuge, they have to be kept out. They should not be allowed to illegally enter. The way things are right now, if this happens tomorrow morning, many will like you say illegally enter. Well, the government needs to plan for these uh contingencies. Let's say in 6 months time there is an issue like this then we should plan for that right now and put the requisite you know things in place to ensure that if there are attempts for millions to to enter India that none of them is able to succeed. So the government of India, the central government needs to start making preparations for such eventualities right now itself and not a single foreigner should be allowed to enter India illegally. Legally is a different matter. They should be welcomed if they are entering legally. All legal uh foreign foreigners all foreigners who are entering India legally should be welcomed but no illegal entry. Okay, Neil Sha says, "You have also mentioned that Hinduism might not survive the next 100 years, but I feel like it has more chances than others considering even urban India was were found to be only 3 or 4% less religious." Okay. Uh so I I hope that you are right. You see u nobody will be more pleased than me if if our culture and our religion survives may way more than next 100 years. The way things are going right now it I fear for the future of our culture our civilization and our religion our religions I fear for the future. Uh and why do I say this? It's because I see people becoming more and more dassinated. And how many people in urban parts of India actually practice their their religion? There are some cultures, some religions in which you're supposed to pray five times a day. There are some religions in which you're supposed to every month pay a 10% tithe to the local authorities and you're supposed to have mass once a week or whatever it is Sundays and these people they they follow this religiously. But the people who practice our religions, nonforeign religions, Indian culture, how many of us in in urban cities, urban centers even practice our religion? So because of various issues like this, I am a little, you know, worried about the survival of our culture and civilization. But uh but I hope you are entirely 100% correct and I hope that I'm entirely wrong. I hope so. So I hope that you are right. Let us be optimistic. Yawwanchi says, "Iran may target undersea cables. Could this trigger Starlink's rise in our region? Trump trying to warp this war quick. Will Israel let him Trump trying to wrap this war up quickly? Will Israel let him do that?" I if Israel wants to keep on fighting, I don't think they will allow Trump to walk out of the war and Trump won't be able to, I suppose. Now if the Iranians target undersea cables uh that will cause disruptions in India definitely and it will cause longer latency times and all that in India is going to degrade internet services in India for sure. In some parts of India it may even be disrupted for some time. So could this trigger Starink's rise in the region? That's a very good question. I hope not. So if that sort of thing happens the Americans will immediately offer Starling to India. Let's go ahead. Let's operationalize Starlink. Please give us the per permissions. I hope the government of India says no to that if this happens because Starlink is is is a threat to India. Like I've explained many times. It means now if we if we allow Starlink to operate in India then we are no longer in control of who of way of of the internet in the country. We can't switch it off if required. And Starlink has been used in regime change operations multiple times. Elon Musk once tweeted that if if that we will provide Starling in a in a certain country and if the government is a problem they can raise they can shake their fist at the sky but nothing will change. We can't have starling in India. Absolutely not. So I hope the government says no to any such proposals if this sort of situation happens. Bhaskar Gupta says play Roth. Okay, you want to reverse this because it's not allowed normally. Ask Aru A R A H Rahul. Ask Rahul to connect me via mail on V I S H O D I um okay listen I don't have I'm not able to copy paste this these words from here so I won't be able to do it but uh I suppose Aul can take a screenshot and and reverse it all right Okay. Illuminate by Tarun. Thank you very much, Tarun. Thank you. 24 Bat says, "Major General Bakshi G Major General Dr. GD Bakshi. He's so cool. True nationalist. He is quite the man, isn't he? I'm a big fan of Dr. Major General Dr. GD Bakshi G. He's also a scholar. Do you know he's written a book on the Sarasati civilization, right? Great man. Absolutely. And and and and great fun to listen to, isn't he? And I've once shared a stage with him. Uh should I Okay, give me a second. There's this video on on my channel that I can show you on in which he's also there on on on the stage. Give me a second. Let's let's let's let's do this. Okay. So, this is my channel. Let's go to videos. Okay. We'll search for this invasion. Invasion. Let's see. Do you find this? Yeah, this one. It's an overview of the Arian invasion migration myth. And if you see the thumbnail, Dr. Giddy Bakshi is standing next to me and this was a book release function of of his book on the Sarasota civilization. So yes, awesome gentleman isn't he that says okay I see what you did there that says who will succeed Soros? Will he be a threat for India? I can't say who will succeed Soros. Maybe his son will succeed Soros. His son is married to this is Pakistani American person right Huma Abedin who was uh um working for uh Madame Hillary Clinton so could be his son I suppose and these people are all threats for India absolutely okay hyphen says everyone is choosing sides India is choosing discounts as it should be as it should be right India should not take any sides India should not choose sides. India should choose discounts. So India is doing the right thing and I approve of it. Yes sir. Uh Pratip Kumar Roy says some Indian-American guy on the internet said the suban civilization was the oldest. Also ancient Indians came from Iraq and Syria that region. Okay, let them say it. How do we care? We should not get upset about this. Okay, this is the prevailing dogma. It's the prevailing dogma in academia. And that's what's taught to everybody. See, most people don't want to think. I personally used to be a complete believer in the RN invasion theory. And I used to get annoyed when people used to say that, you know, the iron invasion theory is fake. I used to get annoyed because I spent a lot of time not thinking about this. Then one day I thought, okay, I decided, let me look into this myself. Let me look into the actual evidence, not the textbooks, not the history books. let me look at the actual evidence, the archaeological evidence, the genetic evidence and so on so forth. Let me look at the actual pieces of evidence. So I went through research papers. I went through a lot of stuff. And then eventually I realized what the hell I was completely wrong to to believe in the iron invasion theory. And that's when I wrote that article uh the Arian invasion myth. And in case you want to read that article, let me plug it right here. Okay. So let's see. Arian invasion myth. Chavda you can read it on medium you can read it on um India facts you can read it on uh the original yeah the original article was on India facts here it is okay this is the original article it was written in May 2017 that's 9 years ago and this article is still the gold standard this is where the entire matter started because I was the first person to put all the pieces of information from so many different fields together. Okay, this is the OG article 2017. Before this article, you will not find any article on the internet which debunks this. Today, everybody's an expert. Everybody says it's it's a it's it's a myth and all, but this is the article they are all referring to without they will not they will not admit it, but this is the article everybody has been referring to. So, check it out if you if you so wish. Hyphen says, "Is this a war or just a global price or oil price update?" Well, it's it's a war, but it's also messing up the global oil prices for sure. Um, so it's a war that is having the effect of updating the glo global oil prices and the global oil prices are being are being pushed upwards deliberately, especially by Ukraine targeting the Russian oil export facilities, right? the three ports they've been targeting over the past three four days. So yeah, it's going to cause a tremendous amount of pain it looks like on or ordinary people around the world which is sad. Empty box says how to deal with social anxiety. Any tips? Social anxiety. What is social anxiety? I suppose it is the it is anxiety you feel while having social interactions? Uh I think I suppose you have to find the root cause of your social anxiety. What is it that makes you anxious? Why do you become anxious while having social interactions? That is what you have to discover for yourself. And then you have to I think address that or or go beyond or transcend that whatever it is whatever the root cause is. So some people are introverts and they're not comfortable you know interacting socially that is one cause u some people are shy I think shy and being introverted is it similar I I don't know so introversion can make it you know uncomfortable for people to have social interactions uh what else maybe you imagine you are not very good-looking which is why you imagine that people are judging you and that's why you feel anxiety I don't know there are lots of potential causes for social anxiety. So you have to find you to discover the root cause for you. Why is it you know why does why do you have social anxiety? Why does social interaction cause anxiety for you? You to find it out for yourself and then find the solution for that and the simplest way to do this is to perhaps speak to a professional I suppose of some kind. I'm not sure what are the professionals who deal with social anxiety but yeah main thing is introspect. Spend some time thinking about why you become anxious and once you discover the root cause find the way to solve it. All right. All the best. Empty box. Okay. Illuminatun says my name is Rayan. All right. Uh can we call this war World World War II? How does it impact India? It's not World War II yet. It's still a regional war. uh because there is apart from the US there's no other uh non- regional play player in this war right now it's Israel versus Iran and the Gulf nations are collateral damage and the US is the external actor in here beyond these nations nobody else is involved so right now it's not world war II but if let's say European nations get involved if China gets involved if Russia gets involved more directly then it could then you could call if Pakistan gets involved even if Pakistan is involved it's still a local regional war but if China Russia and European nations get involved, that's when you can start calling it World War II. How does it impact India? Oil prices rising, gas shortages potentially. This is this is how it impacts India. Okay. Uh humanity survive says, "Do you know about the 20 2020 rule for screen usage?" I am not aware of it. Let me see. 20-20 rule for screen usage. What is that? Okay. To uh American Optometric Association says to alleviate digital ice strain. Where is it? To help alleviate digital ice train, follow the 2020 2020 rule. Take a 20 second break to view something 20 ft away every 20 minutes. Oh, very interesting. Take a 20 second break. Let's zoom in. Let's bigify this ambigen. Let's embigen it even more. Even more. Okay. To help alleviate digital eye strain, follow the 20 2020 rule. And what's the 20 2020 rule? Take a 20 second break to view to view something 20 ft away every 20 minutes. Interesting. Sounds like a great um you know way of uh sounds like a great thing to do. Well, I wasn't aware of this. Sounds logical. Makes sense. Every 20 minutes, 20 ft away, 20 seconds. Good. I shall practice this because I spend a lot of time staring at screens. I do. Yes. Thank you so much. Humanity survives. Thank you so much. I really appreciate this and I thank you on behalf of all my viewers because it'll help everybody. Thank you. Hyphen says, "No question, just don't want the stream to end." I really appreciate that. I'm I'm I'm so glad I'm thankful that you enjoy my these live streams and I thank you for being a viewer and everybody else as well. Thank you so much. Uh Raman Gil says, "Energy lockdowns coming. Time to return to the motherland." Okay, you you are paying in Canadian dollars. I suppose you must be I suspect you must be in Canada in that case. Energy lockdowns coming. I hope they don't come. And if you're in Canada, you won't have energy lockdowns because Canada is a big major producer of of oil. At least oil. Let me see how much how much No, that's not the right question. What is Canada's rank among the oil producing nations? That's a good question. That's a better question to ask. Canada is the world's fourth largest oil producer and fourth largest exporter. So if you are in Canada then you will have no issues whatsoever. They will have no energy lockdowns. Canada is the world's fourth largest oil producer. But if you are not in Canada um and if you are in a nation that could have energy lockdowns well if you return to the motherland India what if there are s there's a similar situation in India in India as well. I don't know. I think right now just wait it out. returning to the motherland may not make things much better for you. You may have a similar situation in the motherland as well. So yeah, my my suggestion is please make please do your own due diligence, consult your local experts as to how things may turn out to be and uh consider all the pros and cons, all the risk factors and make your decision after being thoroughly informed and after doing your research thoroughly. All right. All the best. Kedict member Bach says, "What's your opinion on Palm Beach Pete? Is he him?" Okay, I somehow know what you're talking about. I I I somehow know what you're talking about. How is that? Is he him? I I'm a little skeptical. I'm a little skeptical that he is Jeffrey Epstein. Yeah, in case. Let's see. Jeffrey Epstein spotted somewhere right on Palm Beach. Palm Beach Pete. So, yeah, Jeffrey Epstein's doppelganger. Let's go to images. I I don't think it's him. I don't think it's him. It's definitely someone who looks quite similar, but it's most likely a different person. Most likely a different person. Yeah, I I I think it's a different person, but who knows? I may be wrong. Who knows? Okay. IPKS says sir Bobby banita he tried. What happened? He tried what? He tried. I look I have been getting these complaints for a very long time. Uh we want a peaceful experience. So it is what it is. Hershi Jin says I don't think ground troops will find fight anywhere. It's just a display for the world and suddenly we will see a ceasefire and Trump declaring no need for ground invasion even though the US was ready to fight. So you don't think there's going to be a ground invasion? It's possible it's it's all a bluff. It's possible it's a bluff by Trump, right? See, like Sunzu said, you have to mislead and misdirect your enemies. So you never know maybe they they the real objective is something else entirely. So one hopes there'll be a ceasefire soon. I hope so. Yeah I hope so. But we also have to consider the military buildup uh seriously. They are bringing in large numbers of troops now. So we have to and Iran will have to take it very seriously of course. Okay. uh only facts and data says multipolar world first step to type one civilization. So you're talking about uh the Kardashev scale here and on the Kardashev scale a type of civilization is a civilization that that is able to control and harness all the energy and resources on its home planet. A multipolar world is not the first step in that direction. For a kardashev type one civilization, you need a uniolar world with a one world one world government. Only then it'll it'll most likely that's the only condition in which it can happen. Okay. Goro TV says, "Trump's nature is understandable, but why is Sentcom even considering a ground invasion when US's most potent and divisi decisive force, the air power, has already failed to neutralize Iran?" Well, they have their own considerations. They have their own calculations. They have their own analysis, their own logic. Um so we know that air power has failed to neutralize Iran and the objective is to win somehow right? Trump wants to win. So if air power is not working, Trump will say let's try something else. We can't use naval power because we can't cross the street of Hormos. So now let's try a ground invasion. I suppose I don't know what the rational is. I think a ground invasion is is is likely to be suicidal. knowing everything we know about Iran's preparations and Iran's geography and terrain, right? So, uh I think it's it's it's not the right thing to do. I think it's very dangerous for the US. So, I don't know if it's actually going to happen, right? But looks like it's being considered very seriously. For example, for example, we have this message that has gone out. We have this message that has gone out. Um, and I'll not read it all over again, but it looks like the Americans are preparing are preparing the soldiers mentally, the Marines mentally. Yeah. So uh it's still all hypotheticals right now but maybe there are calculations that said that you know maybe the US has a chance to to grab some territory and hold on to it. We'll see. Amirkar says out of topic but finding deep breathing and sudash sudashan kria heal overthinking. So in your experience deep breathing and sudashan kria they heal overthinking. Well, great. Great. uh sudri kria is uh the technique that is used by uh by the disciples of uh shria ravishankar gji right and it is a technique that he has I think invented or or discovered shishi ravishankar gj um and I think it has something to do with breath work right breathing deep breathing in uh control breathing okay so I'm I'm glad it's it's working for you Good Pratip Kumar Roy says, "Why do men from good families even marry nowadays? It's dangerous, demeaning and a lossmaking venture in this feminist anti-Hindu India. Sometimes I feel like the Muslims are right. They are not cowards." Well, I you know, you're supposed to marry, you're supposed to continue your lineage, right? You're supposed to one of the reasons for existing is that you exist because your forefathers procreated and it is a duty that you have to procreate to continue uh your lineage, your civilization, all of that. So that's why I think I I I personally think that everybody should marry but you have to marry carefully. You have to be very careful about who you marry and as individuals you may not be able to make the right choices which is why you need to take the help of family you know and that's called arranged marriage. I think today as long as families are involved, elders in are involved, arranged marriages are way less likely to be dangerous to you than love so-called love marriages. And even then, it's not guaranteed that it'll be fine because these days girls, I don't know what they are being taught, but they feel like it's okay to I don't know, do whatever happens these days. And uh yeah, the laws and everything is is it's all loaded against man men, right? Yeah, but look what happens if you stop marrying or or or the option is you you don't marry but have kids nonetheless. Well, then we are going in the same direction as the west, broken societies, broken families. So the solution to all of this is to clean up the act to to fix our legal system to fix the laws and the laws should be gender neutral, not biased in in favor of a certain gender. The law should not be biased in favor of women or men or men. They should be completely genderneutral. They should be completely impartial. That's what needs to happen. But yes, I understand why young men feel this way. I do understand why they feel this way. And it's it's terrible. Um, Vision says, "You spent a you spent a considerable amount of your childhood abroad. How did you prevent yourself from becoming a version of Aub or Panu? Um, Aayub or Panu? I don't know who Aub is. I may perhaps know who Aub is. I'm not sure and I will not the full name here. And Singh Pano. How did I prevent myself from becoming like that? Look, I was completely westernized when I was abroad. And honestly when I came back to India I wasn't very pleased about coming back to India. Okay as a child as a child but then you grow then you learn then you become more mature. So I don't know how it happened I was very westernized my primary language was French but the way my life went it brought me to where I am today. Okay. I think it was a good thing that happened to me that I spent certain amount of of time certain number of years abroad because I got to see the world at the time as a child and again as an adult I did travel again. So if you travel to various parts of the world you know you understand the world better that's why I I highly recommend to everybody to travel as far as as much as possible depending on how much resources you have. if you have the resources do travel so that you see the world and see see the way people live in other parts of the world. Uh but somehow or the other um I ended up where I am today. I don't yeah I haven't exactly analyzed in depth how I did not become this or that but I'm glad I I I ended up where I am today. Apar says why can't India switch to biogas and save on forex rather than LPG because we have biogas plants like like a cottage industry in some scattered parts of India it's not a full-fledged thing all across India right to have bio gas plants everywhere in India you will have to set up the infrastructure for that which will cost a lot of money and politicians don't like spending money on things they like spending money on freebies setting up a in a pan India bio gas infrastructure it's going to be very expensive but it's going to be a tremendously beneficial long-term investment right India will become completely self-sufficient at least in terms of cooking gas and even India may even have a surplus that it could potentially sell to the countries because we've got 1.4 4 billion people and all the waste that is generated okay not just as a consequence of our digestion but also cooking and all that tremendous amount of biomass is generated so India should switch to that but that's a process that will take about 2 to 5 years to set up the infrastructure everywhere some states may not cooperate and all that that's always the problem in India federalism there are political issues there are logistical issues and so much money to spend instead of giving freebies for votes. Who will do that? So there are these issues. I hope somebody has the visionary leadership to do this. I hope so. Polomial says, "Any suggestions for interesting topics that I need to be researched that need to be researched just like you did for iron invasion theory? Not necessarily just in history but other domains." Oh, I have a bunch of topics in physics that need to be researched. Very big open questions, open problems in physics. Um, what's dark matter? What's dark energy? Do we have the answers? We don't. What's gravity? We don't know the what what gravity is. I mean, we know what Newton said about gravity. That's not entirely correct. We know what Einstein said about gravity. General relativity. The best theory we have. Even that has problems. And then so what is gravity? What is dark matter? What is dark energy? We don't know the we don't know the answers. Big open problems. What is time? What's time? Then outside of physics, what's consciousness? Very very interesting topics we don't we don't have the answers to and I'm sure there's so much more. So if you ask me this question, the first things that come to my to my mind is the the open questions in physics. Uh apart from that, there are many other topics in history and other things I'm I'm sure that are very interesting. Uh but I can't think of those right now. What comes to me off the top of my head is always physics. Okay. Aditya Vashinkar says USA calls India key. Trump Musk Modi talk thoughts. I don't care. I don't care what they say. I only care about their actions. Trump said something nice about India. It doesn't mean we should start celebrating that everything is good in the world. Okay. So Trump Musk Modi had a talk. It it means most likely that there was would have talked about Starlink possibly. Maybe the Americans want a the Indians to operationalize Starlink within India to give Starlink permission to start beaming its signal into India. I don't know. That's a possibility. Why else would Elon Musk be involved? I don't think they would talk about Twitter or X, right? I don't think they'll talk about Grock, Tesla, not really. Most likely it would be about Starlink and about the Americans calling India a key nation. I don't care. I don't need your praise. So uh understand that the India US relationship is very complicated. It is um it's not u we don't have shared interests. We have some shared interest little bit little bit and we don't have shared values and the US is not behaving like a friendly nation towards India. Please understand that. So it's complicated. the the relationship is complicated and difficult. Shirang Shetty says, "Your view, your take on Professor Jang's predictions. I am not aware of his predictions. I don't watch the guy. I'm sure he's very interesting. I'm sure he's brilliant. I've seen a couple of his clips and he does sound like he knows what he's talking about, but I haven't seen his long videos and I have no idea what predictions he's made." I think one prediction he made is that that Iran will win this war against the US. So that is something that I tend to agree with at this point in time that Iran won't be defeated and at the end of the war whenever it happens it's going to be the US that ends up on the non-winning side at least if not the defeated side. So I would agree with that. I don't know about he has something some theory of pax judika or something I hear. I am not aware of what the details of this theory are but I don't know. So uh since I have not watched any of his long videos, I can't really say much about the predictions apart from the Iran winning this war thing. Pratep Kumar Royce says, "I have seen most Hindu men in my previous generations to be mostly cowards without an iota of self-respect because of Bollywood maybe unlike people from other religions. I hope things are changing nowadays." Okay, I not sure why you why you feel that way. If you talk about previous generations, we have Chhatraatishwaji Baharaj, we have Mahana Mahana Pratab Prattab, we have so many Hindu men who fought for our culture, our civilization and gave up their lives for us. But if you're talking about personal experience of people you have seen with your own eyes, well maybe it's the case. I don't know about that. Uh overall we we are still a society that is recovering from roughly 1,000 years of foreign occupation in various parts of India. I'm not saying the whole of the subcontinent was under foreign occupation for thousand years. It was progressively expanding uh foreign occupation and we are suffering from the consequences of that. Even now we haven't decolonized at all. We are a nation today. India is a nation state. We are a nation with PTSD and amnesia together. What is PTSD? PTSD is post-traumatic stress disorder. Our society has taken tremendous trauma. It has suffered tremendous trauma. So when you suffer trauma there is post-traumatic stress disorder PTSD where you have symptoms that you can't explain but which are which are caused by the trauma that you experienced in the past. So India has PTSD but it but India also has amnesia which means it can't remember what happened to it. Why can't we remember what happened to us? Because our education system doesn't teach us that. So we don't know what happened to us and we have these symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. That's why India is a deeply confused, deeply troubled nation and that's why you have these problems in people in in in India where some people maybe like you say exhibit symptoms of cowardice or whatever. So what needs to happen is we have to first of all heal the amnesia by teaching our people the true history of what happened in the past 1,000 years and removing all the lies and distortions about our culture, our civilization, our religion, our history, all of that. That's the first thing first step that needs to be taken. How do you do that? By reforming the education system. That's why I keep saying the education system is the key to everything. And then once we understand what happened, we can start dealing with the stress and the PTSD and then we can start actually addressing the PTSD. So that's what needs to happen. But the government of India doesn't doesn't want to make any of these changes. Polomial says would you bet on acquiring deep knowledge without would you bet on acquiring deep knowledge about mining and refining rare earths and energy cause India will have to do that soon maybe in 20 years. India needs to have done that yesterday. Actually, India has the world's largest reserves of rare earth minerals of rare earth elements. But we don't mine and refine any of that. India needs to start doing this at the earliest, not in the next 20 years, the next 5 to 10 years maximum. And when it comes to energy, yes, we need to discover our own sources of energy. maybe in the andmans wherever if we discover large res reserves in the andmans we're going to have to significantly bulk up our navy to to defend what is ours. So these things need to happen urgently urgently urgently we are running out of time the world is changing very rapidly and now it's very open openly the case that might is right so we need this says Chinese GPS versus Indian Navic GPS which is better the Indian Navic GPS is dead it is not functional anymore and the Indian Navic system when it was functional was was confined only to the subcontinent and slightly beyond the subcontinent. It is not a global system. The Indian Navic, the Chinese BU is a global system. They have a global constellation of geostationary satellites. The Indian Navic GPS system was a local system. Small ambitions for India and now it's no longer functional. So the Chinese system is way way way better. That's a sad truth. Ja Gada says used machine learning media pi and open CV are I 70% more blink 10% more red than left eye okay you used machine learning media pie and open CV and the result is that my right eye is blinking 70% more do eyes blink independently of each other and 10% more red than the left eye. So my right eye is 10% more red than my left eye. 20% more fatigue compared to the last four streams. You can Google those models. See a doctor. All right. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for this diagnosis and I shall Google those models and if required I shall see a doctor. Thank you. Thank you. I really appreciate the concern. Thank you. Pratipar Royce says difference between dark energy and dark matter. Okay, we kind of know what dark matter could be. Dark matter is some it's either some kind of particle or maybe a class of particles. What kind of particle or particles? Particles that interact only gravitationally but not through the electromagnetic or weak interaction. Some dark matter models say that particles could have the weak interaction. But from my perspective, pure dark matter, cold dark matter is uh a particle or a class of particles that interacts only gravitationally. So if a particle does not interact through the electromagnetic interaction, it means it's invisible because light, color, all of this is electromagnetism in action. Photons are the are the um you know the mediator particles of the electromagnetic interaction. Um so dark matter if you if you look at the universe out there you see all the light you know all the all the stars galaxies nebulas all of that that all of that luminous material matter it makes up about 4% of the mass energy of the universe only 4%. 96% of the universe is unknown to us. It's dark. Now about 24 25% of that unknown matter or energy and energy is dark matter. And we know that we know this because we can see this from the rotation curves of galaxies and so on. All most galaxies have big dark matter hallows that we can't see but we can sense them through gravitational interactions. So that is dark matter. That is some kind of unknown particle or class of particles. Unknown particles. Dark energy is even more mysterious. We don't even know what it is. Is it a fluid? Is it a substance? Is it a new force? We don't know. But it accounts for about 70% of the mass energy of the universe. And it seems to be a fluid or a substance or a force that is causing the universe to expand in an accelerating manner. Okay. So dark energy could be a force or a fluid or a substance of some kind. Very mysterious. But dark matter is most likely some class of particle or particles. Okay. Hyphen says the only stream that feels like our stream, not just the creator stream. Thank you for all this free knowledge, sir. Years to come. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. I'm really glad you like it. It's all it's yours because it's driven by you, right? You ask the questions, I answer them as as best I can as as best I can. Sometimes I can't but I try my best. So it's an interaction between us, right? So it's as much yours as as it is mine if not more yours because you set the agenda. I don't set the agenda, right? You ask the questions and that's what drives the streams. So it's all yours actually and you're very welcome. Thank you so much. Karan Ra says your take on broker Pakistan. Won't it get get them relevance? Broker Pakistan. Pakistan is a broker is it? Did somebody say something about broker? Um what's my take on Pakistan? Uh Pakistan is an artificial temporary nation that is whose whose days are numbered. Sooner or later it would break up. That's how I see Pakistan. Uh that's my take on them. I think Dr. J. Shankar called them broker or something dal or something. I don't care about that. Words words. I don't it doesn't matter to me. Uh, Ajinkawa says, "What could be the military applications of quantum mechanics?" Well, let me give you one military application of quantum mechanics. Quantum physics, the nuclear bomb. It's all quantum physics. It's all quantum mechanics, right? So, that's one military application of quantum mechanics. Um, all technologies that we use today are quantum mechanical in nature. See, we are interacting right now. I'm sitting here in this fantastic room. You are sitting wherever you are. And there's so many viewers who are watching this live and so many who will watch it later. How are we communicating? How is this live uh live stream possible? This live telecast possible because of quantum technologies. I'm using a computer of some kind to transmit this. The computer it's microchips. They will not function without quantum without the applications of quantum mechanics. semiconductors, transistors, it's all quantum mechanical in nature, right? I'm using camera to do this. The camera, it's sensors, all of that there, they're also quantum mechanical in nature. So everything, all technologies that we use today are quantum mechan are on the are based on the applications of quantum mechanics and these technologies are used in war as well, military applications, all of them. So Apar Apar thank you very much indeed. Thank thank you. Uh yes Pash says I listen to you when I drive HGV driver Great Britain of today. Thank you. You are very welcome indeed. You're very welcome. Okay. What's an HGV? HGV. Let me just quickly see what is an HGV. Um, HG. HG is Mercury, but there's a V here. What's HGV? Oh, a heavy goods vehicle. Okay. Okay. You are driving a heavy goods vehicle in the UK. Okay. Okay. Got it. Got it. Got it. Well, thank you so much for listening to me. It's a privilege that I have you and other people listening to listening to me and I'm glad that I am able to provide some value. So thank you very much and you are very welcome. Thank you. Rajat says once I intellectually started to realize the difference between pure consciousness and reflected consciousness on mind it changed me completely. So the difference between pure consciousness and reflected consciousness are we talking about ada vidanta here? Yeah. non-duality the atman and the brahman is that what you're talking about yeah so that's a that's of course when we discuss consciousness we are not talking about physics because physics can't define consciousness so we're talking about philosophy spirituality religion all of that so yes yes atman and brahman I I think that's what you're talking about okay jooshi says apparently Indian defense minister set up a meeting dual secret meeting and speculations about something to happen. We shall see. We shall see. All right. Uh okay. Looks like something could be happening if in case this is indeed the what's happened the world secret meeting. So if it's a secret meeting, how how do we know about this? But anyway, looks like look, this is a sensitive time in international affairs in geopolitics and uh our interests are also at stake when it comes to this ongoing war and it's not like we have any shortage of enemies. So maybe something is going on. We'll we'll keep an eye on that. Okay. Apar says should we also include shasta principles in India for civics since reading interesting things after reading the land of seven rivers by Sanjepal. Um the arasha shastra is uh a treaties on economics and state craft and and international relations. Okay. It's not about civic sense. It's not about civics. It's about governance. So it's a manual for kings and emperors and for rulers. Okay. And it still is very relevant. Uh it's it's definitely an interesting book to read, but it's not an easy read. It's it's not easy to read. You have to spend mental effort reading the book. So yeah, I would certainly recommend everybody reads that. Yeah. But it's not something that will make will give people civic sense. It's it's not for that. Pratip Kumar says, "Your views about the land sealing act. None of my friends have ancestry land except me. That two a few acres all come from good good families. Land Sealing Act. I'm not aware of this. Let me see. Land Sealing Act India. Whoa. Land Seeing Act. Okay. The land sealing act in India limits the maximum land holding any individual family can own with surplus land acquired by the government for redistribution to landless farmers to reduce rural inequality. Under 1972 national guidelines, the limit typically ranges from 10 to 10 to 18 acres for premium irrigated land to 27 to 54 acres for dry land. This is this sounds like very socialistic. This sounds very This sounds like something a communist or socialist government would would impose. The ceiling is generally applied to a family of five, husband, wife and minor children rather than an individual. Land exceeding the set set limit is deemed surplus and the government acquires this land and then what do they do with it? They make a royal mess of it. I suppose um I think the motivation is good but the execution implementation may not not be the best. 10 to 18 acres at most. What? What do you What's an acre? Let me just quickly find out what an acre is. Acres to square meters. Or acres. Acres to square meters. So 1 acre is 20 by 20. Okay. 20 by 20 square m. An acre is well that's pretty small then, right? 20 m by 20 m. 2020. two. No, no, no. It's not 20 by 20. That That would be 400. Okay. What is the square root of 408 46? What's the square root of 40 46? 63. It's 63 m on one side. Okay. So, yeah. So, that's not a lot of land. I think they can increase the ceiling at least. Okay. So, I don't have any initial thoughts about this. I haven't I don't know about this act and I haven't ever thought about it. But my first initial reaction is that it sounds something like a something that a socialist or communist government would do. Yeah, that's what it sound like. I have to think I I will have to look it up in detail and study a little more before I I say anything about it. Yeah, that's that's my first initial reaction about this. Okay. HC says, "If ground invasion by the US, do I leave the UAE?" Uh, it's it's see I am probably not the right person to give you advice about this, okay? Because I don't live in the UAE. I I don't have any any skin in the game. I don't have any skin in the game. UAE obviously is a wonderful, very nice place. No question about that. So if there's a ground invasion by the US, what could happen? Iran will fight the ground invasion. But if if if the US is using the UAE and its let's say air bases or whatever as as staging grounds for the invasion, then Iran will most likely hit out at the UAE in that in in that case only. Um so I don't know if the US doesn't use UAE territory for staging the invasion then UAE may not be hit will not be hit by Iran. See Iran has been very very u logical and uh it's been very logical in in its actions and it's been retaliatory in its actions. It's not preempted anything this far. So it's been a very rational actor though so so far it won't unnecessarily you know try to strike at the UAE. So as long as the US doesn't use the UAE as a staging area for the invasion I don't think Iran will hit the UAE. But if the US does use UAE's territory then you can expect uh Iran to target the UAE. So it depends on many factors. I can't really tell you whether we should leave the UAE or not. Overall, the government of the UEE has done a great job of sending those alerts by by text message. Yeah, I hope things things are good for the UAE. But uh I I I am not the right guy to answer this question. I'm not because it depends on so many different factors, right? So yeah, I think you will have to make your own decisions based on your superior understanding of the situation because you are right there. Uh but if this war continues for a long time, I think it makes sense for everybody to at least temporarily at least temporarily leave the leave this region. Okay. So let's say this war hypothetically lasts 6 months or one year. Hypothetically, I hope it ends tomorrow, but hypothetically. So, it's a possibility, isn't it? So, I think it makes sense for people who have the means to move move out that they move out at least temporarily until things settle down. That's what I would do if I was there. I would leave the place temporarily, then return once things are normal. That's what I would do. But I am not there. I'm just speaking in hypothetical. So, I don't have any skin in the game. So please take advice from somebody who has actual skill in the game, not someone like me. Okay. All the best sir. I hope things things become fine soon. Pratip Kumar Roy says Technos J Bharat is asking did European colonial powers miss the historical opportunity to reoccupy the US during the 1861 civil war just like the US colonized Europe along with the USSR after World War II? No. Uh so the US had its civil war in 1861 but none of the European nations at the time had the ability the capability to cross the Atlantic with a big invasion force. Okay. And then mount a proper successful invasion of the US. It was impossible. Impossible. So no they did not miss this historical opportunity. So which were the major European powers at this time 1861? You had the UK. Even the UK with its major Royal Navy and all did not have uh the capability to cross the Atlantic with a major invading force and launch a proper invasion of the US. Even the UK UK did not have that. Who else were the major powers in 1861? Spain wasn't that great anymore, right? Germany was still not unified at the time. It was unified in 18 in 1871. So it was still a decade away from unification. So the only major power great power in Europe at the time was the UK. You had the Habsburg Empire and all the the the AustroHungarian Empire was still was it there at the time? Let's say it was let's say it was AustroHungarian Empire. It's it was not a major maritime power. So I think there was no European power at that time that had the wherewithal and the capability to mount a successful invasion of the US by crossing the Atlantic. It was not possible. Now okay Adita says Trump called Modi on the Iran war. The US sees India as a key regional power. Reports of Mus joining the call denied by India. What do you what do I think? Um what I think is that Trump wants something from us. Okay? Otherwise he will not call Modi. He has a favor to ask or he has some demands to make. That's why he must have called Mr. Modi. Um he said the US says that they see India as a key regional player. Well, thank you for your nice words. We don't give a damn. Okay. We are what we are. I don't care what you see us as. We are what we are. We are a regional player. Yeah. We are a regional power. And why are we a regional power? Why are we not more than a regional power? Because the Americans have this policy of containment. It's containment policy towards India. And so they are not behaving like a friendly nation. So um and reports of Musk joining the call denied by India. So, did somebody claim that Elon Musk joined the call? Uh, let's see what uh social what what this has to say. Did Elon Musk join the call between Trump and Modi recently? The recent call? The recent call between Trump and Modi. So, the New York Times claims that Trump joined in the phone call. Trump Modi conversation says government which government Trump Modi after reports okay the New York Times claimed that Musk was there so what does the New York Times have to say I don't subscribe to these guys so I don't know let's see reject okay payw wall has hit so I can't so the New York Times seems to be claiming that Trump uh so that must join the call. I can't see what what is the rationale for that. What what are what they're saying? What are the details? Um but the government of India has denied the call. So what do I think? I think the Americans So I there are two possibilities. Either Musk was there or Musk wasn't there. If Musk wasn't there, then the Americans are trying to complicate things by claiming Musk was there and they're trying to pressurize India somehow by inserting Musk into the thing. But if Musk was actually there in the American telling the truth that maybe India wants to play a different game and say that Musk wasn't there. So I don't know what exactly happened. Uh but these these are games that are played in geopolitics right but why did Trump call Modi? He probably has some demand to make. I suppose that's why he would have called Modi. Otherwise he won't call. Right. Okay. Sorb says can we tell if an ICBM is nuclear or not once launched? We simply can't tell what package it is carrying. We can't tell. How do we tell? You can't tell that whether a missile is carrying a conventional warhead or a nuclear warhead or no warhead at all. You can't tell. And that's the big issue. You can't. Ob says, "What's your ultimate purpose in life?" My ultimate purpose in life is to live life to the fullest. um experience as much as possible good things right and uh hopefully give more to society than I take from it that I think that's that's enough that's enough for me says good evening ma'am good evening history session next week please you are fantastic thank you so much ma'am I will I have the time to do a ne see there's so much happening I next week I'm planning to do at least three sessions but if I insert a history session there I'm not sure if that is going to be possible I I know that history is important and that's why I do so many of those. But right now the situation is such that I focus on the war. So I'll see if it's possible if if the war you know calms down then I'll insert a history session otherwise in the future. But I really appreciate you ma'am. I really really appreciate the wonderful questions you ask. So we'll do a history session as soon as possible. All right. Okay. Pratib Kumar Roy says why doesn't the government ban all the Christianized Hindu organizations supported funded and founded by Freemasons? Only the government can answer these questions. Uh Freemasons are there I haven't looked into the role of Freemasons in in India so I don't know about the Freemasons but u yeah this is a question I suppose only the government of India can answer. I can't answer on their behalf. Yeah, we obviously should should take actions and measures to to end the foreign interference what whatever form it takes in our country. Yeah. All right. So that is this is the last super chat for the day. Good night everyone. Good night everyone. Thank you so much everybody for the questions. I will call it a day over here. Let's end the live stream at this point. So thank you so much everybody. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep keep learning, keep raising your standards, and I will see you very soon in the next one, which will happen, I'm pretty sure, very soon. Until then, take care. See you soon. Bye-bye.