Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Askab show. This is episode 335 and in today's episode we're going to dis discuss mainly the ongoing and escalating war which is the war uh in in the Middle East the Iran war the um American and Israeli war attack on Iran and the escalating circumstances. So we're going to discuss that. Uh before we do that obviously let me see who all is there on the live chat. I can see a whole lot of people. Good to see you all. I won't be able to greet you all individually. Uh Sam the gamer Manhattan, Sam the gamer, real Vladimir Putin, Soldier Boy, uh Shri Raach, Chandraaya, Namaha, Ritik Pawar, Big Dog, Daksh G, Sam Winston, Ankit Das, Prattard Dana, GGS, H Singh, Noah Wilson, Geopolitical Dubai from Indor. Good evening. Uh who else do we have? Chatanya Manuja. Um who else? Who else? Lots of people. Uh Shiva Sai H Singh, Reika Hlay. Good evening. Jaram, Agam Senpai, Sergeant Skylan, Amisha Mishwa, Adwit Ashwini, Putin, Putin, KM, etc. Uh who else? Rah Rahul is here. Rahul with an interesting surname. Um Black Panther is here. Soldier Boy once again. Adwit Ashwini. Let me see the latest ones. Must nil DH He Samrat Chukl Chira Punjabi GXY Prrenav 581 Pratim Anime Parati Pringa Javalia. Good evening Aayush Singh Pranam Sergi Prag Chawan Jam Ak Shastavast. Hello Himmanu Rajohit Prasan NH Vashish Jri Vishnu okay mlevin good evening commando is here from Iran Samar Pusulkar situ rishiesh pi is here from Bangalore sing arnav rishiesh matri hello akshi shukla what's up terminator 66 bin salman from Saudi Arabia plank cog talk to AI shik sahu karan singh pund omnai Suraj uh Honey Badger of Kolinga. Hello. Ammon Tari Mahita Bushetti. Good evening ma'am. Praguan good evening sir with Rakshit. Hello Kabira Madhav. Uh Nishai Agarwal Vlogs. Swami is here from Swami is here also uh Vijay Vagela Kamcho the tan 5G wise idiot and and so many other people. I won't be able to greet you all individually, but thank you so much for being on this live stream and there's a lot to discuss, a lot to discuss. So, what's happened so far? I mean, I did the last live stream less than 48 hours ago, and so much has happened ever since, right? In the intervening 2-day period. This is the third day of the uh war that we have in the in the Middle East. And a lot has happened. uh the war has expanded, it has escalated and India has picked a side very clearly. India has picked a side. Now, why do I say that India has picked a side? Well, let's take a look at uh uh the Twitter account of our Prime Minister, Mr. Modi, right? Let's see what Mr. Modi has had to say about the ongoing conflict. Um what's the best way to put this? Is this better? Is this better? I think this is okay. Let's let's do it this way. So, what has Prime Minister Modi said thus far about this war? There's a whole lot of activity on his Twitter account of of course. Um, a lot of political uh tweets of course that that is going to be there. Uh, but yeah, let's go up and see his tweets about the ongoing conflict. So, this is 20 hours ago. Spoke with the president of the UAE, my brother Shikh Muhammad bin Z al- Nahan. strongly condemned the attacks on the UAE and condoled the loss of lives in these attacks. India stands in solidarity with the UAE in these difficult times. Thanking thanked him for taking care of the Indian community living in the UAE. We support the escalation regional peace, security and stability. So the UAE is a very strong partner of India's of of course we know that lots of Indians live there about 40% of UAE's population is of Indian origin and so on. So and India has excellent relations with the UAE. So this obviously makes sense that this this tweet of course, right? Okay. So so that's about the UAE. Now we have a tweet in um Arabic. Uh this is about the the same tweet in in Arabic about the UAE. Then then Mr. Modi had a telephone call with Israel's Prime Minister Mr. Netanyahu to discuss the current regional situation conveyed India's concerns about over recent developments and emphasized the safety of citizens civilians as a priority. India reiterates the need for an early sessation of hostilities. Okay. So that's about Mr. Netanyahu with the same tweet in Hebrew. Uh what else do we have afterwards? Uh now we have a tweet about uh Bahrain had a productive telephone conversation with the king of Bahrain. His majesty king Hammad bin Isa al- Khalifa. India condemns the attack on Bahrain, obviously the attacks by Iran on Bahrain and stands in solidarity with Bahrain's people in this difficult hour. I thank him for the steadfast support extended to the Indian community in Bahrain. U so India condemns the attacks by Iran on Bahrain. Then it's about Saudi Arabia. Discuss the evolving situation in West Asia with Crown Prince and Prime Minister of Saudi Arabia. His Royal High Prince Muhammad bin Salman. India condemns the recent attacks in Saudi Arabia in violation of its sovereignty and territorial integrity. We agreed that the earliest restoration of regional peace and stability is of utmost importance. I thanked him for looking after the well-being of the Indian community in these difficult times. So again, Prime Minister Modi speaks with the the leader of Saudi Arabia and condemns once again the recent attacks by Iran on Saudi Arabia. So India condemns the attacks on by Iran on Saudi Arabia, by Iran on on Bahrain and um the attacks by Iran on the UAE. Right? So Iran is not mentioned by name but it's obvious that Prime Minister Modi is speaking about Iran and no other nation. The attacks by Iran on these nations. Okay. Uh now it's this this is the imp interesting part. If you look at uh the Twitter account of the prime minister of Pakistan, Mr. Shahbaz Sharif, you will see that he put out this tweet uh on the 1st of March, yesterday, early uh no e early evening, the government and the people of Pakistan joined the people of Iran in their hour of grief and sorrow and extend the most sincere condolences on the martyrdom of his eminence ali. Pakistan also concern expresses concern about the violation of the norms of international law because the attack on a sovereign nation is a violation of international law. The attack by Israel and the US. It is an age-old convention that the heads of that heads of state and government should not be targeted. Absolutely. That's correct. We pray for the departed soul and so on. Right. Um Iranian people to bear this irreparable loss. So, Prime Minister Sharif of Pakistan offered condolences to the people of Iran on the assassination of Mr. of of the of the Supreme Leader of Iran say Ali Kabi. It is really interesting that Prime Minister Modi made no such statement of condolence of or or even taking note of the assassination uh of uh Mr. Kame. So, what does this indicate? This indicates that India has chosen what side it is on. India has decided that we are on the side of the US and Israel and the and their allies in West Asia and uh we are going to condemn the actions by Iran which uh obviously as we know the actions by Iran are in response to the attacks on Iran. The actions by Iran are in response to what happened on the first day which is the assassination of Mr. common a whether it's right or wrong is a different matter but this is what happened this is how the war started by the Israeli and then US attacks on Iran and the assassination of the head of state essentially the head of state the supreme leader of Iran right and India has had a pretty good relationship with Iran until the last few months until the last few weeks actually right but now India has decided that we're going to stand with the US Israel and their allies in West Asia and we are not standing with Iran. We're not going to condol the assassination of the supreme leader and so on. So let's understand one thing very clearly. India's decision is a practical decision. It is not an ideological decision. India has decided to stand with the US, Israel, Israel and the other nations for practical reasons not for ideological reasons. It's not about who is right, who's wrong. We all know who's right, who's wrong. And that is up to you to decide who's right and who's wrong. But uh we know what international law is. We know that international law doesn't allow the violation of a nation's sovereignty. Uh international law doesn't allow the assassination of the leader of a nation and so on. But India has chosen to disregard that. India has chosen to be on the side of Israel, Iran, uh Israel, US and the other nations that are allied with them for practical reasons. Right. So that's where we stand and a whole lot has happened beyond that in the past 48 or so hours. So what's happened in the last 24 hours? Let me just take a look. Uh US and Israeli strikes on Iran continued at high intensity. Okay. Further attacks on missile infrastructure and air bases. At least one Iranian warship, probably multiple Iranian warships. And Iran kept up its missile strikes and drone strikes on Israel and a number of other nations in the Gulf region in the West Asia region. in the Persian Gulf region, all the nations that that host US military uh personnel or US military infrastructure on their territory, right? Um Hezbollah has also gotten involved in the matter. Hisbah has launched uh rocket attacks on northern Israel. That's what one hears. Okay. One hears that a number of American fighter planes have been brought down, have been shot down um in Kuwait. Now, if you look at the uh map of Kuwait, let's let's go to the map, shall we? If you look at the map of Kuwait, it's right. I mean, Kuwait is this tiny little nation which borders Iraq and Iran. Okay, West Kuwait. Kuwait is here and it essentially borders uh three nations, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Iran. No direct connection with Iran, no direct border, but it's you could say a border nation with Iran. I mean, it's it's right next door to Iran. So at least three F15 fighter planes of the United States have been brought down have been shot down in Kuwaiti territory or maybe along the Kuwait Iran boundary border almost border right and one hears that this was a friendly fire incident maybe mistaken identity maybe Kuwait was was shooting at uh drones or missiles fired by Iran and maybe that's how they ended up shooting down American fighter planes but that remains to be seen some US personnel have also been killed. U warships have been sunk. At least nine naval vessels have been sunk. Iranian naval vessels from here there are there were reports that an American aircraft carrier has been targeted with ballistic missiles by Iran. Right. So all that is happening. Um and Iran has targeted at least one Saudi oil installation that belongs to Aramco, the big Saudi company. And there's maybe the uh drones or missiles were brought down but there's been a big fire there and that's why the operations have stopped over in that uh refinery. Even Oman was hit by Iran. Duke port in Iran was hit by Iranian uh drones, Shahed drones possibly uh and there's been some damage there which is interesting because Oman does not host any American military installations or uh as far as I know American military personnel right uh that is what's going on and this war continues it's it's obviously expanding uh Dubai has been targeted uh lots and lots of bombardment missile attacks on on Isl Abu Dhabi was targeted. Uh Dubai the the big hotel what the Bourj al Arab was targeted and so much more. Right? So this is an ongoing situation. Uh what we are seeing is that Iran has pretty sophisticated missiles, pretty sophisticated ballistic missiles. Uh let me try and find uh find the report. Give me a second. Let me find I mean what exactly Iran's ballistic missile capabilities are like. They they have made pretty interesting improvements in their ballistic missiles. Let me give you a second. Let me give Please give me a second and I'll show you what's happening. Do I have it? Give me a second. Obviously, I'm going to have to rely on Twitter because uh Twitter has Yeah. Okay. So, take take a look at this. Okay. Take a look at this. Um, so Iran its ballistic missiles once they reenter the atmosphere and they they come to an altitude of of about 10 kilometers or something in the terminal phase what happens is that the Iranian ballistic missiles are releasing a swarm of about 25 penetration aids that whose objective is to confuse the air defenses. So when you have a Patriot missile or iron dome missile going up to intercept this ballistic missile, this ballistic missile at at whatever altitude suddenly releases a whole swarm of about 25 penetration aids that that behave just like that have the same temperature and profile as the ballistic missile itself. So they are hot glowing uh objects that essentially mimic uh from from an interceptor's perspective a ballistic missile and that what it is doing is that it's confusing the interceptors the Patriot missiles and the iron dome missiles and that's why these these Iranian ballistic missiles are able to successfully in many cases hit their targets and after these penetration aids are deployed the swarm is deployed the uh ballistic missile as warhead suddenly acquires hypersonic velocity in the last 10 km or so. So, its speed suddenly shoots up and then it slams into the target. So, Iran has pretty sophisticated capabilities and it's causing a lot of trouble, you know, it's causing a lot of trouble uh for Israel and and the American uh missile defense systems, the Iron Dome and so on. So, there's been a apparently a lot of damage in Israel and that situation is ongoing. Iran has also decentralized its military command. So Iran how many let's see how many provinces does Iran have? Let's let's quickly take a look at how many provinces Iran has. Um how many pro must be about 30 does Iran have? Must be 30 provinces. 31 provinces. So each province is now going to have its own IRGC command. Okay? And they will all act independently the the revolutionary guards command. So each province will have its own army, its own command and control infrastructure, its own missiles, everything. And they're going to act completely independent independent of each other. So even if the Iranian high command is completely decimated, decapitated, taken out, Iran keeps fighting. Even if Iran is defeated at the center at Thran and let's say American or Israeli forces are coming in, Iran will now fight from 31 different angles, 31 different independent armies. So even if Iran is defeated, this can go this can this can cause a multiple year year-long insurgency that will fight the occult occupiers or attempted occupation uh attempts of Iran. So Iran has clearly thought this out and they seem to have very very large stockpiles of missiles and drones. Okay, the Shahed drones, loitering drones and all. And the thing is this um these systems like the Iron Dome missile system, the Patriot missile system which are air defense systems which intercept missiles. Each missile of these each each interceptor missile costs more than a million dollars. But these shahed drones, they cost $20,000. So the the economics doesn't make sense to bring down a $20,000 drone. They're going to have to spend, you know, you're going to have to waste at least one missile that's at least a that cost at least a million dollars. So Iran may have very very large quantities of these drones and this could cause a rapid depletion of the stocks of Iron Dome and Patriot missiles. Then what do you do once you run out of these missiles? Then you are setting targets. So yeah, I mean Iran has really really thought this through. And I'm sure that they still have many tricks up their sleeves. Now what is going in favor of the US? Every time the Iranians launch missiles, the American uh surveillance system, the satellites and whatever else they can hopefully from their perspective start detecting where the launches are happening from. So if these are silos in the ground, they can be taken out. If these are transporter erector launcher vehicles, it'll it's harder to take these out. So the Americans and Israelis will soon start identifying where the launches are happening from and try and take those launchers out. So it's a game of cat and mouse that we are seeing right now. And right now Iran is doing a pretty good job actually of defending itself and actually um attacking uh the various targets that they have in mind. So that is the situation. It's it's uh nobody's winning or losing the war. Iran is doing a good job defending itself. Iran has been attacked, right? Iran did not start the attack. So, you could say that Iran is defending itself. It's doing a pretty good job thus far, but it's very early days in the war. Um, if this goes on for let's say a week, then the uh stocks of defensive missiles like the Iron Dome and so on may start running out. And then what does the US do? What does Israel do? Does the US ask for a ceasefire? That will be humiliating for the US. But will Iran last a week also? That's also a question. So in 7 days time, will Iran be still be fighting? If it is still fighting, then it's advantage Iran because the stocks of defensive missiles will will definitely get depleted or start getting depleted depleted by the time. If that happens, what does Trump do? Trump will not tolerate any humiliation. Will he resort to more powerful measures? What kind of powerful measures are we talking about? Well, there are all kinds of powerful measures, including nuclear weapons, but if Iran is decentralized and it has 31 different armies fighting, how many nukes can you could you possibly use? Right? So, the situation, it's not a cakewalk for the US and Israel. It's pretty hard. Iran is showing up a real fight. It's it's giving a real fight, right? So for us outside of this entire thing as for us as neut neutral observers what does this all mean? Well you know the straight of hormones is closed for the first time in history. What's the straight of hormones? Let's let's go to the map. The straight of hormones the Iranians have closed it. Okay. No ship can pass through without getting targeted by Iran. This here this geographic choke point is the straight of hormones and much of the oil that's that comes to India and China and Japan passes through this choke point. This is currently closed. So India is now not getting oil any oil that was flowing into India from the UAE or Saudi Arabia or Kuwait or whatever Iraq or wherever. And the same goes for China. India has strategic oil reserves. China also has strategic oil reserves. But this is a huge issue for India. China and Japan. So, India seems to have restarted its Russian oil deliveries. Yeah. Okay. And China also has access to Russian oil. But u very soon there's going to be if this continues there's going to be a oil shock in the world. Oil prices will shoot up massively and because of that the prices of your tomatoes and onions and everything will shoot up very very massively if if this goes on the next 7 days for for 7 days, 10 days or whatever. So that's an immediate impact for India, for China, for Japan, for Pakistan, whoever else. Uh, and also the Iranians are alleging that the Pakistanis allowed American aircraft to use Pakistani airspace for attacks on Iran. So Iran could potentially target Pakistan now. Yeah. So this is escalating. This is escalating. Iran is is not being defeated as of now. Iran is fighting and there are serious questions as to how long the US can keep keep this up and also how long Iran can survive right it's not like Iran is winning Iran is holding its ground right now but how long can it hold its ground and if it holds its ground for a significant amount of time then what can the US in Israel do right so big questions up in the air right now we don't have answers we'll have to wait and watch day by day how this goes so that is the situation in brief. Now let's see let's take questions shall we? Black Panther says today evening US secretary of state war the secretary of war press briefing this war is not for Iran regime change operation. What is the reason the US has changed its position? Right. So when the war started President Trump said that we are this was all about regime change. Prime Minister Natanyahu also said that we we want to defeat Iran and change the regime. Right? That's they did not use those exact words but that was the meaning that was the meaning of their statements regime change in Iran clearly unambiguously regime change in Iran. Now it looks like there is a different there's something else coming from the US. So I haven't seen this press briefing but if if it is true that they're now saying it's not for regime then what is it all about? What is it all about? Right? If you don't change the regime, then why did you launch this war? You want to defeat Iran militarily and then continue the regime to to go on. Is that what you want? But then why did you say in the beginning it was regime change? So why has the US changed its position? Because maybe they have recalibrated this their their expectations based on how the war has gone thus far. Right? Iran has not been ruled over. Iran is fighting back very hard actually as of now at least. So maybe that's a one of the reasons why this statement may have come out of the US. Next question. Akam Senai says almost 50% of India's oil passes via the straight of hormones. Why are some Indian geo experts celebrating USIsrael strikes which risks India's oil supply next funded internal conflicts among us? Look, I don't know why Indian geopolitical experts say this or say that or why they say what they do. I I can't possibly comment about why they say what they do. What they say I don't know why do some Indians why are some Indians I mean there are plenty of Indians on social media who are celebrating uh the US and Israel strikes on Iran. See for us we are not involved in this matter right so ideally Indians should be neutral about this. Um but yeah I don't I can't possibly give you an answer about why are some Indians celebrating this. This is obviously the longer this war lasts, the more hardship India will face because all oil oil prices rise up. Oil prices will rise significantly if this war continues. If the straight of hormones remains closed uh for a week, 10 days, 2 weeks, it's going to be bad for India and many other countries including China. So I don't know Indians are emotional people and I don't know if how Yeah. So I I can't say I can't tell you why they are celebrating. Yeah, Sergeant Skylon says, "Is IMECH just a pipe dream? India, Middle East, Europe trade corridor?" That's IMC. So, what is this thing and what is it like? So, the idea of IMC is that let's say we have ports in Western India like Mumbai for example. Okay. From there, we can um you can we can we can connect with the Arabian Peninsula maybe via Oman, via UAE or wherever. Then we can send goods into the Arabian Peninsula. They will build railways and other other infrastructure to have the goods cross the Arabian Peninsula. Then you can enter Israel via Jordan or wherever. And from Israel in Israel we have Hifa port which we are operating which the Adani group is operating at least some terminals are being operated by the Adani group. So from Hifa we can have more ships going in into perhaps Cyprus or and Greece right the port of roads and other other ports in Greece. And from there we can connect to Europe. So it can be a back and forth kind of trade corridor and which will be beneficial for India, for uh the Arabian nations, for Israel and for the European nations, right? Because this will enable more trade at at cheaper uh costs. It'll be cheaper. So that's the idea of IMC. Is it a pipe dream? Well, when West Asia is so unstable. So when was the concept of IMC put put forth? it it uh was spoken about first if I recall correctly during the 2023 uh G20 summit in India in in Delhi right uh in the last quarter of 2023 uh and immediately after that we had the Hamas attack on Israel which completely destabilized the region and IMAC could not take off at the time the Saudis wanted it to start immediately um so yeah you had the Gaza situation which went on for a long time then the Houthi situation um Babal Mandr was closed for a while and so on. So uh that's why no uh progress could be made on building the infrastructure and now you have this war in the region which obviously means you can't build any infrastructure there at the time. So as long as the Middle East remains conflict prone and unstable IMAC is going to rem remain a pipe dream. If the West Asia region can be stabilized so that there is no more no more war, no more conflict, then IMAC can possibly take off. Until then, it is a pipe dream. Putin says, "Can Iran turn into America's Ukraine if it sends troops?" Well, the question is, if the US sends troops into Iran, you know, boots on the ground, can Iran turn into America's Ukraine? It depends on multiple factors. The Iranians have decentralized their armed, you know, their military command and now you have 31 different armies fighting independently. That can significantly cause significant problems to any invading forces, right? Significant problems because it's not as easy as taking out the command and control the the leadership. You have 31 different sets of leadership and they will all have their fallback options each of them. So, it's going to be very difficult. Secondly, who how long can Iran keep fighting? If it if nobody supplies it with more arms and ammunition. So that is also a factor. If Russia decides to supply Iran with arms and ammunition, then well then Iran can possibly keep fighting for a long time. So this is going to be very tricky, very dicey for any invading forces. Iran's going to fight. I mean we we you had this horrible incident of of this of an attack on an Iranian Iranian school in which hundreds of school girls were killed. Even if Iranians don't support the regime of the Ayatollas, this sort of thing is going to unify the Iranian nation, the people of Iran, right? So it's not going to be easy. The the common citizens may may fight if required. I think the objective of the US is to balkcanize Iran actually because in Iran only 50% of the population is Persian. The rest are various other ethnicities like Azarbaijanis and Arabs and balois and whatnot. So I think the objective is to balkcanize Iran. Actually balkcanization is a favorite strategy of the west. Division, partition, balcanization, all of that. So maybe that's an objective but it's going to be tough. Omisha says arresting eliminating leaders is the new normal now. Nationalists are saying it's better to side with Israel. Iran is also retaliating. Is Iran capable of a long war? So first of all, yes, uh international law apparently no longer exists. Uh you can now assassinate world leaders. You can you can arrest and kidnap world leaders. That's what the US is doing now. They kidnapped Mr. Maduru, the president of Venezuela. And now they have assassinated Mr. Kabi the elderly uh supreme commander supreme leader of Iran. So it's it's it's perfectly fine if the US does it or if you are a US ally who does it. Yeah. So see look what is now happening in the world. It actually is the world defaulting to to normal. The world reverting to normal. No more nicities. Power is going to be shown and flaunted and used openly. Whoever is powerful can do what they want. Whoever is weak they they have to tolerate whatever happens and that's how the world has always been. The past 70 80 years was kind of an anomaly an aberration and we are reverting to a world where might is right. Might was still right in the past 80 years but it was done in a very subtle way. Now it's just open. Uh yeah nationalists are saying it's better to side with Israel. Well I don't know. I would say look from India's perspective we should remain neutral about this. um we should not take this side or that side. But we have taken sides. Now the prime minister of India has clearly uh made a decision then we're going to side with Israel and the US and uh their allies in West Asia. So yeah. So if nationalists are saying it's better to side with Israel then the prime minister clearly agrees with them. Uh and Iran is retaliating is it capable capable of a long war? Well time will tell but it I think it is capable of a long war. Black Panther says Russia Ukraine war under the Biden. They refused to talk with Putin. Trump came power deal is on. Putin delay reason. US put more pressure on India. Modi got played. I'm Yeah. Russia Ukan war went on. Yeah. Okay. Under Biden they refused. The US refused to talk with Putin. Yeah. True. Trump came. Power deal is on. Power deal. Which power deal? Trump met with Putin and uh he tried to Trump wanted an immediate end to the war. That's obviously not going not that obviously did not happen. Putin delay reason India put more pressure on India. Putin delayed agreement that's why US is putting more pressure on India. Putin's job primary job is to take care of his nation and his national interest. His job is not to worry about what happens to Modi or India. Right? Putin's first and only responsibility is to look out for Russia's national interest. You can't blame Putin for delaying if the Americans say that sign a lopsided agreement. Why should Putin sign it? Right? Why should Putin give America what it wants on America's terms? Right? So yeah, Modi got played. No, Modi has not got played. India isn't powerful enough to to to remain neutral in in this matter. Modi has not got played. Adi Pradhan says views on Mexico conflict US involvement. So it's an old story in Mexico in in South America in in in Central and South America. It's an old story. These cartels and all that's been going on forever forever forever. The Americans have launched multiple wars on on drugs but they remain the primary consumer of all drugs produced in the world. For example, I can show you something you know something that happened when I was a kid. Okay? When I was a kid, this is what happened. See, operation Condor, okay, it was u a campaign of political repression by right-wing dictatorship of the southern co of South America. Uh politic in Pino etc. was about drugs, wasn't it? If I remember correctly, drugs. Well, it has no mention of drugs, but this was about drugs. Anyhow, so the Americans have been fighting wars on drugs against cartels and all for a very long time. Uh but the cartels still keep supplying America with drugs and right now we have this conflict that's happened in Mexico. A cartel leader got killed and the cartel went after the government and so on. Is there US involvement? I suppose whatever happens in the Americas there is some level of US involvement in that. Prattana says uh I have seen the divine justice a few years ago. a female politician was sidelined by her own party due to Arabs also caused riots and killings. Um I'm I'm not sure who you're referring to. In which country you're talking about India, you're talking about somebody else? Some other country? Um due to Arabs? I have no idea what you're talking about unfortunately. I'm not getting the context. Is it is it a female politician in India or some other country? Not sure. Sorry Ankit Das. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. Ritik Paw says, "If India becomes an American vasal, shouldn't we blame the government? Even weak weaker governments in the past did not bow down. Why should we tolerate it this time for any reason? If India becomes an American vasal, who is to blame?" The government of India is to blame clearly. See, in the past, we had weaker governments. Sure, let's say in the 20th century, we had much weaker governments. India was a much weaker nation at the time. But in the 20th century, there was a balance in the world. You had not one superpower. You had two superpowers. So you could play one against off against the other. That's what you could do in the 20th century. Today the world is lopsided. There's only one superpower. There's nobody who can stand up to America's might. And that's why if the Americans ask us to make us make a choice, we have to make a choice. Now the in and in that scenario what what how can we blame the government of India? India India is simply not powerful enough. But the truth is if we had put our house in order in the past 10 12 15 years India may possibly have been in a situation where we could stand up for ourselves and not become anybody's vasal. If we had for example uh cleaned up the uh military acquirement processes of of weapons systems and all and if we had focused fullfledged or full force on indigenization of of defense equipment and if we had acquired somehow or the other 200 more fighter planes instead of instead of 36 and if we had ensured that we have indigenous AI systems that are being built and if we if we had ensured that we are not penetrated by foreign social media and AI and technology and all that if we had done all those things if we had set up a a highquality R&D environment which needs educational reforms and all that if we had done all those all those things in the past 15 years then we would not possibly perhaps be in a situation where we have to accept American uh overlordship over India. So from that perspective we should blame the government. Yes. But if you forget what's happened in the past 15 years and look at India's position today, then India is simply not strong enough and that's why the government of India today has no choice. Wishnav, thank you very much sir. Adi Pradhan says view on recent Indian noam. I have no idea. I've not looked into no times but let's take a look at it. Okay. Uh India uh India come on India no time. Do we have any notam? No time summaries 350 Mumbai airport stops flight de d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dions. Uh I'm not sure what the not time is. Is it about the India diverting flights etc because of the situation in West Asia? Well, that makes complete logical sense, right? So I'm not sure if there's any notam related to missile tests or whatever. But if this is the note I'm taking into consideration the situation in West Asia, well that makes complete logical sense. All right. KRS N Krishna is singularity has become a new member. Thank you so much sir. Thank you so much. Welcome to the channel's membership. Batarana says India votes against the US in and Israel in the UN. Why? Well, it depends on the issue. India's support to various issues or or various voting situations is issue based. So I am sure there are many uh cases in which India votes on the side of the US and Israel also right. Um so it depends on the issue that we're voting about that is being voted for or against. Um it's not like India has a pattern of always voting against the US and Israel in the UN. That's not the case. There are lots of UN votes in which India has been has voted on the side of the US and Israel. So it depends on the specific uh issue that is being voted for. Yeah. Mr. Rohit says why Russia doesn't did not share nukes with Iran like the US does. The US does not share nukes with anybody whatsoever. The US doesn't share nukes with anybody, but it does place nukes on other nations territory. Uh let's let's see. Okay. Yeah, that's a good question. It's a good question for conceptual understanding. Um, in which nations um has the the US deployed deployed nuclear weapons. It's going to be mostly uh NATO nations. So let's see five NATO nations. Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Turkey. So the US deploys its own nuclear weapons in a bunch of countries. Five they are typically members of NATO. NATO nations are not sovereign nations. They are nations that are essentially whose military and whose fate is controlled by the US. So the US deploys American nuclear weapons on those nations territories and those American nuclear weapons are only controlled by American personnel not by the personnel of those nations Belgium, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Turkey. No Belgian personnel has access have access to American nuclear weapons. No Turkish personnel have access to American nuclear weapons. They can't I suppose they don't even get to see the nuclear weapons. The it is American military personnel and technical personnel who have the custodianship of those American nuclear weapons. America doesn't share nuclear weapons with anybody whatsoever. Okay, that is something we have to understand. Nuclear technology, nuclear weapons are not to be shared. It's it's too sensitive and it's too critical and that's why Russia has not done that with with Iran. Krishna singularity says Jam thank you very much Jam to you indeed. I've been a student of yours since 2020. You have inspired my way of thinking greatly. Thank you for everything do you you do. Thank you so much sir. Such a nice such a nice thing to say. Thank you so much. I'm glad that you have learned something. Hopefully it's more than something from me. I'm I'm very glad. You are most welcome indeed sir. Thank you. Anu Jan says in the last two days we saw in Iran's hypersonic missiles could not be stopped by Israel in the USA. Why are they not hitting the USS Abraham Lincoln by these missiles? You don't you don't do everything on day one. Right. You don't do that on day one. You don't show all your cards on day one. Let me give you an example another example of what Iran hasn't done thus far. Okay. I am not suggesting this should be done. I'm just saying this is another thing Iran has not done this far. Okay, let's go to the map. I am by please don't misconstrue what I'm saying over here that I am suggesting Iran should do this. I am not suggesting anything. I'm just saying I'm giving you another example of what Iran has not done. Let's go to Israel, the nation of Israel. Okay. Now let's go to um satellite image imagery. So we have Israel. Now we have the city of the town of Beer Shiva. Okay. Near the s the town of Ber Shiva Shiva we have Dimona and near Dimona we have this pretty clearly visible installation is it? No this is not the one. Uh where is it? It's going to be very clearly visible. Oh here we are the negative desert. The negative nuclear research center. Okay. Okay. And we have nuclear reactors over here. And this is allegedly this is allegedly where Israel's nuclear weapons are produced and so on. We don't know whether they are stockpiled whatever. My point is see I'm not suggesting that I'm not suggesting for one second that Iran should target this. My point is this is another you know potential target Iran has. Right? So there are aircraft carriers, there are nuclear installations, there are many other targets that Iran could possibly potentially want to choose, but Iran won't do it on day one. Depends on how serious the situation is. So depending on the seriousness and severity of the challenge and that Iran is facing, depending on that Iran will take decisions. So if Iran is in very bad situation in in let's say x number of days then they may decide to hit such targets right and the Israelis would have kept separate missiles to defend these sites obviously. So this is the way war is done right Iran will not hit everything on day one. Iran obviously will be hoping that the Americans and Israelis will ask for a ceasefire sometime soon. They'll be hoping for it. See, if Iran hits an aircraft carrier, then that's a humiliation for the US. And then Trump has no choice but to go allin. Iran doesn't want a situation where Trump has to go all in and all out against them, which means destruction of Iran. The US can destroy Iran actually. Right. And if they hit a nuclear power plant or or nuclear research station of Israel, then Israel may use certain weapons it would otherwise not use. So that's the point. Escalation is done step by step gradually. You don't go from 0.1 to 100 straight away. That's the point. I am Anonymous says remember the statement of Ajit Dwal's statement on revenge. That was the biggest clue which we all missed. What was the statement? I I'm not aware of Ajit Dwal's statement on revenge. Uh let me see if I can find out. Okay. Uh Ajit Dwal's statement on revenge. Ajit Ajit Dwal's statement on revenge. Oh, I can do that. That's fantastic. Um January 2026, he urged youth to avenge our history to build a stronger India. A powerful force for nation building and revenge for history. Okay, I'm not sure what u is the clue for what we all missed. Uh maybe I'm not looking looking at the correct statement. Maybe it was a statement made five years ago. I don't know. Uh but I'm not sure what the context is. If you can give me the statement, then maybe I can get more context. All right. Uh Han Sharma as always wants to remind me about the movie Tumbad. Right now I'm not in a position to watch Tumb. I'm looking at what's happening in West Asia. But yes, too bad Shik Hami G passed away without watching Tumbad. Okay. Okay. Okay. Banticor says, "Do not despair, sir. Even if we are aligned, it doesn't mean vaselization. Our country will change. Our civilization will not fall or be erased. It's evolving as it always has. The deas isolation will reverse in due time. An anonymous G, thank you very much for this very positive message. I agree with you. We should not despair. You know, we should always be positive. We should always be optimistic. while being positive and optimistic, we should work towards making India better and stronger as a nation and also civilizationally. So I I thank you for this very positive statement and I completely agree with you sir. Uh Putin etc says do you miss the USSR? Would the US have dared to do this if they were still there? Unfortunately Russia stuck with Putin and his Jewish oligarchs with Israeli citizenship. Okay, I'm not aware of Jewish oligarchs and Israeli citizenship and all. Russia has put in. Look, do I miss the USSR? Not necessarily. Look, when I was a kid, I was scared of the USSR because I was completely influenced by whatever I read in English and by I'd spend spent a few years as a kid in the West and so and so on. So, my entire world view was shaped by the West and I was as a as a kid I was scared of the USSR. Uh, today I see the USSR very differently. Of course, right? Because I'm no longer a 80-year-old. I see it very differently. Do I miss it? No, it's gone. What's the point of missing what's gone? What's the point of be of wishful thinking and all? I don't miss the USSR. It's gone. It's just a fact of life. Uh, would the US have dared to do this if the USSR was still around? No. No way. No way. Yeah, it wouldn't have happened if the USSR was still uh in existence. Vidya Manar says, "Iran is fighting openly. How is it non-s sovereign?" Ma'am, that's a very very good question. Iran is fighting openly. Iran is fighting without the support of anybody else without any substantial support from either Russia or China. So the So Vidi is asking how is then Iran non-s sovereign. Right? Here's my answer to you ma'am. Here's my answer. Take a look. So this is a tweet by me from about an hour and a half ago, right? This is the the what you are if you are a viewer of this channel, you would have known this for years. The Chavda sovereignty framework since 2021. There are only six sovereign nations on earth. The US, Russia, China, India, Israel, and Iran. Every other nation exists as a semi- sovereign state or a geopolitical vasal. So Iran is fighting for survival without Chinese or Russian support. Therefore Iran is the newest addition to the list. If you want this graphic, if you want this image, simply go to my Twitter profile, you will find it there. So I have added, see this is an evolving framework. It evolves depending on the situation. Okay? If Iran loses this war in let's say a month's time then I will again remove Iran from this. Until now I had not put Iran there because Iran was significantly dependent on Russia and China for a variety of things. But right now today at this very hour Iran is fighting without anyone's support right it's fighting for its survival. It's fighting for its sovereignty. As of today as of right now at least Iran is a fully sovereign nation. So there are six fully sovereign nations in the world. And I will have to revisit each nation and see once again in a while whether they deserve to be fully sovereign out of those six how many actually deserve to be there. We will see maybe in a week's time maybe in a month's time I will revisit that. Maybe the number will change. Maybe the number may go down to four perhaps. Yeah. But it's a very very timely question you are asking Vidi and you are right. Kashi says sucks India align with imperialists but what to do? Well, when you are weak, you have no choice. When you are weak, you have to make pragmatic practical choices. The best best choice you can make given the circumstances and given the options that you have. It sucks. It sucks. Ideally, we would like to be completely neutral and not aligned with anybody. But when you are in a position of weakness, this is what happens to you. The biggest sin in geopolitics is weakness. Aris manticor says and it's because of people like you. This generation will not sleep upon our history nor will my children either. The government of India will change slowly in a most infur infuriating manner but it will not surrender. One hope so and thank yeah one hope so. One hopes so I'm pretty sure the government of India will not surrender. The change may happen very slowly perhaps as it tends to do uh in post 1947 India slow motion change yeah but I don't think the government of India will surrender so I agree with you there and thank you so much for for your very kind words thank you so much Junat says do you think if Iran had played its cards better since the '9s or at least by the early 2000s by avoiding unnecessary regional antagonism situation today might have been very different. See, Iran has simply um responded to the evolving situation in its region. Okay. After the end of the first cold war, Iran slowly found itself being surrounded, being encircled by American military bases and installations and presence in its vicinity. Another thing that happened was that even during the first cold war in the 20th century, the United States used Iraq as a stick to beat Iran with in a very bloody way. in a in a very damaging way. So Iran and Iran has this had had this enemity with the US since 1979. So Iran was very clear and very pragmatic about who its enemies were and the US obviously surrounded and encircled Iran. So Iran also went ahead and played the geopolitical game of power projection. It cultivated uh allies or what what they call proxies in its surrounding region. Which allies did it have? Let's go to the map. Okay. Uh which proxies did or allies did Iran cultivate? Iran cultivated proxies such as the Shia population of Iraq which is about 40 50%. It cultivated proxies in the Assad uh government, Assad regime in Syria, the in Liberan, Hisbullah. Um the uh Shia population of Yemen, the Ansar faction and all um and so on. So Iran said that we will not sit down and be reactive, we will be proactive. If you are encircling us, we will also cultivate proxies and and create our own power projection uh capabilities in the region. So Iran played the game much more robustly than India typically ever does. Right? And that actually possibly has helped Iran out. Iran has not tried to antagonize everybody. The antagonism goes, it's caused by other factors. There are religious issues, Shia, Sunni issues, etc. The very fact that Iran is so large and powerful that scares nations in Saudi Arabia and other nations. So Iran has not been antagonizing, you know, it its neighbors. It's just been positioned that way and its neighbors have been used u by the US to encircle Iran. The only thing that Iran could have done better, okay, which could possibly not have caused the situation that it finds itself in that one thing Iran could have done better is to become an open openly declared nuclear nuclear weapon state. But for some reason, it did not do that. And that's why Iran finds itself in the situation. Look at North Korea. Does anybody dare touch North Korea? North Korea is not fully sovereign. It's completely dependent dependent on firstly China and secondly Russia for a whole lot of things. But nobody's going to dare to invade North Korea because North Korea has nuclear weapons and the means to deliver those nuclear weapons far far away. That's why nobody messes with North Korea. If Iran had done that, it would not find itself in the situation it finds itself in right now. That's one thing it could have done differently. Hershel Singlasses Hershel Singlass says, "Our ties with Iran were purely transactional. Amen never condemned the terror attacks on India. He opposed the CAA. He called the Delhi riots a Muslim massacre. He repeatedly urged support for the so-called Kashmir Muslim struggle." Yes. Yes. About Kami, I agree. K's words, verbal statements, you could consume a lot of those statements as being anti-India. a lot of those verbal statements. But did Iran take any actual actions that hurt India? Verbally K on multiple occasions supported the so-called Kashmir Muslim struggle and and whatever else you're saying. These were all words. Please my dear friends understand the difference between words and actions. Words are meaningless. always ignore words. Always focus solely on actions. Did Iran take any actions that in any way whatsoever hurt India? Iran allowed India to use certain terminals on the Chabahar port in order to to support Afghanistan, the people of Afghanistan. India and Iran worked together to ensure that Armenia does not get wiped out by Turkey and Azarbaijan. India India supplied Armenia with weapons, weapon systems, radars and so many other things. All that was transmitted through Iran. India Iran worked together on this. There's a lot of things India and Iran have done together which have which has been mutually beneficial. Verbally Iran has done certain things that India that Indians will find upsetting and that's true. I have myself said this that Kame has in the past medddled in Kashmir verbally but has Iran ever supplied arms ammunition money to terrorists who who are fighting for whatever in Kashmir Iran has never done that. The Americans have done that the Pakistanis have done that. Iran has never done that. So please my point is I don't disagree at all with you about what you're saying. Kabini said a bunch of things but he never did a single thing that hurt India. That is the difference. Now why did Kabini say so and so so and so? because of his own constituency, his own audience also perhaps to support the Shia population of Kashmir which was which was being looked upon which is a minority population in Kashmir who are being portrayed as as collaborators against the so-called struggle of the Kashmiris with India. So for a variety of reasons certain things are done and said but Iran has never done something that hurts India. Please also understand that. Okay. One question is about uh Kulbush and Yadav. It looks like there was some Iranian involvement in what happened with Kulbushav. I'm not 100% sure about that. Also he seems to have been kidnapped by Pakistanis from Iranian territory. Was there an explicit Iranian angle in that or not? We don't we're not very sure. But overall overall Iran did nothing substantial or nothing significant or nothing actually that I can think of that actually hurt India. Words are words actions are what matter. Please understand that 2 kow photography says my boy lives near lives near the US naval base in Bahrain. It's very stressful for us. The civilian apartment hit was hardly a kilometer from her from her house. Hope the war ends soon. Yeah, I'm I'm I hope it ends soon. I hope that there's no more, you know, damage to civilian infrastructure. I hope that nobody gets hurt. Civilian civilians. No, no civilians get hurt. War is terrible for civilians, right? It's the civilians who suffer. It's terrible. It's horrible for civilians. So, I hope that your Bua remains safe. I'm sorry to hear that she's in this situation currently. Um but yeah, the thing is that Iran is is targeting every nation that hosts US military installations and personnel. That's the logic. It's a very clear military logic and unfortunately this can cause damage to civilian infrastructure and perhaps hurt civilians. So I hope it doesn't happen. I hope the war ends soon. I completely agree with you. I hope so. Uh Han Sharma says on the verge of the third world war, but at least we are in the semi-finals. That's why I did not do a live stream yesterday because I was pretty sure everybody will want to watch the India West Indies match because in India, you know, cricket is at the forefront of everything. Yeah, I hope it's not the verge of World War II. World War II, we may be on the verge of World War II if Russia and if Russia gets involved. China will not get involved. They're too scared. But Russia uh but yes, at least we we're in the semi-finals. Sen says, "Now that Pakistani leaders have openly condemned the US government, what are your thoughts on the future of Pakistan US relations, can it be advantageous to us?" So, let me once again remind you all that words have no meaning. Only actions are are meaningful. Pakistan will not take any action. It will not raise one finger in a way that will damage US interests or hurt US interests. A few words, what does it mean? It means nothing. Words are these are thugway words. Okay. The words are meaningless. The prime minister of Pakistan Shabb Sharif what did he say? Let's let's once again revisit uh his tweet. Let's see. Okay. Let's see. So Pakistan is a US. Okay, understand that. So now here's the tweet. Um the government and people of Pakistan join the people of Iran in their hour of grief and sorrow and extend the most sincere condolences on the martyrdom of his imminence. Pakistan also expresses concern about the violation of the norms of international law. It's an age-old convention that the heads of states and state of and government should not be targeted and that sort of thing. So it's an implicit indirect uh condemnation of what the Americans and Israelis have done. Right? So it's words. It's words. Words have no meaning. Pakistan will not do anything in any anything act any actual action that will in any way whatsoever be damaging to the interests of the US and Israel. Yeah. Pakistan US relations are guaranteed to be fantastic. I promise you that. I promise you that this will not affect Pakistan US relationship relations in any way whatsoever. Harish Sharma says you just tweeted that there are six not five sovereign nations. What prompted you to make the change and is India still sovereign? Why is everyone copying UNX? Why the US is not flattening the whole of Iran as we know they can? Okay, multiple questions but uh once again what did I what did I tweet once again? Let's go there. So like I said a few minutes earlier. This is what I tweeted. Okay. So yeah this is my tweet. This is something you all are very familiar with for a very long time. I've been speaking about this for years. My sovereignty framework there are only six. So I it used to be five right? Initially it was four then I revised it to five and now today I have said it as six because this is an evolving situation. the world evolves and based on the evolution of the world and how things change this has to be changed. So right now there are six sovereign nations on earth the US, Russia, China, India, Israel and Iran. Right? Every other nation exists either as a sovereign semi- sovereign state or as a geopolitical vessel. That is what I stated today and I've given my explanation of why I have added Iran to the list. Iran is fighting for survival without Chinese or Russian support. It's it's fighting on its own. It's fighting for its survival. It's fighting for its sovereignty. And that's why because of what's happening right now, you have to add Iran to the list. Iran is acting and fighting as a genuinely sovereign nation without anyone's substantial assistance. That's why I have added to Iran to it. Uh is India still sovereign? I will revisit this in a month or so. Maybe this list will change in a month. Okay. Maybe the number will may come down to four possibly. We'll see about that. Right now I'm keeping it at six. Right now I'm not revisiting India's status as a sovereign nation. In a month or so I will revisit that. It it may change. Uh why is the US not flattening the whole of Iran? Because even superpowers don't do such certain things until they are desperate. Because then even their allies will have no option but to condemn them. If they flatten the whole of Iran, it's going to cause millions of deaths. Even their allies, even the NATO nations, even the EU nations, even the UK, even Japan, even their vasals will have to condemn that. That's why they're not doing that. They want to achieve their military and political objectives with as little effort and as little damage as possible. That's that's the reason why Kakashi says, "Are the GCC nations? If so, more than Japan, Korea or less? Why also why some vasals are kept poor like Pakistan and Nigeria but uh UAE and South Korea are rich albeit corporate socialist hellscapes. Um so yeah vasalhood also has degrees of vasalhood. Okay, some nations are like 100% vasal, some nations are like 33% vasals. So, so if you look at France for example, I would say it is a quasi sovereign nation, maybe 70% sovereign, but the 30% is a problem. It's a huge problem. So, there are degrees of vasal. Okay. Uh the Gulf Cooperation Council nations are the vasals. Well, you have American bases on their territory, right? And they can't do a thing that goes against American interests or or or dictats that makes them vasiles. Um, are the GCC nations more vasal vasalized than, for example, Japan or Korea? No, they're less vasalized because Japan and Korea are under permanent full-scale military occupation. There's more than 130 American military bases in on Japanese territory. Permanent US military bases on Korea must be around at least 100. South Korea, GCC, each nation may have two, three maybe or maybe just one. So definitely the degree of vasilization is less but they are still vasiles. You understand? So yeah you can do do a very granular study of this granular granular analysis of this and you will find that the degree of fossilization is is different for each nation. Why are some vasals kept poor and some kept rich? Yeah it depends on the on on what those nations are being used for. Some nations who are viles are used as cannon foder. Some nations if you keep them poor and keep them divided it's more favorable to you. So Pakistan is just a stick to beat India with right the US doesn't Pakistan's see it depends on the quality of the population also Pakistan's population is not such that it can produce high quality research and technology and all. So why why make the nation rich? It's a huge investment of time effort all that to make a nation rich. Pakistan serves American purposes exactly the way it is. Why why try and elevate it, right? In the case of uh Korea, South Korea, it was very different. So each nation is different and that's why you have different uh uh you know u ways the US deals with them. So Nigeria again Nigeria is just a big source of oil. That's why it's kept vasalized. Otherwise the US has no interest in in anything about Nigeria. That's how it is. Assant says, uh, you have inspired me to make a video on Indian sociogenetic history. When I release it, I earnestly invite you to watch and debate it. Thank you. Certainly, certainly. I'm so glad that you are doing that. Please go ahead and make the video once it's out. Do let me know and I shall certainly watch it and uh possibly debate it. All right. Saga Savant say, "Okay, Sagar Sav, thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much indeed." Here's Manticor says I think they want to partition Iran, East Iran and West Iran. A more dangerous and volatile history. Ironically, the government government of Iran India will pivot back to Russian oil. The government of India is currently in the process of pivoting very rapidly to to Russian oil. Right? That's happening right now. India's Indian refineries are going back to purchasing Russian oil. Now, when it comes to Iran, that's a very interesting point to raise and I spoke about this a few minutes ago. My point is they don't want to partition Iran into east and west. They want to ideally balconize Iran into multiple pieces. Okay. So let's let's uh let me illustrate my point by looking at this. Okay. Let's see uh major ethnic groups in Iran. So when you balkanize a country you b you do it based on ethnicity based on ethnic groups. Let's take this for example. You see there are a bunch of people a bunch of ethnic groups in Iran. The Baloi, the Arabs, the lurs, the Kurs, the Turks and the Persians. So balkcanization is done along these ethnic and linguistic lines. Okay. So the Americans ideally they they will never state it openly but they actually probably have this as the end goal. The bulcanization of Iran, break India, break Iran's That was a Freudian slave. Was it break Iran into multiple countries, multiple independent countries who may fight each other, but the Americans will deal with each of these countries individually. And some some of these regions are big oil producers and those will be the ones that the Americans are genuinely interested in. The objective is to balconize Iran. And for that, you don't have to put boots on the ground. Possibly if you can create sufficient chaos in the country, the country disintegrates. Especially if it is multiple ethnic groups with histories of their own. In that case, all you have to do is completely destroy the country in the in the sense that destroy the government. Uh sow chaos in the country like high degree of chaos and then the country just fragments. That is a very viable potentially potentially viable uh you know potential end goal for the US in this military operation. Vir Kamak says I was born in Bahrain and I lived in Bahrain. My family still lives there. They have no way to leave because all the nearby airports are closed right now and I also cannot go there. Can Iran target civilians? Iran will most likely not target civilians? Most likely they will not. um at least in in these GCCG countries in the in the uh they may target civilians perhaps I'm saying perhaps in Israel perhaps they've gone after several hotels right in some of these countries those hotels allegedly were were housing American troops or American officials or personnel so that's the that's possibly the military justification for targeting hotels. Um, but I don't think Iran will go after civilian centers or or civilian populations. It it makes no sense from a military perspective. Iran also will have a finite number of drones and missiles and they will not want to waste those drones on and missiles on non-military targets and non-strategic targets. So, from a purely logical perspective, it makes no sense to target civilians when you're fighting for your survival. So I am pretty optimistic that Iran will not go after civilians. So yeah. So I'm sorry that the situation exists and your family is is they cannot leave the country right now. All the airports that are closed obviously they are closed. Uh let's take so but but I hope things get better. Right. Let's take a look at what is the airspace situation. We will go to um yeah give me a second. Let me see the airspace situation over West Asia right now. Um, we're looking at India. Let's zoom out. Let's zoom out. Let's zoom out. What is happening? So, as you can see, there's no aircraft flying over Iran. Uh, there are no aircraft flying over Iraq either. Uh, nothing over Iraq, nothing over Iraq, nothing over Syria, nothing over Jordan, nothing over Israel also right now. So, looks like all the Israeli airports are mostly closed. What is this thing doing here? This aircraft, where did it come from? From Lebanon. Okay. From Beirut. What about this aircraft? Belgrade to Tel Aiv. Well, they are pretty brave. Ah, it's not a civilian aircraft. Maybe some kind of other type of aircraft which is definitely very it's a cargo aircraft of some kind. It's coming from Belgrade. That's also really interesting. Okay. So that is Belgrade to Tel Aviv. Uh what is this aircraft doing here? Where did it come from? From Aman. Okay. So there's one aircraft that took off from Aman. It's going to Istanbul. Um there are aircraft flying over the Arabian Peninsula. There are aircraft uh flying over well the mom. So are these civilian aircraft? What kind of aircraft are these? This is definitely a civilian aircraft. Uh Qatar nothing is happening. Uh there are drones and whatnot flying over KQatar but nothing else. Abu Dhabi, Dubai are closed. Sharah is closed. Oman is fine. So yeah, that's the situation right now and that makes sense right now. Nobody will want to fly over these regions. Everyone's staying away. You have aircraft flying over Armenia, Aarbajan, Turkmanistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, right? This is an interesting whatever. Okay. Oh, that's interesting. This obviously is S Petersburg. Okay. So, let's not uh I could do this all day, but the point is yeah, there's this airspace closure situation right now. Yeah. MK says, "Are we choosing Basalhood through Israel as Rajnat Singh prayed at the wailing wall? Modi's visit to Israel night right before the war, Israel, UAE, India partnership, we have taken a side. We have chosen a side in this war. When it comes to vasalhood, it's more if if India if India does become a vasal, I will I will I will reanalyze this in a month's time after this war is over hopefully soon. I will re reanalyze India's situation and position. And if India is found by me to actually now be a vasal of some country, it will not be Israel, it will be it'll be the US. Uh praying at veiling wall and all those are symbolic gestures. It doesn't necessarily mean anything. See Hindus can pray to any god. Hindus are by by nature a very respectful people. Wherever they go they'll pray. So if the defense minister prayed at the wailing wall, it doesn't necessarily mean that we are of Mr. Modi visited Israel right before the war. That is an interesting development. That's a very interesting development. But um so I will reanalyze the situation from India's perspective once this war is over. Right now I am categorizing India as a fully as a fully sovereign nation as of now. NJ says could India take advantage of a weakened Iran and demand greater autonomy or a military base in Chabahar or maneuver for other advantages. India will be well advised to stay out of all such uh things. Stay out of it completely. Um India should not ask for a military base in Chabahar or whatsoever. Let the war first end. Iran is not weakened. Iran is fighting off multiple nations at the same time. Don't take Iran light lightly. Uh once the war ends, we can see what situation Iran is in. Uh but look military base in Chabahar. What about the intervening region which is Pakistan temporarily? So no, India should not do any of these things. It is it is not advisable at all. Sager Savant says for effective regime change a ground invasion is required absolutely which Trump may not have support by his own people. So what can be the effective conclusion? The effective conclusion is that the US wants to very badly weaken and damage Iran and create enough chaos in Iran for Iran to disintegrate and become balkcanized. And then over time the parts of Iran where which are rich in oil and gas those the Americans would like to take over directly or indirectly not directly but indirectly. For example a great example is Syria. The Americans caused the civil war in Syria for 10 for more than 10 years. Al-Qaeda, ISIS, these are all American proxies. Eventually, Syria was so badly destabilized that eventually ISIS was was able to succe succeed and the Americans then recognized uh that ISIS terrorist as the president of Syria and now they're doing business with him. So, the Americans would like to do something similar with Iran most likely balkcanizing Iran, fragment Iran and then deal with each of these fragments individually. That is my conclusion. Aries manticor says I understand your frustration with the government of India but their collective stubborn behavior has surprised everyone and us hopefully us Indians too. Um yeah I mean my frustration is more of a frustration with the US with the government of India not reforming the institutions and doing the reforms which take long time to to implement and from my perspective this process should have started like 12 years ago even now nothing is being done. So that is what frustrates me. Yeah. Um yeah and hopefully if the people understand that this is required that these steps and measures are necessary and if we can all voice our opinion and hopefully then put some kind of uh well if you want to call it pressure then pressure on the government that you know your voters want these things then maybe they'll do it. XZP has become a new member. Thank you very much sir or ma'am and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Vijay Viki says, "If war goes on for a long time, can propping up proxies weaken Iran?" That's definitely a legitimate uh tool in a regime change toolbox. Proing propping up propping up proxies. If Iran is destabilized, you could have al-Qaeda or ISIS terrorists enter Iran from the northwest of Iran and start creating havoc, right? and then take over some parts of the country and become a proxy of US or Israel or whatever you know that sort of thing can certainly happen and that will definitely weaken Iran if this sort of thing successfully is implemented right Koma's mindset says is it possible that India picked aside this early because it plans to export weapons like air defense of Brahmos after a successful operation Sindur what are my thoughts no thoughts India has picked aside early because it has it had no choice. It's not doing India is not doing this because we have plans to export things for India also it's a matter of survival for India also it is a matter of survival okay that's what it is yeah Iran is fighting for its survival in one way through military means India is fighting for its survival in a bunch of other ways and that's why India has picked a side it's nothing to do with exports of weapons or operations in duro whatever not the Uh Adi Prahan says Superbase and Firebase have been stopped. Drooting started really fascinating. Let's see. Let's see. Uh Superbase is it not available in India? I see that it's available. I suppose you could sign in or start your project or whatever. Looks like it's available in India but I have not tried to use it so I I don't know what about Firebase. So the the URLs aren't blocked at least. Get started. Get 300 bucks to unlock all Firebase features. Firebase and generative AI. Well, looks like it's still there, but I'm not sure. Um sign in or whatever. So I don't know. I I was not aware of the any issues with superb or firebase drooing started. I'm not sure can't say can't say I'm not aware I I'll have to look into that. Look into that. Bipoling says, "Do you think Trump miscalculated as regime change seems unlikely?" It's it's possible that the ultimate objective of the US is not to uh see whoever many people are saying that rightfully saying correctly saying like I've also said that regime change is impossible without boots on the ground. Impossible. But what's possible is the bulcanization of Iran. weaken Iran enough and create enough chaos in the country that the country just fragments. Maybe that is the actual objective, the balconization of Iran. So if that's the objective, then the thing hasn't been a miscalculation thus far. Obviously, I'm pretty certain the Americans and Israelis are kind of surprised by the Iranian response thus far, right? It's been a very robust response and they have come up with innovations that have definitely taken the world by surprise. I mean those fragmentation clusters or those those u um those hypersonic missiles they are deploying a bunch of you know decoys 25 decoys or so that all mimic the uh the characteristics of of of missiles and that's why the interceptors are not working properly and once the the the cluster of decoys is is deployed the warhead suddenly acquire the the the the warhead or the vehicle associated with the warhead suddenly acquires hypersonic velocity. So many innovations you're seeing right now that Iran has come up with and that's definitely surprising. So there could be some element of miscalculation for sure. That's an element of being caught by surprise also possibly the US and Israel and they both said both nations said that they are after regime change. Yeah. So General Subutai says Iran being the most sanctioned yet producing worldclass drones. What is stopping India? I have no idea what is stopping India. This war makes us calculated defeat is possible or or for India or it's complicated. So why okay first of all you the question is what is stopping India? I have no idea what's stopping India. India just has has mediocre standards. The government of India and everything else the whole system is geared for mediocrity. The people of India they are excellent people. I mean look at the people who are running the tech sector and other sectors in the US. The best people are Indians. So there's nothing wrong with Indians. Indians are some of the most brilliant people on the surface of the planet. The problem is the system, the government, the institutions and the education system and everything. It is geared for mediocrity. It is geared for the lowest of standards. Every generation the standards are lowered. That's an issue in India. the procurement processes, the bureaucratic delays, the red tape, this that everything ensures that everything happens at a glacial pace, slow pace and look at the salaries that engineers get. If you are in a government organization like DRD or ISRO, whatever I mean who's going to be motivated to work so these are the problems in India very frustrating. Um, that's what's stopping India. India India system is stopping India. This war makes US calculated defeat is possible for India. I'm not sure what you're asking there, sir. Not sure about that. But hopefully I've answered your first question. Mi says, "I live in the US and Iran employing a scorched earth strategy. Has Israelis geeked out here? Do you think that nukes might be used? Also, was right. Was India right in pulling out of Iran Chabahar port given the situation?" Let me answer the second part first. Was India right in pulling out of Iran Chabahar port given the situation? India pulled out of Chabahar a few weeks before this went down. Right? Let's quickly fact check that. Uh when did India pull out of Jahar scaling back not complete this India had already transferred its full committed amount of 120 million to Iran by late 2025 fulfilling its obligations. So essentially India pulled out by late 2025. Okay, that's the deal. All the other stuff is is is doesn't matter. India liquidated its its uh stake in Chabahar. India liquidated its stake in Chabahar in late 2025 by paying $120 million to Iran. So that's when India pulled out. That is late 2025. So let's say it happened in December, December, January, February. So it's like almost 3 months before the war happened, right? Why did India do this? Because the Americans were reimposing sanctions. That's one excuse. That's that's that's one explanation. Another explanation is that India would have perhaps had some inkling of what was going to happen. So uh was India right in doing this? I suppose it was right. India had no choice. If India doesn't pull out, then it gets sanctioned and whatever stake it has get destroy gets destroyed with American or Israeli air strikes. So I suppose India had no choice. Weak nations don't have too many choice right now. Um Iran employing a scorched earth strategy has Israelis geeked out. They think that nukes might be used. I think nukes for from Iran's perspective are a matter of are a matter of last resort. We don't even know if the Iranians have nukes. I am pretty certain that Iran has sufficient file material to quickly, you know, produce a bunch of nukes, maybe 5, 10 nukes, you know, uh, tactical yield warheads. I'm pretty sure they have that much file material, highly enriched uranium. I'm pretty sure they have it. Until now, they did not ever announce that they they did not ever test a nuclear weapon, but I'm sure they can put one together quickly. It's not that difficult from a from an engineering perspective, right? Um, but Iran won't do this unless it's a do or die thing, unless they have nothing left to lose anymore. So, I don't think Iran will use nukes, un in case you're saying Israel may use nukes or the US may use nukes, but that is slightly higher on the on the scale of possibilities and depending on how things go in let's say a week's time or so. If Iran is still fighting away, is still fighting and if they are causing significant damage, especially on Israel, then such things may be thought of by the Americans and the Israelis because Israel does have uh a decent number of warheads and the US obviously we know, right? Yeah. Okay. Vishal Ro says India took a side here but remains overall neutral. No, India is not neutral. Okay. You have you're giving proof. Deep France ties 150 plus Rafal sixth generation talks. That's talks. Russia deals A and I posted five minutes ago about five new S400 squadrons and talks. See talk. I don't give a damn about talks unless until a deal is signed and things get operational. I don't care. Talk talk talk is fine. Talk talk. Let's see. Uh ANI AI Twitter. Let's see what AI Twitter has to say. No, let's not. One second. I actually have an actual thing going. Um, okay. Let us go to the actual Twitter homepage. Okay. And um, let's see. AI. Do we have A and I? How many? No. AI. A and I. What does A and I have to say? Let's see. Um, 5 minutes ago, you say? Let's see. must be earlier. You're saying that A and I posted 5 minutes ago about S400's. Um, it'll definitely be more than 5 minutes ago. What about S400? Latest. Let's see. Uh, is it S-en 400? No. Okay. I'm not sure about that. What's going on? I'll not waste your your time by digging digging for all that. France, listen, India took a side here, but remains overall neutral. India is not neutral. India is multi-aligned. India's policy has been that of multi-alignment, not neutrality. When you have deep ties with France, we are aligned with France in a multiple in a number of ways. When we are doing things with Russia, we align with Russia also. This is called multi-alignment. It is not called neutrality. Multi-alignment is very very different from neutrality. But in this war, what side has India taken? It's not a neutral side. India has clearly sided with Israel in the US. So it is not neutrality. Fast snail says it's the first time in 47 years the US and Israel are trying regime change in Thran. If yes, is it too little too late? Also I am am I the only one thinking that Israel is using the west? So yes for for the first time in 47 the Americans and Israelis are trying are attempting a regime change in Thran. Is it too little too late? Nothing is too little too late. If they succeed here they they get what they want. So and it's not like they lost they've they've lost a lot because they've waited this long. It's not the case. So it's not too little too late. If they succeed now, it's going to be a big success, big victory for them. Whether it is a regime change or balkcanization, both will be big victories for the US and Israel. Uh, is Israel using the West or is the West using Israel? That's always a big question. I'm not sure. Kushagra Singh says, "Is there any opportunity for India in this?" No, there's no opportunity for India in this. Saga Gare says by Amisha. Can anyone ask how China defense system failed in Iran? Did India did Iran have Chinese radars or whatever? Chinese defense systems? I'm not sure. I've not looked into that angle. Let's see. Um does Iran operate Chinese radars? Let's see. China has deployed the YC etc. to detect. So, okay. So, it has some Chinese radars, Chinese u uh military equipment. Let's see. Air defense assets and so on. Chinese systems uh HQ16, HQ17 AE. What are these two things? Let's find out. HQ16, HQ7. Are these radars? Okay. Surface air missile systems and so on. So it doesn't look like Iran uses a lot of Chinese systems. Uh the Chinese system they we saw was a radar that kind of detects stealth aircraft. So has it failed? Has it not failed? I'm not 100% sure. Looks like looks like it may not have worked perfectly or whatever. I'm not sure. I've not looked into it in detail. It looks like there are some systems that the Iranians are using. So possibly some of them may not have uh successfully done their job. Abishek Kirbast says India always chose Israel over Iran. It's not a big deal. Okay sir. Thank you very much. Meshov says 15 if India becomes US God forbid. Would it be more kind of a Pakistan kind or Japan kind with respect to daily life development etc. It will not be a Pakistan kind of vasalhood. It will not be a Japan kind of vasalhood. It will be a India kind of vasalhood. So what will happen if India becomes the US vasal? India will become a huge market that the Americans will export to and make money as a consequence. That will be one thing. Second thing, the government of India will essentially be run by the American AIS and everything. So which means that the US gets complete granular micromanagement support uh micro managerial level control over everything India does daily life daily life will go on as as it is most people will never know that things have changed completely development it will go on in the same way it's happening right now the Americans don't want India to become a 15 20 trillion economy they want India to remain a four 5 trillion economy so so India's GDP will keep growing at 5% 6% per year Nothing will change majorly. There will be no major reforms. India will remain a mediocre nation and so on. So that is the kind of vashood you will have for the ordinary person. They will never possibly even realize that you are a vasal of another country. Nothing will actually change on the surface. Aris Manticor says the cards have been stacked against us the past 2,000 years, past 1,000 years actually, but we survived. The cards were stacked in the past 15 years, but we have clawed to this state. We will endure in a manner most absurd. We have a 10,000 plus year old history. And so if something goes wrong for for a few years, it doesn't matter. We will eventually long-term hopefully prevail and and get stronger. So let us be positive, optimistic, let's not be all gloom and doom. Even if we are a we become a vasal state for a few years, we'll find a way out. So let's be positive. Vijay Viki says one of Indian crony recently met Hillary Clinton. Her foundation was responsible for the propping up of Muhammad Inos. What are your thoughts? Indian crony. I'm not sure who this Indian crony is. Are you talking about some kind of uh uh business person or whatever? I'm not sure who you're talking about. But look, let's say you are a business person. Let's say you are an industrialist or whatever. It makes sense to be connected with various very powerful people. Uh you know, Hillary Clinton is a very powerful person and very relevant person even today. So yeah, it makes sense and as long as you're not breaking India's laws or whatever, as long as the government of India is not opposed to it, you'll do it. You'll do it. Uh so that those are my thoughts or whoever it is, I don't know who it is. Okay. Black Panther says will join NATO in this war. UK and Francebased attack. I am not sure if any UK or France. Okay. Um has Iran targeted any UK or French uh military installations or bases. Um, yeah, I'm not getting anything news European Accroeri. Okay, Cyprus. That's interesting. British bas in Cypress. I'm not sure about French bases or whatever. Uh, I don't think NATO will join the war. I don't think so. Uh, it is unlikely at this stage at least. Yeah, at this st at this stage it is unlikely. Tarun says any game plan for India to come out of these situations of V wasalhood there must be a way I feel bad to work in IT at the cost of the country sovereignty. Don't blame yourself if you're working in in it. You are actually contributing to India's GDP. So you don't need to there's no reason for you to feel bad personally. Um any game plan for India to come out of this situation of V was out? Well, that's for the government to do and if there is a genuine game game plan that can help India, I better not speak about it over here. Don't you think? Yeah, I should not discuss it over here openly. In in case there's a game plan, there must be a way. Prattana says, I was referring to Nupour Sharma fiasco in divine justice. Arabs provoked riots and killings, especially Qatar. Okay. Okay. Okay. Nupur Sharma thing. Okay. Okay, that's a matter of Indian politics, internal politics, something that I never discuss. So, okay, I I don't discuss Indian politics as you know. Aris Manticor says, "Will Iran be forced to use the dirty bomb strategy?" I hope not. I hope not. What's a dirty bomb? In for for those who may not know a dirty bomb is a bomb that has a conventional chemical explosive like your standard bombs but it also has nuclear material. So when the bomb explodes the nuclear material is dispersed and causes radiation fallout fallout over a wide area. That's a dirty bomb. So that is something Iran can Iran definitely has plenty of file material which may not perhaps be weapons grade but it's definitely uranium right 235 possibly I don't know about plutonium but 235 they they will probably have so that can be used for a dirty bomb I hope Iran doesn't have to use it and I hope that well that's a very nasty thing to do actually but yeah when you're desperate you may some people may do it so I hope it doesn't happen part Shivas says Any message for ayata lovers crying in India? I have no no such messages. No no no comments. DT says you are my first geopolitics tutor. Thank you sir. Thank you so much for your very kind words and I yeah thank you so much. Mkeshv says please explain terms vasal protectorate ally and trustee. I don't know what trustees are. That's not that's not a geopolitical term as far as I know. I don't use that. Ally means you have a treaty, a clearly defined treaty which you've signed which which lays out the rules and responsibilities. Protector it means you're a weak nation protected by a by a more powerful nation which is like a vasal. A vasal which can be a vasal but not necessarily always. A vasal is a nation that is weak that is controlled by a more powerful. So this is a weak nation who is controlled by a more powerful nation and exploited by a more powerful nation in in certain ways or a variety of ways or always that's a escape escape something. Uh yes I'm doing very well. Thank you very much sir. You have got five questions. First since the ayat is dead what is your reaction first of all? uh tragic and and well highly unusual for a world leader to be assassinated. Uh definitely is a blatant and flagrant violation of international law. Yeah, that's my reaction. Second, okay, for do you think first is it a boon for the world since he's dead now? No. What were his views on India and your views on the ayatah? Look my views on the I have no views about his religious thing or whatever. His views on India were well he expressed certain views about India. He kind of at certain times supported the uh Kashmir freedom thing or what the alleged Kashmir thing and so on. But overall his actions towards India were never hurtful towards India. Words and actions are very different things. My point is ignore the words and look at the actions. under his leadership, Iran never took any actions that were hurtful towards India. His views to on India, his words that he sometimes spoke may have been annoying for for a lot of Indians obviously, but his actions were never anti-India. Next, um do you think an attack on the EU or Turkey is imminent even though Turkey as far as I understand it is somewhere in the middle regarding Iran? Uh Turkey hosts American nuclear weapons. Turkey hosts American uh military bases, American personnel. Uh Turkey may have said some nice words and send control of this about Iran, but overall they're on America's side. Turkey is not in the middle. Turkey is not in the middle. Turkey is squarely in America's side. Uh so is an attack on the EU or Turkey imminent? I think it is not imminent. um unless American planes take off from Turkey to attack Iran or something in that case something could happen. So EU is probably not imminent. Turkey also most likely not imminent right now. Mahesh Karnan says why Iran has not attacked Turkey and Pakistan. There are reports that Netanyahu's office was hit by Iran. Even I heard that Netanyahu's office was targeted by Iran. Let's see. Uh Nathan Yahoo office. Let's see. We here Nathan Yahoo's office targeted insurprise attacks and there's some factchecking and so on and so forth. Uh so they're saying that Iran has claimed this but they're not saying that this actually happened. Uh so yeah, Nathan's office apparently was targeted by Iran. That's what the Iranian Iranians are claiming. Why has Iran not target attacked Turkey and Pakistan? See, first of all, Turkey is very far away and Turkey is probably not directly involved in this war in the sense that I don't think there are American aircraft taking off from Turkey to attack Iran. So that's why Turkey thus far has not been attacked. Pakistan um maybe Iran doesn't want to fight too many nations at the same time. Pakistan is a very powerful military, not compared to India, but compared to Iran, maybe head-to-head possibly. Yeah, of course Pakistan is currently facing a war with Afghanistan. Um, so yeah, right now Pakistan Iran will not open a military front with Pakistan right now. They know that Pakistani airspace is being used by Americans. They know that. They know that Pakistan is actually an enemy of Iran. They know that too. But right now it doesn't make sense to fight three major powers at the same time. Israel, US and Pakistan. Why am I saying Pakistan is a major power? Because regionally it's a major power. Iran is also Israel is also regionally a major power and the US is a global superpower but regionally it's got this massive military force that it has piled up in this region. So the US is a major power here. Then Pakistan it is territory is right there. So because of proximity Pakistan becomes a major power. So Iran doesn't it doesn't make sense for Iran to fight everybody at the same time. That's the mistake that Adolf Hitler did right made. He tried to fight everybody at the same time and that led to Germany's destruction eventually. So it doesn't make sense for Iran to start a fight with everybody at the same time. Makes no sense. Paris is manticor says can a balconized Iran go nuclear in a North Korea fashion but it allows US to take part of its territory for pragmatic regime survival strategy. Yeah, it can happen. So let's say Iran loses half of its territory gets bulcanized. the non-Persian territories become, you know, separate entities. Iran could still survive in in a broken down form, in a reduced form, and it could at that time also possibly go nuclear. It's possible. It's possible. Yeah, it's also a possibility. Mesh says, would the world be a better place if Breton Woods had never been scrapped in 71? How would India fare? But 1857 resulted in an Indian victory. How different would be the geopolitical landscape be today? Look, it's all ifs and buts. You can paint all kinds of scenarios. If 87 in 1857, if we had won, we may have become a great superpower. We may have become a great cultural nation. Who knows a first world country. All kinds of possibilities exist. But I can tell you for sure if 18 1857 we had won then India would be in a much better shape today. India would not be this weird secularized stupid nation. India would be a much greater nation. India would still be a proper full-fledged civilization state which it is not today. Uh and geopolitically obviously the world would be different in that case. Um if Britain votes had not been scrapped in 71 how would India fare? There are also once again there are like 500 different possibilities open out there. I don't know even if Bretton Woods had not been scrapped the global system would still have been uh controlled by the US. So I don't think India would fare very differently in that case at least possibly. Prataradana says Iran war show US won't be able to defeat China. The sheer number of stealth jets, hypersonics, stealth drones, nukes, US bases will be gone in minutes. I actually disagree. I disagree. There's 130 plus US bases in Japan, more than 100 American bases in Korea. That's 230 at least. Then there is Taiwan, which is a fortress island. Then there is Guam. The US has way more force deployed around China. than what they have deployed against Iran right now. I think the US will devastate China. China stealth jets and all. Okay, it's nice on paper, but have they been ever tested in a war? If the US and China go to war, the US will devastate China. That's why China is so careful. So careful. Yeah. And see, China doesn't have the risk appetite that Iran has. It's a very different nation. China, they don't have any appetite for risk. Iran has a totally different appetite for risk. They right now they are fighting this war which could end in their complete destruction. But they are determined to go on fighting if if required, but they will not surrender. That's a different mindset. China doesn't have this mindset. It's a very different mindset. So I think if there's a war between the US and China, the US will devastate China. Thus Nike says, "You have become my role model in a short time." Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much indeed. I also want to become secure, confident and knowledgeable like you. I hope you do. Work on yourself. Work on improving yourself. Work on becoming more skilled, right? And work on work on raising your standards slowly, gradually. Everybody does. That way you become more confident, you become more secure. Right? So all the best sir. I'm I'm I'm very grateful to you for your very kind words. Now the question is is US and Israel attack proactive or did they not have any choice but to attack? They had the choice to not attack. They decided to attack. This was very proactive. Okay. Many people could argue that there was no need for them to attack. There was no need to go after Iran. Many people could argue that way also. So this was a decision that was made and then the attack happened. It's very proactive. Soilent blue yellow green soilent says is Pakistan Afghanistan attack or USRussia power move P balance. Is it the USRussia power move? No, we know that the Americans want Bagram. Maybe the Pakistanis provoke Afghanistan by launching air strikes on civilians to destabilize Afghanistan and possibly eventually the situation ends with America taking Bram again. That's a far-fetched but plausible uh possibility. So one one should take that possibility seriously. But uh but overall there are very legitimate grievances that the Afghans have with respect to Pakistan and I'm not sure how involved Russia is in this matter. So you could probably you would probably be correct to see this as a as a regional issue. Two nations hating each other. The Pakistanis we know they hate the Afghans. The Afghans they hate back the Pakistanis even more. and the Pakistanis are squatting on Afghan territory. So, and the Pakistanis they have this sense of superiority that we can strike you at will, we can kill your civilians. So, that's that's what happened. It's not really a USRussia power move at least if you see it superficially, I suppose. Goam says, isn't it good for the rest of the world if the war prolongs and the US economy gets hit significantly and can't dominate other countries anymore? The longer this war continues, the more India and China and Iran and and and and Japan will be impacted. This will not impact the US economy that much. See, right now the straight of Hormuz has been closed. It's closed. That's because of that there is no oil flowing from West Asia into India or China or Japan. Because of this, oil prices will shoot up maybe $150 a barrel. If that continues, your the prices of your sugar and tomatoes and potatoes and everything will shoot up. This is going to impact India badly. Also China it won't impact the US that much you understand it's it's not good for the rest of the world world it's terrible for the rest of the world says J Mir Shimemer says Iraq war was also for Netanyahu okay Iraq war you mean the 2003 war okay I'm not sure not sure uh yeah Dr. Dr. John Mir Shimemer he is a very very senior respected experienced analyst. So maybe one should take what he says seriously. Maybe his predictions I don't know always true but that's fine but the analysis definitely is valuable. So I will think about it. I look into it. Yeah I look into it from that perspective but I haven't thought about this matter. So Ranav says very informative channel. Thank you very much sir. Thank you so much. Vipin Vihari has become a new member. Thank you very much Ven G. Welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Escape Escapus Duras says as they have nothing. Okay, this is a continuation of an earlier stream of questions. As they have nothing to lose now, I believe that they're going to extinguish their missile reserves. Iran. Oh, we'll see about that. Um, is the GCC concerned about their security after Iranian strikes shattered their reputation for safety? Will they pivot towards neutral power, stay with the US or raise this privately? Privately, they'll be very upset that the Americans are not taking care of their defense. The Americans seem to be concerned only about Israel's defense. See, what was the deal between the US and the GCC nations? The deal was that the US will sell huge amounts of arms and ammunition to these countries, military equipment, billions of dollars worth. That's number one. Number two, the US will install military bases in these countries and these nations will allow it. And in exchange for all of that, the US will guarantee their security. And if somebody attacks those nations, the US will retaliate and ensure that these nations security is taken care of. That was the deal. That's why you have places like Dubai coming up under the US security umbrella. But now see what's happening. Iran is hitting these nations and the Americans haven't been able to stop that. So privately these nations will be very upset. They'll be very upset that one the US was not able to stop this and it's not currently being able to stop Iranian attacks. And secondly, they may also feel perhaps that the Americans are not taking this seriously enough. They'll feel perhaps the Americans are not taking these nations defense seriously enough. So yes, the GCC will be very concerned, very concerned. And maybe they are right to feel concerned and maybe they are right to have this grievance against the United States. They may be right to I if they feel that the Americans are prioritizing Iraq Is Israel's defense more than the GCC nation's defense. They may be right in the in feeling that way. So will they pivot towards neutral powers, stay with the US or raise this privately. They'll be able to pivot nowhere. Okay. They'll be they'll be able to pivot nowhere. The Americans won't allow them to pivot anywhere. won't work. The US is too powerful. Okay. Uh since you began posting, I have been enlightened on countless matters. Thank you for sharing your vast knowledge. Please keep educating us. Thank you very much, sir. I certainly will. I have I shall keep this going. The Ask a Bijit Show. Absolutely. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you so much. Abishek Singh says, "Why Indians on X full support us and Israel Sar?" Well, that's what Indians do. I don't know why, but they do. See, I have nothing against supporting this nation, that nation, whatever. But support your nation first and have self some selfrespect. Yeah. But yes, Indians are enamored with certain nations. I am not saying don't be enamored with certain nations. My point is have some dignity and selfrespect. Yeah. Krishna says, "Is Kab really dead or in hideout with nentity?" I don't know what new entity is but uh about Kame's death I don't think he's hiding somewhere at the age of 86 why why would he want to go and hide somewhere the other thing about Kame's death is this he was killed in his house in his residence the the Americans or Israelis or whoever one of these two they knew where Kame's residence was and they they launched a strike on his residence which killed to Kame and some family me members. So it's not like Kame did not know this was coming. Kame knew that a war is imminent that American and Israeli strikes are imminent and he I am sure had the option to go and hide somewhere in a secure location in a bunker or whatever. But Kam chose to stay in his house. Now why did he do that? It means certain death. So it means K chose to die. Why did he choose to die? One reason is that maybe he was 86 years old. He didn't care anymore. Secondly, his death unified the people of Iran. You don't do such things. You don't assassinate a head of government. Even those Iranians who may not have supported the government previously may now be outraged as by what the America the who the Americans and Israelis did. So Kame chose to sacrifice his life essentially to to give Iran a better chance. That's what it did. Developer Kapay says how does this conflict reach a con conclusion Iran? Well, there's lots of different scenarios in in which this this conflict stops. One scenario is that nobody wins and then there's a ceasefire. One scenario is that the Americans and and Israelis start running out of defensive interceptor missiles. Then they ask for a ceasefire which would be humiliating which means they don't ask for a ceasefire but do something drastic like use nukes perhaps. I don't know. That's that's also a possibility. Another another possibility is that is Iran is defeated and there's a regime change. Another possibility is that Iran refuses to be defeated and it is bulcanized. There are all kinds of possibilities right now. It's just day three right of the conflict. So I don't know how the conflict ends right now. I am not somebody who makes predictions. No, I'm not that guy. I'm saying there are multiple scenarios. The most likely scenario is the bulcanization of Iran. Hopefully I'm wrong. Sedar Suresh says, "Is a cornered Iran likely to resort to terrorism for revenge in the long run? Is Pakistan weakened by aggravating SA relations with other nations? Pakistan is not weakened. Pakistan has American support. Without with American support, you are never weakened." Uh, is a cornered Iran likely to resort to terrorism for revenge in the long run? A cornered Iran is likely to resort to guerrilla warfare and proxy warfare in the long run if if it is cornered if it is bulcanized or whatever. Yeah, they will 100% in that case resort to guerrilla warfare and proxy warfare which some people could call it call terrorism. Ojas Kumar says why do you think that India is becoming a vasal? Even in 2008 the US pressurized India to not retaliate to 2611. Do you think that India can maintain military political sovereignty in US orbit? If you are in the US orbit, you have no genuine sovereignty. Why do you think India could be becoming a vasal? Well, there's a whole number of things, right? It's not one thing. It's a whole pattern that points in a certain direction. I have still not officially called India an American. First of all, okay, just for the just for the record, here is my tweet from two hours ago. Just for the record, my tweet from two hours ago, there are six sovereign nations on the planet and India is very much one of these nations. Okay. But yes, there are big concerns right now. The Americans ask us to stop buying Russian oil. We kind of stopped buying Russian oil. Now we are restarting apparently. I'm not sure if it's true, but but we did almost stop buying Russian oil for for a while. The past few weeks. Yeah. They asked us to move out of Chabahar. We moved out of Chabahar, right? Um pack silica if you see the clauses and conditions it's kind of vasalish. Uh then the AI thing, the AI summit and um and Google setting up um its $15 billion investment in Vishaka or wherever it is. Uh they're going to have Indian Indian uh bureaucrats and officials using Google AI software. There'll be scam detection built into it. So the Indian government will run on Google AI software Gemini possibly software that is developed by Google foreign company on Google on on foreign hardware on foreign chips and controlled by controlled from the United States. If India's government runs on Google AI software, on Google artificial intelligence, they will know exactly what's happening at every level of the government, top to bottom, in a granular manner. Do you think that's a sovereign nation's behavior and the fact that our officials, politicians, etc., They have family members who are foreign citizens up top to not entirely top to bottom but you get the point. If you look at all these things put together it's pointing in a certain direction. Please open your eyes my dear people. Also I there's more the situation in India's far east. Take the example of Manipur. More than half of Manipur is under under foreign occupation. The government of India doesn't control what happens in more than half of Manipur. Do you call that sovereign behavior? There's so many data points I can point at. In case you people are not aware of it, please open your eyes and become aware. Vive Singh says, "Is it a possibility that Russia made a deal with the US in exchange for Iran? Russia gets rid of sanctions and can export oil to India. Russia doesn't care about exporting oil to India and for that they will not make a deal with the US. Sanctions, Russia is doing well under sanctions. Russia's economy is growing. GDP is growing. Look at the GDP growth of the of the European nations, EU nations. Their GDP growth is negative. That's called recession. But Russia's GDP growth is positive despite a million sanctions dumped upon them. When Russia is doing well, why will it make a deal with the US? The sanctions have strengthened Russia actually, right? So the only reason the Russians would make a deal with the US if is if they get a very favorable set of terms uh that end the Ukraine war like big territorial gains a regime change in Kiev, Netanyahu being replaced by somebody else that that sort of thing. In that case the Russians may make a deal. Yeah. But they'll do it very carefully. They'll not just randomly make some deal. Oh now we can export oil to Russia. We'll export it anyway. What will you do? They'll say to the to the Americans, the Russians don't need America's permission to export oil to some country. Okay. So, no, not that case. Um, here is my courses. We will face either angry or shadow tariffs at the coming future or new purchases of Russian oil. Yep. Yep. If we are if we resume purchase of Russian oil, if you resume purchases of Russian oil, we will face tariffs once again. Kir Starmer's reply on the war was pathetic. I have not really paid attention to Kir Starmer because he is a non- entity. Kir Starmer is a pathetic little non- entity. I don't pay attention to what he says. So I'm not aware. Sorry, I'm not aware. Okay. Re Samyaka says, "Your take on Aravind X accounts on strategic silence by India in this war with regards to operation sindur preparation similar decap at Pakistan. I have no idea. I don't know. I don't follow that account and uh I'm not aware of what he or she has said. He has said it's Arin. It's a male. I don't know what he has been saying. I don't know. Sorry. Janel says, "A news came out just an hour ago that India will be buying five more S400 squadrons. Doesn't that mean that we are still far away from being a US vasal?" It is very positive and it may induce me to not put India on the non-asal on the Wasal's list. It's a positive development. It's very good. Very good. It's a positive news. If India is buying four more 500 squadrons, excellent. It means that we are still some distance away from being a vasal. US full-fledged US fac. But technologically we are a vasal already. Understand that? Okay. Funesh Pande says a big fan since six years. Thank you very much. So sir, thank you so much indeed. But I have a small disagreement. I hope it doesn't make you angry. It's fine. Please disagree. It's fine. Let me consider your viewpoint so that I also understand things better perhaps. Uh Modi said to Israel, Modi also said to Israel that about early secession, I mean we are neutral but if we are not, aren't we smart? Like I keep saying my dear friends, words don't matter. Yeah, Mr. Modi has said to that there should be early secession of war. That's a diplomatic statement. That's a diplomatic statement. Um yeah, there's some more. Okay, let's see Mr. Modi's Twitter Twitter account again. Uh I think he has put up some more tweets in the past hour or two. uh spoke with his his majesty king Abdullah II King of Jordan conveyed our deep concern of the evolving situation in the region. We a re reaffirm our support for peace, security and the well-being of the people of Jordan. I thanked him for taking care of the Indian community in Jordan at this difficult hour. Allah okay I no longer can read Arabic. Lost the touch. Um yeah that's that's the last statement. See listen. Okay. Where's the statement about Israel? Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Okay. Yeah. conveyed India's concerns about recent developments, emphasized this that that India reiterates the need for an early secession of hostilities. That is essentially an empty statement. That is a statement everybody makes. That doesn't make us neutral. That is a very nice facade to perhaps look neutral. Okay. Words. Please stop taking words so seriously. My dear friends, please. How many times do I have to beg you all stop taking words so seriously right please don't we are in neutral we are on the side of the US and Israel and I'm not angry with you I'm not angry with you it's fine you can disagree maybe I'm not able to explain properly enough maybe that maybe that's my fault okay so I'm not angry mama buff Bucket Mama bucket VFX says Trump Putin she versus deep state asset EU Iran UK Venezuela. But what is the question? Trump Putin and she are on one side and deep state asset EU, Iran, UK, Venezuela are on another side. Uh I'm not sure what you're getting yet. I'm not I'm not able to get it. How are the EU, Iran, UK, and Venezuela in the same basket, in the same boat? They're they they're not. Keshov says, "What is the long-term consequences of this war to Armenia?" See, if Iran is defeated, yeah, good question. If Iran is defeated or balkcanized, Armenia essentially has a slim chance of survival, very small chance of survival. The Turks and the Aarbanis will eat them. So it is very important for Armenia that for Armenia's survival that Iran survives. Yeah, that's the long-term consequences for Armenia. Omnak says, "Where did Kami actually die? Did he really refuse to move to a safer place and why Iran was not able to develop nuclear weapons? Were they fearful?" Yes, Kabi refused to move to a safe location. He chose to remain in his residence knowing exactly what would happen. So he chose to die. Yeah. What do what do they say? Martyr. He chose to die. That's the only that's the only explanation I have for him being assassinated in his own residence. Now why was Iran not able to develop nuclear weapons? Were they fearful? Probably they were scared. I think Khabi was against the nuclear weapons for some reason. Um were they scared that they will have more sanctions or something? I'm not sure what it was. They have been enriching uranium hexafluoride for decades at least a decade and a half. When did stuckset happen? Stuckset was at least at least 15 years ago, wasn't it? The stuckset uh worm stuckset 2010. That's 16 years ago. Right. Right. And you can look it up. I'll not explain what it is right now. You can look it up later. Struct is a very interesting thing. So Iran has been uh enriching uranium hexaf hexafluoride for at least two decades I would say. So after two decades they would certainly have enough facile material for a handful of warheads highly enriched uranium right they would have it. So why didn't they do it? I have no idea. Doesn't make any sense. Maybe Mr. the Kame was against nuclear weapons for because of some principle or maybe Iran was too scared to officially become a nuclear weapon power. I'm not sure but yeah it's it's well things would have been different if they had officially tested a new two right angle says if I become prime minister which minister should I give to you I don't know maybe gave me the prime ministership in that case okay mittin says I think Iran can't be won without boots on the ground. Like I said so many times, you can't do a proper regime, an actual regime change without boots on the ground. So the next best thing is break up Iran, fragment it. That's a viable possibility. Yeah. So yeah, you can't do a regime change without boots on the ground, but you can fragment the nation by by by devastating the nation and by depleting the nation's firepower and resources and causing chaos all across the place so that there is no unified command by decap decapitating the command and control structure. All of those things we do then Iran can possibly become fragmented can be bulcanized and that's a good opt good good good outcome for the US and in Israel most likely right angle says did you check my mail few months back I sent you swastik in your thoughts if you have not received I will resend it again thank you for everything I haven't seen your email I get and I'm sorry for that I I know many people send me emails but I am not able to read all the emails because I get so many of those. Um and uh yeah I I if I if I read all the emails I'll be able to do nothing else right because there are so many emails. So I really really am sorry to those of you I'm sure there are others also who have sent me emails and I've not responded or not read perhaps uh I'm sorry for that. Okay. But it's it's physically it's it's not humanly feasible for me to read all the emails and study them and respond to them. It's not possible. Uh so I've not seen it. So if you want to know about the swastik tweeted about the swastik in the past. Okay. So uh let's let's go here. I have a whole what Twitter thread very longlasting Twitter thread. uh about the swastik lots and lots and lots and lots of tweets from 2016 by the way uh about the swastika you can look it up so I have yeah I' I've done that but in case you have something to that you would like to me to look into uh do send an email again I'll I'll try and see it, sir. All right. And apologies for not reading it thus far. Okay. MRA says Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, US, Israel target civilian aircraft. Civilian aircraft. Um the US does target civilian aircrafts when they feel like. If you don't believe me, I can show you historical evidence. It's it's just a fact. Okay. Okay, check this out. USS Vincson's shoots down Iranian civilian plane July 3, 1988. Okay, Iran Airflight 655. Let's take a look at this. This is a shoot down in 1988. It was an international scheduled passenger flight from Thran to Dubai. There was shot down on 3 July 1988 by two surfaceto-air missiles fired by an American warship. All 290 people on board were killed. It happened during the Iran Iraq war. Um so there was no apology from the US and they paid some money 61.8 8 million as an excgraia payment to the families of the miss victims and the US did not admit liability for the shoot down. Okay, so that's a historical event. The Americans shot down a civilian airliner and uh did not apologize don't did not admit liability but paid some money. So the US did I'm not sure if there are other instances but they did target a civilian aircraft. Afghanistan I don't know if they have ever targeted civilian aircraft. Iran I don't know Israel I don't know Pakistan Pakistan once shot down an aircraft in which a chief minister was flying an Indian chief I think chief minister of Gujarat or something. So that's that's kind of a civilian aircraft isn't it? It's not a military aircraft. So they did that the Pakistanis. So you have these things. Yeah. Hardik Jooshi says I feel India has become diplomatic by siding with Russia when it comes to oil and siding with the US when it comes to Israel Iran. Doesn't that constitute best interests like I have said India is taking practical decisions. India is multi-aligned. India is doing whatever it can. India is always following its national interest based on the current situations, the current circumstances and India's capabilities which are very low right now. It is what it is. I at the beginning of this live stream I said that India has picked a side. India has chosen a side which is US and Israel and their allies. And India has chosen this side for practical reasons not ideological reasons. So he's called being practical and pragmatic right not being idealistic. So yeah it does constitute our best interest though depending on the options that we have as of now it does. Ritik says will you consider Kami a great leader? I am will I consider Kam a great leader? Um um great leaders I consider Putin to be a great lead leader. Xiinping I'm not sure historically Phil God was a great leader but there are very few people I consider to be great like historically long long duration long horizon great leaders. I don't think uh Mr. Kame will fall into that category. And when it comes to Mr. Putin, time will tell actually if he if he's truly a great leader or not. It's too early to say even now. The Mandian, thank you very much for becoming a YouTube member, sir. Thank you so much. Uh Cosmic Cab says Indian government bowed to us too soon. Can we blame the Indian government? No, India has not bowed to the US too soon. India has not bowed to the US too soon. India resisted as long as it could. Operation Sindur was a resistance. In the aftermath of Operation Zindur, when Trump kept claiming that he stopped the war, we resisted. We resisted signing a lopsided trade deal with the US. That was also resistance. We bowed down in the in the last few weeks only slowly and even now I'm not 100% sure if we should be called a vasal state. We may be I will revisit and reanalyze that after this Iran war is over. Okay Sid Seagel says what situation do you see India getting getting involved? What getting involved in what? In the war. India is not getting involved in the war no matter what happens. Uh are you referring to any other situation? I'm not sure what the question is. It's not sufficiently clear. It's not India is not getting involved in the war no matter what happens. Iran Iran war no we are staying out of it. Other situations well we are part of the world. We are involved in a million other situations. Okay. Shabish says Pakistan, Venezuela and now Iran. Chinese air defense seems to be failing big time. Typical of them to supply supply inferior stuff or outdated design itself. Nonetheless, our electronic warfare capability in jamming tech was topnotch too. So in operation Synindur, we've discovered that we have one of the world's best air defense systems, multi-layered air defense system, right? We it was outstanding, brilliant electronic warfare capability also. I I hear that India has excellent EW capabilities. Yeah. When it comes to Chinese air defense equipment, radars etc. It performed miserably in operation Synindur. Venezuela. In Venezuela, Maduro was given up. The Americans had to use almost no force at all in Venezuela. It was a backdoor backroom deal. Okay. So the so Chinese air defense was not tested in Venezuela. Iran, it's possible that Chinese air defense is failing right now. Possible, but it's not like Iran only uses Chinese air defense. So yeah, so overall it's clear that the export versions of Chinese systems aren't great. That much we can say for sure. Kul Singh says, "Will India ever be superpower?" Will India ever be a superpower after siding with the US in this war and losing its sovereignty? See maybe you are new to this channel. On this channel we don't use the word superpower in in vishuru. Indians are obsessed with superpower being superpower and being vishwaguru. So we not discussing vishuuru here. So I'll not discuss that. But superpower you have to first be a regional power to be a superpower. Huh? You have to first be a regional power. Is India a regional power in the Indian subcontinent? The Americans did a regime change in Pakistan in 2022 by removing Imran Khan and bringing Shabb Sharif in India's backyard. Could India do anything? No. No. No. In 2024, the Americans did a regime change in Bangladesh. They ousted pro- India Shik Hasina and brought in Muhammad. Could India do anything? No. No. No. Then the Americans did a regime change in Nepal. Could India do anything? No. No. No. We are not even a regional power in the Indian subcontinent. The US is more powerful than India. So what superpower? First learn to be a regional power. Right? Vive Singh says seeing the cry in many parts of bat. Clearly the minority is an illusion. Global majority is the reality and indic faith are victims. Question why can't we have bumutra law like Malaysia? 99% of Indians are not even aware of what the Bumhiputra law of Malaysia is which gives higher status to indigenous people. Bumiputra right and their culture in India the Bumiutras are are secondass citizens. Why can't we have it? Because India is a secular nation. It is a secular constitution. It has secular laws and the government loves secularism and worships the constitution. That's why we can't have these things. We can't have nice things in India because our standards are poor and the entire fabric of the nation of the governance system, the constitution, the laws, the institutions, everything is hindophobic. India is a hindu apathide state. Vishal Ro says by neutrality I meant not going to the US side and S400 news was on ANI digital X page. All right sir. All right. Got it. Thank you. Verdan Vive says India China dumping US treasury bonds and buying gold silver. So market crash coming in the US. US real estate crashing news is India is buying S400. India go for P today as Saudi official said US abandon users. All these things are happening different pieces of context clearly. Uh a Saudi official I saw something on Twitter that a Saudi Let's see uh we have Twitter here. Yeah, we have Twitter. Let me reboot Twitter and open a new fresh page. One second. Yeah, let's put that on the screen. Okay. So, we have Twitter here and Mr. Modi is writing about King Abdullah II of Jordan, I suppose. Yeah. Okay. So, um Saudi official, right? Okay. Let's remove this uh Saudi. So, the uh why would I use my voice? Saudi official said US abandoned them. Let's see. Do we have something? Okay. So this Saudi official says America has abandoned us. It's focusing its defense systems on protecting. Yeah. Like we did like I said a while ago. Yeah. So a Saudi official is has said that they they're upset obviously and I don't blame them. Yeah. So yeah, these are some developments that are happening in real time as we speak right now. Yeah. Har CR says why hasn't Mod why Modi hasn't exed anything regarding Kame's death? Because India has chosen a side. India has chosen the side of Israel and the US. That's why Mr. Modi will not speak about Kab's death. He will not offer any condolences to Iran. Okay. India has chosen a side. Hanish says, "Interestingly, the US is destroying its own F4s, F-15s, F5s, and F-14s. What happened to the kill switch? Everyone's aware they have it. The US is destroying its own F4s, F5s, and F-14s. I I'm not aware of the context. I'm not aware of the of the context. The US is destroying its own F4s, F5s, F-14s. Um, I'm sorry. I'm not aware. Sorry. All right. Next. Modi G weeks ago speech about decolonization of India's Indian minds by 2035 this by Deepak dating coach nice name Modi G weeks ago speech about decolonization of Indian minds by 2035 m topic was never discussed by content creators their identity ego is based on it looks like we are fighting a lost battle um so Mr. Modi spoke about decolonization of Indian minds by 2035 and something about Macaulay and content creators did not discuss this topic. Okay. So I'm sure there's a bunch of Indian content creators who focus on Mr. Modi and what he says and then they I suppose analyze that and discuss that and what you're saying is that nobody discussed this particular uh speech of Mr. Modis um identity ego is based on it I'm not based on what are we fighting a lost battle um the battle of what decolonization the decolonization will happen through government policies right by by through government reforms because the whole system keeps Indians mentally colonized and progressively further colonizes Indians and the system has to be changed and only the government can do it. So, as of now, it's not happening, but it's not a lost battle. It can still be done. And and speeches about this or that are fine, but we want actual actions, not just speeches. So, that's why um Yeah. Yeah. So, I I I can't say about content creators what they do. They have their own thing, agenda, their own their own decisions they make, right? I personally don't analyze these things. I look at geopolitics, history and science. So I'm not a I was not aware of this. All right. The awesome film says where is your course geopolitics from first principle should be there I suppose. Yeah should be there wherever it was. Arismanticor says hypothetically how would a nuclear Iran change the situation in West Asia? Is Pakistan trying to create a corridor to Bram Cove straight into Afghanistan? Well, if Pakistan is trying to do that, it's very far away from actually achieving that. Right. So I I have not seen any actions by Pakistan that indicate that they're trying to create a corridor to Bram. I've not seen any actions thus far. I mean the war is going on Pakistan Afghanistan but Pakistan isn't going into Afghan territory and grabbing territory and trying to create a corridor. So, so that's not happening. How would a nuclear Iran change the situation in West Asia? It would balance out Israel, right? Mutually assured destruction. I've got nukes, you've got nukes. Don't cross certain lines. Otherwise, mutually assured destruction. So, that completely changes the balance of power and the and the options that various nations have. If you have a nuclearpowered nation in that region, totally changes everything. Pratip Kumar Roy says, "I read somewhere three American F-15s have been shot down and Netanyahu's office was hit by an Iranian missile. Is he alive?" Okay, let's So, I also heard three F-15s were shot down in Kuwait. So, let's see uh if we have any further updates uh on on on Twitter. Let's see. Netanyahu Netanyahu Yahoo. Let's see. Is there anything going on? Is there any update? I don't know what this is. Okay, let's see if there we have something latest. Okay, some people are making all kinds of uh claims. I don't know about that. If you go to the latest stuff, you'll see all kinds of crazy crazy tweets. Um, yeah, I'm not sure if I am seeing anything about anything happening to Netanyahu. Some people are claiming Netanyahu is dead. Obviously, some people will do that. Everybody has an agenda and the prime minister of Israel account has tweeted 26 minutes ago and it's Mr. Nathano saying something. So officially I don't see any indication that anything has happened to Mr. Netanyahu. Okay. Uh American F-15's going down. Let's see. Kuwait. Kuwait. Let's see. Um this is the latest. Oh god. Yeah, Twitter is a dangerous place actually. All because of random stuff pops up. Okay. cats aircraft. Yeah. So, looks like a bunch of u American aircraft were shot down in Kuwait and we'll analyze later how it happened. Honey Sharma says, "Sar is Iran and Israel war is so interesting. They both look right in their position from our perspective. Iran is fighting for its existence and so is Israel. At the end, is it just survival of the fittest? Geopolitics is about survival of the fittest. Geopolitics is also about the rule of the jungle. The rule of the rule of the jungle. Uh so Iran is fighting for its existence. Israel is not fighting for his existence. Israel is fighting to end Iran. The war was not started by Iranian actions. Remember that the war began with Israeli strikes on Iran and then the subsequent assassination of Mr. So, Israel is fighting for a regime change in in Iran and Iran is fighting for its survival. Some people may disagree with what I am saying, but this is how I see it. It is definitely surv survival of the fittest and it's also the law of the jungle. Yeah, that's geopolitics. The Sumit Maya says, can Iran survive the next what week? What's the end goal? So whether Iran can survive one the next one week depends on how many more missiles does Iran have and can they rem can the missile launchers remain hidden from American and Israeli surveillance because Iran doesn't have a great air force. Iran has highly sophisticated and capable missiles. So number one, how many more missiles does Iran have? If they have 10 20,000 more missiles and maybe 10 20,000 more drones, they could definitely last more than a week. But if their stocks are getting depleted, then they may not last a week. And even if they have lots of missiles, but the Americans then find out where the missiles are stored, then they could take out the storage sites, then Iran may not be able to last long. So it depends on a variety of factors. The end goal of Iran is to survive. The end goal of America and Israel is to do a regime change in Israel. If that doesn't work, they will want to bulcanize and break up Israel. Sorry, Iran. Iran. Aristot has become a new member. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. And YouTube is messing up his membership again. Was member before YouTube. Maybe it's not a big fan of me perhaps. I don't know. So, sorry that this happened to you. And welcome back. Thank you. Uh Dvadasra says is China messed up? Has the US surrounded them properly? See, China is fine. China doesn't have any military issues right now. The US has definitely surrounded them thoroughly, encircled them. See, if you look at the geography, where is map? Here is map. We put map on the screen. Yes. So here's the map. If you look at China, the whole of Japan is a gigantic American fortress. More than 130 American military bases. South Korea, more than 100 military bases of America. Taiwan, an American fortress once again. Then you have Guam. Where is Guam? Where is Guam? Here is Guam. Major American uh military, naval and air force base. So there there is this there are these three island chains that completely hem in China. China is surrounded from that that that perspective. China has been bullying Vietnam and the Philippines. So they're also pro- US. Okay. Myanmar there's a war going on civil war which nobody hears about these days. So at least from this perspective, China is encircled from the east and the south. China has deliberately maintained very bad relations with India which means India is not friendly with China. So that's also an issue with for China. And in the in the north you have Russia which does not trust China. Currently they are cooperating because of because of the situation. So China is obviously encircled in a certain sense not completely encircled but surrounded from multiple directions because of their own bad policies. Uh economically they are very powerful technologically they are great. They have one of the world's best education systems. militarily they are untested and the US is just way too powerful for the for the Chinese and that nuclear deterrent isn't that great. So that's the situation for China. Pratep Kumar Roy says will Pakistan get involved now since Saudi has been hit by an Iranian missile. Can India get involved in this war in the future? India should not under any circumstances get involved in this war and I hope it doesn't and I don't see it happening. Uh will Pakistan get involved because Saudi Arabia has been hit by Iranian missiles? Well, they have this mutual defense agreement, right? Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. So if the Saudis invoke that, then Pakistan will be duty bound or treaty bound to come to the aid of Saudi Arabia in a military way. So then the the Pakistanis will have to decide shall we honor the agreement we have or shall we betray the Saudis. I think it's still kind of uh at this point less likely that Pakistan gets involved directly at this point but in the future in the coming days that it may perhaps get involved. We'll see. Vincious Venicious fan says Israel is losing support in the US and the next generation of US leaders might be anti-Israel. Considering many of them are seeing through the Israeli possession of the US in that case would India be the next host um I think there may be many uh American politicians who are not pro-Israel but overall Israel still has a lot of support in the US bipartisan support uh the next generation of US leaders might be I don't know maybe may not be I I don't know I don't Um, in that case, could India be the next host? Host host. I don't know. I don't know. Honey Sharma says, "Kim Jong F feels like the kid who has all the expensive toys, but nobody's willing to play with him. But he's got some of the coolest toys, doesn't he? So that that makes up for everything else. I suppose says F-35 would be a stamp of salad. I agree. I agree. That will be the like the stamp official recognition certification. I agree with you. I agree with you. So let's watch out for that. If that happens, it's an official certificate of vasalhood. Pratip Kumar Roy says, "Taliban hit Durkhal air base by drone attack." Outstanding job Taliban. Outstanding job Afghanistan. We give full support to Afghanistan. Absolutely. Good job. Adil B says, "If Iran had gotten a hold over the nukes, will that be disastrous for the world?" Because that's the narrative the West is Yeah. Uh pushing. Iraq weapons of mass destruction similarity here. See if hypothetically Iran has nuclear weapons, will it be disastrous for the world? It won't be disastrous for the world. Iran is not a bunch of crazy people, right? Iran is a very responsible nation. They have behaved very responsibly since 1979. The Americans claim they are the they are a terrorist nation or whatever. That's just claims. We know they're not terrorist nations. They're not. We know here in India that Iranians aren't terrorists. It's the Pakistanis who the Americans love who are terrorists, not Iran. And Iran has been a pretty responsible nation. The way I see it, if they had nuclear weapons, it would have perhaps made West Asia more stable. Probably it would have made West Asia more stable than what it is right now. And that would be actually better for the world. You know true multipolarity is like 15 20 nations with nuclear weapons. That is true multipolarity. So I don't agree with the western narrative. I don't nobody's Buddha says longtime follower from DXB. DXB Dubai. Let me just check what DXB mean. But thank you so much for being a longtime follower. What is DXB? I think it's Dubai. DXB Dubai. Okay. DXB Dubai. Yeah. Right. So, thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much for being a longtime follower. Really appreciate that. Um, Dubai is partially resuming flights soon. Your thoughts? Sort source DXB media office. Okay. Partially resuming flights soon. Well, that that's good news then. It's good news for the people who need to travel in and out and uh yeah I mean what are my thoughts? My thoughts are that it's it's positive news. It's good news and uh I'm sure this decision will be taken in a very responsible manner in the sense that if there is any threat to any to any civilian aircraft then the resumption should not happen. So if there is the partial resumption of flights, it means that there is a high confidence that civilian aircraft don't face threats at least in some sectors. So overall I think it's very positive news. Venicious fan says everyone knows about the roch shield and Jewish control wasn't being hidden the purpose or are they letting people know about themselves on purpose about the rochills? I haven't studied the raw shields and people said that the Jews control the world. I don't know about that. I don't know about that. I haven't studied history from this perspective and I haven't studied this particular set of aspects of history. So I personally don't know much about the Rostians. I hear a lot of people saying this. Are there any books about this? I I have to look into this. I don't know. I don't know. So I am not the guy to right guy to ask about Russians. Her hijab Bhya says if India buys F Sukoy 30 57 or the F35 is it still was if India buys the Sukoy 57 India is definitely not a vasal. India still is a technological vasal but buying Suko 57 is a big statement. it will tremendously displease the United States. So if India does that, it's it's not a vasal from the other perspectives. Technologically we are assal technologically we are completely dependent on the US. Okay. Nahush Achara says Nahusha Achara says do you think the presence of 6 million Indians in Gulf countries made India pivot this time? Is it it's difficult to evacuate them unlike students from Ukraine? The reason for India's pivot is not the 6 million Indians. The reason for India's pivot is American pressure. Okay, that's the reason for India's India's pivot. And it's not like those 6 million people are being targeted by anybody. They're actually a big asset for India in the Gulf region. So it's not the presence of those 6 million or whatever Indians that has made made India choose a certain side. It is pure and simple pressure applied by the US. Frantic Gamer says so India is vasal. Really by that logic China was a vasal of the US well as well in the 80s and 90s. Their entire manufacturing infrastructure was dominated by US companies. I'm talking about today. And once again, for the record, for the record. Uh where are we? For the record, my dear friends, as of today, this is my stand. There are six sovereign nations. India is one of them as of today. Right? And I will reinvestigate and reanalyze this after this war is over. See, understand sovereignty. Sovereignty is not some mythical vague concept. Sovereignty can be calculated and you can put a numerical score on sovereignty. What are the elements of sovereignty? There is territorial sovereignty, there is economic sovereignty, there is legislative and policy based sovereignty, there is um technological sovereignty. So if your territory is under your control, you you have full territorial sovereignty. If you have your own currency and you control your economy, then you have economic sovereignty. There is military sovereignty. If you completely control your armed forces, you have military sovereignty. Then it um legislative and policy sovereignty. If you control your laws, you decide your laws and you decide your policies without external external interference. Then you have legislative and policy sovereignty. In technology, if you are completely independent from a technological perspective, you have technological sovereignty. All those things you have to consider together in an intelligent and analytical manner with the right data and then you can decide or determine whether a nation is a sovereign nation or a vasal. Okay? So it's not done based on emotions. It's based on cold hard facts and clear analysis. That is how we determine whether a nation is sovereign or not. I'm not putting out ideas into I'm not pulling ideas out of air. I'm not saying a nation is sovereign or vasal based on my emotions whether I like the nation or I hate it. That's not how it works. All right. Eno says is it true? I don't know what is the meaning of I don't know I don't know what do you mean by first of all bha you know the word bha what it means it means slave why do Indians use the word bha north Indians because that word was used by the Turks to refer to Indians mean these are all our slaves and then it became part of everyday Bha is a very very bad word. It means slave and we use it for ourselves today. That is the effect of long-term foreign occupation. All right. says, "Can we say that World War II started on 2023 in 2022 went on second gear after attack on Israel 7th October 23, third gear by Operation Sundur, and now it went on fourth gear in 2026?" No, I don't consider the world to be in any phase of World War II. World War II means direct confrontation between superpowers. So in terms of nuclear weapons, Russia is a superpower. It has more nuclear weapons than the US. So a direct confrontation, direct military confrontation between Russia and the US. That is third world war. Right now we are in the cold war. It's a cold war period but with more hor it's heating up now. But it's not third world war. Absolutely not. Ah Bishra says, "Why is everyone spamming beam beam in the chat?" Well, I wonder I wonder but I will allow it. Infinenix says America is Armenia is 98% Christian. Aharbaijan is 99% Shia Muslim. Iran is 95% Shia. I'm confused as to why Iran supports Armenia. Azarbaijan is a Turic nation. Iran like us is an Arian nation. Armenia has Arian roots. Azarbaijan is a vasal or you say you could say an ally of Turkey. Turkey and Armenia and Azarbaijan are both Turk nations. They want to erase Armenia from the map of the world to create a panuran corridor corridor of Turk nations. Armenia is the only problem in the way. They want to erase it. If Turkey becomes more powerful, it's a problem for Iran. That's why Iran wants Armenia to not get destroyed and not not get erased from the map of the world. And India and Armenia also and Iran also all all three of them don't want Turkey to get more powerful and more influential. That's why India, Iran and Iran are working together to help Armenia survive. That's why a Hindu nation and a Shia Islamic nation are working together to save a Christian nation. Gear TV says, "Do you think Iran will use dirty bombs?" It depends on the circumstances. If Iran is in desperate straits, then they'll use it. Yeah. Frantic Gable says also US will devastate China defending China's orders of magnitude stronger than attacking US irrespective of how many bases it has. Come on. Thank you for your input sir. Thank you. Pratip Kumar Royce says about Medici bank and family world's oldest bank. I have not studied this. Sorry. Says for the next 150 200 years what's the safest country to practice Hinduism? Singapore, China? Definitely not India. Uh whichever country is stable and neutral, religiously neutral. Uh if China survives 200 years, then I don't think China has anything whatsoever against Hinduism. If you live in China and you're practicing Hinduism, the Chinese government will do nothing to you. Nothing whatsoever. China has no issue with Hinduism. Uh Singapore, sure is Singapore. very nice place survives 200 years the way it is Hinduism you can practice there happily peacefully without any issues the US I'm not sure western Europe I'm not sure Russia as long as you don't do political Hinduism which nobody does Russia has no issues with Hinduism either but definitely not India India is a hinduhobic country right angle says if you see if you see the swastik properly it Beach mantra of Lord Gpati gum drawn from four sides fancy style in fancy style tell by my guru Harishankar gji all right sir I'll look into it okay Gautam Gautam says can combined fire power power of bricks challenge the US no I says are waiting for your how to raise your standard series all right thank you for the reminder sir thank Imagus says, "Will there be a third world war? What's your opinion?" What's my opinion? I first of all hope it never happens. Secondly, I think we are still far away from a situation where a World War II could happen. Still far. I mean, not very far away, but we are reasonably certain it will not happen anytime soon, hopefully. So, I hope it doesn't happen. And right now it's not under any it's not like it it could happen anytime. Yeah. Bipla says do you think India and China are the reason behind this war in the interest of the US? Not India. China is see the US wants to what is the actual objective of the US is to take control of the entire world's oil resources. Okay. Iran is a major oil exporter. 15 20% of China's imports come from Iran. If the US can secure that, grab that, then they can anytime cut down that 20% that China gets from from Iran. The US has already taken Venezuela from which about 3% of China's oil was coming. If it can stop Iran's oil to China by taking control of Iran or by fragmenting bulkizing Iran and then taking it over piece by piece, then it's a huge blow for China. China's oil also comes from Saudi Arabia, Iraq, UAE, uh Nigeria, other countries. All of which the US can force to stop selling oil to China. So that is the objective to completely control China's energy destiny and China's energy resources from where China gets energy. That's the objective. India nothing. Putin says, "Is John Mir Shimemer best and most unbiased western analyst?" I haven't really studied what he has to say. I don't know. He seems to be pretty famous these days, but I haven't I haven't been listening to his lectures and reading his stuff, so I don't know. Hari Krishna says, "How vulnerable is India's energy security if the straight of hormones becomes militarilized, militarized or partially closed?" Well, currently today, as of right now, what is the time? India's time. It's almost 11:00 p.m. India time on the 2nd of March 2026. As of right now, the straight of hormones is completely shut. Completely shut. What percentage of India's oil comes from comes through the state of almost. Let's find out. Must be more than 50%, more than 60%. Okay. What percentage of India's oil imports come through the strait of Hormuz? 35 to 50%. That is massive. That's huge. So right now the straight of Hormos is shut down because there's a war happening there. If that lasts a week, two weeks, if it lasts 3 days, 5 days, oil prices worldwide will go up huge. they'll shoot up massively. If that lasts a couple of month, a couple of weeks or a month, the prices of everyday items in India will become way more expensive. Okay? So, India will obviously reroute its oil supplies, take buy way more from Russia and so on, which could offset what's happening here to a certain extent, but it's going to make things bad for India. So, India is very vulnerable to a closure of the straight of hormones, very much so. Akar Ashkar says, "My wife and I are big followers." Thank you very much to you, sir, and to your wife. Thank you so much. It's frustrating to see how much to see how democracy is failing in India. Do you think a military rule is the ultimate solution? Yeah, democracy isn't really working out great for India. Democracy is the the rule of the it's it's yeah it's essentially the standards are set to the lowest common denominator in democracy. Right. Democracy is all about ruling through popularity then by ruling through high standards. High standards are extremely unpopular because they they require sacrifices and pain. Short-term pain. No one likes that. Everybody wants short-term pleasure. So that's why democracy brings your standards down generation after generation. So what's the solution? Military rule I don't believe in military rule. the right. We have to ask ourselves that today things are bad because of the situation democracy all that when India was great in the past what kind of what kind of system of governance did we have and the answer is straightforward monarchy and imperial rule not military rule monarchy kings and emperors that's what always worked for India Who was Chhatraati Shwaji Maharaj? Who were what was the Marata Empire? Was it democracy? Was it military rule? No, it was imperial rule. The Chola Empire, imperial rule, the Gupta age, the Gupta era, right? Samudra Gupta, Chundra Gupta, Kumar Gupta, great emperors, the Kushan era, the great Kadeshka, one of our greatest emperors, the Morian Samaraja, Chundra Gupta Moria and so on. Great emperors. Who was Shiram? Was he a military ruler? No, he was a king. Who was Shri Krishna? Was he a military ruler? No, he was a king. That's your answer, sir. That's your answer. Really? Now, Miss Patel says, "Am I wrong to be skeptical of the HPV vaccine for girls? I am skeptical of any unnecessary additional vaccines." >> So, I look, I don't know. I I haven't I've heard all kinds of I've heard all kinds of nasty things about the G Bill Gates Foundation and their HPV vaccine trials. Now, if you ask if you try to research on a surface level, it's they'll say it's all been debunked, but I am suspicious and I'm very skeptical. Yeah, I am not necessarily saying it's a bad vaccine. I don't know which vaccine the government is insisting on using right now. But what is the HPV vaccine for? It's for it's a human papilloma virus vaccine. How do you get it? You get it through unsafe sexual intercourse and promiscuity and all kinds of stuff. Why do girls need that? Why do 15year-old girls need that? Are you saying that they will all be promiscuous in the future in 3, four, five years time? I I I don't know really. Vibhav Okay. Vibhav Kumar Dewangan. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. Re now says is it bad if we manufacture a lot of foreign weapons? If we manufacture them in India through in using um indigenous resources then it's fine. If we acquire the technology to manufacture foreign weapons here and we manufacture them actually in in house instead of assembling the components that came from outside then it's good. It's not bad. Yes. Kaslibal says do you you think Iran has the capability to close the straight of hormones and it's and is it in their self-interest to close it? Do you see them closing it at some point? Well, the last I checked it was closed. Let's let's find out is it in their interest sure absolutely is the one second is the straight of hormones closed right now technically no it's closed it's closed technically I don't care about technically in all practicality it is closed it's closed it is in the interest of the Iran of of Iran to close right now. Absolutely. Absolutely. And they have the capability. Absolutely they have the cap capability. It's the first time it's ever happened. So yeah, Gear TV says, "Shouldn't India use this important strategic moment to pursue its objectives regarding Pakistan occupied Kashmir and weakening Pakistan by opening a front especially when Pakistan is already at war with Afghanistan and in its west in its north and US is also occupied with the Iran conflict. The US is occupied with the Iran conflict, but the US has the cap capability and the capacity to be to keep an eye on everything else else that's happening in the world. That's number one. Number two, Pakistan is definitely occupied with the war situation it faces with Afghanistan. Yeah. But Pakistan also has sufficient troops and assets deployed in the eastern front with India. They will never pull out those assets and put them in front of Afghanistan. No, they will not redeploy that. That is permanently stationed facing India which is fine. We can deal with that. The major problem is that Pakistan is a US. Pakistan is a invaluable US asset. The US for the past several decades has used Pakistan as a stick to beat India with. Now we want P. We want regime change in Pakistan. We want Pakistan to stop being a terrorist nation. We can do that by defeating Pakistan militarily and so on. But the US will never allow this to happen. The last time we went to war with Pakistan in May 2025, the operation Zindur 3-day war, the Americans forced India to stop the war. They arm twisted India into stopping the war. They will not allow India to start a war again. And if India starts a war this time with Pakistan, the Americans will tariff the hell out of India and sanction the hell out of India. It's not like the Americans aren't watching. It's not like the Americans only have two eyes that are focused in Iran right now. The Americans have tens of thousands of pairs of eyes. They have departments focused solely on what they call South Asia in India. South Asia is an absolutely horrible term. It's the Indian subcontinent. My point is India can't dream of doing this right now. I'll be very pleased if India does it which will be a declaration of independence actually and sovereignty. But I think it's unlikely. It's unlikely. It will be foolhardy for India to do that unless we have US approval. So I think it's unlikely. So Rob Kulkarnney says why Russia and China are not able to fight US through Iran. The Iran is fighting the US and Israel on its own. Right? And if Russia and China start supplying Iran with weapons and all, then the US will take it as a declaration of war. And Russia see China can't even supply Iran. China is too far away. Have you seen Have you seen the map? Do I have to show the map for this? Okay, one second. I'll put the map on the screen. See, look at the map. See, this is Iran. Where is China? Far, far, far away. How will China supply Iran with whatever they want or they need? Russia could supply Iran, but Russia is already embroiled in a war with in Ukraine. Russia could supply Iran through the Caspian Sea. Russia isn't that far away, right? So, Russia could do it, but Russia is already embroiled in a war in Ukraine and it may not make a lot of sense for them to get involved in a second major war and China is too risk averse to get involved in any military conflict. So, China is unwilling. China may give some some satellite intelligence and all that and Russia may may provide Iran with the Glonas system G instead of GPS. The Chinese may give Iran the BU system instead of GPS. But that's the extent of which to which they will help Iran as of now. That's why Iran is fighting entirely on its own. That's why I say it's a completely sovereign nation. It is demonstrating its sovereignty by fighting for its survival alone. Galler says and its sources mil blogger etc agree our AMD is invincible impregnable is tested against all systems not just China including now misinformation no pun intended even Russia couldn't integrate and intelligize to our level so we have tremendous engineers and scientists in India who are paid peanuts to do this work and still They have built up the best battle tested air defense system in the world. Anti-missile defense, anti- drone defense, and so on. Anti-aircraft defense. Incredible job. Brilliant job. The no no amount of thanks is enough to thank these anonymous unknown engineers who have done this for us. Yeah. So I agree with you. Hurry CR says means Modi is not allowed to say even a formal condolence. China, Russia, even Pakistan did that. How will Iran take this if the regime survives the war? India has chosen a side. Mr. Modi will not even say a for give a formal condolence. How will Iran take this? Iran will remember this. other nations will will will pay attention to this development. Russia will pay attention to this development. Other nations that possibly were looking at India as a as some kind of a world leader will pay attention to this. Yeah, this will have some kind of impact on India's credibility and India's standing as a sovereign nation. This is not how a sovereign nation behaves. These are facts. These are absolute facts. Mr. Modi is not even allowed to give formal condolences. Yeah, clearly. Vive Singh says, "Would you be acting to attend the Conan Summit? It would be a privilege to see you in person and get Q&A on your RN invasion series page and indicate. Will I be attending the Conan summit?" I am not aware of the Conan Summit. Uh where is it held? When is it going to be held? I haven't been contacted. If you are the organizer, if you want me to come, I'll be happy to come. I mean, I I'll be happy to consider it given my if my schedule allows it. Um if you want me to attend and if if you're not the organizer, you could ask the organizers if you want. So, I'm not aware of this. Sorry, I'm not aware. Pratamesh Mishra says Modi's Israel visit could be an evacuation mission considering BB's Bodhi language. If it was kissing the ring, I missed the gloating. Okay. Uh evacuation mission. Evac mission. Uh if it was kissing the ring, I'll tell you something. When somebody kisses a ring, okay, hypothetically, the person whose ring is being kissed doesn't glute. Yeah, that may happen in Bollywood movies or Hollywood movies. Even in Hollywood movies, where does the term kissing the ring come from? It comes from the godfather. When the godfather's ring is kissed, do you see m the godfather gloating? That's not how the world works in the real world. It may have worked like that in in TV serals and movies not in the real world. M Patel says love from Spain Mr. Chawa. Uh gracias. Gracias. Thank you. Thank you so much. Yeah. Adil Ben says continuation to previous question. Does backing militia not being a bad actor like Iran backing Houthis, Hezbollah, Hamas. They even attacked Indian shipment previously. um backing militia. So the Houthis are the government of certain parts of Yemen, right? The West calls them a militia. They consider themselves to be a legitimate government. When it comes to Hezbollah, they are kind of running or ruling Lebanon, aren't they? Hamas. Yes. So, it depends, you know, Iran is doing whatever it can do to to survive and to further its national interest. Now for us I I mean some people call these elements terrorist elements some people call them militia some people call them legitimate or semi-legitimate governments depends on who you are and how you see it. My point is the national interest is always paramount and you can decide what is a red line that you want to cross and what is a red line that what is not a red line for for example for India terrorism is is a red line. So India will never use any form of terrorism whatsoever. That's that's very clear. But some nations do it. I'm not saying Iran is is is a terrorist nation. Iran has allies in West Asia. Syria was an ally. So the Americans designated Syria as a terrorist nation. Then the Houthis, they are they are fighting for Yemen's independence essentially. So that's why they the Americans call them terrorists. Hisbah well maybe they are terrorists or whatever because they fight Israel right that's why so what the west does very well is whoever is against them put titles on them or tags you terrorist you terrorist and then then designate Iran as a terrorist nation so look that's how it is a game of narratives it's a game of propaganda uh Hamas they attacked Indian shipments previously Hamas also supports Pakistan in Kashmir Right. So there are so the world is complicated overall. The world is complicated. It is what it is. Hamas obviously they they supported they have cons consistently supported Pakistan's claim on Kashmir. Yeah. Some Mamas leader even visited Kok I believe in support of Pakistan. So yeah, but but so Hamas is definitely an enemy of India and that's why I will never hear me support Hamas in any way whatsoever. Bloody bunch of terrorists. No question. Uh but yeah, they have some utility for for Iran. Yeah. Okay. Uh next Ricky says, "Will FIFA World Cup get cancelled this year?" FIFA World Cup where is being where is it being held held? I forgot. Uh I had a question about this in the last live stream also. FIFA World Cup. Uh let's see. Let's Google it. Where is the next FIFA World Cup being held in United States, Mexico and so on? Canada, USA, Mexico. I don't see it being cancelled. It's far away from this situation. I don't see it being cancelled. Gallow says observations. One, Iran used warning missile shots before actual move. Second, hypersonics were moved. Third, C in uh yeah, error probability central circular error probability in anti-land vectors is quite low, less than 500 m at least. Observations. Okay. I'm not sure about Iran using warning missile shots before the actual move in this war. In the 12-day war, it happened. Yeah, the the Iranians actually gave warnings. In this war, there I don't as far as I know there have been no warnings because the Iranians were attacked first and in a very devastating way. I mean they killed how many. So I don't know about this war if this is happening warning shots but last time it was there. Yes, hypersonics are being used. We know that uh CEB circular error probability in anti-land vectors is quite low. Okay, I'm not aware of that but okay. House of discussion says America can destroy any country in ours. So why are its enemies more confident today than ever before? Something is shifting and it's not military. Uh I don't see its enemies being confident right now. I mean one of the major enemies let's say of America is China. Do you see any confidence from China right now? China is super quiet right now. Historically in the past 1015 years their diplomats have been super brash and super super aggressive. Where is that today? Do you call that confidence? It's the exact opposite of confidence. China is super quiet. Uncharacteristically, unnaturally quiet. Which other enemies does the US have? Yeah, you could say Madur was an enemy. See what happened to him. I'm not sure what you are seeing, but I'm not seeing that. Aries Manticor says our tech stack will will slowly be reclaimed. Not now, but probably in 20 years. It will be insidious and will seem like partial US control shares transfer of technology. I hope so. I hope so. It can be done over 20 years. It can be done. Yeah. So, let's hope so. Let's hope it happens. Yes. Uh Giri says US is poking Iran so that it will hit Middle East harder so that the rich people and investments come back to the US and destroy Gulf autonomy. What's your take? No, I I don't see it that way. The Gulf region is is it's an asset for the US. I the US has no issue with the Gulf being prosperous. I I don't see it that way. The US is not doing all this to to to to destroy G the the autonomy of the Gulf countries. The US is doing this to to destroy Iran and to take control of the oil. That's the reason. And it's doing this so that China is further choked off. That is the objective. That's how I see it. Harrier says, "Do you think the US and the EU are oligarchies?" The US is an oligarchy. The EU is a it's a vasilized region of the US. The US is is an oligarchy. Yes. Uh Putin says about Hinduism in Russia, 2% are Hindu in the Alaii region. Okay, that's interesting. I wasn't aware of the Ali region and Hindus there. Uh the Buryats are are Buddhists, Tibetan Buddhism, I believe. But yeah, Ali region Hindus. Really? Let's find out. Hinduism in Russia's Al Thai region. Uh small but notable population, 2% of of the Alaii region. Do we have some interesting images? Okay. Okay. Interesting. Very interesting uh fact that you brought up. Thank you. Smith Zi says, "Will the GCC countries attack Iran in response to the attack on their key cities?" No, they don't have the strength. They don't have the military power to do that. If they dare to do that, they'll be they'll face largecale missile attack from Iran. They won't do it. They won't do it. Gora TV says, "Seeing the Saudi Aramco crumble down makes me concerned about our critical assets like the Jamnaga refinery. Are there any dedicated air defense systems in place to protect such key strategic installations?" So when it comes to the Aramco refinery uh which refinery was it that was hit uh Rastanura refinery and uh it's been temporarily shut down after a drone attack. U the drones did not directly hit the refinery that's what one hears but there was some indirect u debris that fell on the refinery which set off a fire and so on. what one hears what that's what the official um news is. I'm not sure how true or false it is but yeah. Okay. Uh so yeah it it definitely will make you concerned about massive critical interests of our assets of ours like the Jamagar refinery which is kind of on the border right I mean if we look at okay let's not look at it Jamagar western India right the question is do we have any dedicated air defense system in place air defense systems in place there well I don't know I'm hoping we do and I am saying it makes sense for us to have it. I mean, why would we not have dedicated air defense systems for such a crit critical asset of ours? So, yeah, I'm pretty sure we we have taken the requisite measures. Aris is manticores my India my India tech my India tech stack prediction. The government of India is probably prepping backups for the eventuality when the US uses its tech levers to vosilize us. it will be a very painful and forceful replacement. Well, I will any any time take temporary short-term pain for long-term u for long-term um you know sovereignty for long-term gains. It's like going to the gym. Go to the gym if you're a beginner. You go and lift weights and so on. The first week, two weeks, everything hurts. Everything hurts. Even getting out of bed hurts. Even sitting down hurts. But if you push through a couple for the first couple of weeks, it stops hurting. I mean, this minor soreness, but nothing like the first two weeks. And if you continue for the next 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, you're going to see a transformation. So that's so short-term pain is going to be there. But it's important that you push through that. So I hope that you are right and I hope that this happens. HC 1746 is a new member. Thank you very much sir or ma'am and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Pawang says Pawang G says why can't India take advantage and do operation in Pakistan? Because the US won't allow us because Pakistan is very important for the US. The US openly blatantly supports Pakistan. How many times has Aim Mun visited the White House in the past few months. They love Pakistan. Pakistan is super useful for them. They will the Americans will never allow India to destroy one of their assets. So Vishnu Panchchal says how to solve corruption in India by becoming completely intolerant of corruption. I mean we have laws against corruption but what happens the laws aren't enforced or if the law is enforced then it the case gets bogged down somewhere and so on you know that sort of thing. So the thing the solution is become completely intolerant of corruption right and reform the institutions that are possibly one of the co you know causative of this in some way or the other. Netat Grep says does the non-use of black magic in wars prove that it doesn't exist? I don't even know. I have no idea whatsoever. Um is the absence of evidence evidence of absence? Not really. But do I am I saying that I believe in this? Absolutely not. So I have no idea about this. Sorry. Arush Mahajan says big fan. It is said thank you sir. It is said 16 Chinese military play cargo planes flew to Iran and soon after takeoff they cut off transponders and flew with supplies and jammers to Iran. What are my thoughts? I I'm not aware of this. I don't know. Is it possible? It it may be possible that this may have happened. Do you think would it have happened after the war began? I think that's unlikely before the war began. It's possible the Chinese sent some supplies. That's possible, but I am not aware of it. So yeah, it's it certainly is possible that this may have happened. Aries says, I mean official vasilization, not just tech vasilization. The whole critical market is occupied by super giants. Yes. to be against them would be electorally inconvenient for any government to act immediately. Um, okay. The whole critical market is occupied by super giants. You mean the mega corporations and so on. To be against them would be electorally inconvenient for any government to act immediately. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Okay. Vive RC says how do you reckon one can bring a systemic change for instance monarchy or some other change etc if it during chaos like wars or do you see some progressive way to achieve it if so how there is no progressive or or non-destructive way to achieve this if you want to transform India into let's say a presidential system right now it's a parliamentary democracy right with prime minister if you want to transform the How do you do it? Does the constitution allow it? The constitution doesn't allow that. I suppose let's say you want a new constitution. How do you do that? Will the constitution of India allow new constitution to be brought in? Never. If you want to make India a monarchy, a non-democratic monarchy, does the Indian constitution and Indian system allow this? It doesn't allow it at all. There is no legal way of doing it. So how do you bring a systemic change in India? Very very very hard to do it legally. Impossible to do it legally. So it can only happen during some state of chaos where you to create a system again from scratch or something. Putin says possibility of September 11 like thing by Shia revenge. I I would not even want to comment about that. I hope it doesn't happen. Ojas Smith Kumar says India India sending three ships to tackle Houthis in the Red Sea. Really? Uh let's see. Indian Navy Red Sea deploy early 2024. That's old news. Um, Houthies. Let's see. Navy Houthies. H. Okay. So, I'm not seeing any news right now. I'll have to dig if it is true. But yeah, I don't know. Godliness says, "Today, many of the so-called right-wing geopolitics experts are busy in lying and bootlicking for the current establishment. But then we have a kohhinuru who always stands for with the truth. Thank you. Thank you sir. Thank you. I don't know what the other experts are doing. Uh as you all may know I don't really uh watch uh other podcasts or this the shows of other experts. So I don't know what they're doing. I do my thing and I try to be as honest as I possibly can. Sometimes I do self-censorship because certain things you can't speak but I never lie. Okay. So that much I can tell you. Uh sometimes I may be wrong wrong about something. Some people may disagree with that but at least I'm doing it honest honestly. So that's what I can tell you and I'm very glad I'm very very very um grateful to have the support of all of you. So thank you so much. Uh Rrook play says why does Modi speak about making India a superpower internally but when it comes to answering foreign powers he just cows down see there's a difference between capabilities and dreams there's a difference between words and actions so see Mr. Modi is the prime minister of India. His job is to keep up the morale of the country to keep people optimistic and positive and he's so you can do that. You should do that as a prime minister and he's Mr. Modi is also a politician. If he doesn't get votes, he will not remain prime minister. And he is the best prime minister we've had in years, decades. So because we are a democracy you also have to get votes and if you say superpower superpower vishuru vishuru get votes why not so so that's the difference between words and actions now when it comes to answering foreign powers we don't answer foreign powers except maybe the US in the case of the US it's just too powerful and that's why we have to sometimes um give the Americans what they want but not other countries right so please understand it's not as black and white as we see things to be. Mr. Modi is doing the best he can, I'm sure. So yeah, Krishna BK says, "Explain why Muslims in India are protesting the death of Ayat and Muslims in Iran are celebrating." Uh, I cannot speak on behalf of people I don't know. So I don't know. I can't explain how why are you asking me to explain this? I don't represent either groups that you're talking about. I I can't explain. I don't have an explanation. Sorry. Jaw bro says, I have seen many videos of Kim Jong-un inspect farms and projects. Is it just PR or is he knowledgeable and truly concerned about quality? See, North Korea is a truly opaque nation. And I don't know what uh Kim Jong-un's competencies are, what his uh skills and uh depth of knowledge are like. I don't know. I'm pretty sure he's concerned about quality as the ruler of North Korea. I'm pretty sure he's concerned about quality, right? I I am certain that Kim Jong-un is genuinely concerned about the quality of whatever is happening in his nation, whether it's farms, projects, whatever. So, I'm I'm sure about that. Is he knowledgeable or not? I don't know. And at the end of the day, it doesn't matter as long as you're concerned about quality and and and improving standards. Even if you are not knowledgeable knowledgeable, let's say I have no understanding of farming, but I'm concerned about the quality of farming in the country, then whether I have knowledge or not, as long as I am being concerned and I'm taking the right appropriate actions to incl to to ensure that farming is done at high standards in the country, it's fine. So you don't have to be knowledgeable about everything. You understand? That's that's the important point. Kiki Susan says, "Thank you for your time." So thank you very much indeed, Susan G. Thank you so much. Thank you. Putin says, "I am said larly bahin like seems schemes could end due to oil price rises." Oh, I hope so. Okay, that'll be one good outcome of that. Then King Ritik the Great says the whole world is burning. So many things are happening. Meanwhile, we Indians are debating Abhishek versus Sanju and to win the World Cup. Well, the whole world isn't burning right now. There's u trouble in West Asia. There's a war there. There's obviously a war between Pakistan and Afghanistan also. But the whole world isn't burning. Um and look I know many Indians are debating cricket and all that but even even entertainment is an important component of your life right you can't work all the time I am not against entertainment so if watching cricket for a couple of hours in a week gives you some happiness or pleasure there's a India match every week or something right so let people enjoy it obviously it should not be the the one thing that your whole life revolves around. But yes, you can have multiple interests and and and passions. So I I don't see anything wrong with that. I am sure what you're trying to say is that we should not be obsessed with this and I completely agree with you on that matter. Anurag Anurag says it's interesting to see why China is quiet given the US's actions gi given them a lot of precedence for them to act regarding the Taiwan situation. See the Chinese their strength is econ is their economy and their manufacturing and industrial uh sector and obviously whatever has whatever underlies that but military power they are no match for the US even in their own backyard and they simply can't afford a military confrontation with the US or even Japan or South Korea. That's why now they have realized that this United States regime is totally different from all other regimes and the US is now determined to completely transform the world order and China has no answer to that. That's why they're so quiet says can you explain why F-35s imply India is a vasal. If you see I have been saying for for several years several years people have been laughing at me right I've been saying for several years and people have been making fun of me including very eminent people I have been saying for several years that the F-35 has back doors and kill switches. I've been saying for several years that if you purchase a F-35, then every time you want to fly it, you have to essentially acquire from the US permission. It's like getting an OTP on your phone. Without the OTP, you can't do the thing. That sort of thing. So to get the OTP, you have to first send the entire flight plan to the US. They will go through the fight flight plan and if they agree with it, they will give the OTP. But if you deviate from the flight plan, your aircraft won't allow you to use the weapons or whatever. That is the system with the F-35. And I have been saying that for years and people have been making fun of me. And now recently, who was the the prime minister of Denmark or some country acknowledged that that if you own F35s, they're not you don't really own them. So if you buy F-35s, it's like paying tribute to the country, to the to the United States, to the overlord. Each F-35 must be at least $110 million. So that's how much money you pay to acquire something you don't even own. Only a slave does that. Only a vasal does that. So that's the deal. Okay. HC says, "What are the credible escalation risks for GCC?" Escalation risks for the GCC. credible escalation risks. Um, look, the GCC countries, they don't really have to worry about too much escalation. Iran will definitely target the US installations on those countries, US military bases, US personnel who may be living in hotels or whatever. Beyond that, I don't see Iran taking too much action against the GCC countries. If Iran is on the verge of going down, then they could target all the oil refineries and installations in the GCC countries. Why not? They'll do that. As far as civilians are concerned, Iran won't most likely target civilians, but they will definitely target refineries. Um they'll target oil wells, all that they will target if they are on the verge of going down. Beyond that, I don't see too much risks for the GCC. the Iranians will target military infrastructure, American military infrastructure or GCC infrastructure that the Americans are using. Beyond that, I don't see too much. Godliness says, why is China so quiet? It's abnormal because China is scared and there's nothing China can do to change the situation and it's humiliating. China is losing face. That's why they're very quiet, very abnormal, very unnatural. Chinese are very loud and aggressive. What happened now? Where have they gone? You see Galler says Modi chose not otherwise that this character for half a quip officially defended our right to tame PK knowing fully knowing the latter being a pet of its enemy. Tame Pakistan my PM would have followed a dharma just as he is doing now in for Indians. India for Indians have no combs. Let me try and understand what you're saying. Modi chose not otherwise had this character for half a quip officially defended our right to tame Pakistan fully knowing the Pakistan to be a pet of its enemy US my prime minister would have followed his dharma just as he's doing now India for Indians have no coms okay I'm not entirely sure what you're saying but all right thank you for Hey for your views sir thank you open to unlearn says pharma industry benefits financially when the people are unwell so how can you so how can you can we expect this industry to be fair no we can't we can't that's why I say that in a civilized nation the government should tax the citizens but if you are taxing your citizens you have you should provide free healthare and free education of the highest quality. Take the taxes, take the money from the citizens, but provide free education and free healthare. Don't allow education and healthare to become businesses. If you commercialize education and you commercialize healthcare, it will victimize the the citizens. It will exploit the citizens. Okay? So in a civilized nation, healthcare and education should be free, must be free as it used to be in ancient India. Gur TV says if Iran, the primary threat in the Middle East for Arabs is neutralized and sorted, then what justification would remain for the US to maintain its military presence in and bases in the region? I'm sure they'll find some. That's a great question. So look, if Iran is neutralized and sorted, will the Americans move out? No, no, no, no, no. Remember NATO, remember the cold war, 20th century? And then what happened? USSR broke up. So did the Americans disband NATO? No, no, no, no, no. They expanded NATO further and further and further further east until the Ukraine war was in inevitable. So if Iran is let's say hypothetically neutralized and sorted, what will the Americans do? Will they maintain their military presence? Will they dismantle it? I expected them to expand it and find some pretext for expanding it. Great question sir. Really now? Really now? Miss Patel says Kovi Shield Serum Institute was funded by Gates 2. Okay. I am not aware of that but okay I'll not be surprised if that is the case. Okay. Okay. Um, next question. Arismantic says requesting a fair update. What would Iran do if India was facing the situation instead? Iran would not let us fully connect with Afghanistan critical rail line not cooperation with Russia and India for north south corridor. So let's say India is facing the situation that Iran is facing right now that um the the two major powerful nations are attacking us. Okay. Iran would not let us fully connect with Afghanistan. Iran is not in the way between India and Afghanistan. If you look at the map, it's Pakistan that's between India and Afghanistan. Iran has nothing to do with India and Afghanistan. We are not able to build a critical train line, rail line or whatever between India Afghanistan because Pakistan occupied Kashmir is in the way right that's our territory and if we had that we would have direct access to Afghanistan and there's nothing Iran can do to stop us but considering the situation hypothetical scenario in which India is being attacked by two major countries more powerful than India what would Iran Iran would stay out of it. Iran would stay out of it. Iran would either remain neutral or it may possibly bow down to those countries and take their side for national interest, for self-interests. That's what Iran would do. That's a logical um thing to do. So that's that's what I think Iran would do in that in that situation. Anup says, "Sir, you are different. You are different. Be different. Love you loads." Thank you so much. Thank you. I know I'm different and it's okay to be different. It's okay. So, thank you so much. Godliness says, "It's been 79 years from 47, but still our lifestyle, living standards, eating habits, and civic sense remain disgustful. We can't blame everything on invaders. uh once I moved out I don't like here anymore. If you move out of India and you experience the standards of let's say first world countries you won't like being in India anymore. You may definitely still have an attachment to India. You'll try and visit as as soon as as frequently as is as is possible because you've got family here and got some kind of attachment to the land. But you will not be able to tolerate the the standards that you have in India. Yeah. So you can't blame that on the invaders. You can't blame that on the invaders. I think it's high time we we stop blaming the invaders and Gandhi and Nehu. I think it's high time we stop doing that. Right. Prrenit Kumar says is Hindu theocracy India's future to unite Hindus? Um I can't say to unite Hindus well every single day we have fewer and fewer Hindus in India I don't know I don't know I can't say where is manticor says to be honest on a geopolitical level India standing would go down a notch for now but Sukoy 57 purchase would enrage the US especially if we upgrade it um I would say if we even if we don't upgrade the soy 57 if we purchase it that would be sufficient to enrage the US Yeah. So right now India's standing has gone down more than a notch after India has taken the side of Israel in the US and not stood with Iran. Even if we had not stood with Iran but stayed neutral, it would not not be the exact same effect. So yes, India's geopolitical standing is definitely has gone down a couple of notches right now. Suka 57 purchase could kind of perhaps bring it up slightly. So yeah. Yeah. Smith Zeri says, "Is a naval war is a naval war being fought between the US and Iran?" Not right now. Not quite. Right now it's an aerial war mostly that's being fought. Not yet a naval war. Godliness says India will buy $500 billion worth of goods from the US in the coming years. I hope the US will not be asking to buy their th AAD or F35s out of the money. Or they will insist. They will try their best to make us buy everything and become completely dependent on them. They will try their best to arm twist India on becoming completely 100% dependent on them. So let's see. Let's see. I hope we don't buy those things. Kish S says Krish says thanks for your work. Love from California. Thank you so much sir. Thank you so much. Sunny California. Love it. Beautiful climate, beautiful weather, beautiful everything. Thank you so much. Putin says, "Daran Kandelwal is Russia paper tiger? Russia without without nukes is messed up?" Well, it's not exactly a paper tiger, but without nukes, it's um it stands no chance. Yeah. without the nukes, without the 5,000 plus nuclear warheads it has, uh, Russia is in deep deep trouble if it doesn't have that. So that that's the one thing that makes Russia powerful, those nukes. Knowledge seeker says, will Pakistan break? If yes, when? Well, as long as Pakistan has American support, Pakistan won't break. When will it lose American support? Not anytime soon. So Pakistan just to reiterate is an artificial temporary nation. It will break and disintegrate but that day is not soon really. Now Miss Patel says why doesn't the US send missionaries to the to the Gulf vas because that is a red line. That's a red line the Gulf nations will never allow anyone to cross. They will rather give up their life than to have Christian missionaries in their lands. And for the US, the Gulf vasals have a lot of utility in a variety of ways and they don't want to offend them. Get them to do the work for them. Right? So that's why the US doesn't do it. As Montor says, missed several sessions was free only today. Thank you for your contribution. The enemy wins if we let despair win. We must wrestle with it, not ignore it. This is our burden and karma. Well, thank you very much, sir. I'm glad you're here today. Uh, and thank you very much once again for your very kind words, and I completely agree with you. We must not let despair win. Don't ignore it. Wrestle with it. Fight it. Bear the burden and eventually we prevail. Thank you, sir. I agree. Bumendra Up says, "Why? What do we work towards to change the country as it is right now?" Because whenever people try to bring a major change, it is met with friction. How can we change this? We can change this by by each of us individually trying to raise our standards, be excellent and contribute in any meaningful way to the country. Let me give you an example. Let's say I know that you let's say you're not in politics. You can't do anything to change the system. You can't do anything to change the policies. You can't do anything to change the bureaucracy and so on and so forth. You're just an individual. But how about you become in 10 years a multi-millionaire then you will have the means to make some changes in the country in some way. Maybe at the in the private sector or whatever you'll be able to bring you know highquality people together and build something construct something. My point is each of us individually can contribute in a small way but if 1.4 four billion people do that it's going to be a massive change for India that's what we do so all of us that's what we need to do contribute in our own own small way in some shape or form or the other and you do that by raising your standards and and you do that by succeeding individually whatever personal selfish dreams and goals you have work on those and succeed that brings more positivity more success throughout the country. That's what you do. Knowledge seeker says, "Will Israel and India strike Pakistan? If yes, but then when?" No, not going to happen. Nope. Arismantic says, "I meant to transport corridor from Afghanistan to Chabahar." From Afghanistan to Chabahar. Okay. The north south corridor was not supported by Iran completely. Iran was too prickly about us finishing it. Well, Iran has we have high issues with with Iran, right? A transport corridor from Afghanistan to Chabahar. If India is in that situation, Iran will not give us that. Even if if it was there, it would no longer be operational. The INSTC, right, international north south transport corridor was not supported by Iran completely. Iran was too prickly about us finishing it. Yeah. Yeah. The Iranians have been obsidant about many things. One very small thing we once uh requested Iran for was for Iran to to give us some chittas. See the Asian chitha is extinct in India because the British massacred it. They genocided it. Our our cheetah but some cheetahs, a small population of chithas still exists in Iran which is the same species as our cat as our cheetah. So we had requested Iran in the 20th century. Please send us some cheetah so that we can reintroduce the animal in our in our land. They refused. They refused. They refused refused. They refused for decades and finally we got chithas from Namibia. So the Iranians have had these tendencies for whatever reason. I don't know why but whatever. Shas says curious to why Iran attacked UK and French air base. France France air base. most likely because those air bases are being used for military operations against them. That's the only reason I can think of. Nagarjun says Russia Ukan war has been going on for more than a year. No, it's been going on for close to 4 years now. Yeah, it's been more than four years now. February 22, now we are in March 26. 4 years. It's been going on for more than four years. Do you think with this do you think this war now will end in one or two months time or it would be going on for years? I think Iran has the firepower but no clear goal for now. Okay, about the Ukraine war, I don't see it ending in the next one or two months. I hope I'm wrong. I hope it ends next week, but I think it's hard for me to see that happening in the next couple of months. I hope I'm wrong. That's a It's been a disastrous war. Terrible for the civilians and I hope it ends at the earliest, but I think it's kind of unlikely it'll happen. It will end very soon. One or two months. I hope I'm wrong. Yeah, Daran Kandelwala has become a new member. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome to the channel's membership. I really appreciate it. Thank you. All right, that brings me to the end of today's live stream. Thank you. Um, okay, let's take this question. Sir is getting emotional toward the war. It's okay to take a backseat. They've blown the hell out of Russia. It's only practice. Okay. What are you talking about? What? All right. All right people. Let's let's end this live stream now over here. Uh thank you so much for the questions. Thank you for everything. Uh when should I do the next live stream? Maybe day after tomorrow. Maybe day after tomorrow. Let's see. Uh there's going to be a lot happening in this war unfortunately. So let's do a live stream most likely day after tomorrow. And I'm sure there'll be a lot more to discuss at the time. Until then, thank you very much everybody. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. Keep learning. And I will see you in the next one very soon. Until then, take care. Bye-bye. Good night. Good day.