Heat [Music] up [Music] Heat. Hey, Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome Welcome back to the Ask Abijit show. Today we are doing episode 270. That's quite a number, isn't it? Uh I hope everyone is doing great. Let me see who all is there on the live stream with me with us over here. I can see Mujio Africanos Ulas Swami Jin anonymous scientist. Draj Kamat says good morning. Well, good morning to you. Uh Anadi says good evening. Yash Got Shri Ramchandra Dungar Singh Chawan Shesh Chrian Chuma N2 Ritik Bad Mr. Jam Radhi Radi Abhishek Shivastav Geopolitical Dway from Indor Sumit Agarwal uh Pranav Anadi Daksh Vikash PJ Namaste Sena Sep Raj Krishna Giri good evening Aush Sin Singh Aush Singh Prane Paul from Kolkata Shiva Sai and who else do we have Aman Jot Singh has put in a super chat well okay atman mosha Rahul Dunak Kanesh Kanesh Koshik uh Manoj Zawar Anand Chandak Sandy 97 Adish Rajput Vikash again Chitan Aradhya Abhishek Tanesh Pand the civilizational warrior feminist slayer hunter duv durya truthful penguin Abhishek Shivastav Sumit Agarwal Bageshwar Army Makleven Vikas PJ Rajor Shik Good evening Tanmay Tanesh Pandy Ad swapil das tanoi Ankita Bushan and so many other people. So thank you so much all of you for being on the live chat. Somi Jane is from Jaipur, Mloin from Hawaii, Anumita Roy, Priyanka Javalia and everybody else Vimla. So yeah, so uh I'm going to take questions from that that you have asked in the comments as I'm as I hope everybody's aware and at the end if there is some time we're going to I'll take a few questions maybe from the live chat. What questions are we covering today? There's a whole lot of questions. Here are some of the questions. We're going to talk about Air India, the Air India crash, uh Russia. We're going to talk about Tibet. We're going to talk about Trump and the Epstein files. uh the Fiser bribery probe. Uh Elon Musk and his new party. We're going to uh talk about uh we're going to talk about uh these things here, citizenship, foreign policy, domestic policy, best countries. We're going to talk about Greece, Cyprus, Armenia. We're going to talk about bricks. We're going to talk about Argentina, Brazil, uh, China, BBC, Shikasina, nuclear weapons, B2 bombers, Thailand, Chingis Khan, agriculture to hunting, Arian invasion, Einstein, whether he's overhyped or not, cast and so many other things. That's some of the things we're going to talk about. I know that it's just a few questions, maybe 2022 questions. I know a lot of people have asked questions. U I won't be able to take all of them. The the objective, please remember, of this show is to take the best possible questions and the objective is to give the best possible most important information to as many people as possible through this show. So don't be unhappy or discouraged if your question hasn't been taken. The objective is to um discuss whatever is most relevant and important in the world right now. So let's get going with the questions. We're going to talk about this one first. Nimish Gupta says the preliminary crash report of Air India Ahmedabad's crash came out recently citing the mysterious turn off of fuel switches to the engines moments after takeoff even though neither of the pilots two pilots did it. How could this happen? What are my views? So there are it's it's the mystery is actually deepening rather than the mystery being resolved. So first of all this report has come out. um uh the government of India has put out this report. It's it's uh from uh a government agency that the report has come out and the government agency what is what is it called? I'm not sure. It's it's one of the government agencies and they put out the report. It's been but the funny thing the strange thing the curious thing is that the report seems to have been leaked before it was uh put out in the public domain for for the Indian public. So about a day before the report officially was published or or disclosed to the public, it was leaked to the Wall Street Journal, an American publication. That is very strange. The question is who leaked it? If it's a government agency that has prepared the report, then who from within the government leaked it to the Americans? This is very serious. It's not a joke. Is is our country a joke or what? Is it so easy to leak our sensitive and and important material to foreign countries before it is put out in the public domain for our citizens? A day before it comes out in front of our citizens, the Wall Street Journal has the findings and they put out the findings, whatever the findings are. And it's a preliminary report. It's not the final report. And according to this report, it looks like u there are this fuel switches in the aircraft uh which seem to have been both put to fuel cutff within 1 second of each other. So there's one for the left engine, one for the right engine. And uh it's it's not possible to simply just you know by by mistake accidentally put the switch to the off button or or to the put the switch to the off position or cut off position. you to pull it out then bring it down. Pull it out and bring it down. And there are these guardrails on both sides that prevent uh any accidental touch of those two uh switches. So the report says uh now how how do you how does the report figure out what happened? How did the investigation figure out what actually happened? Right? That's that's that's an important question that we we have to ask ourselves. So there are multiple things that go that that are used to investigate what happened. First of all, you have the actual crashed aircraft whatever is left of it. Uh you can um you know find the cockpit. It may be scattered and strewn strewn around but the switches generally stay in the position that they were left in at the end and so on. That's one thing. Then you have the aircraft uh the cockpit voice recorder and then there's the cockpit data recorder. And there are two of these. One is in the two of these are in the back side of the aircraft, one, two are in the front and uh these were recovered. So, so the voice recorder apparently uh there is a recording of one pilot asking the other. There were two pilots. One is the senior pilot, one is the junior one. There's one pilot asking the other why did you cut off the fuel? Essentially, paraphrasing. Okay, I'm paraphrasing here. Why did you cut off the fuel? And the other guy says I did not. And that's about it. There was not enough time to have a further discussion and then the aircraft crashes. That's what it says. Okay, that's what the report, the preliminary report says. And it says that those fuel switches were in the cutff position, which means that somebody manually set the two fuel switches to the cutff position, which means the the engines were the the the flow of fuel to the engines was stopped. That's what the report says. And apparently the the switches were found in the cutff position or something. U but it also says no they were not found in the cut off position because then apparently the switches were then reset to the on position. So the fuel was again restarted. The flow of fuel was again restarted to the engines. That's kind of what the report says. So if we go by what the report says, the aircraft takes off. It took off. Then one of the two pilots apparently as per the report cut off the fuel to both the engines and then there was a there was an interaction. One pilot asked the other why why did you do that and this guy the other guy says I did not do it and then the report says that the f the switches were again reset to the on position but by the time it was too late to save the aircraft because this all happened in a matter of seconds. That's what this report, this preliminary report says. Now the first question is why was this report leaked and who leaked it? Is this a joke? Is our country a joke that that these reports are to be leaked to foreign countries? Right? That's number one. Secondly, secondly, if there is this recording, okay, of a pilot saying to the other, of one pilot asking asking the other pilot, why did you set the fuel switches to the to the cutff position? Why isn't it being released to the public? If you go to YouTube, there are plenty of videos of uh is cockpit voice recordings that happened prior to crashes, aircraft crashes. So this is a very very important issue for the for for for for India and for for the sake of full transparency if such a recording exists then it should be released to the public to the to the to the public. It should be released by the government and and the actual authentic recording should be released. Today it's very easy to fabricate recordings. It's very Easy. Okay, looks like we are back. Surprising this doesn't happen usually, right? But uh looks like the there was an issue with the internet. Uh anyhow, my point is that look, today it's very easy to use AI to to create fake recordings to create fake uh yeah recordings of people. You can clone someone's voice easily and you can fabricate any kind of recording. You can even clone someone's face and create a video in which somebody appears to be saying something but it's an AI generated video. Similarly, you can create AI generated recordings. My point is that for the sake of full public accountability and transparency, if the government says that this happened, they should release the recording, the authentic recording to the public. Just saying that this happened is not going to cut it. I I I personally will not believe it. Okay. This has to be released to the public and it has to be the authentic recording. Then the question also arises like is it possible for these these fuel switches to to somehow automatically be shut down to to be set to the off position? Is it possible? Is it possible that there could be some software flaw that could a flaw that could cause the uh the system to interpret the switch as being being uh as been having um as having been turn set to the off position to to the cut off position. There are lots of questions. I think this preliminary report whatever it is it raises more questions than it gives answers. And obviously there are very big issues at stake over here. there's the credib there's the reputation and credibility of Air India that's at stake and even bigger than that there's a bigger company whose reputation is at stake which is Boeing and it has had issues uh so I think I am I am I'm I would say that it's too early to make any judgment I think we should wait and watch I think it's it's too early to jump to conclusions needs to handle this very carefully first of all whoever lead the report needs to be named and shamed and and sacked. Not suspended, sacked and and thrown into jail. This happens very just too often these leaks from the government of India from within the government of India. This happens too often there all kinds of issues. So my my views are that this raises more questions than answers. I am not convinced yet. I mean these sort of things have unfortunately happened in the past. German wings comes to mind 2015 then there was a Chinese aircraft that comes to mind. So these were cases in which the pilots themselves crashed the aircraft. Okay. There have been some cases very unfortunate cases like these. Is this one of those cases? I am not convinced yet. First of all, the question is who did the investigation? Am I audible? I think I'm audible now. Uh just please confirm on the live chat if if uh I am audible. There seems to be weird stuff going on today. Uh nothing yet. People are saying I'm not audible. Hello. Hello. Testing. Yes, I'm audible. Perfect. Okay, so this seems to be rather weird. First of all, the image goes away, then the audio goes away, whatever it is. Okay, we are back. I have fixed the issue. Uh, so I am not convinced yet and I think that the government needs to look into this very very seriously. Um and uh whatever evidence is there, it needs to be transparently made available to the people of India completely fully. And uh the question also is whether this was decoded the data was extracted at home in India in Delhi or wherever in India or was it sent outside of India in which case there is you know there is a full possibility of of something being manipulated. So uh I am not sure what is VK videos. I don't know whatever it is. Okay. So that is the the first uh question. So my answer is that my my views are that I am not convinced yet. I think we need to it's too early for us to jump to conclusions. We need to wait and watch. The government needs to set its house in order. Whoever leaked these things to the Americans needs to be caught and and made an example of. And secondly, whatever is actually the output of the outcome of this needs to be completely transparently put in in front of the public of India. Until that happens, um I'm going to wait and watch. I'm not going to uh rush to any conclusions. Okay. Right. Let's take question number two. I hope I am still audible. Yeah. Okay. What's the second question? Okay. This is by Ewan Singh. Why has there been no large retaliation from Russia after the significant escalation by Ukraine? Has Putin gone soft? Has Putin gone soft? So last month, I think around the around the 1st of June, uh Ukraine launched these long range strikes into Russia, right? Operation spider web in which um they they struck at Russian air bases thousands of kilometers within Russia um through a variety of means. We'll not go into that. and uh more than 10 Russian aircraft were destroyed and maybe more than 20 were hit and damaged. The Ukrainians claimed that more than 40 were hit but obviously that is an ex exaggeration. I think American intelligence itself has assessed that about 10 were dam were destroyed and total 20 were hit 20 2122 something like that that number. So that was significant right and there the there was the Kirch bridge in in uh the Crimean bridge that was hit and so on. So the Ukrainians have gone after the Russians. The question is has Putin gone soft? Has been has there been no real large retaliation from Russia after all these things? Well, if you watched my episode of Geost Strategy yesterday, you will know that Russia has recently like a couple of days ago launched its largest aerial assault assault on Ukraine. It fired more than 700 missiles and drones in a single attack. And that too, this attack was launched just a few I mean just a few minutes essentially after Putin spoke with Trump on the phone. So Putin said I'm going to escalate despite this diplomatic engagement that I'm having with the US. So that's a massive retaliation, right? And if you look at the statistics for the month of June, Russia launched more than 5,600 drones and missiles at Ukraine in the month of June itself. I'm not even talking about July. So there's no going soft. Absolutely not. You need to keep an eye on what's what's actually happening. Right. So Russia has not gone soft. Russia is actually escalating and it obviously wants to use this for uh for leverage during uh diplomatic interactions and negotiations. The better your position is on the battlefield, the more leverage you have on the diplomatic negotiating table. That is how it goes, right? Diplomacy doesn't mean that you just go and talk and say peace peace peace. No, you first achieve things on the battlefield. You achieve a superior position that you can use as leverage on the diplomatic table. Diplomacy is an extension of war. War is an extension of diplomacy. That's how it goes. The objective is to achieve your political uh and and geopolitical goals. So uh that's the situation currently. Okay. Pray Paul and uh SS etc. Say the question is about uh so prol says with the US department of justice quietly closing fizer's bribery probe and Trump dodging the Epstein questions isn't it clear that even US presidents have limits and some powers lie five be lie far beyond the white house was it all knows all of this just noise to win elections and the other question is with Trump refusing to release the Epstein files speculation seems to be going around that Mossad has a lot of leverage on the CI on the USA and other big folks in the deep state. What are my views on this? Okay, let's this Mossad angle is all speculation. It may have some there may be some truth to it. Okay, it's possible. But in the absence of any sort of evidence that points in the direction, we not going to discuss that here. Otherwise we we are just some other bunch of idiots doing conspiracy theory talk without any evidence. We're going to discuss things by based on whatever facts are out there available in the public domain. Okay. So what are the facts that are out there in the public domain? First of all, uh Trump has essentially you could say claimed that there there are no Epstein files. Well, Trump hasn't said it himself. It is uh uh the FBI that that is saying it, right? Uh what's his name? Kasha Patel. Cash Patel. He's the boss of the the head of the FBI and he's been going around on various podcasts saying that there there are no Epstein files. It simply doesn't exist. It's a myth. A few months ago, his boss Pam Bondai was saying that I'm going to release the Epstein files im imminently. Never happened. In a few months, the the the Epstein files seem to have evaporated into thin air. And now the stand official stand of the Trump administration is that these so-called Epstein files simply don't exist. So, well, and and in the run-up to the elections, it was all I'm going to release everything. I'm going to release the JFK JFK, the truth about the JFK assassination. I'm going to release the Epstein files. I'm going to release everything. Right. Trump was I remember asked in some some interaction some interview or some podcast that uh that will you be willing to release the Epstein files and he had kind of tried to dodge the question but grudgingly said yes to said something like yes but now the stand is that these Epstein files don't exist and Elon Musk has in the past rather recently made the allegation that Trump himself figures on the in the Epstein files okay that's the that's an allegation Elon Musk did he tweeted that on his platform X and then after a few days he deleted the the tweet and then he expressed regret that I shouldn't I I crossed the line I shouldn't have said that but if you look at old old videos that exist you can see Trump and Epstein together in during a party both dancing together and Trump pointing out various things to Epstein and both laughing etc. So there's there was a connection for sure for for sure. I'm not sure what kind of connection was there but it was there and well Elon Musk went went ahead and said that Trump figures on the Epstein files. He's one of those Epstein I don't know possibly clients I don't know allegedly right. Uh so that has been pushed aside swept under the carpet the Epstein thing. Uh then the Fiser bribery probe that also has been has been quietly closed that also been swept under the carpet. Uh so everything is being swept under the carpet. Who does it serve? It serves whoever was benefiting from this during the Biden administration and that's why people say it's the deep state. And I myself have said this before. I said this before the election happened. I said this last year if Trump I I had said at the time that there was a very little low chance that Trump would win. I was of the opinion that Trump would not win and I also said that if Trump does win it will mean that he has kissed the ring. Now kissing the ring is is a metaphor. It's it's it's something that you see in mafia movies. The Godfather the Godfather is this shadowy figure who has the ring. And to to prove to signal your allegiance to him, you got to go and kiss his ring that he wears on his on his well fingers. Right? So I said I had said this last year that Trump will win the presidency only if he kisses the ring of the deep state and becomes becomes what? Becomes uh an agent of the deep state. That's the only condition under which he wins otherwise there's no chance. So well he did win and initially he was like I'm going to go after the deep state. I have this department of government efficiency. I'm going to cut the fat, trim the fat, get rid of the all the bureaucrats and that's the deep state. He was trying to mislead the public and claim that by cutting by by by firing by sacking a lot of bureaucrats and and reducing the number of bureaucrats. I'm going after the deep state because the bureaucrats are the unelected unelected uh government officials who are the deep state. That's not the deep state, my dear friend. That's not the deep state. So what's the deep state? That's the question. Well, I've answered this many times in the past. Let me answer it again. If it does exist, it's going to be an extra constitutional, extra democratic, extra electoral uh power center that remains in power. No matter who comes to power as the president, no matter who wins, which party wins what election, doesn't matter. There's going to be a group of people, small group of people who are tremendously wealthy but completely unknown or at least not known and and they they control essentially the whole country and by extension much of the world. That's the deep state if it does exist. I'm not saying it exists, but if it does exist, I mean in most countries you have extra electoral extra democratic power centers, old power centers that persist. So that's the deep state and you know and and obviously lots of politicians are invested in in Fizer. They are in the pockets of Fiser allegedly and apparently lots of politicians are uh allegedly they figure in the Epstein files. Now the question again is what is the Epstein files? So Epstein is this guy who allegedly committed suicide. Nobody believes that right? a very very well-connected guy and he had this island and there are flight logs about which which record which exist which are out there in the public domain which record who are the people who who visited this island and very powerful very prominent presidents and and politicians a bunch of them are are frequent visitors regular visitors repeat visitors to Epstein island on which all kinds of horrific things are said to have happened okay I'll not go into that you can figure it out for yourself or find out for yourself. Okay, do that much homework. Uh and so and and the allegation like somebody there a mention of Mossad here, right? So the allegation or speculation is that Epstein was an agent of Mossad of Israel and he had all these politicians allegedly that the is the allegation that he had all the politicians come to Epstein island where did they did horrific things which are all filmed secretly and that gives whoever controls Epstein all that footage which gives them tremendous leverage over all these very powerful politicians American and other countries and all right. So they are then those politicians are there then under the control of whoever controls whoever owns the footage they own these politicians for life and apparently many of them are world leaders. So which means that whoever owns the footage allegedly of all the misdeeds they've done on the island they own these world leaders and these prominent politicians which means they can control the fate of the world. That is the speculation and allegation and there is no evidence of this in the public domain. None whatsoever. Which is why you can rightfully call it a conspiracy theory and which is why I will not discuss that angle further beyond what the allegation is. Right? Because there's no way of knowing. It's it's possible. It's even it may even be likely. But there's no evidence. There's not a shred of evidence of this in the public domain beyond those flight logs in which you have former presidents and all visiting and Elon Musk says even Trump visited. I've not seen it myself but that's what he claimed. So that's the deal. That's the deal. That is the situation. Uh so is it clear that US presidents have limits? I have been saying this for years. Obviously US presidents are have limits. US presidents don't really run the country. They are simply there to divert attention away from wherever the real power lies. I've been saying this for years, haven't I? I mean, look at Joe Biden. Do you think he was mentally competent to run a country like the US? And his deputy, the vice president, Kamala Harris, was she mentally competent to run a country? Neither of them was mentally competent to run a nation. But it was being run. It ran itself for 4 years. It did not run and run itself. somebody ran it. So clearly it doesn't matter who the president is. Okay. The the nation the whoever really runs the country they will get get their way and sometimes there's a president who may come along who may go against the wishes of the so-called deep state and then 1963 happens. So US presidents have to be very careful very very very careful. So well that's about it for this question. Okay. Uh what else do we have? Okay, now we have two questions here. Shri Ramchandraanaha and Prrenipal again. So recently the the chief minister of Arunachal Pradesh Shri Pimakandu said our border is with Tibet not China. Is this only a statement or is India hinting something? And once again the same question the Arunachal CM said our border is with Tibet not China. Is this a major geopolitical signal? Is the Tibet issue officially back on the table? Now we are raising the state the the the the heat on on China. I mean the chief minister of Arunachal Pradesh is an elected official of the government of India. Now so this statement that our border is with Tibet not China has been made at a very high level in the government of India at the chief minister level. It has not come from the central government yet but it is a clear message to China. It's a clear message to China and it all comes in the wake of what has happened recently. His holiness the Dalai Lama has made it very clear finally after me requesting him for many years. He has made very clear that he will indeed reincarnate and he will reincarn and and the process of of the selection of the next Dalai Lawa which is the finding of the reincarnation is going to happen without external interference which means that he will reincarnate outside of Chinese occupied Tibet or any Chinese occupied territory which means that the next Dalai Lama will most likely be based in Dhamala whenever it happens. So the current Dalai Lama the 14th Dalai Lama he is about 90 years old now. So well I hope he lives to 100 maybe beyond hopefully but eventually he's going to have to it's it's I mean it's it's normal right it's a biological thing you eventually move on you pass on you give up your body right and then as per our culture our civilization our beliefs the soul reincarnates so he will reincarnate and then there's a process of finding this reincarnated child who has been reborn and the sign the child will will show certain characteristics and all and you find that child and so on. The Chinese want to do that process within China. They want to have a Chinese Communist Party approved Dalai Lama, a CCP Dalai Lama. That's obviously a fake Dalai Lama. That's what they want. So India, so the very fact that his holiness has said that he's going to be re reborn, he will reincarnate. He will not attain Nirvana. will reincarn it and this will happen outside of Chinese control. It's a huge statement towards China and now uh the chief minister of Arunach Pradesh has made this statement. So it is an it is a signal that India is sending to China. We are hardening our position. We will not be pushed around. China wants to uh uh ally with Pakistan and use Pakistan as a geopolitical tool. Fine. Go ahead. Do whatever you want. But we're going to push back now. We're going to raise the stakes on Tibet. We're going to bring Tibet back to the status of a disputed territory. So, here is my official position on Tibet. Tibet is not Chinese territory. Tibet is illegally, illegitimately, and brutally occupied by China. It is under brutal, horrific, barbaric Chinese occupation. Tibet is not Chinese territory. Tibet has never been Chinese. Tibet is a disputed China ch disputed territory. Tibet is a disputed territory and India needs to support the cause of Tibetan freedom. So eventually Tibet will be free whenever it happens. That's the deal. So this is a hardening of India's stand on China visav on Tibet visav China because of Chinese provocations and China deserves it fully and they're not going to be able to get away with this uh their attempt to you know claim that Tibet is Chinese territory and Manserov has a Chinese name and Kailash has a Chinese name and and the process of the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama will be controlled of the Chinese Communist Party. none of that. And the problem is there are many Indians who are on the Chinese payroll. Some may not be on the Chinese payroll. Some may be unwittingly uh ending up supporting China and helping China's cause. But some are actually officially on China. I mean officially means behind the curtains but actually on Chinese payroll. There are certain so-called geopolitical analysts or very active on on on Twitter who clearly are Chinese agents. There are certain former uh political people who have have been at very high levels in the government of India in the past who are clearly Chinese agents. I'm not taking any names. Okay? And uh there are certain journalists who help China whenever whenever China needs help. And there are some journalists who seem seem to be idiots. I'm once again not not taking anybody's name but they also end up helping China. So yeah that is the situation but our position vizavi Tibet is hardening and that's the right way to go. Chandani Priya says please explain about this new political party launched by Elon Musk. Is it a drama staged by both Trump and Musk or is the deep state involved in it? Uh Praep Mitra says thank you sir. What could be the possible outcome of Elon Musk's new political party? Is there any chance for him to be successful in the US political field? Multiple questions all rel related to the same topic. So let's take these. Okay. Uh so Elon Musk has launched this new political party and he had put out a poll on poll on Twitter in which anybody could vote including non- US citizens uh asking whether he should create a political party and I think the po poll results said yes even though non-Americans could vote on it. So it's not like a proper poll but all right that's how it goes on Twitter I mean I've run polls on Twitter in the past it's now called X whatever in which obviously non-Indians can vote so it's not something that's binding or something you can show as evidence but whatever so um his so Elon Musk has created this new political political party and this is in response to this this so-called big beautiful bill of Donald Trump which Elon Musk describes as as debt slavery and that's something that resonates with a lot of Americans debt you know a lot of Americans aren't really well off I mean the per capita GDP is very high compared to India but there's a lot of Americans who have uh yearly incomes of 30,000 40,000 US you know which is below average and they they struggle to to make ends meet they generally have to you to work two three jobs just to put food on the table for their families. And there's all kinds of problems in America. The US is a wonderful place to live in if you are wealthy. But if you're not wealthy, it's it's it's could be could be described as hell. And if you're a student, my goodness, you start off your life after your education with a 100 2003 $100,000 of debt which you're going to spend the next 30 years paying paying off. What a horrific system it is. And medical uh care is extremely expensive. Dental care is extremely expensive. Everything is super expensive in the US. I mean, if you live in New York City, even even if you're earning $100,000 a year, it's barely enough to get by if you are alone. If you have a spouse and and and children, well, you got to earn $150,000 plus, I suppose, per per year just to have a decent okay uh quality of life. otherwise you're going to be in trouble. So, so there's a lot of most American citizens are are saddled with a lot of debt and Elon Musk has described Trump's bill big beautiful bill as something that uh that that uh you know it it perpetuates debt slavery. So that's going to resonate with a lot of Americans, a lot of poor Americans or or average uh income level Americans for sure. and then they're okay with this coming from a billionaire, the the wealthiest person in the world. So that is the deal. That's this political party and he and you know Elon Musk has this what uh former US president called a bully pulpit which is this huge platform. I mean Elon Musk I suppose is the most followed person on on X on Twitter and he owns the platform and he owns this this AI called Grock. Gro four has come out recently and uh Grock 4 whatever you ask it it's going to be in line the answer is always going to be in line with Elon Musk's u ideology and and uh worldview right so Elon Musk has got this very powerful platform that he can leverage to build up his political movement if he wants to so he has launched this new political party it's it's it's in the nent phase right now it's it's just in beginning phase. Uh the question is is is this a drama that's been staged by Trump and Elon Musk together? Is the deep state involved in it? I think there's a 50% probability. I think not 50% maybe maybe 30% chance that Trump and Musk are working together and pretending to be fighting pretending to have this rift and eventually they will reconcile at a future date. I think there's a 30% chance of this happening. Okay. over the next three years. At some point in time, they will reconcile and and join forces. That's also a possibility. Uh and if Trump is involved in this, then the deep state is involved in this because Trump has kissed the ring. Trust me on this. Trump has kissed the ring. And even if Trump isn't involved in this, Elon Musk has kissed the ring. So whatever happens, whichever way it goes, the deep state, if it does exist, it's involved. Okay? I mean Elon Musk, he serves the geopolitical agenda of whoever is in power. Everything he does serves the geopolitical agenda. Whether it is Starlink, whether it is Space X, whether it is Tesla, whether it is whatever else, he is an integral component of the overall long-term geopolitical strategy of the US. Everything he does, it it helps the US geopolitically. Uh so obviously he's going to have deep state connections whether you know it or not whether you realize or not. Okay. Now the question is what could be the possible outcome of this new political party? Is there any chance for him to be successful in the US political field? First of all please understand if you aren't if you are a US citizen but you were born outside the US. If you are born in a foreign country, you are not eligible to be the US president unless you Barack Obama. I mean there have been allegations that he was born outside of the US. Trump himself has made these allegations repeatedly. So I am simply I am I am not pushing or peddling a conspiracy theory. I am simply saying what the current US president has said on very on a very large number of occasions. The current president of the US has said that Barack Obama was most likely born outside of uh US territory which should have made him ineligible to be US president but whatever things anything goes in the US. Uh now Elon Musk we know for sure was born outside the US. He was born in South Africa. He was born a South African citizen and then he acquired US citizenship through a long winding roads I mean pretty easily compared to Indians but yeah uh so obviously that means just like Arnold Schwartzenegger he can't become US president so then the question is why is Elon Musk doing all this I mean isn't he supposed to have a very clear objective take humanity to Mars and become king of Mars so why is he wasting his time playing these political names. But maybe there is a good reason for it. I'm not sure what the reason is. Maybe he has a good reason for all of this. Uh how viable is this political party? What's the possible outcome? Is he going to be successful in the US political field? Well, if you want to be successful in politics, you have to devote your full attention to politics. You have to become a full-time politician. You can't be a guy who runs the most successful space launch company, SpaceX, who runs runs the most successful electric vehicle company, one of the top top five, top three, which is Tesla. You're also running u uh Starlink, which is the number one satellite constellation, satellite internet constellation in the world. You have all these things you're running, but you also want to be in politics. You have to choose one of the two. or maybe Elon Musk's party could could I don't know since he can't be president will they put up a presidential nominee a candidate who is not Elon Musk. So, I think it's it's right now pretty um unclear, but what is clear is that Elon Musk has the platform and if he plays the game right, he can he can turn this into a huge movement simply because he's the most followed person on Twitter and he owns Twitter and he owns uh Grock this AI system which people refer to all the time. If you look at Twitter, the Indians, I mean, not just Indians, people all over the world, they'll keep factchecking by asking Grock, "Hey, Grock, is this true?" They don't want to do do their own research. So, he's either asking Grock if it's if something is true or asking perplexity on on Twitter, but that's how it goes. So, Elon Musk has this huge advantage. And in the future, he can even, you know, push Perplexity down if he wants to because he owns the platform. So, I think there's a tremendous amount of potential there. And if he plays the game right, he can turn this into a huge movement. So that's where this could go in the future. Okay. Geopolitical Dubai says if bricks, okay, bricks doesn't have a K, it's B R I. But I know I get what you mean. If B bricks does not pose any threat to US mighty dollar, then why is Trump frustrated with bricks? Look, bricks doesn't have a currency of its own and India has made it very clear that uh we are not in support of any bricks currency right so if India doesn't want a bricks currency then most likely a bricks currency won't happen unless China and Russia decide that India is going to be sidelined and marginalized or maybe pushed out of bricks which would then make bricks kind of irrelevant right um so that's the conundrum for for China Russia obviously is not anti-India but they are very strongly dependent on China which is why they have this issue. uh so a bricks currency won't happen but what bricks can do is that see first of all bricks bricks has its new development bank which is based in China but whatever so it's an it's an alternative that n that nations have an alternative to the world bank and the international monetary fund instead of going to the world bank or the IMF you could go to the new development bank which is part of which is owned by bricks uh that's one thing secondly even if the bricks nations don't uh even If bricks as as a group doesn't create its own currency, it can certainly ensure that the use of the dollar goes down over time. So bricks nations can decide that we're going to trade in our our own currencies. If it's India and South Africa that are trading, maybe the trade will be done using the South African brand and the Indian rupee. If it's India and the UAE, then it could be the the rupee dirham thing. If it's India and Russia, it could be rupee rubal. If it's China, Russia, it could be rubal, yuan and so on. So keep the dollar dollar out that and and bricks is a big group now it is in terms of cumulative GDP it's it's larger than the G7 nations now. So bricks matters and that's why Trump is is is and the US they're worried about bricks. So that's the that's the deal. You know, bricks can really put a huge dent in the in the uh in the usage of the US dollar worldwide and a lot of that will depend on what India decides to do. So that's the reason why Trump has this huge problem with bricks and that's why he's going after bricks. Shri Ramachandra Naha says, "What is India doing to increase its influence in countries like Argentina and Brazil as they have lithium and other rare earth reserves." So if you may be aware, Prime Minister Modi recently visited both nations. He was in Brazil. He was in Argentina. He uh was on a state visit to Brazil. He was received by uh the Brazilian leader Mr. Lula. And I think that's one of the reasons why Xiinping did not visit visit Brazil for the uh bricks summit. He chose to stay away. Uh President Putin did participate in the bricks summit virtually because of various issues because there's an arrest warrant out against him right because of the Ukraine war. So he did not want to take the risk of traveling all the way there. That's I think sensible. But he did participate Mr. Putin in the brick summit virtually. Xiinping, President Shri, he did not travel to Brazil and he did not even participate virtually. It's because of the uh state visit of Prime Minister Modi and Mr. Modi getting uh so much uh coverage and and the the focus the attention being on Prime Minister Modi and Mr. Xinping can't can't have that, right? He's got to be number one. So, it doesn't work. So, now the point is Mr. Modi was in a state visit to Brazil. Brazil has all these lots of natural reserves resources and Mr. Modi also visited Bueno Sai and met with Mr. Mle the leader of Arantina. So Mr. Modi himself is is taking the initiative of establishing and strengthening not establishing but strengthening a countryto- country relations with between India and Brazil, India and Argentina and this has to be now taken forward u at various levels in the in in the respective governments and this needs to be operationalized and we need to have uh maybe certain Indian companies can possibly set up uh factories or whatever operations mining operations or whatever in Argentina possibly if it's if it works in Brazil pro possibly if it works and you know uh that could be great for India but the bigger issue is that we ourselves have lithium reserves and rare earth reserves what are we doing to operationalize those to utilize those I mean why can't we have Indian companies set up mining operations within India there was recently talk of India finding huge lithium deposits in Jammu and Kashmir and in other And we also have significant rare earth reserves that are known and maybe if we look for it we we may find even more rare earth reserves reser reserves in India. So it is good that we are we are uh doing whatever doing our best to have great relations with Brazil and Argentina and possibly operationalize some some kind of agreement visav the rare earths and lithium and all that but we also have our own reserves and that is something we should not overlook. we should set up mining operations within India. It's very important. These are very important resources. Uh and geopolitically very important. So yeah, that's what needs to be done. But when it comes to Brazil and Argentina, uh the government is doing its best to you know not increase influence but but uh to to strengthen relations so that we can uh possibly benefit from the resources they have to offer. Okay. Um, Mclovin and the civilizational warrior have questions related to the same topic. As India is selling weapons to Armenia and probably Greece in the future, which goes against the interests of Turkey, does it mean that India is getting into arms trade and spreading its geopolitical leverage outside the subcontinent, giving a tit tit fortat response to Turkey? And can India form a military partnership with Greece, Cyprus, Israel and Armenia and together work to counter Turkeykey's influence? J Banani J Banani J Shivaji. Okay, let's take a look at the map to understand the the situation. Give me a second. Okay, let's put the map on the screen and let's uh take the text away and let's imbigon this. Um maybe this is better. Okay, so the region we're talking about is the nations around Turkeykey's periphery. Turkey is a pretty large nation as you as you can see here. So we're talking about Cypress. The northern part of part of Cyprus was occupied by Turkey in the 1970s and about a third of the island is under Turkish occupation. Okay. And it was clearly an act of aggression. U then you have Greece which Turkey has this historical enemy with because Turkey has taken Greek territory. The whole of Turkey whether it is th whether it's Anatolia was originally Greek territory. It was usurped by the Turks by force, right? And all these cities in in Turkey used to be Greek cities. And obviously some of them would have been founded by the Turks, but these are very old cities, many of them. For example, Arzurum was a Roman city. This city here, Arzurum. Um, and so many more. I'll not I'll not go into the details. And then you have nations like Armenia, which Turkey wants to wipe off the map of the world. And Turkey is using Azarbaijan as a proxy to do this to Armenia. The great dream that Turkey has is to create a panuran corridor wiping Armenia off the map of the world and creating this this corridor all the way from Turkey to the Turkish central Asian nations like Turkmanistan, Usbakistan, Kazakhstan and so on. The only Central Asian nation, Central Asian nation which is not Turk is Tajakistan which is an Indo-Iranian nation. So the Turks want to do that. Now Turkey is a well this is a see you could argue that this is something that's happening far away from India. What's the distance from here to let's say Turkey? It's about 2 and a half thousand kilometers. Okay from from India to Turkey roughly. So why does this concern India is what many people would possibly ask naively and I don't blame you for it because you may not know about it. The thing is that Turkey has consistently supported Pakistan and they have consistently uh supported Pakistan's terrorist activities against India and Pakistan's illegal illegitimate claims to Jammu and Kashmir. Turkey has consistently supported that and Turkey also sells weapons to Pakistan. Okay, drones and whatnot and maybe there's intelligence sharing, maybe there's other other stuff also that's happening. So that's the deal and that's the problem. So now for the longest time we were a soft nation, a soft state and we just simply uh accepted all all that happened to us passively. But now this government the Modi government is not that sort of government and we are no longer sitting back passively and allowing things to happen. So what India is doing so okay now now that we we have discussed this let's uh remove that. Here we are back here. Uh and where's the question? So the question is what is India doing? So first of all we we have been supplying various kinds of weapons to Armenia which is a very ancient nation with old ties with our our civilization and this nation is simply trying to survive and Turkey wants to wipe it out. Turkey and Azarbaijan want to gang up and wipe Armenia out. So India is supplying various kinds of very potent weapons to Armenia. First of all we have radars, Swati radars. Then we have the the Pinaka multiarrel system which is a very dangerous very scary uh rocket system. Then the Akash system which is a battle tested probably the best anti- uh aircraft air defense system in the world right the Akash system. So we are supplying these weapons to Armenia through Iran. I mean the deliveries are said to have happened via Iran. Very interesting. So Iran and India, Iran is a Islamic nation. India is a Hindu nation. So an Islamic nation is teaming up with a Hindu nation to ensure the survival of a Christian nation which is Armenia. Very interesting stuff that's happening. And who is supporting Turkey and Azarbaijan? Two two Sun two Sunni Islamic nations. It's the Jewish nation Israel that's supporting them. Israel is supporting Azarbaijan and by extension Turkey. So in Israel and India are on opposite sides of the war here. Do you understand? They're on opposite sides of the conflict. So uh to answer the question of the civilizational warrior here, there's no point there. there's no way we can create this military partnership which includes Israel because Israel is is working with Turkey and Azarbaijan and and they are working towards wiping Armenia off the map of the world. So Israel is not going to be in this coalition in this partnership but we are partnering with Turkey. So what am I saying? We are partnering with Greece with Cypress. Cypress is a Greek region with Greece with with Cypress and with Armenia and uh we will most likely be possibly potentially uh supplying weapons to Greece as well. We have very good weapons. Uh so that's the situation. So we are creating an anti-Turic coalition of nations. We are supporting all the nations that are that Turkey is threatening and we are we are doing legitimate arms sales. We're not doing anything hanky pangy, anything uh that is not allowed by international law. So perfectly good, perfectly fine. Um so yeah, what we're doing goes against the interest of Turkey because Turkey has been going against our interest for decades. Um so this does expand our geopolitical leverage beyond the Indian subcontinent. it goes now our our our leverage if you want to call it that will extend to the Mediterranean region the eastern Mediterranean region and the in Greece and Cyprus and all that yeah it is a welldeserved tip for that response to Turkey now we're going to take it further I'm sure we are becoming um um notable arms exporter we are not not yet a major arms exporter but we have weapons very good weapons battle tested weapons that many countries now desire they want. Right? So we are certainly going into that. I am pretty sure we will not sell the Brahmos to Greece, Cyprus or Armenia because of various reasons, but we will definitely sell various kinds of cruise missiles and anti-aircraft systems to these nations and possibly other kinds of missiles. We'll see. So yeah, it's I think it's it's these are very good moves by India. Right. Next question. This is by Ubendran. Historically, China has lost every single war it fought on Chinese soil. That's a good point you make. It's a point I've been making for a while, for a while, for years. So in a in a hypothetical scenario, if suddenly war erupts between India and China, if we take the war inside Chinese territory, if Indian soldiers enter into China, let's say we invade Tibet and we have taken the war inside Chinese mainland, can we win? And also please explain what the current political situation in China. Many things should be happening inside Chinese politics at the moment. Okay, we're going to discuss the the the China factor. You are right. uh China has historically lost all wars they have had to fight on their own territory when they have invaded other nations. They have in the past won on some occasions. I mean the last war China fought was in 1979 where China attempted an invasion of Vietnam and that was a war China lost. China got a beating. China got a bloody nose in that war. Little Vietnam compared to China. Vietnam is little little Vietnam beat up the Chinese, defeated the Chinese. It was a disaster. It was a very bad start, you could say, to Deng Shopping's political career, not his career as the as the leader of China, but anyhow, he was able to recover from that. Um, but in the past, for example, 1962, they attempted an invasion of India and they were able to capture some Indian territory, which they still hold. That was a victory. It was it was defeat for India. 1967 they tried something else and that's a war they lost to India in 1987 or something. Sundarang Chu or whatever it was that was uh that that was another set of battles the Chinese lost to India and so on. Uh but historically I mean go back the past 2,000 plus years whenever somebody has made the Chinese fight on their own territory which means China was invaded. Whenever that's happened, the Chinese have lost. That's a pattern. I mean, I did this podcast a few years ago with Dr. Edward Lutwak, and he said that all it takes to defeat China is three guys on horseback. Okay, it's a humorous statement to make, but it's kind of true. You you need three guys on horseback if you want to defeat China. You need to get into into Chinese territory, the Chinese will lose. So, that's the pattern. That's a humorous way of putting it but it's it's kind of true. So now the question is okay let's let's uh where's where is map? Yes we we will see the map. Uh here we have the map. So north of India we have Tibet. Chinese occupied Tibet and Chinese occupied Singinjang. Singinjang was historically Kushan territory. Tibet was obviously historically and has always been Tibetan territory and so on. Um the real China lies over here. All of this territory north of India is Chinese occupied territory. It's not really Chinese territory. Um so the question is if there's a war in the future between India and China and we take the war inside Chinese territory then what happens? Do we can we win? The point is this. See China has no love for Tibet or Shinjang. These are not Chinese territories. They these territories are valuable for China because of the natural resources available water very important natural resource uranium rare earths copper all kinds of resources are available in the region and that's why these regions are important for China and also because it gives the China a territorial advantage right these are the reasons why these are the reasons why these regions are important to China but these are not Chinese territories let's say we cross over into Tibet and we we capture let's say Lassa. Well, it's it's a setback for China, but it's not Chinese territory. The real Chinese territory is here. Okay? And the Chinese don't care about the population in Tibet or Shinjang. If those people something happens to them, the Chinese will not weep for them. So, if you want to really defeat China, you have to fight on actual Chinese territory, which is these regions. Zanadu, Shanyang, Chongqing, Yangyang, Xingyang, Cha and so on. Okay, that's how you defeat the Chinese. But the point is, look, we don't have those expeditionary forces that can fight so deep into Chinese territory. So my point is, if there's a war between India and China, we have to not allow the Chinese to cross the LC. We have to cross the LAC, take the battle into Tibet. the the the supply lines for China are very very like it's it's easy to cut those off. Obviously, the Chinese have certain advantages like strategic bombers and whatnot, but it's not that difficult to ch to cut off Chinese supply lines into Tibet and the Chinese positions in Tibet are pretty exposed. The Chinese have been doing their best. I will show you if you like what they've been doing north of the LAC. Let us let us let us do that. Let's let's take a look at the Chinese positions north of the LAC. I mean right above the LAC. Let's do that. So let's go to for example uh the Ladak region. Okay. Uh where is Ladak? This is Ladak. If we go to the Pangong lake for example, the Chinese have positions uh north of the Pangong right north of Pangong. Uh so where is our place called uh Chushul? Okay, north of Chushul. If we go north of the lake, there are Chinese positions here. And if I were to look here, look at look at the Chinese entrenchments. These are Chinese bases, okay? Military bases. You can see they are well dug in. They have created these these little mounds over here. Uh almost like trench warfare. Look at all these positions. This is like very well entrenched and they it's like they they are prepared to fight a defensive uh battle over here. As you can see over here, it's not just buildings, but they have created this these mounds around the buildings to to ensure survivability. Look at this here. See all of this. These are all Chinese positions. And they have look at this. Look at these bunkers that they have built over here. Very well done. So, it's very difficult to just wipe them off even through missile strikes or Brahmo strikes because they are well spread out. Uh if you look here these lines of bunkers you will find and I can just go on I can I can do a 1 hour tour of the Chinese positions uh north of Pangong. They have they even have these uh these positions right off the lake. They have created these roads over here. They they are supposed to have boats and even many submarines in the region. As you can see the lake is frozen over here and so on. Uh so the point is if you if you want to defeat the Chinese in a future war you have to take the fight into Chinese occupied Tibet and Chinese occupied Shinjang. It's not enough to simply fight a defensive war. You have to defeat them on territory they control and occupy. So yeah that's the situation and that's the deal. Uh Nazif Nazifa Rahman says happy guru. Oh well thank you so much ma'am. Uh what do you think of the recent lowquality BBC report of Shik Hassina? So the BBC has recently come out. Let's let's do a Google search. What is the BBC claiming? Uh let us see. Let's do a Google search. BBC Shikh Hasina. They have come out with a report recently which which alleges that Shik Hasina authorized violence against students. BBC Shik Hassina Shik Hassina BBC see Shik four days ago Shikh Hassina authorized deadly Bangladesh crackdown leaked audio suggests see they they are covering their backsides by saying by using the word suggests so they are not really uh owning up and they're not really uh saying that it it confirms they're saying it suggests So that way they can say that you know we did not make a definite claim. We simply say said that this so-called leak audio suggests that Bangladesh leader Assena authorized this deadly crackdown. Uh so it's it's it's very poor very lowquality journalism. Anybody can create a voice clone of somebody. It will cost you what like nothing to create a voice clone of somebody and and have any any kind of said thing that is spoken. You can create a voice clone of Osh Kasina and have that voice clone AI generated voice clone say anything you want and the question is how did they obtain this nonsense? Who gave it to them? Is that person is that source reliable? Have you disclosed the sources? No, we don't disclose our sources. Our sources are confidential. Then you're just making up stories, right? the BBC well you know the BBC it's it's a tool of the deep state it's a tool of the US it it serves the the geopolitical agenda and they have this they've always had this great hatred towards India and Shri Kasina was pro- India which is why they hate her by extension uh so my what's my view on this I think this is nonsense we don't need to take it seriously we should not take this nonsense seriously uh the Question is if India had not developed nukes how would our relations with the US be today as Dr. Abdul Gulam said only strength respects strength. Uh okay. Well, if he did say that he is absolutely correct obviously right strength respect respects strength. Uh imagine a world in which India doesn't have nuclear weapons. See why is the US giving special consideration to India right now. Trump has made all kinds of threats against India, tariff threats and whatnot. And he imposed the July 9 deadline to on India for a trade deal with the US. Well, today is July what 12th, right? The July 9 deadline has come and gone. We have refused to sign a trade deal with the US. Has he imposed any tariffs on us? He has not. And he's saying that maybe in the next 48 or so hours there's going to be a mini trade deal which will be the first step towards a a more comprehensive trade deal down the road. But he has imposed 50% tariffs on Brazil which is a US vasal. He's imposed tariffs on Canada. I think 40% tariffs on Canada. Another US vasal. He has imposed I don't know what tariffs 15% or whatever it is on Japan and South Korea. He's imposing he's essentially conducting a trade war against his own allies and was but he has backed down when it comes to India. Now what does it mean? Is he afraid of Indian nuclear weapons? He's not. But India is super valuable to the US because the Chinese are afraid of us of Indian nuclear weapons. You understand that if India did not have nuclear weapons today, India would nobody would think of India. You may have the fourth largest economy in the world, but if you don't have that hard edge that nukes bring, nobody cares. You're a soft state. Your economy it's is is is it's good for nothing unless you can defend the economy. And the ultimate defense is nuclear weapons and the means to deliver those nuclear weapons. So if India had did not have nukes today, nobody would take India seriously. Nobody would take Prime Minister Modi seriously. Nobody would take us seriously at all. India would be just another soft state. Look at what happened to Iran. Iran has been developing nuclear capabilities for decades. But they have always been afraid to take the final step. So see what happened to them. A little Israel came and beat them up and then Donald Trump dumped bunker busting bombs on their facilities, nuclear facilities for Natans, for Iswahan and so on. Can someone dare to do that to India? Not possible. So if India had not developed nukes, then India would be in a very difficult situation today. Very very vulnerable position today. So yeah, at least that's one good thing we did back in the day. Right. Right. Okay. So Khadaka says Pong Shinawatra's audio leak was a planned leak or was it okay? Was this a planned leak or was this an accidental thing? She seems like Miss Sana Marin today was my dick. This was leaked. So here's the situation. I've explained this in great detail on one of my previous geost strategy episodes. The the border dispute between uh Cambodia and Thailand. It's not a border dispute. It's a temple dispute. Okay, let's let's put that on the screen. I'll just quickly cover this today. So, the entire controversy was all about the Thailand Cambodia border dispute. The Priya Vihar temple. Priya Vihar temple. So, here it is. So let's first zoom out to see where it is located. It's between Thailand and Cambodia. It's an ancient Shiva temple that was built by a Kmare king a thousand years ago, King Surya. And if you look here, you can see this is a very it's a pretty extensive ancient temple. Multiple goas. The government of India is helping restore one of the Gopuras over here. Okay. It's a pretty extensive temple. It was a shite temple. It's built on top of a hill and both nations claim it. Both nations, as you can see, this is a hill. It's a small hilly hilly place. And both nations claim this territory, this temple, not the territory, the temple. And both nations have almost essentially gone to the brink of war for this temple. It's it's a ruined temple. There's nothing uh of of of value from a western perspective over here. It's a ruined temple, thousand years old. But both nations rever this temple and it's not even a Buddhist temple. Both nations are officially Buddhist nations. This is a Hindu temple, a Shiva temple. But both nations claim it and both nations want it no matter what the cost. Okay. So now this is and in 2008 the nations the two nations went to the brink of war for the temple. Then the ICG came in the way and gave the temple to Cambodia. But there was some language in the judgment that is still kind of uh um a little ambiguous and that's why this thing has carried on. And earlier this year there was another border clash firing on both sides. I think at least one or two soldiers died and the whole thing became tense again. So the prime minister of of Thailand her name is Mrs. Pythan Shinavatra. She comes from a very prominent uh political family. Her dad was prime minister of Thailand. I think one of her siblings was prime minister of Thailand and so on. So she is the prime minister of Thailand. The leader of Cambodia is a gentleman called Hunen. He is the well still the leader you could say. Uh let's let's quickly look up Mr. Hunen. So first of all let's look up pay to shinata. This is the lady who is now no longer uh the prime minister of uh Cambodia. And let's look at Mr. Hunen. So he's the man. He's the man, the strong man. When I was a kid, he was this young army soldier. I remembered him. This is what he looked like. And now he's a pretty elderly elder statement uh statesman of Cambodia. He's no longer the the president or whatever it is, but he is still the most powerful man in the country. And he was previously the prime minister of Cambodia. So he's the guy you talk to if you want to have um any diplomatic meaningful diplomatic dialogue with Cambodia. The highest level is Mr. Hunen. So Python Shinawatra when while she was prime minister she spoke on the phone with Mr. Hunen about this territorial dispute and looks like Mr. Hunen recorded that and in this phone conversation she was very polite very differential to Mr. Hunsen, she called him uncle and she kind of criticized her military and their behavior and Mr. Hunen leaked this. So it was not accidental, it was a planned leak and he brought her down and uh yeah, so now you have another situation in Thailand. So that's the whole deal. So behind the context of all of this is the territorial dispute. The dispute over this ancient Hindu temple Shiva temple which both nations claim and Cambodia currently has control over. Okay. Amisha says please explain Chingis Khan's genetic legacy. Is it true that one in 200 men are direct descendants of Shri Chingis Khan? This is a myth that has gone on for more than 20 years. I think it was in 2003 that I think it was National Geographic or whoever that published a report based on some genetic research. They claimed that one in 200 men is a descendant of Chingish Khan based on genetic information. So there is this there's the concept of a haplo group. I've discussed it lots of times. Let me once again tell you what a haplo group is. A haplo group is a group of people who are alive today and they all have they all descend from one single individual who lived several centuries ago and that individual in that individual there was a genetic mutation that was then passed down and the the hypo group is the group of people who all share that genetic mutation which originated in a single person in the past. So it's a genetic lineage essentially a haplo group. The most prominent most widespread haplo group is called R1 A1A or R - R M17 which has very significant number of people in India and a very significant people of number of people in Eastern Europe and this is supposed to be the believed to be the HLO group that was responsible for the spread of the Indo-Uropean languages and so on. There's a big controversy about the origin of R1 A1A. Was it in Europe? Was it in Central Asia? Was it in India? And that's the crux of the RN invasion theory. Lots of people talk about that and it's not really the the right way to look at it, but that's different story. So when it comes to this issue of Chingghis Khan, um there was a there was a 2003 research paper I believe that National Geographic referenced in which there they found they discovered that a very large number of people in Eurasia and all the way into the Pacific Islands they descend from a single haplo they're all members of a single haplo group whose origin was in Mongolia about a thousand years ago. Now Chunghis Khan lived about 800 years ago roughly 850 years ago. I think around that time he was born. So that's close enough right? So to publicize the paper they claimed that this was Chingis Khan who was the originator of the Haplau group and he's the guy who's the ancestor of millions of people today. But that was completely wrong. Why was it completely wrong? The first question is what proof did these researchers have that one man Chingis Khan was the originator of the haplo group. What proof did they have to conclusively prove that Chingis Khan was the originator? They would need his DNA, right? They would need his DNA. They would need a piece of hair, a fragment of bone, some kind of physical sample of his body. And that's not available because Chingish Khan's body has never been found. His resting place has never been found and I promise you it will never be find found. So they don't have a single sample of his DNA. They don't have any sing a single sample of the DNA of his sons or grandsons. Absolutely nothing. So how can they claim that this group of people was descended from Chingis Khan? We know that this haplo group it originated about about a thousand years ago. That's what this uh study in 2003 showed. But then there was another re research that was done in 2018 I think in which they showed that this haplo group actually originated about 2,300 years ago. So the ind the original person in which this genetic mutation happened that person lived about 2,300 years ago. So then where's the then it completely destroys this claim that Changish Khan was the originator of the Haplo group. Now clearly the HLO group originated in Mongolia and the Mongols are nomadic people and they spread all across the world especially after the rise of Chingis Khan. Mongol soldiers spread all across Eurasia and in a few short years after Shingistan's death they were occupying Russia and obviously there's going to be genetic intermingling of people there. So it's it's and lots of Mongols eventually became Muslims in in the Turk regions and they became Turkishized Turkified. So these Mongolian genes would have spread all across Eurasia. It has nothing to do with Chistan. Jingish Khan had a handful of children, four sons. Uh what are the names? Uh Chagatai Ogadeay. Uh and and two more. Uh yeah, I forget right now. And he had some daughters as well, obviously. That's that's from his his queen. Uh her name was Borth. Borte. And I'm sure that he had other other concubines as well, but her children were never in line for the succession obviously. So maybe let's say he had 50 children or 100 children. Even then it doesn't explain this the widespread of this of of Mongolian genetics which originates in 2000 uh about 2,300 years ago. So this entire story that Chingis Khan was a prolific father of children or whatever this is a complete myth absolute myth and there have been you know people have twisted this story to claim that he was a prolific rapist which is once again absolutely untrue utterly untrue. If you look at the Mongolian law that he had applied across the lands he controlled, assaulting a woman in any way was was punishable with death. Okay. So, and he would have no moral authority to uphold such laws if he himself did not if he himself broke those laws. And so, the point is this is this is all a lie. It's not true that one in 200 men are direct descendants of Changist Khan. He surely I'm sure has lots of descendants who are alive today all the way from Russia all all the way to I'm sure Eastern Asia but I am sure any man who lived a thousand years ago will have thousands tens of thousands of descendants today or woman for the sake for that matter so uh this this urban myth about Changistan is completely false and it's it's it's sad that you know someone of somebody like him is maligned in this manner that the west hates non-western people who succeed and Chinghan was the was greater than Alexander and clearly certainly less brutal and less cruel than Alexander but they have portrayed Chingghistan as the most brutal and crulest king of all and Alexander as some kind of saint you know great Alexander the great but Chingishan was greater than Alexander he had a greater territory greater empire he achieved so much more but he's not called Ching is the great. So that is how it goes. You see bias says how did we end in agriculture from hunting? Mr. Yual Noa No Yu Harari said that hunting is pretty easy compared to farming which is why transforming from hunting to agriculture is unlikely. What are my thoughts? Well, if that was the case, why did the whole world take up agriculture? How were there multiple Neolithic revolutions? Uh the the origin of agriculture in the Indian subcontinent goes back 17 18,000 years and there's plenty of evidence of this in the Gangetic region, the Ganga plane, the Ganga Valley about 13,000 years before today. And then there was a neo there was this Neolithic revolution in the fertile crescent region which is between the two rivers, the Euphrates and the Tigris that happened about 10,000 years ago apparently. And then there was an independent Neolithic revolution in South America. Um the Inca the the the ancestors of the Inca Empire they had an independent Neolithic revolution that goes back about 10,000 years. So people discovered agriculture independently of each other. First of all in the Indian subcontinent then in the fertile crescent west Asia and then at the same time as west Asia independently another such thing in uh South America. So if hunting was so easy why did people take up agriculture is the question. So first of all hunting is not easy. I I have no idea what Mr. Hari has said. Okay. I have not read his books. I have his books but I haven't read them. Sorry. I have so many books I haven't read. I buy them but I sometimes don't end up reading some of them and they this they they serve as a reminder to me that I have so much more to learn. My point is see I know that Harari's books are are very popular etc and I don't really know what he has said. The point is is hunting that easy really is it is easy you hunting animals sometimes hunting is super dangerous. If you're hunting mammoths my goodness a mammoth is a frightening animal. If you're hunting, let's say a rabbit, well, rabbits are super quick. They're very hard to hunt. Hunting means you're trying to kill animals and those animals have no intention of being killed. Of course, we are superior in intelligence, so we find ways of doing it. But it's not easy. It's very difficult. You have to chase animals for for days, weeks sometimes. And u often very difficult, often very dangerous. Often you die. Often there are other predators who want to eat the same animal and they don't want you to to get the animal. So they'll come and eat you. We have found ancient human skulls with bite marks in the orbital bones and the bite marks exactly matched the teeth of cats, large cats like leopards. Sometimes we found humans who have been prayed upon by eagles, the claw marks on the on the skulls and so so on. It was not easy. And when you are a hunter, you can never have a big big group of people living together because hunting it's something you may succeed doing like once in two three days and it can never sustain a large population. So I think hunting is actually very difficult. It's good physically if you're a hunter and you're eating meat. You're going to be lean and thin. You will never be obese. You'll never have excess food. You always hand to mouth. Always you need to hunt. That sort of thing. But agriculture once it was discovered it made life so easy. You did not have to run hundreds of kilometers looking for prey for animals to hunt. You just needed good land. Settle down, plant your crops and live there. Of course, there's going to be continuous labor required on a daily basis as long as the crop cycle goes on. So that became a specialized uh field, right? agriculture specialized occupation, but you did not have to take huge risks. You do not have to chase animals. You just needed to spend a few hours in the field every day. And you were guaranteed large quantities of of of grain cereal, which is why humans shifted from a protein and fat-based diet to a carbohydrate-based diet. And when you have fields that guarantee essentially food cycle after cycle, you can then start building large societies and your population can grow. And when you humans settle down together, culture evolves, civilization evolves. So that is how agriculture transformed human society. It's not unlikely. It's very it makes a lot of sense for that to happen. Okay. Uh so as long as we were hunters, our ancestors were all hunters. They used to eat, they used to hunt animals and and subsist of that, that was a very tough life. We still have hunter gatherer societies in some parts of the world. Look at the state, their condition. They're still very primitive compared to agricultural societies. We have hunter gatherers in the so-called Sentinel Island in the Andaman Nicobar region, right? We have hunter gatherers who are still uncontacted in parts of Papwa Newu Guinea in in the Amazon rainforest and so on. They live very primitive lives. Their lives are very tough. You'll never see uh a plump person who's a hunter gatherer. They're always lean and kind of malnourished. That's not easy. It's very difficult. Once you once we made the transition to farming, hunting was always an option. And then that's how animal agriculture came into the thing and so and so on. Uh so it was the transition from hunting from being hunter gatherers to being agriculturalists that created uh stable societies, permanent settlements. It gave rise to proper culture and eventually high civilization and we our ancestors in the subcontinent were the first to do that. Is true. Yes. Uh Sheras says how do you see the debate on arian origins evolving in the next dec decade till 2035 given the advancements in genetics archaeology and linguistics look the turning point is the decipherment of the industry now obviously many people still don't believe what has done it'll take time but eventually I mean it's going to come out it's it's it's going to have to be accepted so the decipherment of this long undeciphered script is a landmark development and it's Sanskrit it's it's Vic Sanskrit that's the end of the RN invasion debate you can keep crying genetics this genetics that archaeology this whatever this is the crucial factor the central claim of the first of all the central claim of the arvision myth is twofold that Hinduism is foreign to India and Sanskrit is foreign to India And they claim that the Arian invasion or migration or picnic or tourism whatever happened around 1500 BC around 1500 BC when the great river was drying out. Now if Hinduism, evil Hinduism and evil Sanskrit came into India around 1500 BC then how come these inscriptions from from 5,000 6,000 years ago are in Sanskrit the Harapan Indust Valley inscriptions. How come they're in Sanskrit? That destroys this theory once and for all. Now the question is how when will this be accepted academically in a widespread manner that will take 20 30 years maybe but you can't now do a thing about this. The decipherment is out in the public domain. Try and pro prove it wrong. Try and prove it wrong. Try and prove it is some proto some other language. Simply can't happen. It's it's done. So the debate in the RN Asian thing, you know, people are going to try and obscate the debate. They're going to try and say it's going to be proven genetically. How do you prove culture and language genetically? The origin of culture genetically? How? If an if a person converts to a foreign religion, does it change their genetics? H if an Indian person today converts to a foreign religion for whatever reason, will it change their genetics? If an Indian person starts speaking a foreign language like I'm doing right now, does it change my genetics? No. So genetics has no connection with culture, religion or language. So how do you prove that so and so genetic uh marker carries a certain language or family language family or a certain religion? You can't. You simply can't. It's an assumption they are making. And you can't do science on the basis of assumptions. You can't. There has to be hard empirical evidence. And there is none whatsoever about the connection of whatever genetic uh markers with a certain language or a certain culture or a certain religion so-called step ancestry. What was the origin of the step ancestry? Step ancestry goes back let's say 8,000 years or maybe 10,000 years. What was the origin of that? Where were those who were the ancestors of those people? They did not spring out of the step right of the ground. They also had ancestors who came from somewhere. Where did those ancestors come from? Let's go back to the origin of everything. The origin of everything is the Indian subcontinent. The original region where humanity settled down after the out of Africa migration. So th this debate will go on and lots of low IQ people will keep on debating this and even high IQ people will keep on obiscating things. This is going to go on for the next decade, two decades, three decades. What needs to be done to end this genetic debate for example is the Indian government needs to take the initiative of properly of doing a proper genetic survey of India at least 10,000 samples at least from the across the length and the breadth of the Indian subcontinent as far as possible. If Pakistan doesn't want to participate to hell with them we'll go and talk with Taliban. They run Afghanistan. We would like some genetic samples of the various Afghan populations. We can do the same for Bangladesh, same for Nepal, same for Bhutan, same for Sri Lanka, same for the Maldives and obviously the rest of the subcontinent is India at least 10,000 samples and let's do a proper proper genetic survey and look into the deep ancestry of the people of the subcontinent. This all these categories that have been created this ancestral north Indian, ancestral south Indian, all of these categories have been created by foreigners. We need to own our genetic research. They've had this project in the past. This 10,000 genomes project. We need to have our own such project but only for the subcontinent. And we can also have various south various other nations participate if if they want to in a second phase. For example, Southeast Southeast Asian nations Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand. Oh, that will be very interesting. The connections will come out. and also central Asia, Tajakistan for example. If Persia wants to participate, sure please. We we would love to. So that's what we need to do. But it has to happen in India with Indian scientists and Indian research. Once you do that, all this nonsense that's coming from the west will evaporate. It'll it'll it'll end once and for all. But this takes time and money. And right now we are I'm sure that the government has other uh priorities perhaps. So whenever this happens, it'll it'll end the end this entire matter once and for all. All right. And I would love for this to happen at the earliest. Okay. Donar Singh Johan says, "Was Einstein overhyped because of the rich Jews backing him?" Well, well, well. I've heard that Herbert Dingle, for example, criticized Einstein's theory of relativity and wrote extensively about it, pointing u some very potential flaws, but was never given any importance in by the mainstream scientists. Well, that's that's terrible. Uh so what's the deal? So what does it mean to overhype somebody? If somebody's overhyped, it means that that person is given a lot of attention which that person doesn't deserve. Now when it comes to a scientist, what does it mean that a scientist is overhyped? It means that that scientist's theory has been given too much attention, too much prominence which it does not deserve. Which essentially means that this theory probably is flawed. It is wrong. But we are portraying it as correct. Right? So now when it comes to science, it's so easy to prove whether somebody is overhyped or not. All you have to ask yourself is, is his theory true? Is it correct? Obviously, it's the most correct theory in history, general relativity. Every no theory has been tested as much as general relativity. And how do you test a theory? By trying to disprove it. By trying to prove that it's wrong. That's how you test a theory. There are tests ongoing right now. No theory has been tested the way general relativity has. If general relativity was was incorrect, GPS satellites would not work today. The GPS satellites have relativistic corrections without which they would give us wrong information. General relativity is the most successful scientific theory in human history apart from quantum field theory. Okay. So Einstein was not overhyped. He deserves every bit of hype he has got and more. Please understand that. Now Herbert Dingle, he was a physicist himself, English English man. He was born in the late 19th century I believe and he was a spectroscopist and he also wrote a book about astrophysics. Um and he he entered into feuds with various physicists. For example, Arthur Edington, uh, Edward Mil, he entered into feuds with those people. He criticized their theories, claimed those were wrong. Um, but nothing came of it. And then he went after Einstein and he said that relative relativity was wrong. He said that special relativity was incorrect, not general relativity. Uh, and it looks like he uh was not very clear about the concepts of relativity. What is an event relativistically in the theory of relativity? What what does it mean? What is an event? And what is simultaneity? What's it what does it mean for for two events to be simultaneous? These are very basic fundamental core concepts in relativity. Okay. And in relative relativity, you have something called frames. Frames of reference. And generally we speak about inertial frames. frames that are not accelerating. And in relativity, the theory says that every frame has its own uh standard of simultaneity. So two events that may be simultaneous in one frame may not happen simultaneously in a different frame of reference. That's a deal. Uh so that seems to be something that Mr. Dingle, Dr. Dingle, Herbert Dingle seems to have not been clear about. and he spent essentially his life uh criticizing relativity and I believe lots of physicists pointed it out to him that you need to get your fundamentals correct but uh he was not he probably did not want that. Um and I think there are many videos on YouTube in which Herbert Dingle is cited as as as the guy who pointed out that Einstein was wrong. Well, Einstein was not wrong. And I I know there are some other scientists also who claim that Einstein made blunders and he was wrong. Um that's not the case. Einstein was a genuine genius. In one year he revolutionized physics. 1905 Anus Mirabilis quantum field uh quantum mechanics and special relativity at the same time and the photoelectric effect which also was which has a quantum foundation. So it was uh quantum theory the the the the concept of the light quantum the quantum of light. I mean nobody imagined life light itself would have a quantum and so so all of that he he put out in 1905 an incredible year and how can anybody imagine that Einstein was overhyped and the let's not bring religion into this. Yes he was Jewish. I'm not sure of who backed him or who did not but come on. So please understand you cannot bring in other biases into your consideration of whether a person his scientific output was correct or not. This is not a religious matter. Um he was the greatest physicist of the 20th century and one of the greatest physicists of all time. No question about it. Okay. Uh you see she says yesterday I met a girl who was saying that the cast thing is because of our religion. Our religion is obviously very evil, right? Very backward, primitive and so on. So in the cast, oh my god, we have cast terrible. And so this this cast thing according to this girl was because of our religion. I tried to explain that this was a colonial imposition. But she kept on referring to a variety of books. Of course, there are lots of books written about cast which all said that Indians are evil, Hinduism is evil and so on. Uh so she referred to a variety of books to prove her stance. Can you please tell us in detail how Jati Verna system was like and how was there really discrimination as it is generally shown in the media and all. Now I have I'm not going to answer the question directly because I've answered this so many times. So let me show you how to find what I have had to say about this. Okay. Go to Google search for Bridget Shava YouTube. Okay. Then you go to the channel and let's go to the channel and uh there is going to be this search box over here. Okay. So just type in cast. Let's type in cast. So what do we have here? I have spoken about these these matters many times. Uh India's cast system is a colonial imposition. This is a 7.545 7 minute plus segment over here. Donachari versus Eklavia in karna is that castism cast system mental coronization 11 minutes I've spoken about it dowi etc um and so on so I I have answered these questions multiple times I don't think there's a point me answering it all over again doing the same saying the same thing over and over again so my point is for those of you who are new to the channel this channel has been in operation since what actively since 200 2021. I have answered thousands of questions as part of the Ask a Widget Show. I have put out thousands of clips on the channel, at least more than 1500 clips of the of the answers I've given. And if you are curious about what I have had to say about something, just go to my channel. There's a search box there. Type in your search term and most likely I will have answered your question. So as you can see in that thing that we saw I've already answered the question at least two three times and I've actually answered it more than two three times but I'll put out two three clips of it. So please check it out and you will know what I've had to say in this. I've referred to various books also and I've got those books here and there but uh well I'll not go and search for them right now. So check it out please do that. Okay. Rahul says what would happen if a B2 bomber is made supersonic? Would it lose its stealth? Uh when the design when the design and paint determines how stealthier the aircraft is, does speed also matter? Uh okay. B2 bomber. What if we make it supersonic? Right. Uh will it lose the stealth? So first of all, let's understand what the whole thing is. a B2 bomber which the Americans used to bomb Iran recently. It's a stealth bomber and it's a subsonic bomber which means that its speed is less than the speed of sound. Um the and it's a strategic bomber. It's a long range long distance bomber. Okay. A strategic bomber is a is a is an aircraft which has a very long range typically at least minimum 2,000 km without refueling but with refueling it can go maybe 10,000 kil kilometers or more. So first of all it has a very long range and secondly it has a very heavy payload capacity. It can probably you know some bombers can carry about 100 tons of explosives. 100 tons of bombs that they can then use to strike the adversaries strategic targets which are targets like industrial centers, transportation hubs, military bases that are far from the borders deep inside the country's territory even nuclear facilities like Iran. Okay. So the objective of strategic bombers is to go deep beyond enemy lines often and degrade the enemy's warf fighting capacity and probably the morale of the enemy. Uh so that's a strategic bomber. Tactical bombers have shorter ranges and they are optimized for shorter short range missions and probably support of battlefield operations and so on. So a strategic bomber goes and attacks deep deep into the enemy's territory and it attacks high value strategic targets and so on long range and all those things that I mentioned. So what's the why why does a strategic bomber if you look at the various strategic bombers that you have in the world they typically have short ru sorry uh they typically are subsonic they are not supersonic um for example there are various American aircraft which which are uh which are subsonic the B2 is a great example of a subsonic bomber the B-52 is rather old aircraft maybe pretty pretty ancient aircraft which is still in operation that is subsonic. Uh the Russians have various subsonic aircraft like the Tupolev 95 which is a turborop aircraft does it doesn't have jet engines so it has turborop engines. This is a subsonic bomber. The Russians also have a tupole tupole 160 uh which is a supersonic aircraft and the Americans have a B1B I think B1B which is supersonic. Uh but most strategic bombers, long-range bombers are subsonic because they need, see, when you have a subsonic aircraft, it is more fuel efficient. It gives you more range for the same amount of fuel, which makes a lot of sense. Secondly, if you have a subsonic bomber, uh if if you have a supersonic bomber, its airframe needs uh requires thicker wings, reinforced wings, and even the fuselage needs to be thicker and and more reinforced. So, because you the aircraft needs to tolerate higher pressures, higher more heating and all that. But if it's a subsonic aircraft, it will not need a thicker set of wings and a thicker fuselage. So the fuel efficiency is better, the range is better and so on. Right? So all of those all of those designs are in favor of subsonic aircraft. And if you have a subsonic aircraft, it's also optimized for better uh met for maximum internal uh payload volume. So you can have heavier payloads in a subsonic aircraft uh and and so on. So because of these things even the cost complexity is is higher when you have uh supersonic aircraft. So subsonic bombers give you better range, they give you better payload capacity, they give you uh they are cheaper to maintain. Uh they are less complex. They have longer service lives and so on. And and uh because of these reasons I think mostly bombers are subsonic in nature. uh you can have very high altitude flights which would give it better survivability and so on. So that's how uh strategic bombers are are are made survivable. Now if you take the B2 bomber and you turn it into a supersonic aircraft, first of all the design is such that it won't be supersonic. It's got this wide flying wing design, right? So you simply can't make it supersonic. But if you let's say take the F-35 which is a supersonic stealth aircraft and you turn it into a giant aircraft will it work? No, it won't work at that scale. We'll have to do some modifications, right? And then once again it's an extremely expensive aircraft to maintain. It doesn't have that amount of capacity, storage capacity, you know, bomb bay capacity and it it's it's going to be the missions are going to be incredibly expensive, incredibly complex. So because of that strategic bombers are typically subsonic. Uh you can try and make a supersonic bomber but it it u will it lose the stealth? You can certainly have a stealthy aircraft which is very expensive, very complicated but it is supersonic and it is a strategic bomber. Yeah. Um it will be stealthy but it will be very expensive to maintain. Um and what determines whether an aircraft is is stealthy or not is the design first of all the surfaces whether they reflect radar or simply throw radar waves off off uh essentially don't return the radar waves to the to the origin and secondly the the the coating the surface material also matters which is the paint the paint or the coating of the aircraft. So it is said that the F-35 whenever you take it on a mission with the paint on once it's back you need to repaint it all over again and that is a process that takes I don't know 20 30 40 50 hours per perhaps uh so speed matters of course speed gives you survivability it shortens the the length of missions it gives you quick penetration into enemy territory and so on but the payoff is is that it you know the missions are way more expensive you carry less payload and so on. So it's this is a hypothetical scenario that we are considering. It's a very good question that Rahul has asked. This is how you understand things. This is how you break things down into their elementary concepts thinking from first principles. Right? So you certainly can make a supersonic bomber. The B2 can't be made supersonic because it its shape its design is by inherently subsonic. Uh but you can have supersonic stealth bombers but it doesn't make sense from a cost perspective, from a mission perspective, from payload perspective, complexity perspective, uh you know maintenance, lifetime perspective, so many things. Okay. Feminist etc. says to what extent are a country's foreign policies influenced by domestic, political, economic and social priorities? Conversely, how do foreign policy decisions impact domestic affairs? Any nation's foreign policy is influenced by domestic policy and domestic politics. Let's consider two types of nations. A democracy and a dictatorship. In a democracy, a prime minister or president, whoever it is, needs votes every four years, every 5 years. And if you mess up your foreign policy, you're going to lose the election, next election. So your foreign policy has to be such that the public will approve of it. Okay? So it clearly tells you that your domestic politics influence and shape your foreign policy. You can't have an unpopular foreign policy. You're going to lose the next election, right? Uh if you're a dictator, you still need some kind of public support. If you're tremendously unpopular, they may rise up and revolt against you. And you may be able to crush the revolt, but it will destroy your country's economy. It'll waste so much of your resources. It's bad for you. So, ideally, even if you're a dictator, you want the people to be at least visibly happy, even if they're pretending to be happy, which means that you cannot cross certain lines in foreign policy, which would make you unpopular. So, foreign policies are always influenced by domestic politics and obviously politics is influenced by social priorities, economics, and so much more. So, all of that comes together. Now, how do foreign policy decisions impact domestic affairs? Well, foreign policy decisions impact your economy, which obviously impacts your foreign uh your domestic affairs. Or let's say for whatever reason you decide that I'm going to be I'm going to make my country a vasal of of a different country. So once you make your country a vasal of a more powerful nation, that powerful nation makes inroads into your domestic affairs and they may possibly reshape your demographics. They may start religious conversions in your in your country. They may bring in foreign infiltrators into your country. Look at what's happening in the EU and so on. So this obviously all of this has an impact on all kinds of domestic matters internally. So it's it's both ways around. Okay. Uh Yum Tang Nabi says why are so many Indians giving up their citizenship? Many wealthy Indians are also leaving India. Is it because of not being provided a f favorable environment worth the tax or some hidden geopolitics? What do these people know that we are that we don't? Is it a good decision? What would be life outside India if you give up your citizenship? Good and the bad and so on. Why do people give up citizenship? Because only first of all only wealthy people can do it. If you don't have the money and the resources to become uh to purchase a foreign citizenship then you you can't do it. You can purchase foreign citizenship or at least a green card, a permanent residency kind of thing which is a path to citizenship. Only wealthy people can do it obviously, right? First of all, you got to be wealthy. Why are you leaving India? Because of the living standards. Obviously, you want your kids to grow up in a better environment. You don't want your kids to uh be in an education system where they have to face reservations. You know, if you're a general category, you don't want to deal with the horrible roads. You don't want to deal with the pollution. You don't want to deal with the overcrowding. You don't want to deal with the alleged corruption everywhere allegedly. You don't want to deal with all the issues, right? So essentially you making a selfish selfish decision that I'm going to put prioritize myself and my family first over the nation. Um lots of Indians still love their country even after they become foreign citizens and so on. So is it's not something that's about geopolitics. It's not a geopolitical thing. It's a personal choice. If you leave the country and take up uh residency or citizenship somewhere else, you don't want to pay the odor as taxes in India. Let's say I am uh let's say I'm let's say earning okay hypothetically 1 cr a year for hypothetical number and I'm paying 30 lakhs income tax. Then I'm going to buy a buy a car okay which maybe let's say costs 30 lakhs. So I have paid 30 lakhs income tax. I got 70 lakhs left of of my yearly salary. I want to buy a car that costs 30 lakhs. But I found that fine that it's GST etc etc makes it a 50 lakh car. So I've already paid tax now with the money that's left from my after paying tax I have to again pay more tax on a car that would cost half the money outside and so on. So eventually people give up. So this only happens when you are reasonably wealthy and if yeah so people make a costbenefit analysis. I am paying so much tax and let's say I mean for example a flat will cost multiple crores in a big city in India for the same money you can buy a castle in a European country and it's it's just a that sort of thing so that's why people are leaving it's a personal choice some people choose to despite the problems stay in India some people say that okay I'm done I love my country and my culture but I will live outside of India good for my children they will have a better life that sort of What is life outside of India? If you give up citizenship, well, it's all over the place. There are lots of Indians who have given up citizenship, become citizens of foreign countries, life generally if you give to if you go to a better country where you have way better standard of living, it's generally much better, I suppose. But if you go to the west, you will never be a first- class citizen. You'll remain a secondass citizen. And the west doesn't like polytheists. So there are all kinds of conditions and and considerations in this matter. Mudra Makwana says, "All politics aside, which according to you is the best country you admire that has great culture, food, demographics, and natural beauty where you visit and just love being there except India of course. I think Japan wins for me." Look, there's no one country like that. Okay, setting if you don't think about India and ask yourself which are the other good countries, there's no one country. I I first of all, Japan is a great choice. Japan is a wonderful country. Uh I'm I'm a big fan of Japan. Great history, great culture, great food, great people, fantastic people. Uh tragic history the past century or so. Um and one hopes that emerges from wherever. But it's a it's a wonderful place. Uh big fan of Japan. Uh there are so many other countries that are also wonderful. I I if you ask me which is your favorite book or your favorite musician or favorite song, I don't have any favorite one thing. I can give you a set of 20 perhaps. So what are the great countries? Greece is fantastic. Beautiful. Beautiful country. Great climate, great food, fantastic people, great history, great ties with India historically going back two and a half thousand years. Greece is fantastic. Italy fantastic country, very similar to Greece in a lot of ways also neighbors and so on. Italy is fantastic. Uh if you look at Europe, Switzerland is a beautiful country. Incredible natural beauty, wonderful people. slightly boring people but wonderful people, very nice people. Um, what else? Cypress is an extension of Greece. So there you have that as also. Um, in not far away the UA is a wonderful place, the UAE, it's a it's mostly desert but wonderful people, good food, lots of great vegetarian options by the way and there there's a lot of natural beauty there also if you want to look elsewhere. Mauritius, beautiful, lots of Indian origin people there. Great food, great culture, reasonably good weather, great beaches. Uh, lots of Eastern African nations are beautiful. South Africa, despite whatever problems there is, it's very nice. In Southeast Asia, Indonesia is beautiful, wonderful place. Uh, Singapore is great. Thailand, Cambodia, uh, Cambodia despite its recent horrible history and tragic history. Vietnam is fantastic. Uh Mongolia is a beautiful country very very different climate from what of us what all of us are used to unless you have been to Ladak. Um Mongolia's climate is better than Ladak. Ladak it's very high altitudes because because of that lot of people struggle but uh otherwise the climate of Mongolia is very similar to Ladak temperature wise and all that. So Mongolia is full of stunning natural beauty, fantastic people, very meat heavy food and all but still if you eat meat good for you and so on. So I could Russia is beautiful. Russia is fantastic. Lots of natural beauty there. Tremendous natural beauty. I would say great people, good food as well. And uh even I mean you could go on. Argentina is wonderful. Beautiful. Brazil is wonderful. Mexico is wonderful. So you know what? I could go do a world tour. I think I think everyone's wonderful. Most most countries are fantastic, wonderful, beautiful. Um, you you can enjoy yourself in any country and and have a great experience in any country. Depends on your attitude. And every country has something to offer. Lots of Balkan countries are fantastic. Croatia, um, Serbia, and so much more. So much more. Well, I'm sure I've missed a few. uh North African countries have lot of beauty beauty and so on. I New Zealand is beautiful. Australia is beautiful. Come on. Right. So I I could I could go on but I think I'll stop there. Okay, that brings me to the end of the questions I have selected. Now I can see that there's a super chat that I've not taken. So I'll take that. It's by Aman Siddings who says in Mediterranean Ryena dialogue an am minister on the same stage with with Dr. Junker was talking about connectivity with the EU just how is it landlocked? What's am Armenia? Are you talking about Armenia? Uh connectivity with the EU. Armenia is landlocked. Okay, let's take a look at the map. We'll take a look at the map and figure out if you're talking about Armenia. It it helps if you put the name proper name of the country instead of an abbreviation. But um maybe there's a reason for it. Okay. So here's the map. If you're talking about Armenia, Armenia is landlocked. Yes. But they can certainly access the EU from, for example, Georgia. Uh Turka will never allow Armenia because they hate Armenia. They want Armenia to stop existing. But Armenia can certainly u access the EU via Georgia across the Black Sea into the the European countries or maybe through Georgia and Russia but then with Ukraine in the way. Obviously Ukraine is a war zone. So probably it's via Georgia and the Black Sea. Beyond that, Armenia is obviously landlocked and I'm not aware of the context in which the Armenian minister, if you're talking about Armenia, was was speaking. So I I don't really know. uh if you give me more context maybe I can give you a better answer but yeah the that's what I can say right now Armenia is indeed landlocked as as is Mongolia for example but even Mongolia can theoretically have connectivity with the European Union via land via something else perhaps uh you can also have connectivity by air but for for if if you're talking about Armenia it could be through Georgia through the through the uh Caspian sea and then go into through through the Black Sea, sorry, via Georgia, then the Black Sea westwards and then across the Black Sea you have Europe on the other side. Uh so maybe that's what he was referring to. Okay. U so let's maybe take maybe two or three questions from the live live chat. What do we have? Do we have something? Um uh so says love from Leal Nepal. Well, love from India. We love all our Nepali brothers and sisters. Uh, so we don't endorse only. He's got a popularity of 20%. Okay. Well, thank you for letting us know. I appreciate that. Um, what else? What do we have? Um, ML says, "Is there a possibility that the US and China are using Ukraine to drain Russia?" You US, yes. West, yes. West, yes. China, no. China wants Russia to remain the way it is right now and to drain and and to drain the west's west's resources via Ukraine. Okay. Uh both US and China gain more territory to extract and get rid of the competition weaken um no the west does want to use Ukraine to weaken Russia for sure but a weakened Russia further weakened Russia is not good for China. So that's not the case. But please remember that China is no friend of Russia. If you watch my geio strategy show, you will know exactly what I mean by that. Uh Mr. Sharma is well, thank you so much, sir. Appreciate that very much. Thank you. Okay. Now, um I don't know anything about Vasu astrology, so I won't take that. Okay. Um Okay. Do we have anything else? Um, Tmai says, "What has made Donald Trump suddenly become so reckless? Everything said about him during the 2016 2020 term is turning out to be true this term. Is it that it will be his last term?" See, US presidents have two terms only. So, this is obviously his last term. Uh, what's happened? What's happened is like I have said he has kissed the ring, which means that he's now an agent of the deep state. If it does exist, probably it does. And he is essentially furthering their agenda. Their agenda seems to be to shake up the entire world and to launch an launch an economic war in the entire world to to essentially fragment the world economy. Until now, until until the Biden administration, the whole world was interconnected in in a lot of sense in a in a in in so many ways, supply chains, economic integration, so much more. But now and and you know the US had very had a very uh benevolent view of its allies and uh NATO required did did not require each NATO member to pay up to 5% of their GDP for the upkeep of NATO which is why the European nations were so prosperous. Now that's going to not happen. Uh and tariffs on all nations. So every nation needs to pay the pay a tribute to the US essentially. It's like the old days of Roman taxation where all the vasals had to pay tribute or tax whatever you want to call it to the overlord. So that's the kind of thing that's happening and the Americans are trying to bully India also open up your market and let us dump our dump our agricultural garbage into your country which is not going to happen unless we become a vasal. Um yeah uh two idiot NRA says rolls roy safh al-51 transfer of technology while read Russia needs money or just deep on nextg kaviri how does India not come in as late as sixth generation etc look like I've said this like maybe 500 times we need to continue developing our own jet engine indigenously at the same time we need to either buy beg borrow for steal jet engine technology from whoever is willing to give it whoever whether it is the French or the Russians or whoever also it's not going to happen it's western saf possible I'm sure they'll ask for a lot of money if we can we should pay it or maybe the Russian jet engine just get your hands on one piece of technology and acquire the full technology toot transfer of technology at the same time keep on developing your jet engine even if it takes 30 years it needs to happen in parallel and once we have bought let's say acquired technology then we can transfer that into our jet our own jet engine as well. Uh so that's what needs to happen. The problem is that you know we have woken up very late. Uh this is something we should have been doing since the 1940s 1950s developing our own jet engines. It takes time. It takes decades, multiple decades. And the technology improves iteratively slowly over time. But we we are doing it now. So you know we are behind. Even the Chinese have struggled when it comes to jet engine technology. Even they have struggled. But they seem to have now kind of um they seem to be on the right track now. Okay. Uh Bilawal Bhau has agreed to give Masar to India. He has not agreed. Words. Do you know the difference between words and actions? Come on. Don't you know that it has nothing to do with operation zindur? It's just talk. They will never give mas masuda or any terrorist to India. Okay, that is the end of today's live stream. Thank you so much everybody for your questions. It was fun. U going forward I will mostly take questions from the comments only. That is the only way to ensure that the quality of this show remains at high standards. Very often I found that if I take questions only from the live chat, I get sometimes not very good questions. Even if I do super chats, sometimes I get good questions, sometimes I don't get great questions. So maybe I'll do the super chats maybe once a month or so. Mostly I will take questions from the comments. That's the only way. The most important thing over here is quality. I can't allow the quality of the show to degrade. Okay? Okay, I have to take the best possible questions. So, uh, thank you so much everybody for the questions and I will see you in the live streams that will that I'll do next week. Thank you so much. Keep asking questions, keep raising your standards, keep learning and take care. I'll see you soon. Bye-bye.