Heat. Hey. Hey. Hey. Heat. Heat. Hello everybody. Good day, good evening to everyone and welcome back to the Ask Abijit Show. Today we are doing episode 272. I hope everybody is doing fantastic. Everyone's doing great. Let's see who all is there on the live stream on the live chat. I can see Savaria Sait Ram Shukla from Kpur. New new fan from Kpur. Welcome sir. Welcome very much you. I very appreciate I very much appreciate you being here. Aayush Singh anonymous scientist Bjour Nabad Tadas Namaste Kpal Chob Suraj Aptitude Shoan Bushan Jagdish Mali Kuml Aush Singh Amisha Mishra Pratam Agarwal Vikash Vikash PJ Soham Jooshi regular viewer viewer welcome back sir thank you so much for for being a viewer. Uh Kanesh Koshik, Savia S, Alvin Rodriguez, Ratul Das, Manisha Karoo, Miss Trupti Explorer 1, Rashmi Ratur from Rajasthan, Shri Ramchandra, our regular viewer, thank you very much for being on the live stream. Abhinav Bishra Hitanchu Ma from Gujarat welcome Vidhi Manar hello Sar No Tadas Rashbi again Shashank Koshik Patrick the killer uh Langi Suresh Geopolitical Dubet it's raining okay geopolitical dub from Indor uh who else do we have Pray Paul from Kolkata welcome back sir that gour guy who else do we have Rashi Kudin Deepika Anand Pai, Rahul Kumar, Dilab, Mitra, Himant, Kumar, Savary S from Bihar, Alka, Shikari, Maklavin, Namaste, Somia, Chaitanya, Manuja, Jay Guman, salut uh and so many other people. Uh Krishna from the Sury numbers, Netherlands. Welcome back, sir. Xya who else? Pratamarwal veteran 69 indie who's been following me for three years. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Kushir Singh, uh, Sujit Sha, namaste, Lakshai Sharma, Konpal, Chob, uh, Purveves Khan, hello and everybody else. Anonymous Cookie Senpai, well, that's quite a name. Okay, so I'm going to be taking I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments and uh, let's get going with that. Let's take let's and I'll take as many as possible over the next couple of hours. If there is time left over, I'll even take some questions from the live chat. We'll see how it goes. Uh the first question is from Rahul Dunak. If somebody fires many questions, fires in many questions in order for one to stick, is it a good strategy or do you dismiss all of them thinking that that the individual is oversmart? Absolutely not. Ask as many questions as you want. If you have 30 questions, ask 30 questions. I have no issue with that. I don't think you're oversmart. You should have a lot of questions, right? So, I have no issue with that. But do ask good questions. That's all. Ask the best possible questions and I'll try my best to pick the best ones. And if you have multiple questions, please ask them separately. I see many people putting in a whole paragraph worth of questions. I won't be able to take those. You have to ask one question at a time. Uh so yeah, please go ahead. Do not feel shy. Ask any question that you have. Okay. With that said, here we are. So, Prrenet Paul says, "With the India UK FTA free trade agreement finally sealed and Prime Minister Modi's historic UK visit, what is the real strategic gain for India? Did the US try to stall this deal earlier and how might Washington and Trump now react to this shift in India's global trade alignment?" Okay, good question. Excellent question. Give me a second. uh so what is the deal with this uh UK India FTA that we that we have right what are the parameters of the FDA what what is what what is the FTA like is that's the question we want to ask ourselves so prime minister Modi was recently in London and that's where he uh went ahead and concluded signed I suppose this FDA with the UK's prime minister Kir Tmer and it's a pretty comprehensive FDA and it's set to eliminate most of the tariffs that the two countries have when trading with each other. So whatever India is going to be exporting now onwards to the UK, all those goods, 99% of the Indian exports will have no UK tariffs applied to them. And when it comes to the British goods that that are exported from the UK to India, 90% of the goods will have no tariffs. So it's a pretty robust pretty strong FTA and uh so that's that's a pretty good strategic gain. It means that we can export all kinds of uh products from India and they will be very competitive competitively priced in the British markets in the UK's markets. That's great isn't it? So if you want to become a manufacturing power, if you want to become an exporting power, then you want your goods to be competitively priced in the in the target markets right let's say you have a nation that applies 20% tariffs for example hypothetically and if I have I'm exporting something worth 100 rupees or 100 pounds then it means that more or less it's going to cost £120 there so it will not be that competitive compared to local products but if there's no tariff then it's going to be priced exactly at £100 which is the original price which makes it more competitive. So that's great. So that's a significant strategic gain for India. I mean uh and and so that's the first thing that's the straightforward answer that uh this is strategically great for India and this obviously gives India leverage. Okay, it gives India leverage in its negotiations with the US with the EU. So India obviously as we know we have this August 1 deadline that the Americans have imposed on India uh for finalizing an interim trade deal with the Americans right uh so we can showcase this to the US. Look we have been able to uh bring about this fantastic agreement with the UK. So if there are problems when it comes to the uh trade negotiations between the US and India, maybe there's a problem with you guys, with the Americans, maybe you are adopting maximalist stances. Look at the UK. We are the same guys negotiating with the UK and we have been able to successfully bring about this fantastic agreement. So it gives us more leverage. It also gives us leverage visa with other countries visa with the EU and so on. We also have trade agreements that are that have happened between us and Australia and there's more to come. Uh so it's fantastic you know um and this also uh there's this there's this narrative that's been created on social media in uh opinion pieces in think tank articles uh and so on that there is this east versus west divide right and India is an eastern nation and India is is something you know that that sort of thing so we can once again showcase this deal to demonstrate that look we don't believe in an east versus west divide we are a multi-aligned nation and our multi-aligned approach is successful right and you can see that we've been able to to achieve this landmark deal with the UK and also with Australia and we're going to be doing it for with other nations so there is no such thing as an east versus west divide we're not part of this block or that block or this group or that group we are multi-aligned uh so this is a significant boost for India and it's going to give India leverage over the US. It's going to give India leverage over other nations with whom we have ongoing trade negotiations. So I think it's fantastic. I don't know if the US tried to stall this deal earlier. Um how might Washington and Trump now react to this shift in India's global trade alignment? uh it's obviously going to be noticed and noted in Washington and uh now the onus is going to be on the US to finalize an inter trade deal with India by August 1 and if they if it doesn't happen then we can certainly tell them that you know what you guys have been obstructionist maybe you guys have had u maximalist stances all or nothing that sort of thing and we obviously we're not going to uh give to your bullying or arm twisting or s such things. So, uh it's definitely good for India. It's it's great for India and it's going to give us leverage over the it's going to give us leverage in our trade negotiations with the Americans mainly the Americans also the EU. It sets a precedent that look we've we went ahead and we did this with the UK. Now, let's do it with the EU. Let's do it with the Americans. Whoever we are negotiating with, we can showcase this. Look, we achieved this. So, why can't we achieve it here with our negotiations? So overall it's fantastic. It has you know multiple benefits for India. So overall great very pleased to see this. All right. What other questions? Next question. Okay. Rakesh says how do you see the trade deal deal between the US and Japan? Is it a win-win deal? And how do you see the India? Okay. We spoke about the India and UK trade deal. Let's talk about uh the US and Japan. So let us put out I mean I haven't seen the you know studied this in detail but I can show you this and this should be a good enough indicator as to what the deal is like. So this is Donald Trump's truth social account in which uh he has spoken about this deal. So this was on July 23rd. Today is July 26th 3 days ago. That's when he put out this uh social media post. We just completed a massive trade deal with Japan. Perhaps the largest deal ever made. Japan will invest at my direction $550 billion into the United States which will receive 90% of the profits. Does this look like a win-win trade deal to you? US The US will receive 90% of the profits. The Japanese will invest $550 billion into the US. This is a big win for the US and the US will receive 90% of the profits. That's what Trump is claiming. If that is correct, then it's not a win-win situation. It's heavily skewed in favor of the US. Now, let's read forward. Uh, this deal will create hundreds of thousands of jobs in the US. Of course, there has never been anything like it. Perhaps most importantly, Japan will open their country to trade including cars and trucks, rice and southern other agricultural products and other things. Japan will play will pay reciprocal tariffs on the US of 15%. reciprocal tariffs which means that Japan will also impose 15% tariffs on American products. So that is that is balanced. It's 15% both ways that is fine. Uh this is a very exciting time for the US for the United States of America especially for the fact that we uh will continue to always have a great relationship with the country of Japan. Of course they are your you occupy them militarily they have no choice. So obviously it's going to be a great relationship for you not for Japan. For Japan it's not a great relationship for you. for the US. It's a great relationship. Thank you for your attention to this matter. And then he goes ahead and says this as well. Let it load. Remember, Japan is for the first time ever opening its market to the US. Uh even to cars, SUVs, trucks, and everything else, even agriculture and rice, which was always a complete no. My god. My god. The Japanese are opening up their market to American agricultural products. That is a disaster for Japan. We'll discuss why it's a disaster. the open trade, the open market Japan may be as big a profit factor as the tariffs themselves, but was only gotten because of the tariff power. So, he's boasting how strong his arm twisting tactics are. That's what Trump is doing here. They also agreed to pay billions of dollars worth of military and other equipment and give us 90% of $550 billion and more. MAGA, maga, maga, right? Does this look like a fair deal? A win-win balance deal? No. It's all pro- US. 90% of the profits will go to the US of these $550 billion that Japan will be investing into the US. U and Japan is going to buy billions and billions of dollars worth of American military equipment and other equipment. This is nothing but paying tribute. Now what do I mean by paying paying tribute? when you had the Roman Empire when you had other empires and they had vasals so the Roman Empire had let's say Judea as it as it was vasal or or whoever else then those states those wasal nations had to pay annual tribute to the Roman Empire which would be either in the form of a certain quantity of gold every year or a certain quantity of wheat or agricultural produce every year or a certain quantity of slaves every year or maybe a combination of all three or and other factors as well that's called an annual tribute that you pay to your overlord if you are a wasal. Now in today's world you can't make it so so clear that you are taking tribute from your vasal. So you you couch it in this sort of language that you know we're going to sell stuff to Japan and Japan will buy billions and billions of dollars worth of this and that and that's tribute and the profit obviously 90% plus will remain with the US. So there you have it. It's it's nothing but a vasal paying tribute to its overlord. That's the thing. And Japan has opened up its market. It's going to open up its market to agricultural products in the US. The American Have you seen the state of the US population's health? It's horrible. It's terrible. The US The United States has the unhealthiest population on the planet. diabetes, obesity, cancer, god knows what other illnesses. People pop pills every single day. There's no individual in the US who doesn't pop pills every day, right? One pill to balance the effects of another pill and so on so forth. It all stacks up. Why is it so? Why is the food Why are why is everybody sick? It's because of the of the food, the agricultural products and and whatever else. It's extremely unhealthy. all genetically modified, engineered and whatnot. Um, and if you if you import that from the US and feed that to your population, your population is going to fall sick and you're going to have the same effects. Um, and of course then there's the painted patented products like um if if they sell you rice for example, genetically modified rice, then the patent of the rice remains with the American companies, which means they own the rice. So if you take the rice seeds and re replant them, then they're going to take a share of the profits. Whatever happens, it's it's terrible. It's terrible. And that's why India has been opposing India has been pushing back against the US in our trade negotiations with the US because the Americans want us to open our markets or market to their agricultural products which are which is a big no no for us. But the Japanese have well they have been forced into this. This is not a good trade deal. This is a horribly lopsided trade deal similar to what the Americans have done with Indonesia for example. We spoke about that some time ago. Uh so yeah, that's what happens when you are a vasal and you have no leverage. This is what happens to you. Remember that's why sovereignty is so important. So this is a terribly lopsided trade deal. Extremely unfair, extremely unbalanced. the US will uh get 90% or more of the profits. Terrible. Okay. General says, "What can we what can we theoretically do if tomorrow, let's say, the US puts 500% tariffs on us like they've been threatening?" Okay. What leverage does India have except for the Chinese angle? Right. So, let's look at this hypothetical scenario. 500% UF US tariffs on Indian goods. What could India do? So first of all look at the things that India has. We India has this huge services export market that we control right particularly in BO business process outsourcing in the IT field of of course right major American corporations like Microsoft, Google etc. Almost every American fortune 500 company all of these companies they heavily depend on Indian technological talent and service centers. So if the Americans impose 500% tariffs on India we could immediately disrupt this and this could immediately impact these corporate oper operations. So that's number one. Then pharmaceutical dependency. India exports about supplies about 40 to 50% of America's genetic drugs. So whatever generic drugs the Americans export import about 40 or 50% of that comes from India. Okay. And if we restrict that that would create an immediate healthcare crisis in the US and that would be tremendously bad for Donald Trump because he will be blamed for that. Right? The Republicans will be blamed for that. You imposed 500% tariffs on India and that's why India retaliated. India is not going to sit back and just take it. Right? then we could impose retaliatory tariffs, reciprocal tariffs on the US u whatever it is energy exports agricult we don't import agriculture products obviously but uh whatever else so that's another thing so we could uh shut down the the IT thing we should we could shut down obviously it'll hurt India also no question about it but yeah it'll create a crisis in the big American companies it'll create a healthcare crisis in the US immediately Um then let's say India revokes all H1B visa processing. Okay, that would the US tech sector in weeks or months, right? Because the US tech tech industry, the IT industry, the tech industry overall, it employs hundreds of thousands of Indian professionals and these cannot be easily replaced. Let's say we we say that all H1B visas are revoked with immediate effect. Okay. and all Indians who are on H1B visas their visas are null and void. We could do that. Then what does the US do? We we mandate that all Indian citizens who are on H1B visas need to return to meet India immediately. We could create that sort of situation right or so that's that's one thing we could do. Now these are these are reciprocal actions we could take in various ways. There's geopolitical actions also that we can take. We could unilaterally withdraw from the Quad alliance. We could restrict whatever military access the US has to Indian facilities, airports or whatever for refueling or whatever. So that we could do that that India is is a critical component of the American Indo-Pacific strategy visa with China, right? So we could withdraw from the quad. We could deny US access to Indian facilities, the US, UK, whoever. No, not the UK, US probably. Yep. Uh then we could pivot towards deeper economic integration with Russia and China beyond what we're doing already. Um and there's some kind of yeah diplomatic activity already going on between India and China, right? So that's what we could do. That would not be great for the US. We could also block US initiatives in multil multilateral forums like the G20, the UN, wherever else, right? we could accelerate our trade uh agreements with the EU, with Australia, Australia, the Middle East nations and so on and and so much more. Uh and then we could uh we could have deeper integration with BRICS nations. That that's another thing we could do. Um we could limit access uh see American digital companies, they have operations in India. We could create uh situations where they will have to localize the data within India. We'll have to we can we could increase the compliance requirements for operating in India. We could limit market access to various American companies. So much more. So there is so much India can theoretically do if the US hypothetically imposes 500% tariffs on India. It's not like India doesn't have any leverage. So the US is very well aware of this and that's why the trade negotiations are going on. There was an earlier deadline I think I forget the date whatever it was that came and went nothing happened. No trade deal happened. Now the Americans are saying that this this new headline this new deadline that they have unilaterally imposed which is uh August 1. We'll see how it goes. We'll see how it goes. We don't have to accept any of their uh unilaterally imposed deadlines. And of course this 500% tariff threat it's it's about India purchasing oil from Russia and they're not happy about that. Well boohoo we are reexporting it to the to the Europeans aren't we? Europeans are buying it. The EU is buying it. So they need something that we are offering. So we are getting it in this manner. That's up to us. We are a sovereign nation and uh so yeah so that's that's the situation right now. They are threatening that they will impose 500 tariffs, 500% tariffs on us if we continue with the oil imports from Russia. We'll see about that. We have plenty of leverage. It will hurt us too. No question. But it's not like it will not hurt them either. So that's where we are. Now let's talk about India and China of course. So anonymous scientist says why is China suddenly cozing up to India? Is it because of the US's trade war and the US influence on Pakistan which could be detrimental to Chinese interests? What should India do? Could this be a trap for India? And Supraati data says we have seen rising tensions between India and China due to his holiness the Lama issue the Akash prime test near LC not not the Akash prime test but anyhow and this must have been in India's retaliation to China's open support to Pakistan but India have has recently opened up visas for Chinese nationals. Is it due to western sanction threats to send a message that all doors are not closed? You have previously said that China won't be changed. Should we trust China as a reliable partner, strategic partner? What should what will be the future of the India China uh relationship? Okay. So this look, we can trust China. We can trust China to prioritize its own interests. We can trust China to prioritize its national interests first always. That in that sense, we can certainly trust China. So if we understand what their perception of their interests is then we have a very good idea of how they're going to behave and that's that's what I do. Uh so in that sense we can certainly trust China. Uh, of course, we have to remember that India and China because of China's occupation of Tibet, uh, we are strategic rivals just like China and Russia are long-term strategic rivals because they have a long, very long uh, common border, right? Uh, that we have to remember. But India and China are both facing a tremendous amount of heat from the US. Different kinds different kinds the American approach to China is different from the American approach to India or Russia. So India, Russia, China, all three are facing a lot of heat from the US, right? The US is it doesn't necessarily want India to become a great nation in the in the future. The US wants India to remain where it is. It is not in the American interest to see a great India, a resurgent India uh emerge on the horizon. And historically, if you look at the history of the past 2,000, 5,000 years, India has always been the largest economy. So that is India's natural position in the world. Even if you can't imagine it today, even if you can't imagine it, India's natural position in the global order is is has always been that of the largest economy and that's a problem for the US and China is currently threatening to emerge as the largest economy for now. That's a problem for the US and China and India are very different nations. So they are applying different kinds of heat on India and China. uh and and as we know there's this tremendous trade war that's happening between the US and China and the decoupling has already more or less happened and the US market is now off limits more or less to to the Chinese. So what do the Chinese do? They have this enormous manufacturing over capacity. What do they do with it? Well, it makes sense to export stuff to India, right? Because India is the only other nation that has an enormous market and a growing market. So it makes sense for China to to some extent normalize relations with India. Um but the Chinese as we know they have their own interests and they've been supporting Pakistan in a variety of ways and they're pretty open now about it. In the past they've been cy about it but now they're open about it and that's why we have gone ahead with other things like imply like like imposing uh pressure on China visa with the via the Tibet issue the issue of the reincarnation of his holiness the Dalai Lama all of that and that obviously will make China behave most of you will think that if we do these things China will get angry and then the relations can't improve no that this is how relations improve by demonstrating the kinds of leverage you have over them that's how you make them behave. This is not a way of making relations worse. It's a m it's a way of explaining to your dance partner the kind of leverage you have and that's when you can recali that's when both partners can recalibrate uh how things are and then we can dance. That's how it goes. uh but we have to remember that China will always see India as an adversary and we have to that's that's why we have to be very careful about China and I've always said that uh so is something a trap for India not necessarily not necessarily now there is talk of ra again I mean few weeks ago I had this episode on on I think geost strategy most likely in which I explained in detail with a tremendous amount of historical precedence that China has always been the spoiler when it comes to bricks and ra. So now the onus is on China. You know there's this talk of ra again and they are they the Chinese are having the Russians talk about ra right now because they want to revive the the the concept. Well that's fine. It's good but it will all depend on China's attitude and behavior. So overall my the point is that if China is and and there are other manifestations of China co like you say cozying up to India. Now they're trying to to some extent normalize relations with India. I think and I suspect there's a lot of lot of diplomatic activity happening. Okay, India and China are talking to each other right now. It may not be visible. It may not be announced but there there's a lot of back and forth happening right now. There's a lot of negotiating happening right now and some of that we will discuss uh imminently in the question after this one. Uh so all of that is going on and uh the reason for this obviously is the bigger factor which is the United States. So the Chinese will not give up whatever leverage they have over India when it comes to Pakistan. The Pakistanis are to some extent aligned with Pakist with China to a much larger interest the extent they're aligned with the Americans. Of course the Americans operate Durkhan air base and the Pakistani nuclear deterrent is most likely an American nuclear deterrent which has been given to Pakistan to you to to counterbalance India most likely it's that so China and and America the US they both see eye to eye when it comes to Pakistan and India they both see Pakistan as as a viable asset to be used against India to counterbalance India and to to destabilize India whenever required so that's the situation but China is facing the hate from the US and And that's not going to go away. India is facing the heat from the US. That also is not going to go away. The US will uh play its game. It doesn't want China to to grow beyond what it's already grown. And it doesn't want India to to emerge as the next China in the next 20 years. So the US is containing both India and China. So it makes sense for India and China and Russia, three of them to dance together. tango minata like they say in French notwa but you know trilateral tango let's say yeah u but of course India will have to be very careful when it comes to China so we will always have to keep on verifying what they're up to and uh yeah so that's the situation so I think the future dynamic of the India China relationship is going to be more of a trilateral dynamic possibly India China Russia and Russia could be the stabilizing factor Russia could be the factor that you know keeps the two the to get gets them to behave especially China obviously. So yeah that that seems to be the future the next 10 20 years the see the biggest issue when it comes to India and China is the Chinese occupation of Tibet. India and China have never been neighbors for the past 2,000 years. Then in the 1950s the Chinese occupy Tibet and that's how India and China suddenly get a common border and that's an undemarcated border that the Chinese don't want to demarcate and that's the main issue. So what happens? How do how can India and China normalize the relationship to a certain extent? One straightforward answer is that China should agree to de demarcating the border the India Tibet border and that should set all problems addressed but they don't want to do it. They don't want to because they want to have that leverage over India. We are more powerful than you. We occupy the higher ground and in Chinese occupied Tibet and the border is undemared so we can keep on claiming various pieces of your territory. That's the that's the big leverage they have. So maybe we can agree that we're going to keep the border issue aside for the next 10 years, 20 years, whatever. Otherwise, it's not going to work out. So we'll have to see how it goes. The Chinese will not agree to demarcating the border. I'll be very surprised. I'll be happy, but I'll be very surprised if that happens. So as long as the border is not demarcated, we have to keep the Tibet issue open and you know, remind the Chinese that, you know, we don't consider Tibet as part of China. Tibet obviously Tibet has never been part of China. So yeah, it's complicated and that's how it's going to go for the time being. Right, next question. Okay, we have a bunch of questions all about the Maldives. What has changed says Danush in the India Maldives relationship where Maldives went from being anti-India to suddenly pro-India? Is Maldives still now a Chinese proxy or is it pro- India now? Miranka Seeker Biswar says Prime Minister Modi's recent visit to the Maldives marked by a military salute and state honors signals a remarkable diplomatic turnaround especially after the strong India out sentiment just a year ago their their leader Mr. Mizu was the uh was at the forefront of this India out uh campaign wasn't he and right now is receiving Prime Minister Modi at the airport giving him grand welcome and all right so what specifically leverage or strategic tools do you think New Delhi employed to engineer the shift in Mallay's posture prenipal says with prime minister Modi receiving a grand welcome in the Maldives after the hostile India out campaign and extending a 4850 cr credit line how do you assess the strategic importance of this visit Could India's handling of this turnaround be seen as a case study of in foreign policy majority especially in the face of rapid geopolitical changes around the world? Okay. So all of this is being asked. There have been more questions about the Maldives. I've only taken three there as as representative questions. A lot of people have asked questions about the Maldives. Uh Prime Minister Modi has tweeted more than 25 times about the Maldives visit in the past day or so. Actually, it's more than 30 times now on his Twitter account, X account. So what's going on? That's the question. So what's changed? So first of all, let's remember what's happened. There was a pro- India friendly to India government in Maldives which went out of power. A new new leader came in Mr. Muizu and he came to power on a very strongly anti-India campaign. India out. He had this t-shirt he was wearing. India out. Do we have that? Let me see if we can if we can find that. India out. Mr. Muizu. Uh anyhow I'll not go and put that on the screen because it's not important but he had this very strong anti anti-India campaign and that's what brought him to power and he has been very strongly pro-China. So Maldiv has always been this contested ground in the Indian Ocean region where China has been trying to increase increase its influence even Sri Lanka but let's talk about Maldives. So there have been pro-China governments then pro India governments and again prochina then again pro- India it's been back and forth like that in the maldives and Mr. Muisu has been historically very pro-china and very strongly anti-India and he took all kinds of steps to get India out of the Maldives. So some Indian military personnel were were stationed in the Maldives as technical personnel to to uh maintain some aircrafts that we had donated to the Maldives. those Indian military personnel were asked to leave. Certain certain contracts that were given to development infrastructure contracts that had been given to Indian companies, those were revoked by Mr. Muiz's government and so on. So and and the Maldivian government, Mr. Muiz's government, they acquired some Turkish drones recently and they have given contracts that were canceled for Indian companies. Those those contracts were given to Chinese companies. So overall it's been very strongly pro-China and very anti-India and I suspect there could be a religious angle to this as well. Right. Possibly. Possibly. So what's happened now? What happened? The guy went from being totally anti-India to welcoming Prime Minister Modi, hugging Mr. Modi at the airport and and putting up a gigantic uh uh poster of Mr. Modi on the defense ministry building and and very warm welcome to Mr. Modi and all kinds of agreements have been signed. What happened is the question. Is Maldiv still a Chinese proxy or is is it back with India now? I suspect is still Mr. Buizu and his government are still a Chinese proxy. I suspect they still are. Then then what happened? That's the question. That's what I was talking about just a while ago that India and China they are most likely quietly talking diplomatic activity back and forth. This negotiations happening. You want this? I need this. Let's talk. What can you give me? What can you offer me? What can I I offer you? What do we want? What do we try? What do we want to achieve? Okay, you want better relations. Talk to Maldives. Get them to go back to, you know, go back to being friendly with India. That that's possibly something something that could have happened. So, I think Mr. Muizu is possibly still a Chinese asset, but because of the changed situation between India and China, maybe this has come about. Let's just put it that way, right? Um and obviously this has happened because of the diplomatic maturity that India has shown. Mr. Muizu has had a very strongly very very very strongly anti-India campaign. He has been extremely unfriendly towards India in the past. Right? But India did not ever respond officially like that in in response to that. The Indian government did not make any anti-maldiv statements any the Indian government did not make any anti-mouizu statements. the Indian government's uh signaling and messaging was very calm completely ignored the negative messaging coming from the Maldives right so by adopting this mature posture and position today we are able to achieve to to achieve u what we what we have achieved through the p visit visit of prime minister Modi to to the Maldives so it is diplomatic maturity even when things are like this you don't respond you don't lash out you don't act immaturely like a teenager. Yeah, you don't do that. So that's what India has done. Um what other questions do we have? So it's pretty strategically significant. Uh I I suspect I I expect that you know India's uh there's going to be more developments in the India Maldives relationship. Maybe some development projects may once again be given to Indian companies. um and u so on we'll have to see about that but this is a very mature approach that India has taken to the Maldives so I think that this has happened because of the situation because of the evolving situation between India and China and China must have said that they're okay with India with Maldi is no longer being anti-India that sort of thing so that's most likely what's happened so it's it's great it's very mature diplomacy very mature foreign policy from India excellent Okay, multiple questions about Thailand and Cambodia. First of all, if you want to understand what's going on, please watch episodes 11 and 14 of Geost Strategy in which I've explained the situation in great detail. In episode 11, I've spoken about the historical context of this issue, the Thailand Cambodia border dispute. And in episode 14 that aired last night for u in that I've spoken about what has recently happened, the the recent um conflration the recent escalation in the issue which came out of century nowhere. Uh so Shri Ram Chandra says Thailand has more military advantages compared to Cambodia. How to stop this from turning turning into a war? Should India play a role in this? After all, it's a Hindu temple. Well, India is not not officially a Hindu nation by the way. The government of India is officially a secular government. So even if it's a Hindu temple, well, we are no longer a Hindu nation. You see? So we no longer have that moral high ground of being a Hindu nation and that's why that we are a Hindu nation that's why we should go and mediate and put an end find a way for both sides to put an end to the fighting you can do that only if you are an officially Hindu nation then you have the moral authority to do that that India is a secular nation so so forget about that being a Hindu temple and secondly this is no longer a conflict about the temple it's gone beyond that there there's been military action in parts of the border that have nothing to do with the temple far from the temple also. So uh the whole conflict originated as a conflict about the ancient Shiva temple the Priya Vihar temple which was built which the construction of that started about 1100 roughly years ago by the Kir king Surya II who built the Ankorwa temple also in Cambodia. Uh so he was a great king and the construction went on for about 100 200 years and today the temple is ruined. Uh nobody there's no active worship as as far as I know happening over there but it is still highly re this temple is still very highly revered in both nations. So both nations want this temple and the territorial dispute happened because of the actions taken by the French colonizers who occupied the region and long history. If you want to understand the history, you can look at episode 11 of geost strategy. So uh and and the UN also the international court of justice also gave some judgments which were kind of ambiguous and so on. So that's why this entire thing is continued. Um now the question is is this geopolitically significant? Does it affect the interests of the US, China or India, the Southeast Asia nation and what's the reason behind the recent flare up between the two nations? Is it a just a border issue or is there something deeper going on like the case of Manipur and project Kilan for Christ project K which is a proxy conflict right uh and can India or China do anything sign anything about this conflict okay so this conflict was about this temple should I go to the map well why not let's let's put the map on the screen because it's always a good idea to take a look at the map so let's put the map on the screen um here's the map we go to our neighboring countries over here Thailand is a neighboring country in case you're not aware we have a maritime boundary with Thailand right across the Andaman Sea we have Thailand um over here Suratani and uh Puket and so on not far so we have Thailand and east of Thailand you have Cambodia right they have a significantly reasonably long border now let's go to the Priya Vihar Priya Priya the her temple. So it's going to zoom in. So it's a pretty big temple and the Indian government is involved in some of the restoration activities of this temple. It has been this temple is on a hillside as you can see uh pretty big temple pretty big temple as you can see multiple gapuras four goas uh and so on. So this is a temple that sits on the border between the two countries and this has officially been given to Cambodia by the International Court of Justice. As you can see it falls within Cambodia and there are other temples also in this region, Hindu temples that are kind of desired by both countries. So that is the situation. But now the fighting is happening in other parts of the border also far from the temple. So it started as a temple dispute. Okay. It started as a dispute about a temple, nothing more than that. But now it's gone some it's become something bigger. So what is the situation? So this all started. So there have been multiple phases of fighting over the years between the two countries. I think 2008 2009 there was a big flare up but then it was contained eventually. Now there's a bigger flare up because the Thai government has employed F-16s to conduct air strikes on Cambodian military targets. I mean that's a huge escalation. Uh so look Cambodia understand the history okay once again we go to the map to understand the history we have to look at the map okay I I'll explain the history so in the 1970s what happened is that uh okay here we are I'll so we have Cambodia we have Thailand we have Laos and we have Vietnam these are some of the most important nations in the ASEAN region Southeast Asia region another is Myanmar. Of course, in the 1970s, the Chinese had a proxy fighting force called the Kir Rouge, which were communist movement. And the Kam Rouge was supported unfortunately by Cambodia's crown prince Shri Naratam Sihanuk. And the Kamir Rouge, which was a Chinese proxy, it was able to take control of Cambodia in the 1970s, second half roughly of the 1970s. And they conducted a horrific genocide in Cambodia. Absolutely horrific. You can't imagine what they did in Cambodia. And eventually Vietnam stepped in. Vietnam is a communist nation. They stepped in and they liberated Cambodia and they kicked the K Rouge out of power. Now Vietnam is a communist nation. They kicked a communist movement, communist uh government out of power. the Kome Rouge government which was supported by China. In response, the Chinese responded by invading Vietnam to punish Vietnam. But surprisingly, Vietnam gave China a bloody nose and kicked the invading army, people's liberating liberation army out. It was a humiliating defeat for China. So since then, Vietnam has kind of been a big brother to Cambodia. Then eventually Cambodia got a new new governments which kind of aligned with China to some extent. Okay. Um and the strong man of Cambodia for the past 20 30 years has been Mr. Hunen. And today he is no longer the leader of Cambodia. His son is the leader of Cambodia but the real center of power is obviously still Mr. Hunen. Um so Cambodia is kind of you could say aligned with China to some extent. Thailand is aligned with the US. The Chinese have invested billions of dollars in both countries for their built and road initiative. There are Cambodian workers, maybe tens of thousands, maybe even more who work in Thailand. There is significant crossber trade. Thailand has a much stronger military compared to Cambodia. Thailand is much more prosperous compared to Cambodia. Um, and that is the situation. So hopefully this explains. So now the when it comes to Vietnam and Cambodia, Vietnam is kind of a big brother to Cambodia. So it is uh it's a complicated relationship to to one the Cambodians do recognize the fact that Vietnam saved Cambodia, but they also find Vietnam kind of an overbearing bigger brother to some extent. So it's a complicated relationship. So now the two nations Thailand and Cambodia are on the brink of war. And if that happens well Thailand will So how did this thing happen? It happened because there was a phone call between the Thailand Thai Prime Minister Pang Ton Finawatra and Mr. Hunen the strongman of Cambodia and Mr. Hunen recorded this phone call and he leaked it and in that phone call she is she kind of criticizes some uh the Thai military and she calls him uncle and she's very differential to him and that's why she got suspended by the Thai government. So she's no longer the prime minister right now. Um in Thailand, you don't criticize the military. You don't. Okay. And she did that. So that's why she's out. Uh and then about 22 or 23 days later, suddenly there's a conflration. Both sides are accusing each other of of starting the fight. But that's where we are. So this could evolve if this is not stopped now. This could pos potentially evolve into a proxy conflict between the US and China possibly. Yeah, Thailand its military is strong enough to take Cambodia if they want. They can affect a regime change in Cambodia if they want. They that strong Thailand Cambodia doesn't have a strong military. So why did Mr. Hunson start this this entire thing? Maybe to consolidate his hold in power inside Cambodia. When you have an external threat, you can have the people rally around the flag kind of, you know. Uh so maybe that's the reason, but this could evolve into a proxy conflict between the US and China like what's happening in Burma, right? In Burma, you have half the country which is no longer in the under the control of the Burmese government and you have the project K that the Biden regime started the cookie land for Christ nonsense which is which has spilled over into Manipur and it's created a completely abysmal situation in Manipur. Right? So this could this could destabilize central uh sorry not central but Southeast Asia further if this is not contained. So that's the situation we have to wait and watch. Okay, next question. Manka Seeker Biswas says, "Russia's Africa Corps now officially under the Kremlin's defense ministry has replaced the Wagner mercenary network across Mali, Nijair, Burkinaaso, embedding itself as a formal security partner. Does this mark a durable realignment away from Western influence and with implications for terrorism dynamics, resource access in the international security architecture?" Let's go to the map. We'll quickly take a look at uh Africa the region that we are talking about. Let us uh remove this. All right. Here we are. So we are talking about these nations in the Sahel region of Africa which is also called the coup belt of Africa. We're talking about nijair. We're talking about Mali. We're talking about Burkina Faso. Um and these nations are kind of aligned with Russia. Russia has a significant uh presence in the Sahel region. It used to be via the Vagnner group which was a paramilitary group not officially under the Kremlin's command but now the Russian presence is via the Africa core which is under the Kremlin's direct command essentially. So it's it's Russia is now officially involved in this region as opposed to unofficially the way it was unofficially involved earlier. And this comes at a time when when France is withdrawing or essentially has withdrawn from Africa. I think that France has closed down all of its military bases in the region. Now it has it has essentially ended more than a century of colonial presence in the region. So the French colonizers are gone and they have been replaced by the Russians and there's a Chinese presence also significantly in Africa. So um Russia and China as we know are working together to a certain extent. So it's Russian muscle and Chinese money essentially which is here and of course Africa is a tremendously resourcerich region. Um so of course there there's so much so many resources to be extracted over here metals there's uranium there's oil there's gas there's so much more u and u the great lakes region also I mean if you if you look at that the Americans have a great amount of interest over here because of the resources in this region which is the DRC Tanzania Rwanda Burundi Uganda region Kenya also to some extent there's another a new scramble for Africa that's happening right now and All the big powers are involved in it. It's all it's just about resources. It's not about bringing democracy and freedom and human rights and better living standards and education and whatnot to Africa. It's all about extracting Africa's resources. That's all what it's about. Uh so this is a work in progress. The security architecture whatever you call it in Africa is realigning right now. This is not a durable realignment. It's a work in progress. The Americans have now designated the Sahil region as the number one epicenter of terrorism in the world recently. So apparently Pakistan is no longer the number one epicenter of terrorism. It's a Sahil region now. Really? Whatever. That's what the Americans say because the Sah region is slipping out of their grasp. So then you designate them as terrorists, right? Obviously makes sense, right? Uh so it's going to be a contested region now. Africa, everybody's going to try and grab whatever they can. It's all about resources. So there's going to be increasing competition in the region. The Sahel region seems to now be significantly more and more aligning with Russia especially the three three nations we referred to Mali, Nijair and Bkinaaso. Maybe more nations could come under that and uh the Great Lakes region and all that the Americans are looking at and the Chinese have a presence there. India also uh would like to hopefully I I I would say that India should also be involved in this not for extracting and exploiting Africa but you know giving a win-win situ kind of thing to African governments. So yeah it's a work in progress and it's it's it's good to discuss Africa once in a while because it's a gigantic part of the world the largest continent that no one talks about and it's very important. So yeah right what is next question what do we have geopolitical dub says how long will Myanmar remain in this mess is there any end to Myanmar's problems okay let's take a look at the map because uh it's possible some people don't know where it is so uh where's the map okay here's the map here we are talking about Myanmar So Myanmar hopefully people will know that it's it's a neighboring country east of India's far east. That's Myanmar. So Myanmar historically has been part of the Indosphere. Very much part of the Indosphere. Very Indianized uh culture, very Indianized civilization. Um it was the gateway to Surinabumi for us historically the past 3,000 years when our traders used to cross the bay of Bengal in the Andaman Sea and and and trade with Southeast Asia which we call Sur Nabumi. So Myanmar was the gateway to Sur Nabumi for us. Now uh Myanmar lost lost its sovereignty to the British in 1926. the treaty of Yandabo, Yandabo at the end of the first Anglo- Myanmar war and that is precisely the time when Manipur also lost its sovereignty to the British. Uh and slowly the British made significant inroads into into Burma and uh they occupied Burma just like they occupied India. Okay. And in 1935 there was a vote in Burma whether to uh separate from India or not. And they voted to remain unified with India. But the British still went ahead and separated Burma from India. So the Burmese leaders wanted to remain unified with India, united with India but the British disregarded that vote and they cut Burma off from India into a separate entity. Uh and then eventually Burma got its freedom. Long story. Yeah. Mr. On General Sanan was the first leader if I'm not mistaken. Eventually his daughter becomes the Nobel Prize winner and so on. Yeah. So he was one of the freedom fighters for Burma. Uh and then there's this long long long period where the Burma is under military rule and there's no progress, no development, nothing happening in Burma for the longest time. uh that's been the history uh for the longest time and the Americans have tried their best to bring democracy to Burma which means to make Burma align with the US not with China. See if India had been a great power as opposed to China or if Burma had the option of two great powers India and China Burma would have always in the 20th century wanted to align with India but India never gave Burma that offer. India never rose as a great power that would that would be a security and economic guaranter for the other nations. So Burma had no option. The Burmese government, the Burmese military had no option but to align with China. India was disinterested. India the Indian government was not even interested in its own northeast far east. So how did you expect India to be interested in Burma? So Burma aligned with China and in the 21st century America tried to bring Burma into the western fold. Barack Obama they they they had given a Nobel Prize to Onan Suchi and then there was this agreement with the Burmese military government that there'll be some form of democracy and and so on and Sanansuchi becomes the the leader of Burma for a while before she's put back under house arrest. We know that and uh when she was the leader of Burma, she cracked down on the terrorists, Rohingyas and that's why the Americans started you know the west suddenly threatened to revoke her Nobel Prize if that's even possible. Now when it comes to Burma when it comes to the northern part of Burma once again let's go to the map. Uh you know a lot of people aren't Burmese there. So the neighboring parts there are lots of nagas in Burma which is fine and lots of cookies cookie the cookies who who live the chin cookies who live in Burma they're not Burmese they don't speak the Burmese language they don't uh practice Burmese culture and uh they don't really have any allegiance with Burma they're just occupying the land they came from u possibly from the Yunan region of China only in recent times they occupied parts of Burma And uh and there are other ethnic groups also in the northern part of Burma. And these all all these ethnic groups are fighting against the Burmese government. And some of these are aligning with the US. Some of these are aligning aligning with with China. And the effect is that about half of Burma is under the control of the of the Burmese government and the Americans started this new project right Kulan for Christ project K. and they spilled that over into Manipur and because of the open border that we have with between India and Burma I don't know lacks and lacks of cookies have squ have have have entered into Manipur either for from misoram or whatever and they have created an absolute mayhem in Manipur. So Manipur is half of Manipur at least more than half is under foreign occupation right now. Yeah kind of because we have foreign infiltrators squatting on our territory. So Burma is in in civil war and these these groups who are fighting the Burmese government, they have an endless supply of arms and ammunition coming from somewhere, right? Some of it will definitely come from China but not all of it. So the question is where does the rest of it come from? And that's a question we'll have to wonder about, I would say. So that is the mess in Myanmar. It's a proxy war between the US and and China, right? There are there are Chinese aligned groups. There are US aligned groups and there are nationalist groups which are aligned with the government of Burma and the US aligned groups are creating mayhem in Manipur. Okay. Yeah. So that's the situation. Is there any end to all of this? So what should be the desired end state? The desired end state for Burma is that Burma should retain its sovereignty. It should regain control over all of its territory. And those groups who are fighting the Burmese government need need to be brought to justice. That would be the logical and correct end state. Right? I mean if you say that everybody has the right to democracy and right to declare independence and they can apply the same logic to India, right? I mean it doesn't work like that. U so this happens when a nation becomes weak. That's when all these little ethnic groups start demanding independence and they start aligning with foreign powers to destabilize the country. So Burma is you know we know that there there are this breaking India forces. Similarly we are seeing the the the breaking Burma forces in action right now and it is in our interest it is in India's interest that Burma remains unified and hopefully aligned with India you know. So uh is there any end to this? Well, as long as the Americans in China, as long as the Burmese government isn't strong enough to put an end to all this separatism and foreign interference, this will continue. Uh so yeah, right now we don't see an end to it because the foreign powers are too strong, the US and China, and they are tearing Burma apart. Okay. Pranay Paul says with Singapore's senior minister openly calling for for a world minus America trade framework in response to Trump's tariffs is Singapore breaking from its traditional vasal like alignment with the US what's the deeper truth behind such bold statements real strategic recalibration or economic posturing and how might this reshape India Asia's geopolitical balance in the coming decade okay so Singapore senior minister has recently like yesterday or day before whatever uh called for a trade framework a world minus America trade framework in response to the mayhem that has been unleashed by by the Trump administration's tariff war on the world right so prane is asking is Singapore therefore breaking from its traditional vasal-like alignment with the US is it it's a statement it's a statement it's just words. It's uh it's an expression of displeasure. And you know what? You're going too far. It's it's it's feedback to the master. A vasal is allowed to criticize the master. You can criticize verbally. You can give your feedback. You can sometimes say it in the open. As long as you don't take any actions that are detrimental to the master's interests, nothing happens. That's how it goes. Um, so it's just words. I don't care. It's not important as long as there's no action that goes that that aligns with those words. So this is an expression of displeasure. This is a this is a this is a nation voicing displeasure, which is just common sense. I mean, what the Americans are doing, they're tearing down the economic order of the world. So it's it's a statement that makes a lot of sense and Singapore is in is not in a position to stand up to the US and it's not going to h not going to happen. So there is no real strategic recalibration. There is this is just words. It's just words. It's not going to reshape any geopolitical balance in the coming decade. Okay. Amisha says please explain the origins of water. How did water first appear on the earth? And how are images of the Milky Way galaxy taken? Okay, origins of water and how did water first appear on the earth? See, water is a chemical substance. It's made of two atoms of hydrogen, one atom of oxygen. Hydrogen is H. So, it's H2O. Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the universe. It was formed in the aftermath of the Big Bang. Hydrogen is an is an element that has one proton and one electron. That's it. The simplest atom that you can have. So it's uh so that's hydrogen. Then you have oxygen which has eight protons in its nucleus and eight electrons that uh go around it kind of in orbitals. So uh hydrogen was created in the aftermath of the big bang in great great quantities abundance of hydrogen also helium but oxygen wasn't formed in the aftermath of the big bang. It wasn't until the first supernovas occurred in the universe that the formation of oxygen of of water happened. So uh oxygen is formed inside stars as a consequence of fusion nuclear fusion. Uh and when a star goes supernova that's when tremendous amounts of water are produced very counterintuitively but yes all the oxygen that's inside the star it it gets to react with hydrogen and large quantities of water are formed during supernova explosions. the combination of hydrogen and oxygen essentially and water is one of the most abundant chemical substances in the universe right now. Uh you can find signatures of water everywhere. Uh there you know vast reservoirs of water have been discovered in orbit around quazars. Quazars are active galactic nuclei that are powered by super massive black holes. And there's this big accretion disc, you know, this this I'll let's put an image of that on the screen. What a quazar looks like. So there's this this big accretion disc that is uh that's which has infalling matter. Okay, quazar. This is what a quazar looks like. A representation of of a quazar. That's a tremendous amount of mass and material and matter that's falling into a black hole. And that's yeah this essentially is a galaxy with it with this situation. Um so there have been quazars that have been discovered that have huge reservoirs of water vapor in the occasion disc that's falling into the black hole. How much water? Trillions of times the amount of water we have on the planet earth. More than 100 trillion I think 140 trillion times the amount of water in the oceans of the earth. That's how much water was discovered around one in the occlion disc around one quazar. So water is extremely abundant in the universe. Okay. So that's the origin of water. It originated initially during supernova explosions and then it's become one of the most common commonplace substances in the universe. Now how did water first appear on earth? So the earth was formed about about 4 and a half billion years ago when our solar system was formed. Our solar system was formed out of a protostellar disc which was a huge cloud of gas and dusk dust. And that cloud of gas and dust where did all the ga gas and dust come from? It came from the debris of of supernova explosions. So there were previous stars that went supernova and died and all the gas and dust and whatever else debris was left over. It eventually once again coalesed together and formed a new solar system. So our star is a our sun, the sun that that gives us life. It's a reborn star. It's maybe a sec second or third generation star. Okay? And it's had ancestors who lived and died. So about 4 and a half billion years ago, the solar system starts forming as a protostellar disc. Let me show you what a protoella disc looks like. Let's put that on the screen. Okay, this is what a protoellar disc looks like. This is an actual image, protolanetary disc, protostellar disc, whatever you want to call it. So when when the gas starts combining once again starts coming together because of self-gravitation it starts spinning around a center that's just how it goes because of Newtonian physics very simple and at the center eventually a lot of gas combines together and it ignites nuclear fusion and that's the birth of a new star and that's how the sun was born and eventually you had other planets also that formed around the sun along the same disc right in the in the same the same plane as the original protostellar disc. So, uh that's how the solar system was formed. So, there's a lot of substances, lot of stuff that was left over from previous stars, right? And as we know, supernovas give rise give birth to water. And obviously, you had previous stars that lived there with possibly planetary systems of their own. So, they would have had water in those planets as well. So a lot of the water that became part of the solar system was water that was left over from the previous solar systems that had existed before the stars went supernova. So the earth forms about 4 and a half billion years ago. It's a hellish world nothing like what we see and experience today. It's a huge hot not huge similar sized thing planet but it's extremely hot. It's full of lava and magma is bubbling away. The atmosphere is toxic to us living on the earth today. Very different atmosphere. And there was this period called the Hadian period in the early solar systems history. A period of intense bombardment bombardment by asteroids and fragments and of rock and whatnot. And it is believed that these asteroids and comets and fragments of rocks rock and all that these objects they all had water on them and that's how this water was became you know it it it reached earth through this bombardment by asteroids and and rocks and all that. So it is believed that a large amount of the water that exists on earth today it it came on the planet through through these collisions with all the debris that existed in the solar system in the initial in the early uh part of the solar systems history. So that's how water appeared on earth through collisions and then there was another gigantic collision which is believed to have happened which gave rise to the moon. Even that collision with a smaller planet which is now part of the earth. Even that collision may have brought water to the earth. So that's how water appeared on earth. It's a long process. It happened through very violent activity. That's the uh most likely explanation that we have thus far. How are images of the Milky Way taken? U you take them with cameras and you expose the camera in a very dark part of the see today if you live in cities there's a lot of light pollution. You can hardly see the sky. So you to go to some remote area where there's complete darkness hopefully and then you take long exposures at night and you will see some part of the Milky Way. Now you cannot take a proper image of the Milky Way from outside because we are inside the Milky Way. Our solar system is is is in one of the arms of the Milky way. The Milky Way is most likely a spiral galaxy. So you take pictures like that and you So let me show you some pictures. What do these pictures look like once again? Uh Milky Way picture, right? Milky Way picture. So when when you get images like this of the Milky Way, these are artistic representations. This is an art this is an artist's imagination of what what the Milky Way looks like. We don't really know what it looks like from from outside. We have no way of going outside the Milky Way and taking pictures like these. So these are artistic representations. These are actual images of the Milky Way from inside the Milky Way. So we can only imagine what the Milky Way structure is like based on whatever data we have. So this is what it looks like when we take images from inside the Milky Way from from our our own planet. Uh that's what it looks like. And if you if you actually experience this, if you go to a dark part of the planet where there's real good darkness and if you look out at the sky and you see the real Milky Way, it's it's an all inspiring sight. It looks like it's a cloud. So many stars. I remember when I was a little kid, the first time I saw that, I was aruck. Look at the number of stars we have out there. So yeah, that's how it is. So you have to take images in in a in a part of the planet where there's no light pollution and that's how we do that's how we do it and you take multiple exposures and you stitch them together and that's how you get a better image. All right. Okay. Amisha has another question. What why was it a taboo for Hindus to cross the sea? How did this practice originate in Indian society? And what's the difference between 80 BC BCE? It's really confusing. Okay, the taboo for crossing for Hindus to cross the sea. First of all, let's look at some actual history. Uh we know that Southeast Asia became Indianized over thousands of years, right? We called Southeast Asia Sarabumi. Uh let's go to the map and we'll put the map on the screen. One second. Give me a second. Okay, so here's the map. We're looking at India from Southeast Asia's perspective. Uh we have Indonesia, uh Yawadwep and Sumatra, Java and Sumatra. And uh we have the Philippines which were called Maharlic. Then we have Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Myanmar, all of that. All of this taken together is uh Southeast Asia. Now, Indian traders were trading with Sarabumi, which is Southeast Asia for at least 3,000 years before today. And they did not uh go to Southeast Asia via land. They used to cross the Bay of Bengal, cross the Andaman Sea and trade with Southeast Asia. U one of the first Indianized kingdoms emerged in southern Vietnam. It was called Funan. And uh there was a and the king of the first king of Funan was an Indian trader called Condinhia and his queen was a local lady her name was Queen S I believe. Uh so these were traders from Kolinga from Odisha who used to travel across the sea 3,000 plus years ago and for thousands of years they traded with this region and they totally slowly gradually Indianized this this region without any force whatsoever without any coercion whatsoever. So obviously we had ships flying the Bay of Bengal, what is now called the Bay of Bengal. It should be called the Sea of Kolinga. Actually then we also know that we have had Indians living in Eastern Africa for thousands of years. If you look at the culture of Southeast Asia, all the way to Mozambique, all the way to Tanzania etc. You will see Indian influence everywhere in the in the kind of clothing they wear, the kind of cuisine they have, even in their facial features. You will see it especially in Somalia, Ethiopia etc. So Indians obviously they did not walk into Africa. They crossed the sea. When Vasco Dagama first reached Africa after crossing the Cape of Good Hope, they was astonished to see ships that were like three four times the size of his ship and they were commanded by Indians. And it's Indians who sadly unwittingly brought Fasco Dama to India. Right? So Indians were crossing the ocean all the time. If you look, if you read the riga, it speaks about ships that have 100 or ships equipped with 100 oes. 2,000 years ago, the Romans had ships called galleys, Roman galleys. These ships had 500 oes. Let me show you. Roman galleys. Uh, not glets, galleys. GS. There we are. Roman galley. So, these were military ships. They were designed for ramming other ships. And these ships would typically have 50 or 25 on each side. These were the elite warships of the Roman era, the Roman warships, 50 BC or whatever. And the guys who would be manning operating the os were generally sadly slaves. Okay. So these were the elite warships of the Roman era. The rigidic era you had you had ships with twice the number of oes that the Romans used. So these were not obvious these were obviously not river fairing ships. These were seafaring ships. They went out on the samudra. The rivida was was written closer to 6,000 BC than to 1500 BC. So we've always had this practice of crossing the sea. We have we were the first maritime civilization of all. I can give you so many more examples of Indians crossing the sea. But we are told I mean our textbooks tell us that there was some taboo that Indians could not cross the sea. Mr. Gandhi, Mr. Moas Gandhi writes about this that uh your dharma will become brushed or whatever if you cross the sea. So how so assuming it's true, how did it originate in India? I suspect that if it is true that it originated in the past 10,000 years when India came under foreign occupation and it was not a good idea for any young man to leave his family and go somewhere else in search of adventure or or whatever you were supposed to stay at home and defend your home and if you left your home and cross the sea went far away then you were no longer a dharmic person. I suspect that's what must have happened because of the past 1,000 years of foreign occupation. first Turk occupation and then European occupation. So maybe that's why we got this. So when when your society is under foreign occupation and it's it's no longer able to uh operate the way it naturally operates, then all kinds of defects and deficiencies creep into so into your society. And this is one of those examples. There are obviously more. So yeah, that's that's most likely what happened. Okay. Sharma 108X says, "What exactly was S in the context of the Rigveda and how was it used? Did psychedelics play a role in ancient Indian spirituality?" So the riga makes lots of references to something called s. When we say s, we also have somar, right? Somar. It's one of the days of the week. Raviar, Shanear, Somar, Mangalwar and so on. Somar is is Monday. Monday. M O N D A Y. Monday. What is M O N? Moon. In French, it's li. L U N D I. The word for for moon in French is lun. L U N E. Sumoir, Monday, learn. Exactly the same meaning, the day of the moon. So s means moon historically for us. But in the original context, the rigidic context, it meant a certain plant. And the rigid extols the the the virtues of soma s ras. So it was a plant that our ancestors held in extremely high regard. So the stalks of the plant were harvested and they were pressed and a juice was extracted which was called saras. And this was consumed by warriors before battle. It gave them tremendous stamina and strength and vigor. Lord Indra was a great uh drinker of sas. So the rigida has so many references, lots and lots of references to s and and the benefits of drinking s. So it's clearly some it clearly was an actual plant. Now today we don't know what that plant is. is I mean it's it's kind of a mystery. They've kind of lost touch with what s used to be. So um and then this what's interesting is that the Persians also have soma. So we do yagnas. The Persians they do what they call yajna yashnas. It's the same thing but slightly different pronunciation. The Persian language the old Persian language was very similar to Sanskrit. It was an offshoot of Sanskrit. It was an upper branch descendant of Sanskrit. So they used to call it yasna and sa becomes her in the Persian language. So they used to so our soma became their homer homer and the Persians the Zoroastrians when they when they came to India running from the Arabic invaders they brought Homer with them and that happened to be the Ephedra plant. Ephedra let me let's let's quickly Google that. Uh Ephedra Excuse me. So the ephedra plant looks like this. Now I'm not claiming that this is the this is guaranteed to be soma, but this is what the ephedra plant looks like. It's a stimulant. Okay. Um this is what it looks like. It it it grows. Where does it grow? Let's let's find out where it grows. Ephedra is a plant. Where does it grow? Does it do we have Okay, so this is where it grows. So it is believed that uh the rigidic original area was northern western India. So yeah it makes sense and of course Porschia also there. So uh what's the use of ephedra human use? Ephedra medicine nandaral shanidar crave kurasan ephedra pololland all that uh ephedrine ephedrine is a is a controlled substance I believe it's a stimulant central nervous system stimulant and uh uh I think athletes are banned from taking it because it gives you yeah it's a performance-enhancing drug in exercise and sports it can increase heart rate blood pressure cardiac contractility and act as a psycho stimulant, right? And it's often used in combination with caffeine for performance enhancing purposes and the food. So there are regulations and all and I think athletes if they are found with ephedra in the system, I think you you are banned or whatever and your medals will be revoked if you are found with ephedra in your system. So this is a candidate I would say. I'm not claiming that this is the soma itself but it's I think a strong candidate for being possibly the soma of the rigida. So when the paris do their yasnas they use ephedra as soma and for us I'm not sure what we use. Yeah. Um so that's what soma was. It was this great fantastic plant whose rust whose whose juice would be consumed consumed and that would give you tremendous uh performance enhancement and you would win in battle. That's what soma was and it's kind of lost in history. Some people say it is the psilocybin mushroom. I don't think that's the case. The psilocybin mushroom has very strong hallucinogenic properties. It get sends you into some kind of weird mental state where you see unicorns and whatnot. rainbows and whatnot I believe. Okay. I I I believe it's pretty common in India. The psilocybin mushroom. Um so but it's not a performance-enhancing substance. It won't guarantee b victory in battle. It may end end up getting you killed in battle if you are seeing things that aren't there. Right? So I don't think psy is is the is the answer to the mystery. It's possibly ephedra. We'll have to see. So I'm not sure what fedra is called in India. Uh we can find it out later. Uh did psychedelics play a role in Indian uh ancient Indian spirituality. Well, psychedelics have been a part of Indian culture. Bhang is obviously what is bhang? It's it's a marijuana, right? Maruana. Marijuana is is ganja. It's it's a it's a it's a herb that can be ingested. Uh it can be eaten or it can be smoked. And it's uh sap or whatever is is converted into this bhang balls or whatever and people drink that with milk or whatever during holi um and it's never been taboo. It's not something that is something you should do all the time but on special occasions on holidays or festivals or whatever on certain on certain festivals it's consumed. One of the festivals obviously is holi when people drink bang. I've never had it so I have no idea what it is like but I've heard very interesting stories about bang and another festival is Shivatri where people smoke some people some people smoke ganja a couple of puffs or whatever or whatever and there are certain sadhus in India who smoke copious amounts of ganja and whatn not so it's it's part of our culture it's been there for thousands of year years and uh and I'm not sure if it's a good thing or a bad thing Sure, it's not a bad thing if you do it once or twice a year, right? As a ritual thing. Of course, I suppose these substances will have addictive properties and obviously if if somebody consumes them or smokes them regularly, you're going to have bad health effects. But if you do it once or twice a year, no one cares. Um, and I'm sure Indians were in in old ancient times were not encouraged to do this all the time. It was something you did for ritual purposes, religious purposes, once or twice a years or once or twice a year. So yeah, that's the kind of thing it we had historically. Sharma 108x says the subjugated rivals of the Aztecs played a crucial role in the conquest of the Aztec Empire by helping the Espanos, the Spanish concistadors, right? Hernand Cortez. Hernan Cortez was the Spanish barbarian who destroyed the Aztec Empire in the year 1521. Hernan Cortez and the other one the other barbarian was Franchesco Pidaro who destroyed the Inca Empire in southern America. Uh long story I've I've Yeah. So So the subjugated rivals of the Aztecs played a crucial role in the conquest of the Aztec Empire by helping the Spanish. Could you discuss why they chose to side with the Spanish and what happened to them after the Spanish gained control of all of Mexico, Mexico? So, let's once again go to the map and we're going to take a look at that part of the world for a change. So, we're talking about Central America here, Mexico City. It was called Tenok Titlan during the the days of the Triple Alliance. So I'm not sure where the the great lake is. But this city was founded as an island city inside a lake. I think the lake has been wiped out. It's been reclaimed. All the land has been reclaimed and there's nothing of the lake left now. So uh this is where it all happened. So there was something called the Aztec triple triple alliance. Okay, which was which is which everyone calls the Aztec Empire. It was a political and military entity which was founded in in the 1400s. The first half of the 1400s by three city states. The first and most powerful was Tenotitlan which is Mexico City itself. Then there was something called Texoko and there was Takopan. So these three city states they came together combined their resources and created a triple alliance which everyone calls the Aztec Empire. Now the most powerful obviously was Tenokitlan and that that's the and that Tenuktitlan controlled the entire uh Azak Empire. So this was an alliance and it was okay. Now let's remove the map. Yep. So this alliance was it was crucial in the in the foundation the establishment of the empire and the expansion of the empire. So once you pull the resources of three entities, three geopolitical entities together, then it becomes a much more powerful entity and this alliance allowed this empire to dominate this entire region, the valley of Mexico and they were able to that thereby they were able to control and subjugate various other uh political entities in the region and they conquered many other territories in what's called Miso America which is essentially Central America. America. So there were many other small um city states or whatever small kingdoms that were absorbed, subjugated and absorbed and made part of the Aztec Empire. So they were all under the dominance of essentially the main entity which was based out of Mexico City. So in the 1520s 1520 1521 this guy Hernand Cortez comes to this region. Okay. He crosses see he crosses the ocean from Spain the Atlantic Ocean and he reaches Mexico and he he he's out for glory obviously all these concistadors they were hidalos or they were nobodyies and they wanted to make a name for themselves and they wanted great riches and glory they sought adventure and they sought gold and uh it all started obviously in with uh with Christopher Columbus discovering what he thought was India but whatever So in 1521, Khan Cortez comes here with a bunch of soldiers and these other kingdoms that had been defeated and incorporated into the Aztec Empire. They decided that you know what these foreigners, let's ally with them and let's bring the Aztec Empire down. So that's what they did. So, Hernand Cortez and his uh army they got a huge number of allies by exploiting the the hidden divisions in the empire and then they made their move on Tokitlan which is now called Mexico City and they would still not have won but something happened. What was that something? It was smallox. The Europeans brought small pox to the region and while they were fighting the the Aztec Empire and they were fighting for Mexico City, half of the people of Mexico City were dying of smallpox and that's what contributed to the eventual destruction of the Azik Empire and the victory of the Spanish and the Spanish never left. So what happened to the other uh the subjugated rivals of the Aztecs? They were all destroyed one by one. They were all Yeah. What happened happened you know the Spanish even today the the language spoken in Mexico is Spanish. The religion in in Mexico is is the Catholic version of Christianity which is brought by the Spanish and the churches in Mexico are church are are built on top of destroyed temples Mexican temples. So the fate of the Aztecs was shared by everybody else including the rivals. Everybody suffered cultural endemic genocide. That's what happened. So that's something you see over and over again in the history of colonization in the past 500 years. Whether it is in the Americas, whether it is in Asia, wherever else, whether it's Africa, the the invaders, the colonizers, they exploit divisions between the natives and they eventually end up destroying everything. So the natives who who initially think that you know let's ally with the foreigners they have just come from somewhere else and they'll they'll leave what happens is they never leave and even if you allied with them they will destroy you as well. So that's something that's happened over and over again. That's a that's a pattern that repeats itself in the uh story of colonization in the past 500 or so years. Okay. Saturn 88 says very interesting question very interesting question. Is there an infinite number of souls or atmas in the universe? For example, there were maybe two or three billion humans a few decades ago to today the population is 8.1 billion. Where are all these new souls coming from? So it is said that there are more people alive today on the planet than people who have ever died. So if you take all the people who have died in human history together and you add up the numbers that number is less than the number of people alive today that raises a profound theological question. Where are all these? So assuming that all human beings have a soul atma and assuming that there is reincarnation then where are all these extra souls coming from? That's that's a very profound question and I'm not the right person person to answer this question but I would like to ask this question of you my viewers maybe some of you understand this better than me what's the answer to this question see I am a scientist that's my background and I am not an expert in all these things I have the deepest of respect and re reverance for our culture but I don't know the answer to this question. We have more people alive today than have ever died before. So where have all the extra atmas, the souls come from? Assuming that souls exist and each human being has one unique soul. So where have all these souls come from? If you ask this question to somebody who is a follower of an Abrahamic religion, they'll just say God created these souls. Maybe God is in the process of creating extra souls. That answers the question. But when it comes to the dharmic religions, there are laws of nature including laws that that that govern the spiritual invisible world, the the non-physical world, right? I mean there are non-physical objects that like the atma etc in our in our philosophy, philosophical schools of thought and in our culture. But those two are governed by laws. They things aren't aren't arbitrary. There are laws that govern the universe even even the nonphysical aspects of the universe according to our culture and civilization. So how does that account for the extra souls that exist today that have we've never had these many souls during the rigidic phase of our history? How many people existed in in India in the subcontinent? I would guess less than a million perhaps. And the total population of the world at the time would have been perhaps just a few millions, maybe 5 million or something. But today you have 8.1 billion. Where did all these extra souls come from? That's a very profound theological question. So I would like I I don't have the answer to it. So, it's it's fascinating, but I'm sure there should be some kind of u logical answer to this. So, so let me know what you guys think maybe in the comments below once this live stream is over because I would like to know the answer to this question. I don't have the answer to this question. Fascinating. Okay. Geopolitical Dub says, "Do we need expensive Apache helicopters in today's warfare?" So look the question you to ask yourself first of all is that do we have alternatives the answer is maybe yes we have the LCH prachund helicopter which is an indigenous helicopter it's an attack helicopter which is different from the Apache so the LCH prachund helicopter is designed for extreme high alitude combat Himalayan combat so it it's something that can give us a tremendous edge over China in any future hypothetical hypothetical future conflict. So, it's designed to operate even in Siain, even in the highest parts of the Himalayas, etc., where the Apache simply can't operate. Impossible. The Apache helicopter has a more powerful engine from what I hear. And it it is a heavier helicopter. It can carry a much heavier payload, which means more weapons, more missiles, more whatever else. And it is more it is it is an armored kind of helicopter. So it can take hits. You shoot at it, it'll be fine. So it's different from the LCH Prand. The LCH is not that heavily armored. It doesn't have as powerful of an engine as the Apache helicopter, and it can't carry as many armaments, let's say, as the Apache. But look, if this is the only helicopter you have, fine. Make lots of those. Make 2,000 of those, then it's fine. you you'll be fine. Uh now price-wise, I think the Apache helicopter is priced around $100 million per piece and the Pchand is priced about half of that, 50 million. So the Apache is obviously more expensive, but it's it's a very highly battle tested helicopter. The Apache has seen a lot of action. The Prchand hasn't seen action thus far. I'm not saying it means that it's a bad helicopter. I'm just saying it's not tested in battle thus far. The Apache is very battle tested. It's been around for a very long time. So based on these parameters that we have on both sides, I think the government of India or the Indian armed forces need to decide what the uh uh how they're going to go about doing things. Do they need a bunch of Apaches and a bunch of uh Peran helicopters or do they want more Apaches and less preach or just a handful of Apaches and a whole bunch of Pchends? So that's something the armed forces are best equipped to decide. I think I think we should go indigenous more. So we already have a bunch of Apache helicopters. Good. Keep those and use those. But we should uh get we should induct way more of the indigenous helicopter. Um and obviously we should keep on developing the indigenous helicopter make more versions of that you know maybe a heavier more more armored and more powerful version of the Pchan maybe we can we can certainly do that we can adapt it you know so yeah I think that's the direction in which we should go right um okay uh Latangi Suresh says the generation before you before me used to see encyclopedias for answers and also books for answers. You in your generation which is me even now use Google instead of perplexity or chat jpity for answers. Don't assume things sir. You don't know what I what I use. I use everything. But anyhow you you're generalizing. Okay. So Gen X my generation is Gen X the last great generation. So yeah Gen X uses Google instead of Perplexity or Chart GPD for answers. And you use Google or any search engine and that made the word Google as a term for finding out new things. Google this, Google that. Yeah. Right now our generation Gen Z searches chat GPD for things the way you search for things in Google. Okay. So what will the future generations that is Gen Alpha etc do for the same? if they want to search for something will they just think an AI would provide answers through Neuralink or agentic AI or would they be in such a state as to not know anything as they would be aware of all things that happen in the whole world so look I'll tell you what as a kid I had no no Google I used to read books I I I read a tremendous amount of books also not really encyclopedias I was not a big fan of encyclopedias but I read a lot of books tremendous amount of books. Then go then something called the internet arrived in India in the late 1990s when I was in university. Okay. And the internet that we had in India in the late '90s 97 98 99 it was it was ridiculously overpriced and ridiculously slow extremely frustrating. Then the 2000s you got better and better internet over time. For a time we had something called cyber cafes in India. So if you wanted to access the internet you had to go to a cyber cafe and pay something per hour and you had a slowish connection. Yeah that's what you used to have. Then eventually you started getting you know all these service providers emerged so that you could have internet in your home and you have Wi-Fi and so on. Uh so I've always been an early adopter of all technologies. I am very comfortable with technology. I always keep learning new things. Uh so I have been in the books phase, the the encyclopedias phase, I have been in the Google phase, now we in the AI phase. I use everything. Uh but today what you but the problem is that you know Google Google isn't an answer engine. Google is is a search engine. Google doesn't give you answers. Google gives you links to websites that may possibly have answers and those websites aren't necessarily reliable. And that's what people don't understand. They think Google told us this so it's true. It's not necessarily true. People don't understand that that you have to fact check everything. But people are too lazy or just not literate enough to understand that. And today you have all these uh all these LLMs chat GPT and perplexity and whatnot. Even those aren't necessarily going to give you the right answers. You still have to fact check everything. But people don't understand that. That's it. I'm done. I got the answer. at JPT isn't necessarily going to give you the right answer but people don't get it anyhow that's that's not what he's asking you here Suresh so uh yeah so today Gen Z it asks chat JPD for everything he doesn't even bother to do Google right you don't do a Google search anymore you just ask chat GPD what is the truth or you ask Grock if you're on Twitter hey Grock is it true or perplexity so what will future generations do genpha or whatever what AI will evolve maybe everybody will have a chip in the bra when the brain which is ridiculous but who knows who knows that would be terrible but yeah maybe or maybe you won't even need a chip maybe you will find there'll be you know direct to brain wis knows anything's possible when it comes to technology so maybe in 10 years today whatever we do will be regarded as very primitive today you go to your phone and you you know ask chat tpd whatever you want in 10 years time maybe that will be regarded as a very primitive way of interacting with AI I'm not sure what direction it will go in. I imagine eventually you will have Wi-Fi that will interface directly with your brain with your mind and you won't need to use fingers to type or whatever or or thumbs to type on on the small screens. Maybe you'll be able to query the AI directly from your mind. You know, just think and you you're querying it. Or maybe you can close your eye and you'll see the screen and you can just think whatever you want type. Maybe that will happen. you know it sounds like science fiction today but you know what's happening right now 10 years ago was science fiction AI um yeah so the future is out there all possibilities are open and I don't know what exactly will be the way people use AI but it will be but whatever it will be they will regard what we are doing today as super primitive that's what's going to happen okay sun moon 0877 says, "After the Epstein case, I've come to the conclusion that all the anti-India influences, politicians, actors have been 1,000% honey. The question, why doesn't India use this honey trapped method method towards the US or China or even Bangladesh since it works like a charm and costs less?" Okay, the Epstein case. Yeah, Epstein is this this this person who was in charge of who was running this operation with his girlfriend Julain Maxwell who's in prison now and there have been accusations of pedophilia and god knows what other hor horrific things and apparently there's a list of people who have been Epstein clients and the list is apparently doesn't exist that's what Trump says and of course there are lots of pictures and videos of Trump with Epstein and Julian Maxwell on the internet So obviously he was a at least a friend of epste and what is believed is that epste was running this disgusting operation honey people uh taking them to his island and doing all kinds of god knows what horrific things there and apparently these were very powerful very rich people who all were clients of epste and whatever disgusting things that they did all of that apparently it is believed by some was videotaped all of that was taped and now epste and whoever controls epste has all the evidence you need to destroy a person. Now let's say in the future that person becomes the president of so- and so country then you can control the entire country because you have this leverage over that person and that's how whoever was behind the Epstein operation they essentially control a large part of the world through blackmail. So that's the that's what is believed by some people. I'm not saying it's true or it's untrue. I'm saying we don't have evidence but yeah it makes sense if it were to be true. Right? So that's the honey trap method. That's a black blackmail method. That's blackmail. Pure blackmail. Honey trap means you you have some person of interest and you want that person to dulge whatever secrets or information they have or and act as your agent in your spy. Then you then you honey trap the person means you you introduce the person accidentally to your agent who is a female or a male depending on the gender of the person of your of your target. And then you have them get into a romantic relationship, maybe get married or maybe just have an affair or whatever. then you can control that person. That's that's the classic trap that that goes back to the days of Vishnu Gupta Tanaka those we had those ladies called Vishkanyas and whatnot. So it's it's the one of the oldest tricks in the book when it comes to these uh you know influence operations and and whatnot and and it's not just anti-India influencers and politicians and actors who have could possibly be uninterrupted. Can you think of an anti-India influencer who has a foreign spouse? I I'm not taking anyone's name up. Can you think of anybody? Maybe that's foreign that foreign spouse is is a reward or a honey trap for services rendered. Can you think of any any top American Can you think of any top American tech company founder who has a Chinese spouse, Chinese origin spouse? Can you think of somebody? I'm once again not taking names. So the Chinese have been very good at doing this honey trapping Americans long term. But what about India? I think India is way behind on all these things. So yeah, I I suppose I mean the the suggestion you're giving is a good suggestion. We should also uh utilize such means. Why not? What's wrong with that? No one's being forced into anything. But if somebody wants to volunteer as part of a intelligence operation to be the honey trap then why not let it let it be right. So yeah I think yeah you make a good good point over here. Okay Sunmoon0877 once again says why don't Indians fight against racism and discrimination in countries like the US, Canada, Ireland etc. How in your tips uh to fight against it? Look, first of all, I'll tell you what. All countries have some amount of racism. Okay? Every every culture, every country believes that they are better than others. And there's there's going to be and and there are some nations they don't like and there's going to be some amount of racism in every country. Every single country on the planet, it's it's just a natural thing. Now, what are the tips to fight against racism? Uh well, if you're an Indian and you are in a foreign country, let's say in the US, Canada, Ireland, wherever, and you face racism, well, I would say if you're a tourist and you're there for, let's say, a few days and you face some kind of racism, maybe you go to a restaurant and somebody treats you badly because of your nationality or the color of your skin or whatever, I would say there's no point making a big fuss of fuss about it and fighting and doing all that. Just remove yourself from the situation and go to a better place. That's what I would say. There's no point if you're if you're there for like 3 days, 5 days, 1 week, whatever. There's no point fighting everybody or or wherever you face this. Just remove yourself from that place and go somewhere else. There are plenty of better establishments, better restaurants, better whatever where you will be treated like the way you should be. So, if you are a short-term visitor, don't fight anybody. just just accept the fact that there's going to be racism in every country and there's no point fighting it. But if you are a resident or a citizen, if you are a Indian origin US citizen or or whatever citizen and you face racism, then you can't just, you know, walk away from it. You've got to fight it. So how do you fight it? is they if I'm sure every country has certain laws that that make it illegal to discriminate against someone on the basis of their n of their ethnic origin or color of the skin or religion or whatever and if somebody is doing that then you can pro probably prosecute them under the laws of the country. So that's what you can do. U so yeah take take advantage of the country's laws to ensure that you are not a you don't become a victim of racism. And one more thing I would say to Indian travelers these days you we see a lot of racism and hate against Indians on social media and they give examples of Indians behaving badly in western countries and you know what there is some truth to that Indians who who become residents and citizens of foreign countries they assimilate very well and they behave very well they are super low abiding they never create a nuisance or whatever. But Indian tourists who go on short-term trips 5 days, 1 week, 2 weeks, whatever to various countries, they create a very bad image of the country through their behavior. Today anybody can travel. Traveling is cheap. So everybody just travels and you know they create a nuisance. Indians they are super loud. They don't realize that in other countries there's the there isn't a culture of being loud. You go to any Indian restaurant, there's loud music blaring everywhere. Okay? Even in the most expensive restaurants in big cities, you you go there, you'll find loud music blaring, which is why everybody is forced to shout. So Indians have this habit of shouting. Now when you go abroad, people don't shout there. People like silent. People like a quiet atmosphere. But Indians will be like yelling and shouting and they don't even realize that they they're you know creating a nuisance for everybody. Then Indians like to litter everywhere. So Indians through their behavior create a bad impression of India. Then they will haggle with everybody try to bargain. See in other countries when you have a price listed on on some item you have to pay the the the listed price. You don't bargain with them. But Indians believe that you can bargain with everybody and they try to bring the prices down. You know Bali is a Hindu place but I've heard that the Balindians people are tired of Indians because of Indian behavior. So there's a lot that Indians do to create this negative image of India. So I would say that Indians need to first culturally sensitize themselves that if I'm going to so and so country, what are the norms there? What is expected and what is not expected of you? Right? What what are the things you are you can do? What are the things you should not do? But Indians don't bother to do that. And that's the problem. That's what creates these the opportunity for racists to then say that India India Indians are bad and Indians should be discriminated against and all that. So you know Indians also need to understand that when you travel abroad please behave yourselves behave yourselves like civilized human beings. You're not in your country now. You are in a foreign country. Don't disrespect your hosts or do anything to make your hosts uncomfortable. You are now ambassadors of your nation and behave yourselves in that manner. Okay. Uh okay. A couple of questions here. Mrianka Biswas and geopolitical Dubai. Uh why is France recognizing Palestine? Why do France and the EU countries seem to be unhappy with Benjamin Netanyahu? And France has become the first G7 nation to formally recognize the state of Palestine, announcing the move ahead of the UN General Assembly in September with strong international backlash from the US and Israel. Meanwhile, India has taken a firm position urging an immediate ceasefire in Gaza as thousands of children continue to die daily. Really, I'm not sure about that. But anyhow, uh and India has called for uh humanitarian corridors. Given this backdrop, do you how do you see Prime Minister Netanyahu responding politically and diplomatically in the coming months, especially as global momentum shifts towards Palestinian statethood and ending the war in Gaza? Okay, look, there's never been a Palestinian state. There's never been a country called Palestine. Okay, you can retrospectively put names on maps and all, but there's never been a country called Palestine. First of all, understand that. Now, secondly, this claim that thousands of children are dying daily. I'm not sure about that. I know that ever since the war started in the aftermath of the horrific Hamas terror attack on Israel and Israeli Israel justifiably responded by pounding Gaza and trying to take to to take out the Hamas terrorists. So, ever since the war started, I'm sure there have been lots of deaths in Gaza. Well, see the so the question is first of all about France, right? Why? What is France up to? What is Mu Makon doing formally recognizing the state of Palestine? And I think the justification is that there's been this war that's been going on for too long and Israel has not implemented a two-state solution and all that. Look, Israel did try its best to implement a two-state solution. By the way, they gave the people of Gaza autonomy, didn't they? They allowed the people of Gaza to hold elections and to vote for a government and for that government to then control and run Gaza. Right? Israel did that. Israel gave autonomy to Gaza. And who did the people of Gaza elect? They elected Hamas. And Hamas has been out there trying to do what it does. It's a terrorist organization. So, Israel did try its best to implement a two-state solution. It did didn't work out. Now, what do you expect Israel to do? Yeah. Um, and so I think that's what France is doing. I'm not sure. I think France is showing off its its uh uh autonomy, it it's quasi sovereignty when it comes to being in the EU and and and NATO. that despite us being a part of EU and a part of NATO, we are still quasi sovereign, right? That sort of thing. So maybe that's what they that's what Mimo is up to. Uh obviously there's going to be strong backlash from the US and from Israel. I saw a tweet from Prime Minister Netanyahu um strongly I think condemning or whatever what uh President Mron has done recognition of the state of Palestine. So look, India doesn't recogni, as far as I know, India doesn't recognize a Palestinian state. India has taken a firm position urging an a ceasefire in Gaza, which makes sense. Yes, I don't know about thousands of children dying daily. I don't believe it. Uh and India has called for humanitar humanitarian corridors. Yes, there should be humanitarian corridors. So how do I see Prime Minister Netanyahu responding politically and diplomatically in the coming months? Uh, is there a global momentum towards Palestinian statethood? I don't think so. There certainly is a global demand for ending the war in Gaza. So, what will Mr. Netanyahu do? Uh, well, Mr. Netanyahu has not been able to achieve his objectives when it comes to Iran. He's not been able to denuclearize Iran. He's not been able to uh effect regime change in Iran. So Iran still exists and uh it's slightly weakened or something but it's still there. So that's that's been a setback for Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Netanyahu is facing various political troubles at home uh corruption cases and all. So it's a pretty tight situation for for him. Uh I don't really know how long Mr. Nathan may last you know because see the entire nation came with him because of the war with Iran. But now that the war is over definitely and uh Gaza also is not Hamas is also not a big threat now compared to what it was in October 2023. Uh I don't know. So what what happens going forward? I think there should be a ceasefire and some kind of secession of hostilities in Gaza. Obviously it's a human humanitarian disaster. I am not blaming Israel for starting the war in the aftermath of that horrific terrorist attack. You cannot ever um justify or support or or condone terrorism. So Israel did the right thing. Maybe they can now do a ceasefire and ensure that you know uh Hamas they will have to ensure that Hamas doesn't exist. So Hamas obviously from Israel's perspective needs to be wiped out and if they feel satisfied that that is done then maybe they can go ahead with the ceasefire. Um yeah so that's the deal right now. Let's see in what direction this goes. Right. Sumit Agarwal says are Indians stuck between remembering their glorious past and embracing modernity. A lot of Indians are stuck singing glories of the past and uh they refuse to to recognize the fact that India is not a glorious nation today and a lot needs to be done to make India you know strong again and and let's say glorious again a lot of Indians just want to keep on harping about the past and and you know I am accused of being one of those people because I keep reminding people about the fact that India was once a great nation India was once the nation with the highest GDP in in the highest highest share of the GDP across the world and so on. The reason I remind people of this is because I want Indians to shed their inferiority complex. It's not because I am stuck in the past. So Indians need to be practical and pragmatic. Do remind yourselves of the greatness of your past of what your ancestors achieved but remember it has all been destroyed. The reason to remember what your ancestors achieved in the glory of the past, it's important because that will help you shed your godamned inferiority complex. Indians have a tremendous inferiority complex and that really annoys me like anything. And that's what I'm trying to do. But remember, there's a tremendous amount of work to be done and you have to embrace modernity. And modernity doesn't mean that you have to embrace becoming becoming more vested every day. you have to embrace technology, embrace all the benefits of technology without becoming culturally dominated by the west. So yeah, Indians are kind of stuck in this loop and uh and one of the reasons is that we we aren't taught how to think critically and that's why you know you're stuck here and there and you you neither here nor there. Okay. Right. Um, Kasik Biswas says, "With Trump recently reiterating his intent to pressure US tech companies to stop hiring from India, how do you assess the political the potential impact or on the future of H1B visa holders and aspiring tech professionals? If this sentiment gains traction, what opportunities is it present for India to not just retain top talent but also strengthen its domestic technology and innovation ecosystem?" So Trump obviously wants everything to be MAGA, make America great again, which means you know all the jobs should be uh American jobs, stop hiring foreigners, stop hiring Indians, uh clamp down on the H-1B program and so on so forth. Uh so if he actually goes ahead with that, it will be bad for the Indians who hold H1B visas who may be asked to go back possibly. It'll be also bad for Indians who are aspiring H1B visa applicants and who want to go and work in the US. It'll be bad for them as also. Yeah. So, so does it provide if this actually does gain traction does it provide opportunities for India to retain top talent? I don't think so. As long as India doesn't solve the problems at home, the top talent will go somewhere else. They will go to Europe. They'll go to Australia. Look, people want a good life. People want merit and talent to be recognized in India the way the shape and form it is right it is in right now India doesn't recognize or respect merit or talent India the Indian system seeks out and destroys talent it seeks out and destroys merit the Indian system worships mediocrity and that's why Indians won't leave any self-respecting Indian who is talented wants to leave because they want a good life. They want to earn earn money to their full potential. If you are a top class scientist, okay, or or engineer and you you want to serve the country, you want to win, but you get this salary and with the same qualifications and talent, you will get that salary in the US. I mean, why not, right? Why sacrifice your hopes and aspirations for the sake of a country that doesn't even like you? Not not country but but system that actually hates you. Especially if you're general category or whatever. So that's why Indians leave. Now if the Americans stop the H1B or clam on on the H1B on H1B visa, Indians will look for other opportunities. Maybe in the UK, maybe in the EU, maybe in Australia, maybe even China, who knows? God knows what. That's so until and unless the government of India fixes the problems at home, it does this doesn't present any opportunity for India. Okay. So India is going to have to fix that. India needs to reward merit. Right now India is all about reservations and God knows what else. And the education system is broken and the whole system is broken. Until that's fixed, nothing is going to change. Okay? And it will not reverse the brain drain. Okay? So we have come to the end of today's questions. I have a few more but I'll take some questions from the live chat. Now let me see. So if you have questions I'll take a few questions uh from the live chat over the next uh few minutes. Let's see what else. Um okay Kesh Koshik says to the souls question. I think we can consider beings other than humans in the process of reincarnation. Well, there we have an answer. There we have an answer. Very interesting. I think we can consider beings other than humans as being in the process of reincarnation. For example, when I die, it's not like I'll reincarnate in a human body. Maybe I can be a bird or maybe a bird if it uh satisfies certain criteria, it can reincarnate as human being. Okay, there we have it. There we have it. Good. I think that's a good good answer to that to that question. Um anonymous scientist says Donald J. Trump has just now posted on truth social that he will announce a ceasefire between Cambodia and Thailand just like India Pakistan ceasefire. He gave example of India Pakistan again. Well that's what Donald Donald Trump does. That's what it does. Yeah. Anyway, let's see how that goes. Let's see how that goes. Akash says uh what's the importance of a think tank for a nation? Do Indian think tanks have real influence on national policy and is it a good idea to create a new think tank? So what's a think tank? First of all, it's a group of people who come together and who and and they they generally are not just any random people. They're generally people from the academic field or academic field or some specialized field and they all come together pull their minds together and they come up with policy proposals and do do detailed research about various issues and then those policy proposals can be given to the government as as solutions to various problems the country is facing and maybe those people can be commissioned by the government or by companies to to provide answers to some questions or provide solutions to problems. So that's what a think tank is. Uh so it can be important for a nation if if it does indeed provide valuable uh answers to pressing questions and if it if it provides highquality solutions to important problems. In that case think tank is good. Uh we have some think tanks in India. I'm not sure what they do. I'm not sure what they do. So you can have a think tank in which you have a bunch of let's say five 10 people and maybe you you're not serving the nation maybe you serving whoever commisss you. So maybe you have people who are good at data analysis uh machine learning um geopolitical forecasting perhaps and uh business forecasting. You bring people from disparate disciplines together, combine their their talents together and then maybe you can be commissioned. We can be hired by a company, major company to understand the geopolitical risk climate over the next 6 months or 1 year or 3 years and provide solutions to specific problems. And that can be a very valuable lucrative, you know, thing to do if you have that sort of a think tank. And once again, you can have think tanks that are national think tanks and that advise the nation, the government on policy. So if you can genuinely provide highquality answers to pressing questions and if you can genu genuinely provide highquality solutions to big problems, then yeah, it makes sense to create a think tank. So that's that's what a think tank is. Uh I'm not sure about the quality of think tanks in this country. Some may be good, I suppose. Some I don't know what they do. Okay. Right now, Mlevin says, "Is the Thailand Cambodia issue a proxy war of the US and China?" That remains to be seen. It the origin is a temple dispute. That's not a proxy war between anybody. That's a temple dispute. It's a very ancient historical dispute. But now it could morph into something else. So that's that remains to be seen because like I explained Thailand is on the US side, Cambodia is on the Chinese side. That's the kind of influence you have and China has invested in both countries billions of dollars for its belt and road initiative. So China is in a kind of dilemma that I can't take sides and so on and obviously there are local regional political reasons for this as well. So we'll have to see. We'll have to see. We'll have to wait and watch. Um, Senior File says, "Who's the pound-for-pound best MMA fighter right now?" I am not watching MMA these days. I would love to, but um I'm I'm not I'm not keeping up with what's happening. So, I don't know. I'm not sure right now. Yeah. Okay. Amisha says, "From boycotting Maldives to giving loan to Maldives, we have come a long way." Well, the sentiment of boycotting the Maldives was public sentiment. The government of India never expressed any such sentiment that we should boycott Maldives or any any such thing. So, India, the government of India adopted a very mature foreign policy when it came to dealing with the Maldives and now we are giving a loan to the Maldives and we have indeed come a long way. So, you are right. Absolutely. Okay. Okay, let us let's take um do we have any other questions? Um Lucario says, "I said cookies are not Indians on Reddit and Reddit banned my account permanently." Well, you will see that most of the Reddit subreddits are anti-India and they're run by either Pakistanis or Bangladesh or God knows what. So, yeah, not surprised. Of course, they aren't Indians. They their their origin is is the Chin region of the the the Yunan region of China. They're not even Burmese. And forget about the ethnic origins. You need to have allegiance to a country, right? You need to have respect for the country's culture and civilization and you cannot fight as a proxy of somebody else against the country that you're living in. So yeah, it's a big problem for India. Okay. Okay. M Cleven says, "Did you watch the F1 movie? Do you watch the F1 sport?" As a kid in the 80s, I used to sometimes when I was outside of India, living outside of India, I used to sometimes watch F1. I didn't really know much about it, but it was like kind of fun to see those cars zipping around. I haven't seen the F1 movie. I wanted to watch it, but I think I missed it. So, I've heard it's good. Okay, with that, I think I will end today's live stream. Thank you so much for all the questions. Tomorrow I'm doing another live stream, a super chat live stream. Lots of people have asked for it, so let's do it. So if you have questions that you would like to ask me on the super chat live stream, please do tune in tomorrow and I look forward to seeing you there. So please keep asking questions, keep learning, and never stop raising your standards. I'll see you soon tomorrow. Thank you. Bye-bye.