Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening and good good day everybody and uh welcome to episode 339 of the Ask Abijit Show. We are back. This is the weekend and I hope you're all doing very well and we're going to discuss the ongoing events in the war that is ongoing in Iran, in West Asia and maybe other topics as well. Before we get into all of that, let us see who all is there on the live stream live with all of us this fine evening this fine day. Any vari good evening ma'am good good morning ma'am. Uh Mochi Exo Gaming, Geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor. Good to see you sir. Shri Ramachandra Mahapraam. Uh Kanesh Koshik Radhir Radh Aush Pande Push Singha Kind Taku Kindo Taku Vitri Vitri Martinez Adwit Ashwani uh who else? Rohan Bid Mataram Cosmic Observer Sachin Yadav Alkashikari Namaste Aayush Pandy once again. Uh who else do we have? Um uh Dur Panchchal from Deutsland. Good to see you. Uh who else? Who else? Uh, Mochi Gaming, Durat Panchal, Aayush Singh, Pranam online sir, ultimate power A1, Opuspicious Jinx, Sumit, Sumit, Agaral, Bonjour, Reflex Maybe um, Study Vlogs, Bhuvanendra, Upad, Upada, Satiendra, Abhishek, Shugla Live, Swami is also here. Good evening. Uh Chahak Jatani Amitrit Singh uh Suga Sugant BKS reflex maybe Chahak Jatani once again Kindotaku SKR7733 is here from New York Israel okay New York Israel that's interesting Shivam Karan Nalawad Jamir Salanki Rahul Nay hello Abishek live from Kpur U Shivam once again v one Suganta BBK is once again G Karthikan wise idiot uh Anup Anup is also here Sam Prammanic reflects maybe Aayush Pande by Singh General Subai Somi is here from Jaipur Kindu Vijay Vagila good morning General Subai once again Priyanis Om Vijay Ujual Duta hello Durat Panchchal hello Karnawa Jam Anant uh reflex maybe study vlog Hogs Sai Kiran Shiv Kapoor Ashish Noise Jatin Shukla is here from Jabalpur. Good to see you. Uh Pra Sad Dalal Alan J Alan J Victor is here from Oman. Well, I hope you're doing okay. Oman Blitzkrieg is also here. Ankit Ram Ram Da Da Da is here. Sumit Agarwal, Ishwar, Somi, Frostster, Pratar Dhana, Namaskar, yes, Wolfpack Nation, Critz 278. Um, and everyone else. Arjan, Skyland, hello. Jay, Guman, hello. Sonakshi Gupta is here from Jalander, good to have you ma'am. Anikit Bachwan, Bachwani, Jatadi, Pratik Parajuli, hello and everybody else. Okay. So, let's go. Let's uh discuss what is happening. So before I get into the Q&A which we will obviously do let's see let's quickly take a look at what's happening right now in the war I mean what's the latest that we have let's see there's questions about what's happening do you remember Trump used to keep saying that India during operation Sindur India has lost what four five six seven god knows how many aircraft right he used to keep on pointing that out I mean claiming making all kind all all kinds of claims well Five American refueling planes have been struck and damaged at Prince Sultan Air Base in Saudi Arabia according to a WSJ Wall Street Journal report. So five aircraft have been struck and damaged. Damaged means destroyed. They're gone. Another one was destroyed over Iraq and uh we don't know what happened to its crew. And uh uh we we had three aircraft, three American fighter planes being shot down over Kuwait. So I don't know how many aircraft have been destroyed American aircraft but things are not going well for the United Nations. Surya says this is what too much winning looks like. Yeah. So yeah that that's one thing that's happened. Now we have this from Trump. Trump says and this is a while ago. Yeah. This is this happened a few hours ago like 12 15 hours ago. Uh Kir Island has been obliterated. Moments ago at my direction, the US Central Command executed one of the most powerful bombing raids in the history of the Middle East and totally obliterated every military target in Iran's crown jewel, Kir Island. Well, as far as I know, there was no military targets there. It was oil infrastructure. So, that's been taken out. Um, Iran has no ability to defend anything that we want to attack. There is nothing they can do about it. That's what Trump cla Trump claims. Iran's military and all all others involved with this terrorist regime according to him would be wise to lay down their arms and save what's left of their country which isn't much. So that was that is what Donald Trump says. He says that the US has destroyed Kir Island. So that's another escalation. Things are not calming down. Things are escalating. Trump I think he's hellbent on dragging the entire world into this matter. Essentially, it means he wants to set off World War II, it looks like. And now we have this statement, this tweet from the Prime Minister of Israel's Twitter account that was posted and then a few minutes later it was deleted. Official statement from the Israeli Prime Minister's office. Rumors circulating on social media about Prime Minister Benju bin Netanyahu's status are unconfirmed. We urge citizens to rely on verified updates. Efforts are underway to establish contact and Prime Minister Netanyahu remains committed to Israel security. So the Prime Minister's office, the official account tweeted this then deleted it sometime later. It said that the rumors are unconfirmed and efforts are underway to establish contact. I'm sorry. Establish contact with whom? With Prime Minister Netanyahu. So is the Isra say was it saying that there was no contact with Prime Minister Netanyahu? Is that what they were trying to say and then they deleted this? This is extremely extremely confusing concerning for the people of Israel and looks like something is up. Looks like there was no communication or contact with the prime minister of Israel, Mr. Mr. Netanyahu. And then they deleted this. So So the question is where is Netanyahu now? Where is he? has something happened to the prime minister of Israel and that's what the rumors are all all about on social media right now. There's a lot of speculation happening. So as far as I am concerned I don't make any statements until there is official verification of whatever. So when uh there was this rumor there were these rumors about whether Mr. Kame is alive or dead I did not say anything about it. It's only after the government of Iran officially reported that he had been assassinated. That's when I said that he is dead. When it comes to Israel, right now it looks like we don't know whether he's alive or not. This statement is actually adding fuel to the fire. It actually said that the efforts were underway to establish contact with Prime Minister Netanyahu which implies that there was no contact with him at this at this time when this was tweeted. This is 9:42 a.m. uh sorry P.M. yesterday which is about 10 and what 22 hours ago and after that we have no idea what's happened to him and uh there is this statement that's come out from a person from from an Israeli account what's it say the Israeli people are grappling with significant challenges today there are reports of changes in the senior levels in the levels of senior leadership in addition to an unexpected event and Benjamin Netanyahu has left his position permanently so this This is from early morning today and now obviously this is speculation. We don't have any official confirmation of whether this um this is true or not but yeah so right now we don't know if Netanyahu is alive or not. If he is alive is he is he in good health? Is he injured? What's the situation? So big question about Netanyahu right now. Big question mark over Netanyahu. So this is a well an important development I would say. in the war and right now we don't know what the situation is. So, we're going to keep an eye on this. So, the war isn't going the way Trump wants. The war is going very poorly for Trump. It's going very poorly for Israel as well. It's of course going very poorly for Iran, too. Iran is getting hit and hammered. The damage that Iran is taking is it's going to cost probably trillions of dollars to repair. So, Iran is taking tremendous damage. I don't know how many Iranian civilians are being affected and in what way obviously in the worst way one can imagine when there's bombing happening right so this is a disaster and the Gulf states the nations in the Gulf region whether it's Saudi Arabia it's UAE it's Oman it's Qatar it's Bahrain it's Kuwait and the other nations well their economies are in a are in a mess the state of Hormones remains closed It remains closed. The UAE's economic model is is in tremendous jeopardy. The Dubai economic model is in is under tremendous stress. People are leaving Dubai. Yeah. It's it's in absolute disaster if you are Dubai, if you are UAE, if you are the other nations in the region. And this this is this has happened because Trump and Netanyahu dragged the entire region into the war. And whatever they were hoping to achieve, none of that has been achieved. Iran is fighting. It's going to it's going to take tremendous damage. But they are they are okay with it. They are saying, "Okay." And and even if Trump tries to end the war, Iran will not want to end the war. Iran will want to ensure that every single American military base in the region is permanently destroyed. and America's power projection capabilities in the region are reduced to zero. If if Iran accepts a ceasefire right now, what will it what what's going to be the effect of that? The Americans and Israelis will take 2 three years to regroup and then they will eventually launch another another attack on on Iran. So Iran wants to end this matter once and for all. Now, even if Trump tries to do back channel negotiations through intermediaries and ask for a ceasefire, it's not going to happen. This war is going to last now. It's going to last. This war is not ending anytime soon. Absolute disaster these people have dragged the world into and it affects everybody including us. It includes the people of India and the people of China and the people of Japan, the people of the entire world. That's the situation. What else is happening? Now, this is not about the Iran war, but look at this. India has something called the Navic system. It's the Indian version of GPS. So, the So, look, the Chinese have BU, which is their version of GPS. It's it's a constellation of satellites that provide positional navigation. So if you have a phone or whatever, if you are driving a car, you can use the Chinese buu system to replace GPS wherever you are in the world. It's a global system. It's a global constellation of satellites. The Chinese have the Russians have Glonas, their own constellation of satellites that provide the same service around the world. There's a European system as well. And there's the American GPS which is the OG like like you would like like you would say it's the original grade system GPS global positioning service. Now India has Navic and the Navic system provides such services positioning positioning services satellite navigation services in the Indian subcontinent. India is a low ambition nation. So our the the the Navic service its coverage is is restricted to the Indian subcontinent. And now and and you see why Navic was created because during the Cargill war when India needed GPS to properly target the Pakistani positions the Americans switched off GPS for India for the Indian military. So the Indian military was suddenly left without the global the the satellite positioning and navigation service which means the effect of that is that we could not accurately target the Pakistani positions and therefore India created Navik. Now what's the status of Navic today? So India's homegrown Navic network built after the 1999 999 Cargill conflict to avoid foreign GPS dependence now runs only on on just three satellites for full positioning, navigation and timing services. IRNSS1F launched in 2016 and passed its 10-year life has already lost two clocks and now only handles oneway disaster alerts which means it's not useful anymore. uh and the other sat and the other satellites they also I mean I don't know whether they're functional or not and essentially you need at least four satellites to be fully functional for this service to be operational and now we only have three satellites most of the atomic clocks which were foreign clocks have failed okay and now there is there are plans of newer Navic satellites but I don't know when they will be launched and you had PSLV rocket failures and all so right now India is without India India is left without its Navic service. So if there is operation Synindur, if there is a war with Pakistan, the Americans will the Americans support Pakistan, right? The Americans support Pakistan. So they will not offer they will switch off the GPS services for the Indian military and now we won't have Navik that is the situation right now. So did the government of India not see this coming that this satellite has a 10 year lifespan and maybe you know when 2 three years are left we should launch new satellites and maybe a couple of the rocket launches failed so so make plans accordingly when you are planning for something you should plan that you know possibly some rocket launches will fail something will go wrong so you should have backups so I don't know what the government of India has been doing with the space program I have been speaking about this for a long time that we are completely neglecting the space program and the applications the military applications and so on but today we are in a situation where we don't have our own positioning our own satellite positioning service I'm not sure when the replacement satellites are going to be launched 2026 sometime maybe end of the year so right now we can't fight a war I mean we can fight a war but we are left blind we don't have the satellite positioning excuse me we don't have the satellite positioning positioning service anymore What what do you make of this? I mean when you are the government of India, don't you plan for these things? I have been a longtime supporter of the government of India. I still support the government of India. Of course, it's our government. But this has to be called out. This is a disaster. I don't care what the problems are. This has this this is unacceptable. unacceptable. So right now the Indian military does not have this global satellite positioning service. It either relies on American GPS. I don't know if Russia will offer GLONAS to India but that is a possibility. Russia and India have very close strategic relations. So but the point is we should not have to rely on foreign services. We should have our own service. We have the scientists. We have the the engineers. We have ISRO. We know how to build these satellites. Why was this not planned properly? Absolute disaster. Yeah. And is this how you become superpower? We are not even a local power now when it comes to this this problem. H extremely disappointing. So this is this is kind of what's going on the world going on in the world right now. uh the Iran war it's it's going to drag on now the United States is doing very poorly we don't know if Netanyahu is alive or not uh and we have issues closer to home and the the straight of hormones closer Iran has given India permission to have to have Indian vessels transit the straight of hormones apparently some Indian warships are going to the region uh to escort these warship these oil tankers and gas u tankers if necessary and so And so that's what's going on. But the United States is losing this war. Israel is losing this war. It's not losing in the sense that it's the US is losing. It's losing in the sense that it has not been able to achieve any of the objectives they wanted to achieve. They have day one Trump said that we're going to do a regime change. That's had that's not happened at all. They said that we want to make sure that Iran's nuclear program is permanently ended. Trump claimed it ended permanently last year. Now again, they want to end it permanently. That's not working out. They want to destroy Iran's missiles and drones. That's not going to work out at all. And Iran is now going to dictate terms in this region, including to the neighboring nations. And the neighboring nations can't rely on the US anymore for military protection. which has failed miserably. So that is the situation in this war right now and it's going to be an extended conflict and some some powers are going to will benefit from this and some nations are going to be weakened as a consequence of this. As a consequence of this, America's our projection capability in West Asia is declining. It's dwindling. If this continues for 6 months, it's going to go down to zero. This war could be the beginning of the visible decline of the United States, geopolit geopolitical decline of the US. So that's where we are. Okay. Uh that's enough of the update. We can discuss a lot more dur when I take the questions. So let's see what questions we have today. Um first question is by Agni Vanam. Gita says truth always prevails. Why do you contradict? I mean what what what does this have to do with the war? Gita says see first of all satya jayata is truth always prevails right it that's not in the gita that's not from the bhagat gita it's from from the manduki opanishad right um it's it's uh not from the bhagat gita it is from what it is from the mundakaishad munda upishad um and look why do I say that why do I contradict this okay let Let me explain to you as if you are 80 years old. Let us say you are a Bangladeshi who has entered India illegally. What is the truth that you are an illegal infiltrator who has entered India illegally but you have acquired Indian documentation. You have an Indian Aadhaar card. You have an some other Indian documents. You may even acquire passport. Then these documents which are genuine Indian government issued documents they will position you as an Indian citizen even though the truth is that you are a foreign infiltrator. So doesn't falsehood prevail in this case? Aren't there millions of Bangladesh like this in India? What happened to Satya Jay then? Okay, I'm explaining to you as if you're 8 years old. Another example, we know that Iraq did not have any weapons of mass destruction. Saddam Hussein did not have any weapons of mass destruction. And yet the Americans claimed that Iraq has WMDs. Saddam has WMDs. And they invaded Iraq and destroyed Iraq completely. And later they said, "Oh, no, no, no. We made a mistake. There were no WMDs." But the deed was done. Iraq was destroyed. Who won? Did truth win or did the falsehood win? Falsehood won. Another example. I'm explaining as if you're 8 years old. We know that Tibet is not China. We know that Tibet has never been part of China. The Tibetans are not Chinese people. Their culture is not Chinese culture. Now open the map of the world. What do you see? What is prevailing? The map of the world shows Tibet as part of China. Is truth has truth prevailed or falsehood prevailed? Shall I give you 78 more examples? Maybe you will understand then or let's move on. All right. Okay. Mary Kane, good evening ma'am says uh nuclear you mean small modular modular reactors. Uh I'm not sure if I have discussed uh small modular reactors. Um not sure what the context is. Uh there there is something called small modular reactors which are small nuclear reactors with a small amount of fuel and then they produce this these reactors produce heat which can drive a steam engine steam turbine and produce electricity and maybe that's the future of nuclear reactors. Instead of having gi gigantic huge nuclear reactors you can have small modular reactors that can power maybe uh a village or a small town or maybe an industrial area or something. So those are small modular reactors and uh these small modular reactors are also pretty expensive. They cost I mean the the the the cost of such reactors is in the billions of dollars. Uh I'm not sure of if Iran has small modular reactors. So the the concern that the west has with Iran is that it has a nuclear weapons program. So uh I'm not sure what the context is but that's what small modular reactors are. That's you know that's the future perhaps of nuclear reactors but uh yeah okay Kesh Koshik says Jamar how Sudashan Chakra air defense will operate um not sure I'm not sure Sudashan Chakra air defense is is it some new development I am not aware sorry Anuj Anuja thank you um Anuja once again says I am using a stroggy a soggy straw to save the planet. Yeah, we all try our best to reduce our carbon footprint and uh be more environment friendly and you have this war going on where billions of tons of of of uh of petroleum are being burnt, right? Yeah. Shoubham says, Shubam Chip says, "Can you explain petro dollar? What is it? How it works?" See the petro dollar system it it doesn't mean that the dollar is made of petroleum. Okay. What is this this concept right? So uh in 1944 there was something called the Bretonwoods conference and in this conference it was decided that going forward from 1944 onwards the US dollar will be used as the world's reserve currency and the US dollar was backed up by gold at the time. So it was it was on the gold standard. So if if the US printed a certain amount of money, it would print that amount of money only if had it had that much amount that much amount of gold in its reserves. So that went on until 1971. In 1971, I it was 71 like 70 or 71. That's when Richard Nixon u you know delin the US dollar from the gold from the gold standard which means that the US could from that point onwards just print American dollars without having gold in reserve. Okay. And the status of the dollar would be enforced through military might. So the dollar would remain the global reserve currency and everybody would be made to trade internationally only in dollars and this would be enforced militarily without actually backing up the US dollar with gold. And then at the same time around the same time they reached an agreement with the uh oil producing nations, oil exporting nations like Saudi Arabia etc. that whatever transactions they would do with other countries selling and buying oil, they would do these transactions only in the US dollar. So oil would be sold and bought only using US dollars. No other currencies, no Chinese yuan, no Russian ruble, no Indian rupee, no nothing. Only US dollars. So that is the petro dollar concept that internationally oil and petroleum it's only the transactions are supposed to be only in US dollars and this was backed up by American military might. So that ensured that nobody would dare transact do no oil transactions purchases and sales in any currency except the US dollar. So that's the petro dollar system and that's how it works. It works through military might. The US enforces through this through military might and that essentially ensures that the US dollar remains the most powerful currency in the world. It has a genuine value and if it has a genu genuine value that makes the US uh economy the world's most powerful economy and the US has been taking the fullest advantage of that. They have issued treasury bonds. So it's a piece of paper that other countries can buy. So let's say you have a treasury bond of $100. It's a piece of paper on which it says $100 with some nice artwork and all that. And let's say I am India. I buy a $100 treasury note of the US. To buy it, I have to pay the US government a 100 actual dollars, right? So by printing these these pieces of paper, the Americans uh they acquire debt. So let's say China purchases purchases a bunch of American treasury bonds. Let's say a billion dollars worth of Treasury bonds. So they actually pay a billion dollars to the US. And why is this a good idea to purchase these bonds? Because the US dollar is valuable and these bonds they their their value appreciates over time. So let's say I buy a $100 bond today. In three years it may be worth $120, maybe $130, right? as long as the US economy is healthy and so on. So the Americans by issuing paper pieces of paper they actually are able to acquire real wealth wealth and so on. So that's how lots of nations acquire American debt. They see it as an investment but now nations are offloading the debt. So essentially the petro dollar coming back to the petro dollar system it's all about the enforcement of the purchase and sale of petroleum and oil only in US dollars. Now that that control is slipping away, the Saudis have been uh um selling oil to China and and uh taking money in in Chinese yuan, not in in US dollars. So that is the petro dollar system slipping away, right? Prattana says one Indian journalist uses the term terror regime for Iran. Yes, true. One Indian journalist uses this term terror regime for Iran. So tell me when Dr. J Shankar has discussions with the foreign minister of Iran, is the Indian foreign minister having discussions with a terrorist? When the prime minister of India day before yesterday night spoke with the president of Iran, Mr. Masu the Pesashki was the prime minister of India talking to a terrorist. India and Iran have been cooperating on on various fronts, multiple fronts. We were using the port of Chavahar, operating the port of Chabahar at least some terminals u to uh send shipments of goods to Afghanistan. So was India cooperating with a terrorist nation? India and Iran were working together to ensure the safety and security and survival of Armenia. So was India cooperating with a terrorist nation to save Armenia? Has Iran ever launched a single terror attack on India? these Indian journalists who use such terms I strongly I don't know who it may be okay I'm not taking anybody's name but I suspect that they they are in some shape form or or form in some manner potentially hypothetically compromised whoever they may be. Yeah. Why would you want to to further the agenda of some other nation? If you are a journalist, why don't you report factually and serve your own nation? I don't I don't get this. Yeah. I don't I don't know who these journalists may or may not be, but it's very disappointing. And I'm glad people are noticing now. I'm glad people are noticing. Vinit Pi, thank you very much. Vin G Sergeant Skylan says India Iran seems okay. Is our sovereignty still intact? Okay. Two questions. Uh one question, one observation. So India, Iran seems okay. Means the relationship, right? Yeah, the relationship seems okay. Um let's see. Give me a second. There's something the Iranian who tweeted that. Give me a second, please. Okay. Give me a second. Give me a second. Give me a second. Um, who was it that tweeted something? Give me a second. I I'll need to dig it out before I can put it on the screen. Um, so it's about the India Iran relationship obviously. Uh, the Iranian foreign minister tweeted this or who tweeted this? Who tweeted this? Okay. Okay. Let's let's put this on the screen. So this is the foreign minister of the Republic of Iran. Uh Mr. Say Abbas Arachi. Okay, this is what Mr. Arachi tweeted. The US spent months let's let's put it here. Okay. The US spent months on bullying India into ending oil imports from Russia. After two weeks of war with Iran, the White House is now begging the world including India to buy Russian crude. Europe thought that by that backing illegal war on Iran would win US support against Russia. Pathetic, right? So yeah, that's that's what the Iranian foreign minister has tweeted. But yeah, and and what he's saying is obviously well it it obviously could have some some factuality to it. Some perhaps some. So India and Iran are talking. Uh the Indian foreign minister had multiple discussions on the phone on m on more than one occasion with the foreign minister of Iran. Uh the government of Iran has issued multiple statements about u the these conversations and they are pretty clear that India is a valuable partner for them. So when the war started and the supreme leader Mr. Kam of Iran was assassinated. Uh the Indian prime minister did not say a word about it. Right. And the Indian prime minister tweeted on multiple occasions condemning the so-called violations of sovereignty of the Gulf nations obviously by Iran. So at that time clearly India was taking the side of the US and Israel in the first two three days of the war. clearly obviously openly but verbally India was not not taking any actions that would hurt Iran but verbally the prime minister of India was you could say leaning towards the US and and Israel then India recalibrated if you see the last four five livereams of mine you can see this this transition happening in the titles of my live streams ask 334 onwards you will see that there's a change happening first India takes a side. India picks a side then India recalibrates. So how did India recalibrate? India the India's foreign secretary Mr. Misri he visited the Iranian embassy and he signed the condolence book officially expressing India's condolences over the assassination of Mr. Kamei. Right? Then the Indian foreign minister speaks with spoke on multiple occasions with the Iranian foreign minister. Then last night or day before yesterday night, Mr. Modi spoke with Iran's president and Iran has said that it will allow Indian vessels or vessels, oil tankers that are going to India to cross the straight of Hormuz. So Iran is making an exception for India, Russia, China. India, Russia, China, right? For for the transit of oil through the straight of Hormuz. So Iran is not treating India as one of the coalition members who are attacking it. India Iran is treating India as as a valuable partner right now. So yeah the relationship seems okay. I think the government of Iran understands that India is under pressure that India faces all these constraints that India you like they say hypothetically he's being bullied by the Americans and so on and India has made sure that India also gave refuge to an Italian ship in in on on in an Indian port I think Kochi right um so India has taken actions that you could see that Americans would call pro-Iran but India's words initially look like they are anti-Iran but actions always trump words. So that is the situation right? Is our sovereignty still intact that I will look into once this war ends or maybe in a month or so? Right now I think India is is not uh India is taking striking a more more or less neutral note in this matter. India is not allowing American ships to to dock at Indian ports for refueling and resupplying. That's not happening. The Americans will definitely want that but it's not happening which is good. India has given refuge to an Iranian warship in an Indian port which the Americans could say is a hostile act against America. So overall India is trending straight. It's it's not there must be pressure behind the scenes that we are not aware of but India is not bending and and caving into American demands. So thus far I would say India is doing a very good job of navigating this extremely difficult situation. Kakashi says why India today invites Laura Loomer racist. It's a okay Laura Loomer is is this lady who is on Twitter and she has in the past said all kinds of racist things about India and India today invited her for some kind of uh event major public event which happened today I believe. Um so is this a good idea? Is it a bad idea? I think you know what if somebody has been anti-India in the past and if we invite that person over here that person will most likely change their views because we gave we invited them to that person to a big event and we gave them we treated them well gave them respect. I think their their uh position may change as a consequence. I think India should we should stop being super emotional about these matters. Even if somebody has been an enemy in the past, if by if by giving them an olive branch we can make them change their views and become more positively inclined towards India. Uh what is wrong in that? Right? There's no harm in doing that. So I don't think it's a bad idea. There are lots of racist people in the world. If you see the tourists who come to India, especially American tourists and all, many of them are super racist. They they they have these very disparaging positions and opinions about India. But typically if they spend a week or so in India, they go back with a changed approach and attitude. Right? So I think we should do more of this. invite people who are kind of anti-India. See, there's a difference being between being verbally anti-India and being actually taking actions doing taking steps that are that are nonverbally anti-India. For example, if you have somebody who writes anti-India books, if you have somebody who who writes books that that distort Indian history and are Hindu phobic and and and so on, those people should not be invited to India. But somebody who's tweeted stupid things if by inviting them to India they they become positively inclined towards India I think it's a win and there are people who run these NOS's and all in the US that supply funds to anti-India activities and all those people you should not invite so the people who take actions who have who have a record past record track record of anti-India activities should be blacklisted but people who have been let's say stupid saying stupid things about India and they are prominent people if you bring them to India invite them give them nice treatment and they become pro- India I think that's okay I'm fine with that okay Vive Singh says considering the disaster in Gulf do you see an opportunity for great Nicobar project to become a success as UAE and maybe in the future Singapore will be in trouble well I hope Singapore is not in trouble for any reason uh the UAE see this uh this uh trans shshipment port that we are constructing in great nicobar uh it will be a success no matter what happens and even if it's not a major international success it will be successful for India because it's going to you know reduce significantly the pressure on Columbbo which is a Sri Lankan port so right now see it's it's a geographical matter you see let's let's see the map and we let's understand why this is important for us even if we don't if we even if we disregard the war that's happening see right now what happens is that there is a lot of traffic that happens uh between the Mediterranean Sea and East Asia. So all the shipment that happens comes through the Swiss canal here. Okay. It it crosses the uh Red Sea. Then it uh transits the straight of Bab al-Mandde and then it goes down south into the Indian Ocean and then enters uh this this this uh straight the Malaka straight. And if these shipping uh vessels want to offload some uh cargo for India that will be offloaded in Colbo and then from Columbbo there will be other Indian ships or maybe Sri Lankan ships or whatever that will take all all that all those goods to India. So Columbbo port gets a lot of trans shshipment fees which are unnecessary. So now what we do is that we have the we're going to have this port great nicobar port right this is the island of great nicobar so in that case it's an Indian port uh at which all all these shipments will be offloaded and from there it can be then sent to India so I think that's going to be a success irrespective of what happens in this disastrous war in the Gulf region right so it's not that that that UAE and Singapore have to fail for great nicot to be a success. Great nicobar is a great idea. It's very important. It's already a very important project and irrespective of whether anything fails or not, it's going to be successful for us. Okay. Hyphen says, I started a science fact shorts channel, not this one. I didn't super chat from it so it wouldn't seem like promotion. It's doing well and I'm applying what I learned from you. Thank you. Well, I'm very glad. I'm very glad and I'm happy that you're doing this. I like people who take initiative and do things. So, I'm glad you're doing this. I'm glad it's doing well and I don't mind if you post a super chat from that that account as well. It's fine. No issues, right? So, I'm very glad that that it's doing well. Good job. I'm very glad and and I hope that you keep posting over there and I hope it's a great success. Thank you sir. All the best. Do well. Such sati sati says your opinion on the artimus program. They've canceled the lunar gateway space station which seemed pointless anyway. Is it because of of US bureaucracy? Uh what was this lunar gateway space station? Is it was it supposed to be a space station in orbit around the moon? which doesn't seem like a good idea anyway to me. What's the point of that? Let me let me quickly uh find out what what that is. Okay, what is this? Lunar Gateway Space Station. Give me a second. Lunar Gateway Space Station. Let's Google that. Lunar Gateway Space Station. What was this thing? It's a planned Yeah, exactly like I thought. A planned international modular space station orbiting the moon. So, has it been cancelled? Has it been cancelled? Let's see what does Wikipedia have to say about this. Would be a space station assembled, etc. It was intended to be, etc. Criticism, potential cancellation, so proposed cancelelling this thing, big beautiful bill, etc. So, looks like it may not see the light of day. And it doesn't make a lot of sense to have a space station orbiting the moon. Just go straight to the moon, right? The lunar surface. Why do you need a space station orbiting the moon? I'm not really sure. Uh the Aremis program, what's my opinion? I think um it's a good initiative if you are American, right? U it's been decades since you had American boots on the ground on the moon and uh they're going back to the moon. Now they have much better rockets and they're going to be able to send many a lot more people and a lot more material to the moon and now we have a much better understanding of the moon as compared to the 1970s and 1980s. We know that there's a lot of water on the moon which means that we don't have to transport a tremendous amount of water from the earth to the moon. You just have to land near the south pole and go to those to those craters, those permanently shadowed craters where you have massive amounts of water which are known to be there and you can use that water uh for sustenance and for whatever else you need need water for. So I so we have a much better understanding of the moon today and obviously now that you have multiple pro countries with with significant uh significantly advanced space programs there's going to be sooner or later a situation where countries start marking off territory as their own on the moon and the s the earlier you reach the moon the more of a chance you have to do this. So if you have multiple habitat habitations on the moon, multiple bases on the moon, you can start creating a city there and then you can say it's our sovereign territory. The Americans Americans will definitely do this. The Chinese will do it. The Russians also may reach the moon sooner or later. I have no idea about India 2030, 2040 whenever humans will set Indian people will set foot on the moon. I'm not sure. Uh but yeah, whatever. So I think Artemis makes sense geopolitically and from a scientific perspective also. Yeah. Uh, lunar gateway doesn't make any sense anyway. Yeah. Kakashi says Arachi on X insinuated that the US successfully bullied India into stopping buying Russian oil and Peshkan did not tweet about Modi call like his calls with Putin and Sharif. It is what it is. Uh once again let me go to that uh tweet by Arachi. Did he say that? Let's see. Once again, Ragi um what did Ragi say? So Raki says that the US spent months on bullying India into ending oil imports from Russia. Well, that's not entirely factually true because India did not end its oil imports from Russia. India reduced its oil imports from Russia and then the Americans claimed that India had ended oil imports from Russia. So not entirely factually correct. India reduced its oil imports from Russia but did not end them. But Trump claimed and the Americans claimed that India had ended oil imports and the Americans then claimed that we have given India temporarily permission to start importing oil again from Russia. So the Americans kept claiming that uh India has stopped buying Russian oil. The data shows that India had kept buying Russian oil but reduced quantity. So Arachi will say what he will say and Arachi is basing whatever he is saying on what the Americans have been claiming. Right? And Peskan did not tweet about Modi like his calls with Putin and Sharif. That's fine. That's okay. That's his choice. That's all right. But look at the actions they are allowing Indian oil destined for India to pass through this trade of Hormuz and overall the relationship seems okay. Obviously there's going to be strain there's going to be a strain in the relationship because of the war but overall India is India the India Iran relationship is okay. So Iran is not taking any actions that are anti-India. India is also not taking any actions that are anti-Iran. Now all these words and diplomacy that's okay that is fine. Achara Chanaka says will the FDI flowing to Dubai shift to Singapore or India? That remains to be seen. Look if you want FDI to flow into India you have to lay down a ra red carpet for the FDI for the investors. You have to make the investors feel welcome. How do you make somebody feel welcome? You give them great treatment. You treat them like they are royalty. You open doors for them. You don't ask them to fill this form in triplicate and do this 78 different procedures and then wait 3 years to acquire land or 7 years to acquire land. You don't do all that. You have to make them feel welcome. So if you don't make if India doesn't make it easier to invest in India, then the FDI flowing into Dubai will go somewhere else. Not to not to India, maybe Singapore, maybe somewhere else. If you see it's not FDI that's flowing into Dubai. It's wealthy people who go to Dubai mostly and invest in some FDI foreign direct investment. Yeah. Invest in real estate re invest in whatever. So why can't India do that? Why can't India make make investors feel welcome? So unless we do that nothing will flow into India. Abai Singh says what do you think is the timeline for Indo-China war? I don't say any indoor Indochina war. No timeline. Mighty Air says why a gourjs were called criminal tribes. We never called anybody criminal tribes. The godamned British called certain people criminal tribes. Okay. Why? Because they resisted the British occupation of India. That's why they were called criminal tribes. See, before the British came to India, nobody was called a criminal tri. I don't know, we will disregard what the what the muggles and the Turks may have done. They also did all kinds of nasty stuff to reconfigure Indian society. But when the British started taking over large parts of India, various people resisted that in various parts of India and those who kept resisting were then categorized as criminal tribes and then it was made a criminal offense to have any kind of relationship with them. This caused the marginalization of those communities. That's what happened. So, so if if some people were classified as criminal tribes, it's because they resisted the British occupation of India. Vive Singh says, "Navic issue is serious. When the fact that we are going to have unmanned water and air drones which will depend on such satellites for navigation and data links, it's very serious. If you want to have unmanned drones that will in a war strike at enemy targets within enemy territory, if you want to have such systems, you need to have your own navigation system, satellite navigation system. And now we don't have a functional satellite navigation system. It is not serious. It's a disaster. How did the government end up in this position? How did they let things slip so badly? I I simply have no answers. I can't even imagine how this is acceptable, right? I I just don't understand. If you have a advanced missile that that takes data that takes you know that that takes inputs from satellites to fine-tune and refine its position so that it strikes the target exactly where it's supposed to strike then you need that system right the Navic system what should happen is that in the next 3 to 5 years India should create a global satellite navigation system not a local one. Maybe it'll take 30, 35, 40 satellites, maybe five for backup. Why can't we do it? How much does a satellite cost? I mean, the entire Mongolan mission cost $75 million including the rocket launch and everything else. So, I would say a Navic satellite may cost $10 million, maybe $20 million. Okay, maybe the atomic clock costs 10 million more. So maybe it's 30 million. So if you have 10, it's 300 million. If you have 30, it's 900 million. So for let's say a billion billion and a half dollars, you could have a global navigation system and let's say another 100 million for the rocket launches or whatever. Why can't we do it? What is preventing the government of India from doing this? Why uh is the government of India taking this so lightly? So anyway, this is a disaster for India. Absolute disaster. Okay. Cosmic Observer. Thank you very much sir or ma'am. Akshit Sharma says um namaste. Why is the US why will the US not try putting boots on the ground in Iran? Uh to understand why the US will not want to do this. Uh let us give me a second. Do I have a relief map of Iran somewhere? Maybe I do. Okay. Maybe I do. Give me a second. Let me put that on the screen. All right. All right. Let me put the Okay. So to understand why the US will not do this, let's see the relief map of Iran. This is what Iran looks like. Okay, Iran is a mountainous country. It's full of mountains. The coastline of Iran is super mountainous and the borders of Iran are super mountainous. The interior of Iran is super mountainous. Mountains all over the place. When you have terrain like this, it's like the the entire country becomes like a fortress. And if you're trying to invade it, it's going to be suicidal. As an example, the Americans uh they tried uh invading Afghanistan, right? They they invaded Afghanistan and they fought the Taliban for 20 years. At the end, the Americans succeeded in replacing the Taliban with the Taliban. And the Americans, even though they may have occupied Afghanistan for 20 years, they were in possession of Kabul in a few cities. They had no control over what was happening in the countryside and the mountains, in the valleys. The Americans tried their best to defeat the Taliban, but they complete they they failed. They utterly failed. Now, Iran is like Afghanistan multiplied by 10 or maybe multiplied by five or whatever. It's going to be even more difficult and the Iranian military has been preparing for 40 years, 45 years. It's going to be suicidal for the US to try this. Prataradana says even if Iran is totally destroyed and bulcanized, it doesn't guarantee attacks on GCC, US bases, etc. Capability want to attack, won't go away. I think even if Yeah, I agree with you. Even if Iran is somehow destroyed, balkcanized. Okay. So let's see the ethnic divisions in Persia. Okay. To understand the potential hypothetical bulcanization, how it may happen. Okay. Um ethnic groups in Persia. What happened? One second. Ethnic groups in Iran. All right. Let's see. Let's see the map of the ethnic groups in Iran. So, as you can see, there's multiple ethnicities in Iran. Maybe we'll look at this. Yeah. So, red is Persian. In the east, you have the Balois. Then you have Loristanis and Kurds and uh Kurasani Turks. You have the Azarbaijanis, Azaris and so on and so forth. So even if Iran is somewhat bulcanized, the majority of the country will remain united because it is portion. Balkcanization can only happen on ethnic lines if it ever happens. So even if it is bulcanized, even if the Azari part of Azarbaijani part of Iran is lost, even if the uh um Kuresh part of Iran, Kuresh, the western Kuresh part of Iran is lost or whatever Persia even if Baljasthan is lost, more than half of Iran will remain united and they will keep fighting. they will keep fighting and they will still have the capability to hit US bases in the GCC countries and so on. So it won't go away. So I agree with your assessment. I agree. Rumit misses. I think because India wants to show west that we are executing space missions on such a lower cost. ISRO is compromising heavily on quality of satellites. ISRO should get better for the security of the nation. So uh I don't want to speculate as to why we have a space program. Are we doing this because we want to impress the world and show the west that we also can do things the kind of things you do? Why do we have ISRO? Why do we have a space program? Is it to impress the world? I don't know about that. A space program costs money. It should money should be invested but the outcomes should the the outcomes should strengthen the nation. Why do we need a space program? We need a space program first of all because we need satellites in space. If we have satellites in space, we can have a global positioning system. We can have eyes in space that look at what's happening on the ground. We can have satellites that are used for agricultural research purposes. that will help the farmers. We can have satellites that are spy satellites, military satellites. These things, if you are a major nation, you need these things. Eventually, we will want to have a presence on the moon eventually on Mars. Otherwise, other nations will take over and we'll be left behind. So, for these reasons, we need a space program. Okay? That's why we need it. It's it's vital to have have a have a world-class space program. It should not exist because hypothetically we we want to impress the world. Who cares? Now it's clear that the Indian space program is being neglected by the government. How many rockets do we launch in a year? Four, five, six. It's peanuts. SpaceX launches dozens of rockets in in in a month. It's a private company. Um, so India needs to, the government of India needs to take space seriously. I've been saying this for years. India needs to take this very seriously. ISRO needs to whatever issues may exist in ISRO. I mean the issues may be administrative and bureaucratic rather than scientific or engineering related. The quality of the staff is great. The engineers are great, the rocket engineers and so on. The the issue probably is potentially hypothetically bureaucratic or or administrative. That needs to be fixed. If there is any sabotage potentially is happening which is why PS rockets have failed at least twice recently that needs to be fixed addressed right so u yeah it's extremely concerning that India the government of India has completely taken space lightly in the past few years yeah and this needs to be addressed urgently Don Thomas says do you actually think democracy is the best solution we have feels like a popularity contest all together team with better PR comes to power also our problem with meritocracy. Well, democracy is actually see what is democracy. It's it's a popularity contest. It's all about being popular. Now the easiest way see when you have a lowquality population with low IQs because of the horrible education system then you have to then to be popular you have to do stupid things. You do do stupid things like making people happy in the short term. Giving people short-term benefits to get votes immediately. Short-term benefits like giving people reservations. Give everybody reservations to please everybody. give everybody freebies. The Indian taxpayer pays money and that money is taken to give freebies to people. Oh, everybody gets some if you are in a certain community or if you if you are important bank, we will give you free free money every month or whatever gladly bha yojana this yja that yojana free stuff free money all that we'll give you reservations even if you score very poor marks we'll will you will get an admission in medical college or whatever that sort of thing. So this is what democracy brings to you if you have a lowquality population. So if you want to have democracy, you need to have a highquality intelligent population. For that you need a high-quality education system. India has one of the world's worst education systems. India's education system is trash. So democracy can work potentially if you have a high quality, intelligent, well-informed thinking population. India doesn't have that. India has a population that's all emotions, emotions, no thinking. no understanding of the world. So for for a nation like India, democracy doesn't work. Democracy is a disaster. See what what is leadership. The purpose of democracy is to elect leaders, right? Representatives, the right person to represent you all and lead your lead you. So let's say you are a constituency a town or some portion of a city and you vote for the Lok Sabha. So you want to elect the best possible person who will represent you and act as your representative in Lok Sabha and essentially that person will lead you. You want the best possible person to lead you. Now, as a leader, you are supposed to have a long-term view and to make decisions that are going to be beneficial for the people in the long term, not short term. But generally, decisions that you make that will be beneficial long term, those decisions that invariably involve short-term pain. decisions and actions that will give you long-term benefits, they usually involve short-term pain. But in a democracy, if you give people short-term pain, you lose your you lose the next election. And that's why the nation is trapped in this endless cycle of giving people short-term pleasure and that is going to sink the nation in the long term. A leader has to take unpopular decisions. But in a democracy, if you take unpopular decisions, you lose the next election. Which is why democracy is a disaster for India. Subashandra Bos was right. If he had come to power in India, then he wanted to impose dictatorship for 20 years to fix the problems and then bring in democracy potentially. That was the right solution. But we started with democracy. People who don't know how to read or write or think, they they vote. It's like allowing an 8-year-old to vote. Somebody asked me in the beginning of this live stream, right? Why do I say that Satya J is wrong? So, I have to explain as if that person is 8 years old. So, India's population, it's like a bunch of it's like more than a billion eight years 8y olds who are voting. They don't understand the world. They think the this their reactions are all emotional reactions. When people react emotionally to everything, imagine what will happen when a leader takes a decision that will give you short-term pain. How will they react? They'll say this, this is the worst leader we've ever had. Vote him out of power. Which is why for a nation like India, democracy is a disaster. Disaster. And even good leaders if they want to remain in power they will have to start making compromises. Yeah. Honey Guru says when did Islamic rule begin? Muggal or DL sultanarat. But it depends on which part of India we're talking about. The muggal empire itself during orang's time which was the largest extent geographical extent of the muggal empire. Even at that time it did not encompass the entirety of India. So if you were to ask me when did Islamic or Turic rule begin in India? Uh well it starts with uh in in the 8th century with Muhammad bin Kasim uh invading Sind and and and occupying some territories in Sind. That is the beginning. So at that time what had happened is that Persia had already fallen to the Arabs. So the for the first time the Arabs could see India from Persia because west of Persia you have India. Right now it's temporarily Pakistan but that was India. So then they said let's expand our territory. So that's why Muhammad bin Kasim made a raid or a series of raids or whatever on Sind and then captured some territory. That is the beginning you could say. Apart from that uh when did proper Turk rule begin in some part of India? 1,000 years ago when Gandhar fell to the Turks. Gandhar means Afghanistan. That's where it begins. And then slowly slowly it crept ahead crept ahead. Gandhar fell to the Turks 1,000 years ago. And then you had the Delhi Sultanate which was a small sultanate for a while that happened like 300 or so years ago or 300 or so years after the fall of Gandhar. So in the meanwhile for centuries India resisted and fought the Turks off over and over and over again. Then you have the establishment of the Bir Sultteranet, the Mamluk Sultan, right? The slave slave Sultanate. You had these these uh Mamluk kings like uh Iltmish in Balban. Ilutmish his daughter Razia was was king. uh sorry queen of that region small region for a while. So even at that time the Delhi Sultanate was not a big thing. So if you want to say the ask about the beginnings in the west it is Sind about 8th century in the 8th century in the north north it is Gandhar about a thousand years ago around 1,000 AD. Mr. Sid says do you think if the US wins this war radical Islamic terrorism will take a huge blow probably the only benefit for India? No, Islam. Sorry. Iran is not a whatever you mean by radical Islamic terrorism, Iran is not that Iran is not a radical Islamic terrorist nation or whatever, it's not. So even if the Americans win, it won't have what you are saying is not going to happen. the if you consider something to be so-called radical Islamic terrorism that emanates out of Pakistan not out of Iran. Okay, please understand that. Let us not fall prey to propaganda because what happens if we fall prey to propaganda then saty is no longer valid. then then you have a situation where so let us not fall prey to falsehoods and propaganda this terrorism it emanates out of Pakistan not Iran if the Americans hypothetically win the war which they will not win but even if they do Pakistan will remain a terrorist entity and they will be actually emboldened and then you India will face way more of of this phenomenon that you're talking about. It's it's going to have the opposite effect. It the terrorism will not take a huge blow. It will be emboldened. All right. Okay. Cosmic observer says, could the deep state shift power to New Delhi? Well, you know, even Xiinping could hypothetically step shift power to New Delhi, but no. No. Okay. No. Answer to your question. The answer to your question is no. No, not not happening. Sai says good evening sir. Yes, good evening. I have two questions. What's up with North Korea suddenly launching missiles and saw this news piece where which said that Iran allowed Indian vessels to pass through the straight of Hormos called India's friend. Maybe India is playing this well. Okay. What's up with first of all the question about North Korea? What's up with North Korea launching missiles? Well, North Korea is doing this simply to remind the world, I mean the US that if you have any uh hopes or any any uh if you are hoping that maybe if Iran is not going well, we will target North Korea or whatever, just remind you that we have missiles that can reach the American mainland. So North Korea it keeps from time to time it keeps on demonstrating its military capabilities and operational readiness to its enemies. Its enemies are the US and the US vasals in the region. The US vasals in the region sadly are North Korea are South Korea and Japan. So North Korea periodically de makes a demonstration of its missile capabilities, technological capabilities and operational readiness and that's that that's what we have seen just now. It's not suddenly happened. It's it it keeps happening from time to time. Every few months the North Koreans do this. So that has the effect of first of all reminding the world that North Korea is not to be treated lightly. it has to be taken seriously. Secondly, it it uh keeps the army as a well welloiled machine. It ensures that you know the missiles are in good shape and so on and they can keep testing and maybe they they make some improvements to missiles and they can test it out in that case. So that's about North Korea. Now news piece about Iran. Iran has allowed Indian vessels to pass through the state of Hormos. It has. Yes. And India Iran called India as a friend. It did it did call India as a friend. Maybe India is playing this well. India now is playing this well. Yes. Also like I said if you if you see if you if you see my channel okay if you see the titles of the past few live streams you can see that shift happening in the Indian perspective. See uh 13 days ago I had this emergency episode because the war suddenly you know exploded. The Americans attacked Iran and killed Kamei. Then that was 13 days ago. 11 days ago my title was Iran war escalates. India picks a side. That is when India the prime minister of India um from his tweets you could say that he has verbally picked a side the side of Israel and the US. Then 9 days ago I the the title is the war USI Israel Iran war Iran hits back Trump trapped question mark. Then 6 days ago India recalibrates right. So India's position has changed over time. India recalibrates which you so I think overall India is doing fine. India may have verbally taken the side of Israel and the US but uh but India has not taken any actions that are anti-Iran. India has taken actions that are actually kind of pro- Iran especially allowing an Iranian warship to dock at an Indian port when the Americans actually want to destroy that that warship. So India's I think overall India is ensuring that it doesn't tilt too much on any side and that's the right uh approach from India's perspective. India should not pick a side. India should not be pro- US and Israel. India should also not be anti- US and anti-Israel. India should not be pro- Iran. India should not should also not be anti-Iran. We have good relations with all these actors with the US. I mean US we have good relations historically the past 20 years but Trump has messed it up. It's not our fault with Israel. We always had the good good relationship the past 10 12 years with Iran. Well that's a very ancient story but yeah since 1980 or so we've had good relations with Iran reasonably good relations with Iran. So we should not mess any of this up. So I think overall India is doing the right thing. Pratana says conspiracy theory. The government is destroying Israel for the west. Well, I could not possibly comment about this. I mean, what does India the government of India gain by allowing ISRO to wither away? Yeah, sure. May the West will be pleased if this happens. If Isra becomes defunct or isro is starts doing very poorly, the west will be pleased about it. But uh why do we want to please the west? So um yeah obviously so the the implications of what you are saying I understand and I hope that that is not the case. The implications are that there are elements in the Indian government that have been bought out by the west. That's what you're implying. I hope that is not the not the case. Yeah. Pratip Kumaro is about Adele and Aname. I have no idea what these things are, but let me try and Google that. Adele, what on earth is that? Adram and Aname. Adele. Oh. uh Adra Male and Anamele were ancient Mesopotamian deities worshiped by Sephar white colonists resettled in Samaria as described in something or the other associated with the Assyrian city of Supar. Their worship involved the barbaric ritual of burning children in fire. Okay, I am not aware of this. So I I don't know what to say. This is the first time I'm hearing these names. I don't I I have not studied the history of this region. It's never interested me too much. I mean I've studied history of Mesopotamia etc. I studied the history of the uh Assyrians uh the Mesopotamians but not their gods and not these barbaric rituals. Those things I have no idea about. So okay, Panchchar says Psalm Psalm 91 1112 says he shall give his angels charge over thee. I strongly believe Donald J. Trump is our guardian angel. Please explain sir. You believe Donald J. Trump is your guardian angel? Our our as in who? Who's us? Our guardian angel means us. But who is the US that you're referring to? Are you talking about the United States? Are you American? You've paid in rupees. So it doesn't look like you're American. Are you saying he Donald Trump is India's guardian angel or the guardian angel of the entire world? I would disagree very strongly. I would disagree very strongly about that. Donald J. Trump is no one's guardian angel. He is a force of destruction. And these biblical or whatever psalms, I have no understanding of those. Um, yeah. So, what can I explain about this? I can't explain what I can't what I don't understand and what I disagree with. So, okay. Alkashukari says, "Has has peace mediations, peace peace talks ever stopped any wars so far? Have peace mediations, peace talks stopped wars in the past? I'm sure it's happened. Can I think of any? I mean I am not a student of minor wars. I've studied the history of the first and second world wars. Those wars were not ended through negotiations and and mediations and all that. Uh when it comes to other wars, other wars, the Gulf War, the the first Iraq, the first Iraq war, the the first oil war did not end through mediations and negotiations. The second oil war did not end. The second Gulf War, Iraq war also ended with an American victory. I am not sure if that happens. I'm I'm sure minor wars may have ended in the in the past through negotiations and mediations and all but overall no major war has ended like this. Can't think of any. India Pakistan wars. Um IndiaPakistan wars are not major global wars. 1948 there was a war which ended. How did it end? It ended because Nehu went to the United Nations instead of taking back Kashmir the the P which is now P that part of Kashmir. Uh 1965 it ended whichever way without negotiations or whatever. 1971 ended with a massive massive disaster for Pakistan. Uh 1998 Cargill war ended with India re recovering its territory. Um operation Synindhur was a minor very minor war even in the India Pakistan context three-day war. It ended after the Pakistanis called India in kind of it ended whichever way probably because Donald Trump intervened and there was not mediation or negotiations. It was uh threats. Uh so yeah I can't think of any major war that has ended because of negot negotiations and mediations. Argittal says, "Is this war reshaping the Middle East power balance between Iran and the USIsrael block? Is this decline of US superpower status? Will it help India?" Okay. Is this war reshaping the p the power balance, the balance of power in the Middle East between Iran and the US Israel block? Very much. Very much. Look, officially, I don't know what the Americans uh are saying in the official news that's coming out. Unofficially, I very strongly believe that most of the American bases in the region have been significantly damaged. If there if this war continues for another two weeks, all the American bases in the region are going to be destroyed completely by Iran. Okay? If those bases are gone, then America loses its power projection capabilities in the region completely. Completely loses it and Iran becomes the major power in the region. Okay, Israel is also a major power in the region. It still has its nuclear deterrent, but Israel has taken massive damage. Okay, the media may not be showing it, but I'm I'm pretty sure Israel has taken a similar kind of similar kind of damage that Iran has taken. So the balance of power in West Asia is being reshaped in front of our eyes. The myth of the American military umbrella has been shattered. Whenever the war ends, maybe in few weeks, maybe in a few months, whenever it ends, if Iran is still standing, which looks like it will be, then well, the Gulf nations will have no choice but to stop relying on American protection, the Gulf nations economies will be totally reconfigured as a as a consequence. So, what we are seeing is the beginning of the visible decline of America's superpower status. America can still destroy much of Iran through nuclear attacks, but Iran will still keep fighting. America can't defeat Iran. That's what is very clear now. Even after even after a few months, if Iran runs out of drones and missiles, they will still keep fighting and the Americans won't be able to defeat them even if they put boots on the ground. So, this is a major major miscalculation by the US. It's a disaster for the for for for for America. It's a disaster for Trump. He can keep tweeting whatever he wants. But this is a massive failure by the US. And Israel also has taken huge blues and Israel also can't defeat Iran. Um so yeah to answer your question now in in brief the war is indeed reshaping the balance of power in West Asia and this is the beginning of the visible decline of American superpower status. Will it help India? Well if American power declines see today what is the major problem India faces? The major problem that India faces today geopolitically is America's containment policy towards India. America is trying to contain India. They are openly saying they will not make the same mistake with India that they made with China. Which means we will we will not allow you in your economy to grow. We want to constrain you. We don't want you to grow beyond a certain point. We want to use you as a market. We want you to be a vasal. Now if American power declines, then it's going to be good for India. India will have more options. So yes, Pratib Kumar Roy says, "I recently found out that our galaxy is revolving around a massive black hole called Sagittarius A star. It's Sagittarius A star and all galaxies forming a cluster called Lan Lania Lania supercluster moving towards shapely supercluster space is huge." Uh correct? Yes. So we have so our solar system is in one of the arms of the Milky Way galaxy. The Milky Way galaxy is a spiral galaxy. What's a spiral galaxy? What does it look like? Let's take a look. Spiral galaxy. So we can't really see what the Milky Way is shaped like because we are inside it. But a spiral galaxy typically looks like this. Okay. A great example is Andromeda, which is uh our closest neighboring galaxy. But a spiral galaxy typically looks like this. It has got arms that look like a spiral. And the sun, our solar system is is is in one of these spiral arms. Okay. And at the center of our galaxy, we have a situation. Okay. Through observations, we have seen that there's a bunch of stars at the center of our galaxy that are dancing around very fast around some invisible object. And based on the calculations of the masses of the stars and the speeds and all that, that invisible object has a mass of several million times the mass of our sun. And it's invisible and clearly it's a super massive black hole most likely. Okay. Um, so once again, go here. Uh Milky Way super massive black hole. No. What is that? Why is it in Danagri? Milky Way super massive black hole. Um so at the center of the Milky Way we have this stars uh Milky Way stars. Okay. So this is a sim this is a a representation of the stars at the center of galaxy of our galaxy and the way they dance around this invisible object. So we can't see the super massive black hole but we can see the stars moving around around it and if you take uh images over like a couple of decades you will see how the stars have been moving around this thing and that's why we know it's there. Now our galaxy is one of trillions of galaxies in the universe and in our local supercluster is called the Lania supercluster and we can look at that also. Lania super Lana Lani Lana Lania. Yes. Yeah. So that's kind of what it looks like. The red dot is our Milky Way and all the other dots are other galaxies and so on. So the universe is massive, huge. It's huge beyond our imagination. Okay. Argabital says, "If US bases look vulnerable in conflicts, could host nations reconsider hosting them? And do they realistically have the power to remove US bases?" Right. Um the US bases, do they look vulnerable in conflicts? It depends on where the US bases are. So right now you have a bunch of American bases in West Asia that have been very significantly damaged clearly. Some of them may have been completely destroyed and these bases were created in these host nations by giving the promise that by allowing the Americans to host a base in your territory, you are getting American protection, American military protection. So if somebody tries to hurt you, this American military base will protect you. That was a story that was told to these Gulf nations. Well, clearly that story has turned out to be a lie. These American military bases can't defend themselves. Forget about defending the host nation. So this situation only exists where you have a more powerful nation in the region. So American bases typically encircle nations that the Americans don't like. You have American bases that kind of encircle Russia. You have American military bases that encircle Iran. You have American military bases that encircle China. You have bases around India also. So when you so so now in West Asia, we have seen that American military bases can't defend themselves and can't defend the host nations. What about Japan and South Korea? Both of these nations host more than 100 American military bases each. Japan has more than 130 American military bases. Now why do have the Americans put all these bases there? Obviously with an eye on China. Taiwan is also an American fortress, military fortress. So now the Chinese are looking at what's happening in Iran and now it's very clear how to defeat the Americans. You need tremendous numbers of ballistic missiles and drones. If you have the quantity, you will be able to defeat the Americans no matter what happens. So the question now is now that we understand this, will South Korea reconsider hosting American military bases? Will Japan reconsider hosting American military bases? They may reconsider, but do they have the power to remove them? They don't. When Japan, when you have a nation like Japan with more than 130 American bases in its territory and thousands, tens of thousands of soldiers, how can they remove them? They won't go. The occupying force is more powerful than the host nation. So, they can't remove them. Right? The Gulf nations may be in now in a position to ask the Americans to leave permanently because now they can tell Iran that you know what we don't want the American business we asking them to leave and if they don't leave pound them more pound them more destroy them and the Americans can't do a thing about that so the Gulf nations now are in a position to ask the Americans to leave and not come back but Japan and North and South Korea are not in that position. Taiwan is not in that position. Koshulk Kumar Shukla says should India try to stay out of all wars and provide it provide services to everyone like Sweden does for banking how feasible it is. India should provide services provide services to everyone. So India should provide services to the US to Israel to Iran everybody. It doesn't make sense. India should definitely stay out of all wars. Look this war that's happening we didn't start it. It's not our war. We we never wanted this war. This war is bad for the people in that region and it's bad for us too. So India should stay out of this war. India should not take a side. Right? And uh should India provide services to everyone? Let's say India provides services to the Americans. What kind of service could India provide? One service the Americans will want India to provide is allow the US Navy to be resupplied from America from Indian ports along the west coast of India. There are various Indian ports on the west coast of India. The Americans will say allow our ships to dock there and then we will fly cargo planes to Indian airports with supplies and those supplies we'll bring to the ports to your ports Indian ports and we will resupply our warships with that. If we provide that service to America we are taking a clear side in the war. and Iran will then consider India to be an enemy nation. Do you want that? Why do why do you want that? And what sort of service could we provide to Iran? I'm not sure. So my point is when there's a war going on, don't take don't take sides and don't provide services to anyone. Not a good idea. Nihal Ratur says I have observed among world Iran have one of the most smartl lookinging smart looking very smartlooking fit witty poetic well-dressed and visionary especially Mr. Say Abbas Ragi. All right sir, thank you for sharing your observation. All right. Pratep Kumar Roy says I also read somewhere that our universe is most likely inside a massive black hole and big bang is of actually formation of a black hole also. What is the black hole information paradox? Look, it's a theory. It's a theory that maybe the universe is inside a black hole. A massive black hole. Maybe we are inside a massive black hole. Um, it's a theory. There's no evidence for it. We know that the universe is expanding. If we are inside a black hole, how come the universe is expanding? Is the black hole also expanding? Do we see expanding black holes anywhere? We don't see that. So if black holes have a certain set of properties that are valid everywhere then how does that make sense along with the known observational evidence that the the universe is expanding? It doesn't fit together. So that's one data point that that kind of tells you that we are maybe not inside a massive black hole. Right? So it's it's not a fact. It's it's a theory and uh we we have evidence we have observational evidence that kind of refutes that theory. But it's still a good thought experiment to have. I mean what if we are actually inside a black hole? If you have a black hole that's large enough to contain our entire universe, how would that situation look like from a physics perspective based on what we understand of the laws of physics? It's a good thought experiment and that's why physicists consider these things, these possibilities. But uh there are issues with this theory. Okay. What's this black hole information paradox? Um see black holes are known to have only three properties from it's called the black hole you know from the perspective of thermodynamics. There is something called the no hair theorem. Black holes have no hair. Hair means details. So from the perspective of from what we understand of black holes. Any black hole any black hole that you take anywhere in the world that that you observe, it can be described by only three properties. You only need three pieces of information to understand everything about the black hole. Its mass, its charge and its angular momentum. What is angular momentum spin? Is it off spin or is it leg spin? Is it off spin? Is it leg spin? That's all you need to know. So if you know the black hole's mass, charge and angular momentum, then you know everything about the black hole. That is the best understanding we have of black holes. Okay. So if so does it mean but but when a black hole absorbs matter material it's absorbing charge. So we know that black holes have possibly a little bit of charge overall charge becomes neutral inside a black hole mostly but it's also absorbing other information. For example if it's absorbing photons photons of polarization what happens to that information about the photon polarization that went inside? Is it destroyed? So there's a lot of information that goes inside the black hole which seems to get destroyed by the black hole and at the end of the day all we are left with is mass, charge and angular momentum. But information can be destroyed. That's also what physics tells us. So are black holes objects that violate the laws of physics. So on the one hand we have information theory that says information can't be destroyed and then on the other hand we have black hole physics that says black holes have only three properties. So there's this paradox that you can't have this and that together. So that's the black hole information paradox. Epic with Ana says, "What do you think US economic and political situations change after the war?" Well, I don't see this war ending soon. It is not in Iran's interest to end the war soon. If you end the war now, it will give the US and Israel time to regroup. maybe two, three years, reformulate a good, better strategy and attack Iran again. And if Iran stops the war right now, agrees to a ceasefire, then the Americans will rebuild their bases in the region in all the Gulf nations. So Iran doesn't want to end the war right now. Iran wants to finish the American presence in the region once and for all. And Russia will will help Iran in doing that. China will help Iran in doing that. It's a disaster for the US. So let's say sometime the war ends with not a US victory and if the US doesn't win it means the US loses. If the US loses this war in this region that is going to be an absolute disaster for Trump and for the Republican party economically there's going to be a disaster for the US because the petro dollar system will no longer work. And Iran will ensure if it succeeds in this war in surviving the war that now going forward Iran and oil will not be sold in US dollars. Iranian oil will be sold to other countries. Even the Gulf nations will be pressurized in accepting other currencies for oil. So it's going to be a disaster for the petro dollar system. The world will start dd dollar rising rapidly. As a consequence, if the dollar becomes weak, it's the American economy will start crashing. This is a much bigger disaster than what we are seeing right now than what most people are seeing right now. If Iran prevails in this war is that could herald the end of the petro dollar system and Gulf oil will then be sold in Chinese yuan, Russian rubles, Indian rupees. The Americans may still pressurize India to only use dollars. Maybe India can be pressurized, but the Chinese can't be pressurized. The Russians can't be pressurized, right? So, it's going to be a very big setback for the American economy. And from a political perspective, it's a disaster for Trump. Trump is this is this has been his worst decision. Right? So, most likely Trump and the Republicans will lose the midterm elections. Trump will become a lame duck president who can't, you know, pass any legislation and uh and yeah, economically it's it's a big big setback for the Americans and things are going to get worse, you know, every as time goes forth as time as time goes by. A Kam Jot says, "Why are the Jews so far ahead in winning Nobel prizes?" Well, maybe they are very brilliant people. Maybe the Jews are the most intelligent and brilliant people in the world. Possibly maybe that's why they win so many Nobel prizes. That's a possibility. Maybe maybe there's that. Uh Anerut Kumar says can you tell us about Raja Rahul the founder of Rahul Pindi? Look um I am I don't know his history in great detail. Baba Raal right. So the story I mean a lot of his story is is shrouded in legend. So we don't know what the exact story is but yeah he there he was a Rajput he was a warrior and uh he fought the Turks in the Punjab region and he fought them and defeated them and and freed the region from Turk occupation and rule and he founded a city in what is now Punjab which is named after him Rahul Pindi. Eventually the Turks took took over the region again. But that's the show story in short. I don't know the the details because of we don't know what is what is legend and what's actually the actual accurate history. So I am not very sure about it. Okay. So that's in brief about Rawal. Pratep Kumar Roy says Andra Mle Bal and Anamik real Mulok I I don't know. I am not aware of this. Sorry. Herman Baja says it's sad to see some section of Indians don't understand nuisance with respect to Iran. You mean nuance nuances either either they are looking as only Muslim nation or they are biased peddling somebody else's agenda. Can you list some for viewer? List some what some agendas or some biases. Look, I'll tell you how I see this this matter. I don't know how how other people see. I don't know what to list. Uh I'll tell you how I see this matter. See, ever since I have been discussing geopolitics, there have been people who have portrayed me in various ways. One portrayal is that in that Abijit Chava is very strongly pro-Russia. Another portrayal is that I am very strongly anti- US. Another portrayal is I am very strongly anti-West. Another portrayal nowadays is that I am somehow pro Iran. The fact of the matter is that I am neither of these things. I'm none of these things. I am only pro- India. I see whatever is happening in the world from the perspective of the Indian national interest. I understand who is trying to constrain India, who's trying to contain India, who's trying to harm India in various ways. I understand who's not trying to harm India and that's how I do my analysis. Now, when it comes to this war that's going on right now, Iran obviously is a Muslim nation officially, Islamic Republic of Iran, but that's okay, right? Why can't we be friends with Islamic nations? Mr. Modi has established great relations between India and various Gulf nations like Saudi Arabia, like the UAE, like Oman. We've also had good relations with with Iran. So just because a nation has a certain religion doesn't mean that it's naturally an enemy of India, right? Lots of Indians visit the UAE all the time. Lots of Indians live in the Gulf region in UAE. They have they've been treated very well. There have been issues in some countries like whatever those are. We'll not name them here. Right? So, see the world is complex. It's full of nuances. When the education system destroys your intelligence, you don't see that. You only see things in black and white. And that's an issue. So that's why you've got lots of Indians who and and when you don't see nuance, when you don't understand nuance, when you don't appreciate the complexities and nuances, that's when you become super susceptible to prop propaganda, black and white propaganda. And there's going to be a bunch of Indians who are either taken over by propaganda or who are peddling propaganda on someone else's behalf possibly. Uh I will not take anyone's names or whatever, but it is what it is, right? So my my point is look at the entire situation from India's perspective from the perspective of the Indian national interest. What are India's interests in the region? Do you understand those interests? If you don't understand do some research and then ask yourself is this war helping or harming India's interests? If the US wins does it help India's interests or does it harm India's interests? If the US loses, does it help India's interests or does it harm India's interests? And maybe there is maybe both situations can in some way hurt India's interests and also further India's interests. So which which situation which scenario is is more beneficial for India? Which scenario is less beneficial for India? You to see you have to understand this in great detail in detail. Right? Um yeah. So with India it's always like this. Indians are very emotional. Indians don't understand nuance. Indians don't do deep analysis. Indians are very susceptible to propaganda. And it's overall not the fault of the Indian population. It's the fault of the Indian education system that hasn't prepared Indians for the complexities of international relations. That's the problem. Srijan, thank you very much. Sri Jan Anerud Kumar says why does India have diplomatic relations with irrelevant nations like Lebanon, Malawi, Yemen, Somalia, Finland etc. Isn't this a waste of time, energy and resources? It is not. It is not. No nation is relevant. For example, one one relevance of small nations when you are in the United Nations, let's say you want uh you want to pass a resolution. Let's say you want to pass a resolution to condemn Pakistani terrorism and let's say you don't have diplomatic relations with 78 countries. Those 78 countries will either abstain or vote against you. Yeah, maybe you will say the UN resolutions are irrelevant or whatever. But there are times when they are relevant. That's one thing. Other thing is that there are many of these nations even though they may be small or not powerful they may have valuable resources that may be useful for India right and maybe if we don't have relations with them maybe our enemies will make relations with them and and acquire those resources so it is very important for a nation if you are irrelevant if you are weak you don't need to have relations with with everybody but if you aspire to be a superpower at vishuv guru or even a great power or even a regional for then it is very important for you to have relations with everybody. Okay, that's why India does this. Raman Gil says do you think if World War II broke out all these western Canada, USA will countries could use Indian diaspora as force recruitment for army just like Russia? Um if World War II breaks out, well this this looks like the beginning of World War II right now. First of all, let's define World War II. World War II means a war in which a a large number of important in major countries get embroiled. Okay. So if this war continues and if the Americans drag European nations into this, they force European nations to start participating that will force Russia and China to get involved more actively than they are involved right now. And if Pakistan also get gets involved because Americans use Pakistani territory for action against Iran, then the war will be on our doorstep, Pakistan and Afghanistan are already fighting a war with each other. So you see more and more countries could get could start get getting involved in in in this war and that becomes a world war. So this war if it is not contained could become a world war. We are already there. Now let's say there's a the World War II breaks out and the Americans are in a sustained war which is not ending and they want to put boats on the ground or whatever which means they need soldiers and let's say they put boats on the ground it doesn't work work well you know soldiers die or whatever then they need more soldiers then they could start doing uh you know drafting conscripting people into the army you know if you are in a state of emergency you can force people to join the army that's what's happening been happening in UK Ukraine they've been forced ing people, civilians to join the armed forces. That's what's happening in Ukraine. So if this happens, the US could draft people forcibly. Will they only use the Indian diaspora as force recruitment? I don't think so. They will maybe make it mandatory uh for civilians of a certain age range to u to get drafted into the military. that sort of thing situation happened during the Vietnam war for example and Muhammad Ali I think he refused and that's why he went to jail or something for a while Elvis Presley on the other hand joined the military for a while so you've had this sort of situation during the Vietnam war in the 1960s etc 1960s7s so if war continues it becomes a major war it's not ending this sort of thing could happen in the US uh Canada right now is not participating in the war. So that won't happen in Canada. If Canada also gets involved and they also need more soldiers, they could draft civilians into the war effort. But I don't think they will specifically single out any any ethnicity or any community like the Indian diaspora because that goes against their constitution and laws. So they will do it irrespective of what your ethnicity is. Uh yeah, that is a possibility long-term possibility if the war continues. Argamittal says, "I admire your knowledge of geopolitics, history and astronomy. I have read your dark matter and quantum gravity papers. How did you pursue astronomy after your after your studies is ISRO three decades behind the US?" Um well, first of all, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And um thank you for reading my papers. So, how did I pursue astronomy after my studies? Um I have never pursued astronomy. My pursuit is theoretical physics. Um it's ast which subset of theoretical physics astrophysics and cosmology. Um so how did I pursue that after after my studies? Yeah after my studies I started working right but while working when you have free time you can do your own research when you are doing theoretical physics you don't need equipment you don't need labs you don't need any of that you need pen paper and brain and your understanding of the laws of physics. Uh so that's how I did it for a while. Right now I'm not actively doing any research. It's not been the case for several years now that I'm not actively doing research. Um eventually I need to get back into it. Uh so that's how I did it. Uh now about ISRO is ISRO three decades behind the US. Uh look the what are the American capabilities right now? They have the world's most powerful rocket which is a Space X uh uh Starship. So what let's let's uh see. So the Americans have the Starship which is the most powerful rocket which can which can launch a tremendous amount of cargo into Earth orbit and India's most powerful rocket is the LMV3 or whatever it's it's a GSV rocket which uh can carry a small fraction of that payload into orbit. Uh so that's the gap that we have and uh technologically I'm sure the Americans have better technology. They can use AI and whatnot in in what they're doing. India can't. So if ISRO has to bridge the gap and have a rocket as powerful as the Space X Starship rocket, how soon can India do this? So let's let's quickly do a little bit of analysis. SpaceX Starship LEO payload how much? Okay, so to low earth orbit it can carry about 150 tons. Massive massive payload. Okay. Now ISRO ISRO GSLV payload GSLV can carry six tons. Six tons into low earth orbit. Starship can carry 150 tons. So that's a huge huge gap. So let's say you want to make it 10 times more powerful which so that it can so that the GSLV or whatever rocket can carry 60 tons into low earth orbit which it means that you will need more power either you will need more powerful engines or you will need 10 engines firing together that can be done. It will take it will take you like maybe 2 3 years to develop a rocket that has 10 engines firing together I suppose and of course it's multiple stages yeah we have those solid booster stages and whatnot so it's it's complex maybe 3 to 5 years India can develop a rocket that's 10 times more powerful but to catch up with SP X uh Starship which is 150 tons uh it will take maybe maybe 10 years. So I think ISRO may be about 10 years behind the US if we are being optimistic. But if we factor in the Indian bureaucracy and administrators and all that all that all that stuff then maybe we are 20 years behind the US. So overall I think is can catch up fast if there is funding and if there is political will and if the bureaucratic inefficiencies are removed can be done but looks like there is no political will in India for this. Okay. MKV says Vive Ramaswami just vanished lol. He was dead against the neocon lobby. Why silent now? Did he did he get a taste of reality? I think Vive Kamasami got a taste of reality. Okay. Um he understood I think he will have understood by now that his ethnicity, his skin color and his religion are a major handicap for him in the US in in in American politics. And even if he converts to Christianity, gives up Hinduism, he already pedals monotheistic form of Hinduism, right? that we only have one God and I believe in one God and all that nonsense. Even if he even if he converts to Christianity the first of all there's his skin color and secondly his name Vivec Ramaswami that's not an American name right so he simply doesn't stand a chance in American politics you have to be Christian and you to have an American name and you have to be a different ethnicity than Indian you can be brown but you have to Mexican brown. So it's not going to work for him and there's a tremendous amount of opposition to him. So yeah, he's got I think he he he's got a big taste of reality. Vin says Saudis and Pakistanis are having a lot of meetings. Will Pakistan attack Iran as a lot of pressure is being built up on Munir? Pakistan has a history of creating problems in Iran. So I'm not aware of these meetings between the Pakistanis and the Saudis but maybe it's happening. Okay. Will Pakistan attack Iran? Pakistan won't attack Iran directly unless Iran is very weak. In that case the Pakistanis will take advantage like cowards. Cowards attack those who are down. Cowards attack those who are weak. Right? That's that's Pakistan's history. Um but right now Pakistan will not attack Iran. Say anyway Pakistan is is a puppet of the US. Pakistan is a US vasal. They will do whatever the Americans tell them. I'm sure the Americans are currently using Pakistani uh airspace for at least surveillance activities visa v Iran. Let us uh let us see. Give me a second. Let's see the flight activity over Pakistan, shall we? Let's go to flight radar and see what's happening right now. Let's see. Um okay where is okay so what's going on we have activity over Pakistan now what kind of aircraft are we seeing over Pakistan what is this for example where is it coming from where's it going Islamaduryad what is this fly jina what kind of airline is that fly jina ethihad so it looks like civilian aircraft flying over the region what is this thing here let's That's interesting. That's interesting. Where's it coming from? It's coming from the Maldives. Is it? Looks like that aircraft took off from the Maldives. This is Maharu International Airport. Okay. So, it took off from the Maldives and it flew over Indian airspace and now it's it's flying over Pakistani airspace. I wonder where it's going. We don't know. Uh do we have any activity over Iran? Not right now. Is there any drone flying over here? Sometimes drones keep the transponders on. Uh can't say. Okay. So that's the situation there right now. The the point is that if the Americans uh tell Pakistan to do something, the Pakistanis will do it and the Americans will definitely be using Pakistani airspace and maybe Pakistani air bases for various activities. Uh so eventually this could this could lead to Iranian strikes on Pakistan but I'm sure Iran doesn't want to do it because Pakistan is a very capable military compared to Iran at least. Uh so yeah that that is the situ situation as this war goes goes on if the Americans lose their military bases in West Asia they will possibly have to start relying on Pakistani air bases in which case the war will shift towards Pakistan. Yeah, we'll see. VSBs says, "Jes, are you sure this war will last very long as you said or is it possible it will end in a short time frame?" I think it will last long. Now, if it ends in a short time frame, how can it possibly how can it potentially end in a short time frame? It can potentially end in a short time frame if the Americans defeat Iran or if Iran defeats the US. Now, can America defeat Iran? It can't. That's very clear. Now, the only way to defeat Iran properly, fully, is by launching a ground invasion of Iran. That's suicidal. So, that won't happen. Iran will keep fighting. Iran seems to have enough missiles and drones to last months. and it will use its missiles and drones to destroy all the American bases in the region and destroy Iran Israel's nucle Israel's military capabilities right so the war goes on goes on goes on and America can't withdraw because that looks like a defeat and if America says let's have a ceasefire Iran Iran will say no because Iran wants to once and for all end the American military presence in the region and It's it has the upper hand right now. So this goes on. I don't see it ending in a short time frame. Even if the Americans are quietly trying to do some backdoor negotiations through intermediaries for a ceasefire, Iran will not accept a ceasefire. So I don't I don't see how this war ends soon. I hope it ends soon because it's terrible for everybody including us who are not fighting it or Yeah. But I don't see how it ends soon. I don't see I don't see it ending soon. Meshov says India with words hinted Israel support yet Iran allows Indian tankers to pass through the straight of Hormos. This perplexes me please explain. Yeah, see Iran is not a stupid nation. Iran has mature diplomats and leaders. Iran understands the kind of constraints that India is under. Iran understands that the Americans are pressurizing India in various ways and that Iran understands that America has been containing India the past few years and obstructing India's growth and so on and so forth. Iran also understands that India need Iran also understands that India needs the access to the American economy and so on which is why India is under various constraints. Iran understands that Pakistan is a US puppet that is being used by the Americans to hurt India and also potentially Iran. And if Mr. Modi verbally offered what looks like support to Iran to to Israel and the US, he has not taken any actions that will hurt Iran in any way. Iran India has given refuge to an Iranian warship in an Indian port thereby saving one America one Iranian warship from American torpedoes. So overall India has not taken any actions that will hurt Iran. India has taken actions that actually will be could be could be portrayed by the Americans as being anti-America and pro Iran. Right? And long-term Iran wants a good relationship with with India and Iran is now more confident it will survive this war and actually win this war and once that happens Iran wants good relations within India. Iran wants to keep selling oil to India in the future resume selling oil to India. So because of these reasons Iran has allowed a small number of nations to have their tankers cross the oil the the straight of Hormuz and this includes India. Empty boxes help me get access to the history course I brought bought three years ago. What happened? Is there some problem? U send me an email with the details of the problem with your email id and phone number uh in the email id listed in the description or in the description of one of my of any of the videos. Okay. Somalia Paul says, "Tell me something. If Iran thinks Israel and the US wanted to destroy them but Israel tells Iran is exist existential threat to them who is actually the one who started this conflict from the start. Look, both situations can be true. Okay, let's let's unpack this entire issue. In the 1950s,60s, etc. '7s also, Iran was ruled by Muhammad Raza Bahavi who was an American puppet. His job was to give full access of Iranian oil to the west at discounted prices. So essentially during Muhammad Raaphaw's time, Iranian oil was sold to the west at discounted prices which was bad for Iran. He made Iran a complete puppet of the west. There was a prime minister of of Iran uh Muhammad Mosade who stopped that who tried to stop this. He nationalized Iran's oil industry and stopped giving preferential treatment to the west and there was a coup against him. Okay. And uh Palawi was reinstated as the guy in power. So this was the situation before 1979 when Palvi eventually became extremely unpopular in Iran because he was a western slave. So eventually there was an Islamic revolution in Iran and Mr. Kamei came to power when the Islamic revolution succeeded in 1979 and the sha the fake sha was ousted. He went into exile in the west and Iran the the new Iranian regime the government the government of the ayatas the government of the moolas they declared the US as enemy number one they declared the US as shanorg the great Satan and they also said that Israel has no right to exist. Okay. and they they they took over the American embassy in Thran and took a number of diplomats, American diplomats hostage for more than 400 days. Long story. So Iran became super hostile to the US and super hostile to Israel and in retaliation the Americans induced Saddam Hussein to launch an invasion of Iran. There was the Iran Iraq war 1980s which was a disaster for both nations. So that's the story. That's how it all began. Now um now the question you're asking is so so Israel from Israel's perspective Iran is a nation that says Israel has no right to exist. So obviously Israel is right to be worried about Iran because from Israel's perspective it has the right to exist. Israel is a legitimate nation. Even I would say that of course it is right. So Iran says it has no right to exist. Israel says no no no we will exist. You can't stop us. And then Israel says that Iran is developing a nuclear program. Iran does have a nuclear program. It says that it's for uh civilian use. It's for power generation. But obviously a nuclear program can be used for other things as well like creating nuclear weapons. So that's the issue. Okay. Now, this current conflict, who started it? Well, there was a war, 12-day war in 2025, last year, which started with the Israelis launching air strikes on Iran. And it ended with American B-52 bombers destroying Natans and for those two Iranian nuclear facilities. And then Trump claimed at the time that Iran's nuclear program had been destroyed once and for all. So last year Trump claimed that Iran's nuclear program was destroyed, finished permanently. Now in 2026, this new war has started. How did it start? With an Iran with an Israeli and American attack on Iran and and and Trump said that we are doing this war, we have joined this war so that we destroy Iran's nuclear program. But did not did Trump not claim last year that he had ended it? So that's the thing. So this current conflict started with an Israeli and American attack on Iran. They started the conflict and then they assassinated Mr. Kamei the supreme leader of Iran. That's how the conflict started. Overall that's a story. All right. Kanglay says no timely action against cooki illegal immigrants coming from Myanmar will pay huge to national security in the next 5 years. What's my view? I think the situation in Manipur is a disaster. I don't understand why we are allowing foreigners to squat on Indian territory. How does it advance the Indian national interest? History tells us that cookies are foreigners that they were artificially artificially settled by the British in the territory of Manipur to punish the Manipuris. Who are the Manipuris? The Mate and the Nagas. Okay, they are the maid and the nagas are the indigenous people of Manipur of this region. The cookies are foreigners. They are foreigners even to Burma. And the British themselves never trusted the cookies. And if you see this the census records of Manipur, British census records from 1900 onwards around that period onwards you will see there were almost no cookies in Manipur when the first census was taken and then this cookie population starts slowly rising because the British were bringing more in as a punitive measure. So the British were bringing foreigners into India into the kingdom of Manipur right at the time. So that is obviously it tells you that the the cookies don't belong in this region and now we have a big cookie population on the other side of the border inside Myanmar and the India Myanmar border is open the Manipur Myanmar border is open and these the last 10 years or or so if you see satellite imagur looks like lacks of cookies have come into Manipur in the last 10 15 years, right? And they indulge in all these terrorist activities. They have a limitless supply of arms and ammunition. Previous governments have done this suspension of operation agreement only with the cookie terrorists and now they have taken over more than half of Manipur and they're terrorizing the indigenous people of Manipur whether they are cookie whether they're mates or nagas. That's an ongoing situation right now as of today as of yesterday also. And the government of India doesn't seem to have control over at least half of Manipur. The city of Churachpur has been ethnically cleansed of non-cookies and there's gunfights happening there. How come these these people have access to weapons? If you go to other parts of India, people aren't allowed to carry weapons. People aren't allowed to own weapons. You to apply for a license which almost nobody gets. But cookies openly wander around with AK-47s and M15s and God knows what kind of advanced weapons. India has lost control of at least half of Manipur. And imagine how the natives will feel how imagine how the indigenous people of this region will feel like the government of India doesn't give a damn about them. This is exactly what caused insurgency in the entire far east of India from 1947 onwards. Every state had multiple insurgencies. Why? Because of the stepmotherly treatment given to this region by the government of India in Delhi. When there is no progress, where when there is no development, when there is no food, whether when there are no opportunities for growth, people become dissatisfied. They become desperate. they will say we don't want to be under your government we want to have our own country so there were multiple incidences multiple separatist insurgencies in every state in India's far whether it is Assam whether it is Bizaram whether it is whatever else Nagaland Manipur every state had multiple insurgent outfits outfits separatist outfits and then the Chinese took advantage of that the Pakistanis took advantage of that the Americans took advantage of that so if India allows this to continue in Manipur what do you expect the people the indigenous people to feel they will feel that the government of India and the people of India and the nation of India doesn't care about us what is that going to give rise to separatist tendencies this is what is happening in Manipur right now that's my view sorb says what options does Iran have if kar island is damaged by the US Iran has many options Kirk Island, see what was the thing about Kirk Island? It had big oil uh reservoirs, right? If it's been damaged by the US, the Iranians can damage oil reservoirs and and depose of other countries, Gulf countries in the region, Iran has all kinds of options. Iran can go after whatever is left of the American military bases and destroy them completely. Iran can bombard Israel even more heavily. Is Iran can destroy various oil refineries and oil wells in the region. Whether it's in whichever Gulf country, Iran has all kinds of options. All kinds of options. Trump is getting desperate. There was no military target on Kir Island. Let's see K Island, shall we? Um let us see Cara Island. Okay, let us go to uh the map and let's go to the Persian Gulf region. And where is Kar Island? This is the island we're talking about. Okay, so as you can see it is off off the coast of Iran. Now let's go to the satellite imagery and let's see what we can u discern of this island on the on the face of this island. Do we have any? So as you can see these are oil reservoirs. These are oil depots. This is where oil is stored. Okay. Lots of oil storage on this island. I don't see any military facilities here. This obviously is an oil tanker that is anchored over here. Does it have Yeah, it's an oil tanker clearly. This is not a military ship. It's not It's not a naval ship. Do we have anything else here? Okay, there's a hospital. There are some residential areas. There's a stadium there. What is this here? This also is a residential area. There's an airport there. Sure. Do we have any fighter planes here? What is this? This looks like a non-fighter plane. Do we have any fighter planes? Um, I'm not sure I see any any military aircraft here. Uh, at first glance, at cursory glance, it doesn't look like there's any military aircraft over here. Uh, what else do we have? What is NGL? I don't know what NGL is. Construction company, power plant. So, as you can see, it's oil oil storage facilities, residential areas. What do we have here? Yeah. So, I don't see any military targets on this island. The Americans say that they've obliterated Trump says that he has obliterated Ka Island. Well, that looks like the act of a desperate person. Yeah. Just to just to plate his his voters at home. Ashish Raj thank you very much sirv Satya says I know treaties exist but that's just a piece of paper will we see the militarization of space in our lifetime is something like rods from god even possible should India have a space force see rods from gods is the concept of taking long rods like telephone poles and shooting them from space from orbit onto a target on the planet theoretically it works. Yeah. There's nothing in the laws of physics that prevents that from working. And the the the the kindinetic energy such a rod can have is going to be immense. So it's so you don't need any explosive charge to cause immense damage on the target. So theoretically it's possible but uh but it's never taken off for whatever reason. I'm not looking into it but yeah theoretically it works. Uh but the danger of militarization of space is when you can start putting nuclear missiles or whatever into space uh into into orbit around the earth. So that way you don't have to launch a missile from a place on earth and go on this ballistic trajectory or whatever. You can launch it directly from space. Let's say you have a satellite which uh will have let's say 10 space missiles which with the nuclear warheads. So if you launch that it will need much less propellant first of all because it's already in space it will only need to re-enter and hit the target. So it will need less propellant which means the missile can be shorter and secondly the warning time becomes very less because if you have if you're monitoring the the the your adversary nation and you're wondering if they're going to launch nuclear missiles then when a launch happens you have enough time to react to it. But if a launch happens from space, then you have way less time to react to it. So militarization of space, I think it's essentially going to be in inevitable. As as space programs become more mature and as technologies improve and advance, I think it's going to be almost inevitable that you're going to have militarization of space. I'm sure the American military may already have militarized space and not told us about it because there are many um you know classified missions that are launched you know military satellites and whatnot. We don't know what's what's on those satellites. We don't know that um even even Starlink can be militariz militarized. I'm sure you can put small sensors on Starlink satellites which will not cost which will not be very heavy and which can monitor the entire earth in real time. So each Starlink satellite can possibly can can potentially be a spy satellite apart from doing its job of be beaming internet to the to the surface of the planet. So I think militarization has already happened. We may not know about it. It may be classified. It may be secret but I'm sure it's already happening. Yeah, but see you will be careful not to reveal it because if your adversaries come to know that you have put weapons in space then your adversary may be in a position position to destroy your satellites which will be not good for everybody because it will cause a tremendous amount of space debris in orbit around the planet which means future space launches rocket launches will become impossible. So that's the payoff that's a trade-off. So if you have such capabilities, you you're going to keep them secret and you will use them only as a as something that is uh as as a last resort thing. So should India have a space force? I think India should also have a space force. But first of all, we need to fix ISRO. Market whisperer says if not for the border issue, India and China I feel could have been natural allies. We have a lot more in common with China than we do with the US and ISR. What is ISR? Thoughts? Okay. Is Israel Israel do we does India have a lot more in common with China than we have with the US and Israel? Yes. Civilizationally we are very similar. We are both ancient civilizations. Culturally we have a lot in common. you meet a Chinese person, it's you don't feel like I mean there's a lot of cultural similarities between us and Chinese people. So, so I agree with you that if not for this border issue, we could have been natural allies. Even if the border is demarcated, there's going to be tensions because two major massive nations with a shared border, there's always tensions. The ideal scenario is that Tibet should never have become part of China. Tibet should have removed should have remained a buffer state between India and China. That way India and China could have been natural allies. So I completely agree with you that we have a lot more in common with China than with the US or Israel civilizationally and culturally. The Chinese current Chinese government is is culturally not very Chinese. Okay. It's culturally it its cultural roots are communist, Marxist, Leninist, Maoist roots. Mao was an enemy of Chinese civilization. Maong okay. So that those are the roots. But of course they now understand the value of culture and Chinese culture and they use it as something to that that gives the nation prestige. So yeah. Okay. Argl says US, Russia, China have bomber. What leverage do they get? You mean strategic bombers, right? So you can use fighter planes as bombers too. That's what India does. The Sukoy 30 can be used as a fighter bomber. Even the Rafal can be used as a fighter bomber and so on, right? Uh but the but these nations US, Russia, China, they have strategic bombers which are large aircraft which can carry thousands of kilograms of ordinance, bombs, cruise missiles, whatever. And these large aircraft can fly for thousands of kilometers and then release their payloads. So that allows these nations to to uh to come very close to their enemy's border and then launch a massive amount of uh of ordinance at the targets. Right? That's that's what happens. Now should India get a strategic bomber? It doesn't make sense for India to get one because see American strategic bombers they typically fly over Alaska over the Pacific Ocean or the Atlantic Ocean or Europe or territory that is not hostile to them and then they will launch their missiles or bombs only when they come close to the border of any hostile nation. They are not designed to fly in hostile territory. Okay. Even the Chinese bombers, strategic bombers, if they want to attack India, they will fly over Shinjang, Tibet etc. which is not hostile territory and then they will launch from close to the Indian border. These strategic bombers are not designed to fly for long distances over hostile territory. So when you have the advantage of geography, you can have strategic bombers. Who does India want to attack? If if if let's say we want to use a strategic bomber, who do we attack? If you look at the geography, a strategic bomber, let's say it has uh 6,000 kilometer range. Okay. So, do we want to attack some African nation for example? You you know, makes no sense for us to do that. Do we want to attack Southeast Asia? Obviously not. Do we want to attack Australia? No, obviously not. Our adversaries are Pakistan and China. So, yeah, China's industrial base is far away from India. It's in the Shenzhen region in the east part of China and uh but to have a strategic bomber attack these territories we will have to fly over Chinese territory or other territory which doesn't make any sense. So for India I think the best thing to have is to have fighter bombers that can you know as long as Pakistan exists we can use fighter bombers to address that issue and for China we will probably need ballistic missiles or something if we ever get get into a war with China. Does it make sense for India to have strategic bombers because of geographical uh considerations? Dura Panchchal says who winning US Iran conflict helps India? Iran. If Iran wins, it's better for India. And I explained why in great detail multiple times today. So if Iran wins, it's going to be strategically more advantageous for India. If the US wins, it's going to be a disaster for India because the US victory means the destruction of Iran and the end of the current regime in in Iran. So that's a disaster for India and that's not not going to not going to happen. Vive Singh says many YouTubers say that the Iran US war is a problem for China but I think they would like the war to continue so that they can gulp Taiwan. Thoughts? uh I don't know what other YouTubers are saying but let's try and understand analyze this uh logically the war is happening and because of that China will have constraints will will face problems when when it comes to their oil supply which means that they will have to import more Russian oil they will already have placed big orders and the oil has to come all the way from the North Atlantic transition transit through the Mediterranean then through Su then through the Red Sea then through the baland strait then through the Indian Ocean and then reach China maybe it takes like 354 days but they they can get sufficient oil from Russia. So from an oil perspective it's a problem temporarily for the next couple of months but then it'll be fine for China. Now the deal the the thing about this war that America is fighting against Iran is that it is consuming a lot of American munitions and missiles. The American interceptor missiles have all but become depleted in West Asia. That's why America is moving its THAD systems from South Korea into the West Asia theat which is leaving South Korea more more vulnerable. In the first 3 days of the war, the Americans used up about 20% of their global Tomahawk missile inventory. So the longer this war continues, the more the American stocks of various kinds of weapons will get depleted, right? And if the Americans start running short of arms, ammunition, and all that, well, isn't that good for China and Russia? Of course it is. And the longer the war continues, the more the Chinese and the Russians can learn the lessons of the war that what is working for Iran that it's able to dominate this war. If not dominate, survive this war and you know prevent the Americans from achieving any of their objectives. From that perspective, Iran is is winning. So, so the lesson of the war is that you need thousands of ballistic missiles and hundreds of thousands of drones. The Chinese have quietly been stockpiling, I'm sure, lots of drones and missiles too. And now we understand, we can clearly see the American vulnerabilities, the American uh military strategies, how they can be defeated. And the the same lessons can be used to defeat the Americans in the eastern theater in Taiwan, in South Korea, in Japan possibly. Right? So the longer this war goes on, the better it is for China. I don't think it's a problem for China. Authan owe all my geopolitical knowledge to you. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Java bro says did we have razors or barbers at the times of Siam I don't know we don't even know what was the time of Shiridam we don't have a date we don't have an appro approximate date we have various propos proposed dates but we don't know which one is correct um but I'm sure people would have shaved in some way so I don't know for sure we don't know for sure because we don't know what in what time period this happened so can't have a answer right now. Ad Astra says, "Reliance setting up a refinery in Texas. Worrying. Why is it worry? It's okay. It's okay." Um, it doesn't harm India's interests in any way. It does not, right? It's fine. Mary Kane says, "Nuclear. No computer can ru can run all chess moves. No gazillions of supercomputers could run chuck chakra view aerial combinations. Question, would powering supercomputers with micro reactors versus small modular reactors make more sense? Uh, a supercomputer obviously is a large computer which which needs a large amount of power, reliable power. Um, and you can connect a supercomputer to the to the grid in the city and it'll run just fine. But if you want a supercomputer to have its own dedicated power supply to ensure that there is no issue if the city's grid goes down for even momentarily, then it makes sense to to connect a supercomput to its own power power source like a micro reactor or a small modular reactor. Um it's it's definitely a good idea as a backup option. So you connect the supercomputer to the city's grid, but you keep a micro reactor, let's say, as a backup. So in case there's an issue, your circuit automatically and instantly switches to the micro reactor. Yes, that that makes sense. Or you can even have it powered exclusively by the micro reactor. in which case you would want to have one another micro reactor as a backup because you always want to have a backup when it comes to uh critical computing. Um so no computer can run all chess moves. Yeah, no computer can run all chess moves. Uh no gazillions of supercomputers could run chakra view aerial combinations. I suppose not because the combinations are essentially endless. Yeah. So I would say uh it makes sense to power supercomputers with micro reactors. Yeah. Depending on the context depending Yeah. Whether it is a military supercomputer or a supercomputer used for weather modeling or whatever. If it's a supercomputer used for weather modeling then in in that case it's not that critical. If it's a military supercomput yes you need to have redundancies built into the power supply. Fast snail says is the US facing a similar situation? is the Vietnam War. Not quite yet. Not yet. In the Vietnam War, the Americans put boots on the ground. They tried to invade Vietnam. They brought in lots and lots of soldiers. They drafted people against their wishes into the military. That caused lots of political problems in the US. So, that's not the situation that you have right now. Right now, the Americans are trying to pound Iran into submission. It's not working. They are taking big damage. uh the Americans have not put a single boot on the ground. So right now it's not a similar situation as the Vietnam war. No. But if this war drags on and Trump becomes desperate for a win and if he has American soldiers put their boots on the ground and try and and attempt an invasion, a ground invasion of Iran, then it starts becoming possibly potentially similar to the Vietnam war. Right now it is not the case. But uh what are the similarities? The similarities is that in Vietnam the Americans failed to achieve their objectives and in Iran right now they're failing to achieve their objectives right now. So that is this little bit of similarity but all over overall it's not similar. Godliness says previously I mentioned how many of our exservicemen are egoistic and have no knowledge of strategic communication. today. Let me also proclaim when it comes to war reporting, our media is disastrous. Um, okay. I'm not sure about our uh ex-servicemen. Okay, ex-servicemen and okay, when it comes to war reporting, our media is disastrous. Our media is terrible. Our media is absolutely terrible. When it comes to war reporting, the biases are obvious, open, blatant. When it comes to Indian media, the Indian media's reporting of the Ukraine war. It's it's pathetic reporting. Completely one-sided. Just just regurgitating regurgitating western talking points. A couple of media channels may have sent Indian reporters on the ground over there, but only on Ukrainian territory. If you want to have balanced coverage, send two reporters on Ukrainian territory and send two two reporters on Russian territory and let's have coverage from both sides. No, it's only going to be one-sided. So the Indian media is trash, very low quality media and right now when it comes to the reporting of the Iran war, the less said than the lesser the better about the Indian media. Rebel Sports says, "What do you think will be the impact of the war on East and Southeast Southeast Asia excluding India? We're talking about Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Sri Lanka, etc. Well, for these nations, the main issue is going to be availability of uh energy, oil and gas, right? Uh that's going to be impacted. See, most of these nations, they import their oil from from the Hormos region, right? From the straight of Hormos and that's going to be impacted. Um that's the immediate impact of of the war on these nations. and they will also have to purchase oil from Russia or the United States or whatever. So they're going to have to make arrangements, alternative arrangements. Apart from that, these nations are not involved in the war. So they're not taking sides in the war. Uh so and and so I don't see any any other impact of the war on these nations. Sri Lanka has been dragged into into the into the war in in a small way. uh they have given refuge to one Iranian warship in the port of Trinko Mali and we know another Iranian warship was destroyed by an American submarine very close to Sri Lankan territorial waters so Sri Lanka has been impacted in that manner apart from that nothing much joy says can war force India into true self-reliance it can only if we have the right leadership who takes the hard decisions Otherwise no war will succeed in forcing you into self-reliance right so this is this war can be seen by India as an opportunity become completely self-reliant in terms of our defense equipment and so on build a defense industry urgently on a war footing make everything indigenous start using cavary engines whether they are good or had in some aircraft and see how it performs. That's how the west started. It's it's you know after 194 after 1945 that's what the west did. The initial jet engines were terrible but they started using them and kept improving them over time. India needs to do that. India needs to revamp its space program completely. India needs to become a massive producer of drones and missiles. So India needs to discover oil in its territory. I'm sure there's oil tremendous amount of reserves of oil sitting around but we have never bothered. Right now the government of India is trying to explore beginning the process of exploring. Right now the government of India is beginning the process of exploring uh for oil in the Andaman region. My question is why did this not start in 2014? Why was this process not started in 2014? Why is it being started right now? Was the government of India sleeping for a decade? Anyway, do it now. I'm sure there's a lot of oil there. Gas also discover it. So the war can face India in can force India into true self-reliance only if India the government if the Indian leadership does the difficult things the hard things the painful things and reforms the country otherwise nothing will happen. Richest Pakistani richest Pakistani great name. Good evening. Uh your critical thinking insights have deeply shaped my mindset as an AI engineer. Well I'm glad to hear that sir. My recent internship at IIT Madras AI for Bharat reinforced my pride in contributing to India and thank you for your impactful guidance. You are very welcome sir. It's so nice to see your message and I'm glad that you have recently interned at IIT Madras AI for BAT and please continue. I'm glad that you feel pride in contributing to India to bhat and please continue that sir. Absolutely sir ma'am I think yeah I don't know yeah so you are very welcome I'm I'm very pleased to hear this and I wish you nothing but continuing success all the best sir do well do very well snail fast snail says does the US benefit from hormones blockade more exports shortterm it's going to be a disaster for the world long-term the US will benefit if the hormones rate of hormones is blockaded for a long time um and if nobody is able to receive oil coming through hormones, then the Americans can benefit because then the Americans can start become can start exporting oil their oil to other countries and other things as well. But if Iran selectively allow some nations to purchase to to to acquire to have oil pass through the straight of Hormuz, then the US doesn't benefit. Then the US loses out, right? And there if this leads eventually to the to the trade of oil in currencies that are non US dollar currencies that's again disastrous for the US. So a blockade of hormones can benefit the US long run only if it is a complete blockade and no oil or no other stuff is flowing through hormos. But if things are flowing through Hormuzu's own Iranian terms to nations that Iran designates as friends, then the US doesn't benefit at all. It's a disaster for the US. Okay, there we have it. Jivarus, is India sovereign enough to fight despite sanctions? India can fight with despite sanctions. I think India still has enough sovereignty to fight if required despite sanctions. In case hypothetically sanctions are placed on India, I think that may actually be beneficial for India. If sanctions are put on India, there'll be short-term pain but long-term India will become more atmanable and self-reliant and maybe more sovereign. Yeah. Rahun Rajar says, "Are you sure nuclear won't stop Iran? Sar was 60 years ago. There must be 10 times or 100 times more powerful of the US." No. There's a limit to the explosive power of a nuclear weapon. That sar bomba was a massive massive thing 50 kilotons. They wanted a 100 kiloton explosion but technological constraints for them to limit it to 50 kilotons. The American nuclear weapons aren't massive gigaton nuclear weapons, right? They have the W something and and so on standard nuclear warheads. And it's not about vaporizing a country or something. It's nuclear weapons are not supposed to vaporize a country country entirely. They're supposed to have a achieve help you achieve strategic objectives. Mostly most nuclear weapons are going to be tactical warheads. A certain number are going to be strategic warheads maybe in in with an explosive output of several megatons. Maybe 1 megaton, maybe 10 megatons. I don't think the Americans have any Tar Bomba like weapon right now. And even if they use it, what are they going to achieve? They're going to horrify the world and the world will stop working with the US. So if the Americans want to defeat Iran, a 100 megaton weapon will not defeat Iran. It'll make Iran even more resilient. And if you if you use 10 of those, that's going to be the war crime to end all war crimes. So you see nuclear. So if the Americans want to defeat the Iran regime, they're going to have to use tactical weapons, kiloton weapons, maybe 20 kilotons, Hiroshima, Nagasaki range, you know, caliber weapons like maybe 20 kilotons, maybe 30, 50 kilotons, that sort of thing. But even if they use 20, 30 of these, it's not going to be able to defeat a nation of the size of Iran. So I am 100% sure even nuclear weapons won't stop Iran. Minimalist Maverick says what reforms will US make at home to win wars the next time? What reforms will the US make at home? I I don't know. They will have to figure it out. Their nuclear their military doctrine is super deficient. See, I'll tell you why the US is losing this war. or or not winning this war. The US approach to war fighting is bulldozer. It's it's the bulldozer method. What they do is they carpet bomb nations. They have a brute force approach and that brute force approach they have tried on and it's failed. So in when that doesn't work, they have no idea what to do next. Their military approach isn't nuanced and sophisticated. It's a brute force approach. That's what they used in Iraq. That's what they used in Libya. They simply flatten nations. But that's not working with Iran. So now that that's not working, they have no idea what to do what to do next. So they don't have a plan B. Trump is still trying the brute force force approach, right? Kir Island. That was a brute force approach that he tried. Uh where is it? Give me a second. Kir Island. Where is his tweet? Give me a second. I'll put the tweet out again. Where is that? Where is that? Where is that? Um, let me put this on the screen, shall I? So, the US is still trying to use the brute force approach. This is an example of that. Uh Trump tweeted this today early morning about India's time. Moments ago at my direction, the US Central Command executed one of the most powerful bombing raids in the history of the Middle East and totally obliterated any every military target in Iran's crown jewel Ka Island. He is still trying the brute force approach even though it is failing. You see, this is visible evidence of the US having no plan B. They only know one way of fighting a war. Brute force. When when that doesn't work, they have no idea what to do after that. So, they're going to have to find I don't know, rethink everything, I suppose. Anonymous scientist, good to see you. Mosswan is now saying that Ukraine will be attacked because it's helping Israel in the US. How can it affect the progress of this Iran USIsrael war? Okay, I have not seen this uh this uh development but I'm sure it's happening. So Iran says that Ukraine will be attacked because it's helping Israel and the US. I'm sure see Ukraine is an American vasal right now. UK Zalinski is completely dependent on the US and Europe and Israel to maybe because Israel is in the same it's essentially the same as the US. So Zalinsky will do whatever the Americans ask him to do. So I am sure see is Ukraine has a lot of in the last 3 four years they have gained a lot of experience in using drones right so they will share that experience and the tech that knowhow maybe the technology with the Americans and the Israelis and I'm sure the Iranians are keeping are keeping an eye on this development. So, if the Iranians attack Isra attack Ukraine, is it even feasible? First of all, let's take a look at the map. Yeah. Is it feasible for Iran to attack Israel? Give me a second. Let's put the map on the screen. So, here is the map. Now, how far is Ukraine from Iran? Let's see. How far is Ukraine from Thran? Uh how far is Odisa from Dhran? It's about 2,000 km. It's well within the range of Iranian missiles. Yeah, it's well within the range of Iranian missiles, Ukraine. So if Iran is making this threat, I'm sure they have the capability to carry out this threat. So let's say this happens and uh Iran attacks Israel, whatever I saying, Iran attacks Ukraine. How can this affect the progress of the Iran of this war? Well, I'll tell you how it affects the progress of the war. It draws more countries into the war. It takes you one step closer to a World War II scenario, right? So, if Iran is now fighting Isra Ukraine as well, maybe they they take out Zalinski. Maybe they take out Zalinski. The Americans took out Kamei. Maybe the Iranians go after Zillinsky. Who knows? So it could take the war in all kinds of unexpected directions and that increases the possibility of this becoming World War II. Yeah. And it's going to be a setback for the US if the Iranians start targeting Ukraine. Now Aurora says, "Big fan from the from the US." Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I want to know where is Netanyahu and where do presidents where are presidents kept during war? Is it true he died? It's an X everywhere. So, I don't know what's happened to Netanyahu. Give me a second. Um, yeah, that's a question about what has happened to this guy. Um, is he alive? Is he not? Let's let me put out this tweet again on screen. Last time I saw it was this. Um, give me a second. Let me share this. So yesterday about 24 hours ago the the official Twitter account of the prime minister of Israel tweeted this official statement from Prime Minister's office rumors circulating on social media about Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's status are unconfirmed. So even uncon even the prime minister's office says it's unconfirmed because which means that they are not sure about what's happened. Secondly, they say that efforts are underway to establish contact which is an admission that they have no contact with with Netanyahu. So there are two two unwitting admissions here. First that Netanyahu's status is unconfirmed even by the government of Israel and secondly the government of Israel is trying to establish contact with Netanyahu which means that they have no contact with him. This was 24 hours ago, slightly more than 24 hours ago, and then they deleted the tweet, which means they realized that they said too much. So, I don't know if he's dead or not, but that tweet is very well, it is very concerning if you are a citizen of Israel or if you are in the west. If you are supporting Israel in the US, it's very concerning for you. So, I don't know what is the situation with Benjamin Netanyahu. Let me try and see more. Is is it trending? What is trending? Let's see what's trending on Twitter right now about Mr. Netanyahu. Let's see. Uh what is trending? Uh let's see what is the latest. Let's see what's the latest. Um Netanyahu Benjamin Netanyahu. This looks like an This is possibly an AI image. It's possible this could be an AI image. So I can't say Grock keeps saying that Nathaniel is alive based on what happened on March 12. Well, hey, this is March 14th. So Grock is going to keep saying that Netanyahu is alive. Uh but lots of people are saying he's dead. So looks like we don't know what the situation is right now. It's all speculation on Twitter. Okay. Uh so I don't know where he is. I don't know what his status is but uh yeah looks like looks like u you know something may have happened to him but I can't say for sure. Now, where are presidents kept during wartime? If there is the possibility of strikes where the president is, they are usually kept in very secure bunkers, typically underground in secure locations. That's where a president is typically kept because the president is the most valuable person in the government and the decision maker. And there's typically a chain of command. Let's say that president is taken out. Then who takes over immediately? That is all wellestablished. I mean any any any serious country it's like that. All right. Surabi says, "Is US aiming for Raf Peters blood borers fracturing the Gulf while the Americas become the main oil suppliers? What would India gain or lose?" Okay, let's see what is this. Ra Peters blood borders. This was a speculative map put out a long time ago where the entire region's maps borders are reconfigured. Okay. Ro Ralph Peters blood borders. So based on ethnic uh ethnic groups he had put out this this thing you know. So is the US aiming for this? Maybe they were aiming for it but you can aim for the moon and the stars but you should have the capability to to make it happen. Excuse me. The US clearly is not going to be able to do this right now because they are not winning this war against Iran. uh how would what would India gain or lose? Well, it depends on whether it happens or not. If Pakistan is broken up, it'll be good for India, right? So, if if this reconfiguration also reconfigures Pakistan's borders and if Pakistan is also broken up and if that contributes to the decline of terrorism coming out of Pakistan, that would be a substantial benefit that India would gain in that case. But if it does not stop the terrorism coming out of Pakistan, it's bad for India. If Iran gets bulcanized hypothetically then again it could not be good possibly be bad for India depending on who comes to power in various parts of Iran and that sort of thing. So it is all speculation. It's all ifs and buts and hypotheticals and uh which way it goes will determine whether India gains or lose. Black Panther says if Iran falls China only left out on American radar with the will the situation force them to settle the border dispute with India. If so, we have accept or not. Look, I'll tell you what. If Iran falls, China is not next for the Americans. If Iran falls, India is next. Okay? Because India is currently resisting American attempts to vasalize us. India is currently resisting America. America wants India as a vasal state. India is currently not a vasal state. India may have accepted certain ownorous conditions for the trade deal or whatever or whatever whatever India may have given some concessions to the US but India has not agreed to terms that will make us aal so that has not happened if Iran falls the Americans will come after India next not China it's a stepby-step process first Venezuela then Iran then India then they'll deal with China and Russia. Okay? If Iran falls and China probably will want to end the border dispute with India but Iran is not falling and it doesn't mean that if Iran falls it's good for India. No, it's actually going to be much worse for India if Iran falls. Okay. Okay. Pratik Kumar Roy says, "What will happen if we mistakenly fire if we mistakenly fire 1,000 nuclear missiles into the US or China? We don't have 1,000 nuclear missiles. If we do it, we will start a world war. We will start a nuclear exchange which will destroy the world. If let's say India has 1,000 nuclear warheads and 1,000 missiles to carry them and we if we if you fire that into the US, the US will fire 2,000 back at India, it'll destroy India. If you fire that at China, it'll destroy China. And China probably does not have 1,000 nuclear missiles. So, but but the Chinese will fire back 400 or 500 missiles in India. So, there is stupidity. That's madness. Nobody does that. Black Panther says nowadays all India parties are busy with an announcement of cash reward manifesto for election with okay we don't know how to stop this nonsense giving free money. I don't know what the solution is. The solution is an end of the system. The current system we should either have a presidential system or a full dictatorship. Now a lot of you will say dictator a dictatorship is horrible. So okay let's have a presidential system in a presidential system you don't have this s sort of nonsense. So the Indian system is the biggest problem that India has. This Westminster parliamentary democracy that we have that's the biggest problem that India has right now. Right? So if we transition to a to a presidential system, it'll be great for us. It'll be good first step for us for solving many of the problems that we are saddled with. Fast snails as does history prove the US doesn't do well in long wars. Um, how many long wars have the Americans fought? When did the Americans enter the the Second World War? The First World War, the Americans were not in that Pearl Harbor attack date. Okay. The Americans entered the war at the end of 1941. So they were in World War II, let's say from 1942 to 1945. So that's about 2 and a half years and by the time it was done, right? It was not very long from their perspective. Uh how long did the Vietnam war last? Let's see. How long did the Vietnam War last? 19 years, etc. That was a disaster for the US. So if you take those two data points, World War II versus Vietnam War, clearly the longer war was a disaster for the US. Um, and the Americans have fought all kinds of other wars also. But let's talk about the 20th century, not not wars before that. So yeah, it looks like the Americans don't do well in long wars. Right now, the situation is a short thus far, it's been a short war, but the Americans are already doing poorly in this one. So if you take the data point of the Vietnam war, yes, they did not do well in that war. Were they part where did they fight other wars in the 20th century and no major wars I can think of apart from the Vietnam war. Yeah. So yeah, 20th century Vnumber it was a disaster for them but I don't have a pattern that's re recurring. So we'll see about Iran. Godliness says US may leave but Israel will keep on going. Then what? Then the war goes on. But if the Americans end the war from their perspective, Israel keeps fighting, then the Americans will have to keep resupplying Israel and then it may keep on going for a while until it says, "Okay, now I need to do the Samsung thing." Um, but even that will not defeat Iran. So yeah, Gigad says, Giga Dad says playing the devil's advocate. Why not sacrifice sovereignty to the west in exchange for prosperity? In exchange for prosperity like South Korea, Japan, they are surrounded by enemies by enemies like us, US. See, yeah, it's it's a very tempting thing, right? sacrifice sovereignty. Our leaders are third rate leaders. They are worthless leaders. Let us become American puppets. The Americans will decide who rules India, which leader seems to be in power and then we get prosperity. But you see Pakistan has sacrificed it sovereignty for decades. Did they become prosperous like South South Korea or Japan? No. Pakistan is a lowquality population with a disastrously pathetic education system. So the Pakistanis despite being sovereign are a basket case. They are a failed state. But let's say India becomes prosperous like South Korea or Japan. But look at the condition of South Korea and Japan. In South Korea, the native culture has been destroyed by the Americans. Most Kore South Koreans are either atheists or Christians. Very little Buddhism left. Secondly, the South Koreans are being worked to death. They are not having babies anymore. What is South Korea's TFR? Let's see. South Korea TFR graph. Look at this. This is what the Americans have done to Korea. South Korea. 1965 the TFR starts dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping, dropping. In 1990 onwards it it rises a little bit and then starts dropping again. It's an absolute disaster. Let's see Japan TFR graph Japan total fertility rate. Look at what's been done to Japan as well. Uh do we have Statista? So here also it's a disaster. It's 1.3 right now. So this is what ends up happening to you if you are a vasal and Japan's economy was doing so good and then the Americans destroyed it. So they will use you as long see not they I'm not talking about the Americans I'm talking about anybody any overlord will use you as long as you're useful and then they will destroy you. That's what happens long term is a vasal shortterm for a decade or two for even five decades you may have prosperity but at some point in time they will sacrifice you. So, not a good idea. Droop says, "21-year-old no degree run AI agency. US clients made $6,000 tips." Uh, first of all, congratulations. You have an AI agency. No degree doesn't matter. Who cares? As long as you have the, you know, the fire in you and the desire to do well. So, you are running an AI agency. You have American clients. You made $6,000. What's my tips? My tips, well, I'll say you clearly have done well. You have achieved a certain amount of success. My tip is that whatever gave you the success that you earned $6,000, I don't know what period of time you earned it in, but you clearly made money. Whatever worked for you, you need to systematize that, create systems out of that so that you can keep that running. and keep earning in that manner and then you have to build upon that and improve upon that. So you you need to document for yourself what is it that worked for you? Which business which business processes have you created or what's the workflow you've created that has worked for you? You need to turn that into a repeatable process. Okay? And if you're running an AI agency, obviously you should incorporate AI into all of this and maybe have AI run the processes as much as possible, get more clients and and make more money. So, good job. Great. I'm I'm glad to hear that you've succeeded in earning a certain amount of money and keep earning more, right? Um and have a target for yourself by the end of let's say this year. How much do you want to be earning per month? then and then you need to uh reverse engineer the how you going to achieve that much. So that's what I would say create systems, create processes, automate as much as possible. Whatever has worked, improve upon that. Whatever lessons you've learned from whatever did not work well, make sure that you you incorporate incorporate that wisdom into your processes and go for it. All the best. S Morgan says, "Iran allows our ships. Maybe it's linked to the guests at our ports. The US seemed very interested in them. Maybe some important someone important on them." Um, guests at our ports. So we have what guests are you talking about? At our ports, multiple ports. We have one Iranian warship which is docked at Kochi and there's more than 100 sailors maybe close to 200 sailors who are who were housed by India in Indian naval headquarters. That's in one port. I don't know about multiple ports. So we have Iranian guests at in one location and they are not our hostages. we're not going to mistreat them in any way whatsoever. So it's not like we are saying to Iran that you know we have your guys and that's why you you need to behave. It's not like that. Um do we have any other guests at our ports? I'm not aware about that. I'm not aware of that. The US seemed very interested in them. I'm I don't know what what you are referring to actually. Um so yeah, why is Iran allowing Indian ships? Because Iran wants to have maintain good relations with India. Iran thinks it's going to win this war. It's going to survive and long-term it wants to continue to have to have a good positive mutually beneficial relationship with India. Iran knows that India has not taken any actions that that harm Iranian interests and that's why Iran is allowing our ships. That's how I see it. Pratip Kumar Royce says US, Russia, China, India, Israel, Iran, Korea, Saudi, Pakistan, UK, Brazil, Australia. Compare all the above with DC Marvel superheroes, heroes or villains. I don't watch DC Marvel stuff. The last movie I watched was Multiverse of Misery. It was so boring. I was asleep for half the movie. I don't watch this stuff. I don't know which villains to compare them with. I'm so sorry. I don't know. Thanos. Thanos. I know one villain called Thanos. I know Thor. Who is Thor in this? I don't know who's Thanos in this. Perhaps the US is Thanos. Others, I have no idea. I have no idea. Let's see. Godliness says, "Hypothetically, can this war frustrate the whole world enough for the best eagle to repeat 1945 Japan and justify it?" a quick solution for peace, liberty, and justice. I think Trump is close to being frustrated enough for him to consider that option, the nuclear option. The problem is even if he uses nukes, it won't defeat Iran. And there won't be peace, liberty, justice, or any of the BS that they pedal. Yeah, I don't see that happening. I don't see that succeeding. Even if they use nukes, Iran will keep fighting. See, Iran is a mountainous territory. Even a nuclear explosion in one place will the blast will be contained. And if there is nuclear fallout, which which there will be, it will go across not just Iran but the other other countries including Israel because wind takes nuclear you know radiation everywhere. Chernobyl taught us that. Um, so even if they use nukes, it won't work. Iran will keep fighting and they won't be defeated. Black Panther says, "What if Japan turned the table against US?" Now, if that is the case, why doesn't India turn the tables against Pakistan and China now? It doesn't work like that. How will Japan turn the tables? How, not what if, how will they do it? They are under permanent occupation. They've got tens of thousands of American soldiers on the territory. How will they turn the tables? Not possible. Aurora says, "What is the way for Iran to win? Can they succeed?" The way for Iran to win is to survive. The way for Iran to win is to not be defeated. The way for Iran to win is to frustrate the Americans so badly that they consider sending ground troops which will be suicidal. The way for Iran to win is to simply outlast the enemy. The Americans are running short of arms, ammunition, munitions, missiles, interceptors. They're running short of everything. Just keep the war going longer and longer. Weaponize time. That is the way for Iran to win. And that's what they're doing. And keep the straight of Hormos closed and allow certain selected nations to to for their ships to transit the Straight of Hormos. Everybody else is blocked. Iran is doing exactly what it takes to win. Can they succeed? They are succeeding. Ammon Tari says, "Do you think India should create its own proxies like Iran to tackle threats emanate emerging from its enemy states?" Sure. Sure. Absolutely. India should do it. The games that others play, India should also play those games. Jay Thiari says, "If the US struggles to protect its bases abroad, should India assert stronger strategic autonomy and push back against US pressure?" Yes. Yes. Yes, we should. The US is on its way to losing its military presence in West Asia and thereby its ability to project power in the region. If that happens, India should assert itself more strongly because that gives India more leverage. Now the US seeks to contain India but they are being contained out of West Asia. That obviously is is going to be beneficial for India because the US is behaving like behaving like a hostile nation right now the past few years. So yes, India should assert stronger strategic autonomy and push back against US pressure. Yes. Bman Gopinat says is Iran dragging the war and finish enemy by targeting BB? The Iran is Iran wants this war to continue. They want to completely fully totally annihilate and end the American military presence in the region. Um that's what they want to do and that's why even if they are offered a ceasefire right now they will not agree. They will not accept the ceasefire targeting BB. We don't know about that. They are targeting Israel for sure. They're doing a pretty successful job of that right now. It looks like uh the status of BB Netanyahu we don't know right now. We'll have to see. Aman Kumar Dhankar says no US bases in West Asia may leave dent on petro dollar. It's going to be very bad for the petro dollar. If the Americans lose their ability to project power in the region the petro dollar is over. It's over. Geo warrior says if the deep state exists did it make a mistake in letting the US enter the war or do they have an ulterior motive here? What do you think? So the question is what is the deep state? The deep state it's the unelected establishment that rules the US. That's the deep state. But maybe there's a small number of people who control that. Who are those people? Now it looks like it doesn't look like it's very clear the Israel dragged the US into this war, right? And Trump was given apparently bad advice that they will war win the war in two days or whatever. So if Israel dragged the US into the war, it means that the Israelis have that much control over the US. So maybe the deep state is Israeli perhaps. Perhaps. So did it make a mistake in letting the US enter the war? No. They wanted the US to get involved in the war. That is the motive. So the ulterior motive seems to be to serve Israeli interests. That could be the ultimate motive. I think it's pretty open now. Black Panther says, "Will India will India will India to arm Afghanistan destroy Pakistan and military infrastructure?" India is not arming Afghanistan. The Pakistanis are claiming that India is involved in the war between Pakistan and Afghanistan. But India is not arming Afghanistan. India is investing in Afghanistan. We've done we've been doing it for decades and our investments are purely non-military in nature. We have invested how how have we invested by by building dams by building libraries by building the parliament house by investing in in in agricultural projects and so on. That's how India has invested. We have not weaponized Afghanistan any any way whatsoever. Abai Singh says US deploying 2500 marines to Iran just optics. Let's find out. Is it true? US Marines Iran. Let's see. US sending 2500 2500 Marines to Middle East. To the Middle East. More US Marines and warships being moved to Middle East. It's being deployed to the Middle East, not to Iran. Okay. It's not being these Marines are not being deployed to Iran. They are being being deployed to the Middle East. Is it just optics? I don't think it's optics. Maybe they plan to use those Marines for something. Is it optics? I think it's desperation. Alarm bells have are going off right now in the US that we are losing this war. It is going very badly for us. The war is going very badly for the US despite what Trump is claiming on Twitter and on Truth Social or whatever social. Yeah. So alarm bells are going off and that's why they they're deploying Marines and whatnot to to West Asia. My movies says best leader in the history of the of India and the world. The two great leaders I can think of are Sri Ram and Shri Krishna. Aman Kumar Dankar Dhankar says apart from economy and oil what binds China retaliate hard apart from economy and oil what binds China what's the question what binds China retaliate hard I am not sure what you're asking let me think so China apart from economy and oil what? No, I I don't I don't I don't get the question. Sorry. Uh Pratam Si says, "How to do pranayam? You said you will teach us." I can't teach you on a live stream. Maybe I'll have to make a video for that. Pranayam is very simple, right? There are millions of videos out there about pranayam. How to do pranayam. When it comes to the special pranayam, walking pranayam, well, that is special. I don't think there's any video about that. Maybe I'll make something. I can't teach you right now about that. Yeah. But yeah, Abai Singh says a few army and defense experts from India have claimed that the B-52 bombing Iranian nuclear sites was a rehearsed hoax. The US and Iran were both were in on it. I don't know. Let them claim whatever. I have no idea. How do they know? How do they know? Is that a just a theory or have has somebody told them this? If someone told them were the Americans, were the Iranians, were they both? Do they have such deep contacts everywhere? These fantastic experts I have no idea. So I'll not comment about that. Sarram says is a strong adharmic India greater than a weak dharmic India for me a yes. So you saying a strong adharmic India and a weak dharmic India which is better. I will say a strong dharmic India is better. A strong dharmic India is what we need. Vssvs says, "Please ask sir to check Trump's latest truth social about nations sending warships to the street of hormones." Oh, really? Let us see. Okay, let us let us try and do a Google. Yes, Google search. Give me a second. Okay, let us see Trump Truth Social. So, this is his truth social thing. What did he say? I don't want to see a goddamned ads, Donald Trump. Okay. The kind of ads you have on this ish. Um, let's see. Many countries, especially those who are affected by Iran's attempted closure of the Horbu Strait, will be sending warships in conjunction with the US of America to keep the straight open and safe. we have already destroyed a 100% of Iran's military capability where it's easy for them to send a drone or two, drop a mine or deliver a close-range missile somewhere along blah blah blah blah blah no matter how badly defeated they are. How much can you lie my friend Donald Trump? Hopefully China, France, Japan, South Korea, the UK and others that are affected by this artificial constraint will send ships to the area so that the Hormone Strait will no longer be a threat by a nation that has been totally decapitated in the meanwhile. In the meantime, the US will be bombing the hell out of the shoreline and continually shooting Iranian boats and ships out of the water. One way or the other, we will soon get this hormone straight open, safe, and free. Okay, so that's the thing. It's just words. And what else? Um, okay. some more some more complaints about the what he calls the fake news media. Um, okay. So, interesting uh pronouncements by Trump on Truth Social. He says that Iran has been defeated. Iran has been totally decapitated. We're shooting at their boats. But because they have a few couple of drones and a couple of mines, that's why the state of Hormos is closed. That's why he wants all the nations to send their warships to open the state of Hormuz. So that this defeated country can can't keep it open, can't keep it closed. His messaging is so incredibly contradictory. If Iran is so badly defeated like you claim, why do you need more countries to send warships there? Open the street of Hormuz if you're so powerful and Iran is so defeated. On the one hand, he's claiming Trump that Iran is completely defeated and decapitated. On the other hand, he's asking other nations to send warships to open the state of Hormos, which which obviously means that he alone that the US alone can't keep it can't open the state of Hormos. So, he's making two very contradictory claims at the same time. One is a claim and one is an admission. The claim is that he has defeated Iran. Iran has lost. Iran is destroyed. Iran is decapitated. That's the claim he's making. But he's also admitting that the US military alone can't keep the state of Horus open or can't can't open it. And he needs the support of other nations. My god, there is panic. Trump, I don't know if it's panic. It's it's super frustration. And if he's asking for the help of other nations, it's close to panic, I would say. Well, well, well. Yeah. Okay. Sukoku says you say arad are Indian but they kill people something same thing white did to native you don't consider them American inspired they made America superpower. What is your question sir? You have a question here. You say arian or Indian but they kill people. Which Arians kill people? You seem to have this idea in your mind that white people are arians, right? Is that I don't know what you're asking and what you I have no idea what you're saying. Sorry. Next with Rakshit. If India backs the US, won't we get bit rate again? Of course we will. Of course. Uh Roim Querty Roim Querty says, "I generally watch your videos on Spotify at 1.5x and your normal pace feels a bit slow, but thanks for so much. Thanks so much for all the knowledge you provide." You're very welcome and please watch at whatever speed is best for you. A lot of people say that I speak at 1.5x speed anyway, but maybe you are a super fast you have a super fast brain perhaps. Right, please watch it at whatever speed is best for you and thank you so much for being a viewer. Vssvs says, "Sir Amisha G asks for about your domain expansion into history sessions again. From next weekend onwards, we will do one session on history and one session on at least one session on on Iran." Yes. So yeah, I think we can't just keep having these sessions only about Iran. From next weekend onwards we will have one history session. Okay. And the others can be about about geopolitics. So yes I your point is noted Amisha G and that will resume now. Thank you. Top seven YT says I'm planning to go to Dubai to search for a job. Is now the best time to go given the circumstances? No. I would recommend to drop your plans for Dubai at this point in time. Hopefully the war gets over soon which is unlikely but if it does then maybe you can reconsider that but right now Dubai is not the place to go and right now the job market in Dubai is going to be super depressed there will be very few jobs right now so not a good idea not a good idea right now vishnak says namaskar two questions I I don't really speak German I understand a few words here and there I can understand that you're asking me do I speak German but I don't speak German. I speak I understand bits and pieces of various languages. I understand some German. I don't really speak German, but if I read German, I can understand some of it. Like maybe 15 20% of German, I can understand. The same applies to many other languages. Um if I read if I if there's a page in Spanish, I may understand 15 20% of it or Italian. Um yeah. Okay. Now do we lack tinkering culture in India and are we geopolitically too altruistic? Do we lack tinkering culture in India? We lack a problem-solving culture in India. We lack in India, our education system is all theoretical, right? If you want to get a degree in engineering, you have to answer long essay questions and all the nonsense. If you want to get a degree in AI, you have to write what are the uses of AI and long answers. But you if you want to really get skilled at these things you have to tinker and we lack the tinkering culture. You go to IIT and all do you have tinkering happening there? No. A little bit maybe but not as much as you need. So yeah we lack the tinkering culture in India. The education system is there's you know put all the wrong ideas in people's heads. Are we geopolitically too altruistic? Yes we are. We need to stop being so altruistic. It looks like we are very concerned about our image. We want to have this image that we help everybody in need. Why? Why? It's okay to help those who need who are friendly to you, but don't help the enemy, right? Don't help the enemy. So, I think we are we are geopolitically a little too altruistic. We are very concerned about our image to hell with our image. be a little more hard-nosed is what I would say. Okay. Shibam Chhataraj says, "Cood PS4 game has Odin Space Rod concept in 2013." What's Cood PS4 game? I am not aware of PS4 game. So, let me Google that. What is the Cood P4 PS4 game? Let us see what that is. Ros from from God Concept. Okay, that's interesting. Cood PS4. What is Cood? Call of Duty. Call of Duty. Okay. It has that concept in 2013. Okay. Very interesting. Thank you for letting us know. Anabil Sarkcar says, "Do you think India should get a huge reserve of ballistic missiles and chemical drones?" Yes, absolutely. I think India should have a big stockpile of maybe 200 300,000 drones and at least minimum 10 20,000 ballistic missiles and maybe a few maybe 10 20,000 more cruise missiles of various kinds. A country of India's size it needs that sort of stockpile so that nobody dares to even imagine or dream fighting India. If we have 5,000 drones and 200 missiles, what's going to be that's going to run out very soon, right? We need to have essentially a stockpile that seems inexhaustible. We need that. VSVS says, "My female friend has a crush on you. She wanted a shout out on her name is Ria Gupta." Uh, it is not a good idea to have a crush on me because I am not available. But hello, Ria Gupta. All right. Find a good guy and that's all. All right. Okay. As says, "Could the Gulf War cause the AI bubble to pop?" No. No. AI is here to stay. AI is here to stay. Okay. AI prod magnet says Iran threatening to attack US companies in the Gulf. Also, how is India managing bricks? Iran, especially Iran after Modi visiting Israel. Right now bricks doesn't seem to be at the forefront of our mind geopolitically. But as the Iran war goes on and the US is doing poorly and Iran is doing well, bricks becomes more important. We'll see about that about bricks. Anyway, this year India is the president of bricks, right? This year it's a rotating presidency. Uh so yeah, I think India has learned a few lessons this the last two weeks. I mean the leadership of India seems to have learned a few lessons and a lot of recalibration has happened in the past two weeks. U Iran is threatening to attack US companies in the Gulf. Yeah. As this situation escalates, they will attack everything. They will attack all US assets in the region. They will do it. Why not? They have the capacity to do that. So they'll do it. They'll do it if required. Gotham says, "Are Israeli troops better trained for ground invasions than US troops?" I have no idea. There'll be several YouTubers who have all the internal insights, all the all the insights about these things. They will have sources who have told them everything. I have no sources in Israel. I don't know how well trained Israeli troops are. There is this mystique about Israel and this great aura that Israel has that Israel's troops are the best, Israel's Moses is the best and so on. Well, clearly it may not be the case, right? If the Israelis started this war and dragged the Americans into it thinking that this war would get over in a few days, clearly their intelligence isn't good enough. So, so I don't know if Israeli troops are better trained than than US troops for ground invasions. I don't know. VSBS says Pawan Gawker says do you think if India were to develop all the new technologies if there were enough invasion of India would it be more humanentric like technologies would not be used against humans >> India loves talking about human centric AI humanentric this altruistic AI all that nonsense understand technologies are tools and if if and tools will be used for the worst things and you have to be prepared for it. Now if India were to develop all the new technologies if there were enough invasion of India I don't want any invasion of India I want India to develop technologies without any invasion of India right and if India were to develop technologies will they be more humanentric is India's government humanentric is India's bureaucracy humanentric are India's institutions humanentric the answer is not a very big yes right answer is kind of not very So do you think the technologies we will develop will be also humanentric? I don't think so. No. IPK1s says about time we get AC and A IM podcast has been too long. Well, thank you for the recommendation. Okay. Fast snail says fun thing we have seen cluster arrows in the Mahabarat war. Looks like our ancestors thought of a lot of things. way before the time for those came before those things came. Maybe they were used in the Mabar war was possible. Yeah. But look today we have cluster warheads in ballistic missiles. Who would have imagined? Prasab Sunni says how do you see the US as a superpower now and before the war? They still are a superpower. They still are the most powerful military in the world. But after this war ends their hard power score is going to decrease. Their hard power score is already decreased right now. It was 94 the way I had calculated it may be less than 90 now. So the power is declining visibly visibly. VSB says do you did you cut off ties with Aijit Ayar Mitra? Why would I cut off ties with him? Why? No of course not. I am on excellent terms with him. We meet on and off here and there wherever. Always by accident. I Why would I cut off ties with him? Why? What kind of speculation is that? Of course not. Of course not. Shah Shahar Shar says today JD Vance told he was against the Iran. He said he was against the Iran war. Trump Sir A North Korea and Japan see ballistic missiles Mari or China is ready to take Taiwan. Is this the end of the US harmony? Um okay I'm not aware of what JD Vance said. Did he say that? Let's let's find out. JD Vance Iran Vance was a skeptical voice in the White House on Iran strikes. Vance's distance from the Iran war is getting more conspicuous. Um I don't want no prison. Vice President JD Vance questioned Iran strike before Trump ordered military action. Is JD Vance rooting for the Iran wall to war to fail? Well, well, well. JD Vance is trying to throw Trump under the bus now. It looks like this is politics. It's it's cutthroat. So JD Vance is now saying he was against this war. He was skeptical. I was I did not I was not in favor of that. So he is trying to push the blame on Trump and Trump is trying to push the blame blame on on Marco Rubio and and his son-in-law Jared Kushner. Everyone's trying to point fingers at somebody right now. Interesting. Very interesting. North Korea looks like they did some ballistic missile tests over that region. And China is is waiting and watching. Okay. The longer this war goes on, the better it is for China because the US weapons stockpiles continue to go down with every passing day of the war. So is this the end of the US hedgemony? Not quite yet. But yeah, the decline is visible now. The decline has begun. Yeah, the longer this war goes on, the the weaker the US dollar will become. A lot of problems. Lot of problems. This is the beginning of the actual visible decline of the US empire. Yes. Abira Sharkkar says, "Why isn't the US using Ukraine's drone interceptors?" Maybe Ukraine drone interceptors. Ukraine doesn't have drone interceptors. It has developed ways and means of of maybe intercepting or targeting drones, but I'm not sure if if that can that can be transposed immediately to the West Asia war theater. It's not like it's some technologies that Ukraine has developed. When it comes to countering drones, they use various uh methods like putting nets and things like that. Right. So let's say we know that drones have in the initial phases of the Ukraine war targeted tr tanks and all that. So then what the solution was was to put up big nets on on poles on top of of of tanks and put up uh wires and grids and things so that the drone would detonate a few feet above the tank and that will take away most of the damage that sort of thing. So Ukraine doesn't have drone interceptors. It has all these ways and means of doing things of of of off offsetting the damage that drones can make and yeah so it's not that easy otherwise the US will do it right manor good to see you we have somehow done the impossible DRDO has managed to create indigenous crystal metallergy that can be used in fifth generation jet engines baby step for our programs at least for now hopefully thoughts well Uh, it's great. It's fantastic. Let's see. DRDO crystal methy. Okay, so DRDO has developed indigenous single crystal nickelbased super alloy blade technology for aero engines. That is outstanding. I mean, what else is left? What else is left? This is outstanding news. This is outstanding news. And we also the covery engines after burner has also worked fine. I think we are almost there. instead of purchasing. I mean we should still go ahead with the relation with the partnership with Safh to develop an indigenous Indo-French jet engine but we should certainly integrate the um single crystal technology into the cavary engine and the after murder thing that's already happened and maybe maybe induct test the cover engine properly and see how long it lasts and all between overholes. and start inducting that also into into fighter planes. So I think it's it's outstanding. It's outstanding despite all the problems that that you have in DO and all they're still able to do this. So it tells you the potential that we have in India and I think we should take this forward definitely. So I think it's it's very promising. I'm very glad to hear this. It's it's a ray of sunshine. It's a ray of hope among all the doom and gloom in the world right now. So it's great news overall and thank you for bringing this to my notice. Arismanticor good to see you. As says if India finds huge oil reserves in the way of Bengal would the US come for freedom and democracy? If they do what would happen? The US will try and create problems for India if oil reserves are discovered. So what India needs to do is India needs to massively strengthen its navy because there will be big oil reserves sitting there that that area is known that region is known to be rich in oil and gas. So what India needs to do is to militarize the area to militarize the undemand islands and to massively augment its navy. We should we need to have 50 more naval ships. We need to have 50 submarines at least and we need to have tremendous numbers of missiles, cruise missiles, anti-ru anti-hship missiles, drones and everything else. If you have very very valuable resources, you need to have the means to defend those resources. That's what India needs to do. Then it'll be fine. Then the Americans will have to stay out. Otherwise, soon you will have freedom and democracy coming for you. There is manticor's project project sundial was the estimated response from US to Russia regarding tar bomba but it was so horrifying that the US military stopped building it 10,000 megat tons they may build it again mad or mutually assured destruction doctrine let's see project sundial what is that project sundial okay let's see what Wikipedia has to say about It was the sundial was the code name of one of two massive nuclear bombs planned for testing by University of California radif laboratory liver more branch as part of the classified Americans weapons project in the early 1950s. It was intended to have a yield of 10 gigatons of TNT and its counterpart nom was intended to have a yield of 1 gaton. If built and detonated, Sundial would have created a fireball of up to 50 kilometers in diameter, instantly igniting everything within 400 km and causing a magnitude 9 earthquake. That's madness. Absolute madness. It was thought the explosion would lead to an apocalyptic nuclear winter and so on and so forth. Background blah blah blah. Uh, okay. Isidor Isaac Rabby, the physicist, he dismissed the idea as an advertising stunt. If detonated at an altitude of 28 miles, it would ignite fires across an area the size of metropolitan France and so on and so forth. Okay. Well, well, well, well, well. One gigaton, that's uh that's a,000 megatons. And if you have uh 10 gatons, that's 10,000 megatons. You're absolutely right. 10,000 megatons. That's 10 10 gigatons. Well, that's that's madness. That's that is absolute madness. Clearly absolute madness. That that is a disastrous weapon if you build it. I'm sure you can make it if you have a sufficient highly enriched uranium uranium or plutonium but it's madness. Um they may build it again but that will destroy half the world. magnitude 9 earthquake that's like uh the Andaman earthquake that you had in 200 whatever four I think or the Fukushima earthquake senda earthquake that's that's disastrous and it will most likely cause a nuclear winter for the whole world right why why do that I think it won't be done but uh crazy they even thought about that Mantor says keep going we will protect our sovereignty yes indeed we will protect our sovereignty no matter what happens thank Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the message of support. Thank you. Briushi says, "Why Iran always supports Pakistan on Kashmir issue? Has Iran ever given money to Pakistan? Has Iran ever given arms, ammunition or training to Pakistan? Has Iran ever helped Pakistan's terrorist activities? Has Iran ever helped Pakistan in any material way?" No. No. No. No. All the answers to all these questions are no. Iran has verbally expressed support for something or the other. Who cares? Narendra Modi verbally expressed support for the Israelis and the Americans. Okay. Done. Doesn't matter. Iran has never supported Pakistan in any way whatsoever materially. That's all that matters. Fast snails as Israel going after Lebanon. Good idea at this time. Well, if they can manage it, go after it. But let's see. If they think they can finally defeat Hisbah, go for it. Try it out. I don't know. I think Hezbollah also may have a few surprises up their sleeves perhaps. Uh so I don't know. I don't know what the situation on the ground is. How well equipped is Hisbah? Do they have tens of thousands of rockets? Possibly. If that's the case, it will be a disaster for Israel. Uh so I don't know. I don't know what Hisbah's capabilities are, what their secret capabilities are, what they have kept in reserve. Right? So since I don't know, I can't say. But Israel seems to be of the opinion that it's time to go after Hezbollah as well while they are fighting Iran. So if so maybe they have calculated that it's uh advantageous for them to do it. So let's see how it goes. Rohan Bei says, "Russia did not low Russia did not run low on ammunition in spite of Ukraine war dragging for years. US running low on ammunition in that enabling Chinese takeover of Taiwan. Taiwan seems unrealistic." Russia did not run low on ammunition despite the Ukraine war dragging for years. Why is that? Because the Russians have ramped up they've ramped up their military-industrial complex. They have these massive factories that are turnurning out arms, ammunition, missiles, drones, whatever. And Russia has inexhaustible resources, raw raw materials to to build all these finished products. Okay. So, Russia has ramped up its its factories and its military-industrial complex. That's why the Russians are not going to run out of anything. The American model has been to outsource everything to outsource all the factory work to other countries and their factories are not capable of churning out ammunition and munitions and weapon systems and missiles in large numbers. So if this war drags on, the Americans may be forced to ramp up their factories and stuff, but in America everything costs a lot of money. In Russia, you can manufacture a lot of things for cheap for less money. In the US, everything costs a lot of money. And if the US dollar starts declining, then it's going to become even more expensive. If the Iranians succeed in what they're doing, if they keep the straight of hormones closed, if they force the Gulf nations to stop trading for trading oil for US dollars, it's going to be a big big big problem for the US. It's going to start compounding. Then the US dollar becomes less valuable and then it's even more expensive to produce arms, ammunition, weapons, missiles and so on. So this becomes a self perpetuating cycle. So now uh what what seems unrealistic? What seems unrealistic? US running low on ammo. No, it seems realistic. It seems realistic. And the longer this lasts, the the the the the more likely it becomes eventually for the Chinese to perhaps consider Taiwan. We'll see. Amisha, good evening, ma'am. Good to see you. Good to see you. Uh thanks, sir. You're the best. Thank you so much, ma'am. I hope the history sessions re resume soon, eagerly waiting. You're the only one telling us truth. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. I uh next weekend onwards, we will have history sessions once again. I will anyway continue these geopolitics sessions, the Iran war sessions because the war is going on. It doesn't seem to show any signs of ending soon. But I will resume the history sessions from next weekend onwards. All right. Good to see you, ma'am. Thank you. Mohit Raj Singh says good morning from good morning from NFCA sir YouTube is not allowing asking question about this war you are in Canada NF in Canada what is NF in Canada oh New Finland really you're in New Finland Nice. Nice. New Funland. It's not New Foundland Land. It's New Funland. You'll know that only if you if you if you are in New Finland or if you are in Canada. For most other people, it's New Foundland Land. And so it's New Funland. Hola. I'm glad to have you from New Funland and good morning to you and I'm sorry that YouTube is not allowing you to ask a question about this war. That's how it goes sometimes. Anyway, thank you so much and I'm I'm glad to see you. The Mandian says, "Any thoughts on Gandhiva AI and Nat grid rep that which triggered SIR?" Uh, home minister has vowed deportation. What are the odds and timing significance of Indian military base near Siliguri? I am not aware of what the Gandhiva either. I'm not aware of this. I I I keep my eyes on internal relations, geopolitics. I don't look into what's happening in India. I'm usually aware of the contours of what's happening, but I'm not aware of the Gandiva AI. Let's see what it is. Um, Gandiva AI. What is that? Cutting edge AIdriven analytics tool integrated into India's national intelligence grid. NAT grid. Okay. To strengthen national security, it links over 20 critical databases including financial, telecom and travel data to provide real-time 360deree profiling of suspects enabling faster identification and pattern recognition. Gandiva excels at facial recognition, entity resolution, connecting disparate data points. um linking bank statements with travel records in LinkedIn whatever um PAN cards other GST immigration telecom records to monitor suspicious transactions and movements um etc etc etc well I'm glad that we have this sort of thing I hope it's an Indian AI I hope it's not based on some foreign AI system I hope it's entirely indigenous and sovereign sovereign AI and yeah looks like it's a great tool to have for the government of India India which will be great for India's national security. It'll be great for identifying the foreign infiltrators who are squatting in India and then it becomes a polit policy decision that now that we know who these foreigners are shall we deport them or not. So the home minister has vowed deportation. Well I'm glad that he's vowed deportation. I now deport them. I'm glad to hear this a wow. Now let's see the action. Yeah, I would I'll be the happiest person if these illegals are deported at the earliest. Yeah. So, I hope it happens. Significance of Indian military base near Siliguri should have it. Obviously, it's significant from the perspective of safeguarding India's sovereignty and the security of the region because Siliguri is this narrow uh patch of land that connects India. the the the two big chunks of India, one is the far east of India, the other is what what is called the so-called mainland of India. And Siliguri connects the two. So it's important that we have you know a strong military presence in the region. That's the significance. Curiosity says was the India Middle East Europe corridor a joke? Well, it was a good idea. It was a serious idea. But the moment it was announced, you had the October something attack on Israel by the by Hamas, the horrible terrorist attack by Hamas on Israel which led to the Gaza war. And when Gaza started simmering down now we have the the war this larger war in the region and as long as the region is destabilized you can't you can't have the IMC because the India Middle East Europe trade corridor was supposed to start from Mumbai and western India then go into the Arabian Peninsula via ports in Oman etc. And then you'll have rail lines going through the Arabian desert, Saudi Arabian desert. Then it will go into Israel through Hifi from Hifi into uh Cyprus and then Greece. But when the whole West Asia region is destabilized, there's warfare happening there. You can't have any infrastructure building over there. You can't have any trade corridor. So now, right now, it's it's kind of non-starter. And yeah, there's problem after problem that's that's plaguing this this project. So that is the status right now. It's kind of kind of become a sad joke. Hopefully if things are better we will make this happen. VSPS says Aush Singh says the Iranian ship which was sunk by an American submarine was offered shelter in India but they chose to be Vasco the Gama. Why? I have no idea. Was it offered shelter in India? It was in India, right? It it it was in I think Vishakaam or something for a multinational naval exercise and then they left and they were sunk south of Sri Lanka by the American submarine. So did India offer it shelter but they refused it? I'm not sure. And if they did if if if it's in the case that India offered shelter but they chose to leave then I have no idea why they would have made that choice. I have no idea but I'm glad that the other two Iranian ships are safe. One is in Trinum Mali, the other one is in Koshi, I believe. So I'm I'm glad those two are safe. Goullibar says five of the Nav'i satellites are completely defunct with all three atomic clocks in each satellite not working. Terrible GPS will be denied in wartime happened in happened in 1999. Cargill absolutely it's a disaster and this is I would say there's no excuse that the that the government of India can give to to make this palatable. This is a horrible failure by the government of India. It's not like these satellites failed suddenly. The it was known that these clocks were failing. The atomic clocks are extremely precise clocks. Okay. And they are needed. Why are they needed? Shall I give you a physics lesson here? But general relativity. Anyway, I'll not give you a physics lesson here some other time to explain why these atomic clocks are so important. But without these atomic clocks and without without factoring in the effects of special and general relativity, you will not have accurate positioning that given by these satellites. So these atomic clocks were failing. This was well known. They're failing one by one. So why did the government of India not plan to put out put up more satellites in time? Now today we are left without satellite navigation, indigenous satellite navigation. If there's a war tomorrow with Pakistan, the Americans will will deny GPS to Indian to the Indian military and we won't have Navik now. This is a horrible failure by the government of India. Unacceptable. I just don't know. I I have no words to to express my my indignation and my outrage. This this is not how you safeguard the Indian national interest. This is harming the Indian national interest. This laxity by the government of India. Horrible. E Republic of India says US commander says the war could trigger Armageddon while Netanyahu says the Messiah may come soon. Do you think this conflict is becoming more of a religious war than a political one? It looks like there are religious uh reasons for this. So Trump was praying to to his God. There's a bunch of Christian pastors putting or or Christian church people um Christian Godmen and women putting their hands on his shoulders and holding each other and all that. That was weird. And uh American commanders at various levels of the military have been saying that this is all about Armageddon or whatever. I don't know. end of the world. That's what Armageddon means. Why do you want that? And Natanya is saying some messiah will come soon. Which which messiah? Do the Jews have a messiah? I'm not aware. I don't understand these religions. So I'm no expert in this. But clearly looks like there are religious reasons possibly which may underly everything that's happening here. Maybe it's a crusade or maybe it's something else. I don't know. Looks like there are other reasons beyond political, geopolitical, strategic and military objectives. Maybe there are some religious objectives these people have. I don't know what these are. So yeah, we for balor says how is our sovereignty status? Right now I am giving India full sovereign rating. We'll see after the war. Right now I'll I'll I'll still give India full sovereign rating. Obviously technologically we are not a sovereign nation with that's very clear. But the other aspects I will examine in detail after the war is over. right now I will give it I will I will list India as one of the six sovereign nations right now Shivan Kapoor says I think Iran stay long good for us what do you say sir yeah yeah yeah I would like Iran to remain sovereign that will be good for us Iran becoming a US fac will be bad for India I want Iran to remain sovereign and Iran is doing a great job of defending its territorial integrity and its geopolitical sovereignty. So that is good for us. I agree with you. Anonymous says city of London versus Washington key beef sir. I don't know about that. A city of London is some kind of theory that some people have. I have not studied that so I can't say can't say I don't know. Sorry. Adity Chandra says please enlighten us on the great Israel project and tax Judika and its relevance in the war. And if Netanyahu is no more, how will it impact these Jewish dreams? So PAX Juda and Greater Israel project is are these theories that some people have put out that Israel seeks to be an expansionist nation and to seek and and to gain territorial control over the over a large portion of West Asia. I think that's what the Greater Israel Project seems to be. I don't I don't think Israel has ever officially stated that it has this these ambitions but of course there are some things you don't state right officially but it's it's speculation okay there is no off it's not an official thing so maybe it's there maybe it's not there maybe the the Israelis maybe they harbor such hopes but I am not aware of that judika I think it's the title of some video by professor Jang or something, right? I've not seen it. So, I don't know. I don't know what that could be. I don't know what that could be. Does it mean that the Jews will rule the world? Is that what what it's it's supposed to be? I don't know. And what's the relevance of all this in the war? Once again, if these things are true or not, if if it's not clear, then I don't know what the relevance of that in the war is. So u these are speculative theories that may be true but may also not be true and I generally don't speak about speculation. I don't speculate about things so I'll stay out of it. If Netanyahu is no more, how will it impact this Jewish dreams? Well, if hypothetically Netanyahu is no more, Israel will elect a new leader or appoint a new leader, the right person based on merit and then the war continues. That's how it will go. And obviously it will be it will be a setback to Israel because he is their longest serving prime minister as far as I know. Is he Israel's longest serving prime minister? Let's find out. Israel longest serving prime minister. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Correct. So he's their most experienced leader etc. And it'll be a setback for Israel but I'm sure that they'll continue no matter what happens. Aurora says, "Here in the US, they had a Congress meeting to send 5,000 Marines as six Americans and an oil tanker were taken down by Iran. But Iran let an Indian oil tanker go safely. Is Iran being friendly with India?" Iran knows that India is under a lot of pressure from the US. Iran knows that India faces significant constraints. But Iran also knows that India has taken no steps that will hurt Iran or harm Iran's interests. Yes, India India's prime minister did not offer condolences on the assassination of Mr. Kame. Yes, India's prime minister tweeted uh condemnation of the violation of sovereignty of the GCC nations and so on. So indirect criticism of Iran. But India has taken no actual steps that will harm Iran. India has not participated in the American and Israeli war effort against Iran. India has given shelter to one Iranian ship in an Indian port so that the Americans can't destroy it. So India has actually taken actions that are you could say that the Americans could could claim are pro-Iran and overall India will it will be beneficial for India. If if Iran survives and India and Iran have despite all the American pressure have maintained a good relationship over the past decades and Iran seeks to survive this war and if Iran succeeds in that it it will be beneficial for Iran to continue to have good relations with India. So because of all these factors the relationship still continues and Iran is friendly with India and Iran is allowing Indian tankers to go through the state of Hormuz. Iran is not targeting those and things are going badly for the US. That's why they're sending 5,000 Marines. Things are going really poorly for the US. Right. So yeah, minimalist Maverick says Trump said UA war would not have started. Ukraine war would not have started if he were the president. What about Iran war? Also if Iran wins by peace agree by peace agreement, how would it shape the world order, UN, etc.? The UN is irrelevant. Okay. Trump said that Ukraine war would not have started if he were the president. Yeah, he he see Trump is a boastful egotistical person. He said that the Ukraine war would not have happened if he were president. Well, now he he has this Iran war on his hands that he started or maybe he was dragged into it by Israel, but whatever. He started it. So, yeah, there we have it. Yeah, if Iran wins by peace agreement, Iran is not going to win by a peace agreement. Iran is going to win by force. It will shape the world order. It will reshape the world order. It will completely alter the balance of power in West Asia. Maybe the Syrian government falls soon. The Syrian government is headed headed by ISIS terrorist who is a US proteé. Maybe the if the Iranians eject the the US from West Asia. Maybe the Syrian government falls. Who know? That's also a possibility. Long term, it will completely reshape the balance of power in the region. It will be a huge blow to the American capacity to project power in the region. It'll be possibly a huge blow to the US dollar. So, it's going to completely reshape the world order. The UN is not relevant. Gora TV, good to see you, sir. To restore its lost reputation, the US may use tactical nucle nukes on Iran, possibly after a false flag strike on US soil. Possible these possibilities are there. Yes. If that happens, what would the be the global consequences be? Will others jump in? Um there is a possibility, increasing possibility as the days go by that Trump will be tempted to use nuclear tactical nuclear warheads weapons on Iran. Okay, he he may be tempted to do that. The thing is even if he uses tactical nuclear warheads on Iran, Iran will keep fighting. It will not defeat Iran. That's the problem for him. He may know it, but he may not know it. I don't know. But Iran will keep fighting. It will not defeat Iran. What will be the global consequences if Trump uses nukes? The global consequences is that other nations, China, Russia will very strongly condemn this. And secondly, other nations may test nukes after that. Other nations may do nuclear tests and and more nations will be tempted to develop nuclear weapons. those who have the capability. So yeah, it's going to have significant consequences of of these kinds. Joy Achara says, "Who will control the world's critical supply chains in in the next 30 years?" I think supply chains will be fragmented. The way things are going, I think there could be two parallel blocks. One will be the declining Western block. If the Americans lose this war, the western block will be declining. And the other will be the Russian Chinese Iranian block. India may be possibly part of it. Yeah, maybe India will be part of both blocks. But I think India will have to make a choice at some point in time. If the US doesn't win this war, India India's position will be stronger. It may be on the bricks camp or something. So it it remains to be seen. I think the world's supply chains will be bifurcated. There will be two parallel systems and whoever controls the oil is going to be in a stronger position and if Iran doesn't lose this war if they succeed then then the eastern block will have control of a majority of the world's oil. So yeah, cold fire says is it likely that Trump will lose the midterms? Very very very likely. Very likely. VSVS says what's your opinion on the youth of this country? dedic dedicating their life to Galgotia University. The youth of the country dedicating their life to Golgotia University. I am not aware of this development. When did the youth decide this? I have not seen any youth dedicating his or her life to this university. But um I am not aware of this development. Is it supposed to be a joke questions? I mean I don't know. Yeah, I I'm not aware of this development. Sorry. Which is this university? Galgotia. Is it the one with the fake Chinese robot? Okay. Sin Pervine says, "Did the US or Israel use some kind of tactical nuke on Iran's comm region? Saw some videos in Twitter a few days ago claiming it was some kind of nuke." I don't know if it was a nuke or not. I mean, if you see that explosion, give me a second. Uh, let me try and dig it out. Where do we have it? Okay, so here's the thing. Here's the tweet. I am not a big fan of this account. So, I'm just putting it out here because the tweet is there. So, let me mute that and play it. Mute that. So, the video starts. >> Come on. The video starts when the explosion is already mature. Okay? See, if the video starts at the moment of the explosion, then it's easier to determine whether it's a nuke or not because there's a double double flash. This characteristic signature of a nuclear explosion is a double flash. But here we start. >> If you the mushroom cloud is nearly 2 kilometers high and we have these characteristic tendrils over here that are characteristic of nuclear detonations. So this is a very suspicious thing over here. And even the mother of all bombs, the MOABs that the Americans have, it does not produce a a mushroom cloud like this. This looks very suspiciously like a tactical nuclear explosion. And it may look small or it may not be able to see how big it is, but we know where this explosion happened. We know the size of that hill that you see in this image. And that hill is about 300 m high. If the hill is 300 m high, it means that this mushroom cloud is about 2 kilometers high at this point in time. 2 km a regular weapon doesn't produce a mushroom cloud of that height. Even the mother of all bombs that the Americans have, the largest non-nuclear weapon, it doesn't produce a mushroom cloud with those characteristics. So it looks very suspiciously like a tactical nuclear explosion, but the Iranian government has said the thing about it. If it was a really it was if it was really a nuke, they would have complained about it, right? The Iranian government. So I don't know. It's very suspicious. I can't say for sure that it is a nuke, but I can't say for sure it's not a nuke. That's the point. Aries Manticor says on an honest note while we are pragmatic we are still behaving in the same optics liberal voke mindset which with the talks like about humanentric tech we need someone to tell them to recalibrate their approach the government of India when it comes to AI talks about humanentric blah blah blah we need to have a hardnosed approach to AI AI is a tool it's a weapon everybody is weaponing AI but we are everybody is weaponizing AI every see the US military is using AI systems to choose targets and kill targets and that's how they ended up killing those 200 school girls or 180 school girls because they allowed AI to choose a target. AI is being used in war and in India we're talking about humanentric AI and equitable AI and blah blah blah. The whole world is weaponizing it and we are talking about nonviolent Gandhian use of AI. I am okay. AI should be used equitably with a nonviolent approach and human approach and all but when the whole world is using it for for for warfare you also must develop your capability to use AI for warfare and when you apply to the civilian domain use it for humanentric approach or whatever but India is only about humanentric approach stupidity. Ammon Kubar Dankar says, "Seems missiles and drones can dwarf naval ships. They can destroy naval ships. Missiles and drones can take out entire aircraft carriers, which is why the American aircraft carriers are far away from the war. They're sitting far away from the from the range. They're still probably within range of Iranian ballistic missiles, but they're trying to keep as far away as possible." Aurora says, "I read that the Indian continent was part of Africa and Americas a few million years ago. When do you think we emerged? Did we have some species some kind of species that originated from India? So we have something called te tectonic drift on the planet. Okay. Uh see if you look at let's let's Google this a cross-section of the earth. So we have magma and other stuff in the inside the earth. The inside of the earth is molten and there's a solid core. Crosssectional diagram of the earth uh internal structure of the earth. So as you can see the out the solid surface that we are aware of that's just the the crust of the earth. It's a very thin layer. Inside you have a lower crust. Then h come on man this is not a good one. So you have a mantle then you have the magma layer. Okay. The lithosphere is solid. Then you have magma layer which is lava and then at the at the center you have the core which is solid. So because the surface of the earth is the solid crust which is floating on liquid magma that's why this the surface of the earth it keeps shifting and drifting over time which is called tectonic activity. And you have these plates tectonic plates that drift around that collide which causes earthquakes and which slide on top of each other and come down and and so on. So because of this about 50 million years ago India which was originally attached to Africa it broke up from Africa not 50 million years ago it happened maybe 70 million years ago and about 66 million years ago India the India was an island in the middle of the Indian Ocean. It was on top of the Raino hotspot 66 million years ago. That's why we had tremendous volcanism in India. The Deckan traps and India started colliding with the Eurasian continent about 30 or so million years ago. So it was a very slow process obviously millions of years and that's why the Himalayas were formed and that's why you have fish fossils thousands of meters up in the Himalayas. So India was part of the was part of Africa. Now we can still see the shapes you know if you go to the map. Okay. If you see the shape of India and Madagascar etc. you will see that they all fit together. So see the shape of India. See the shape of Madagascar. It's like a jigsaw puzzle piece which can fit over here. Right? And badasar also was attached to Africa. You can still see the shapes. Right? So yeah and if we look at terrain if you look at the bottom of the ocean okay you will see the ridge lines etc which which you can see some of it was caused by India moving all the way out. So yeah that is indeed the case. India was attached to Africa long ago and because of tectonic drift India moved away and slammed into Asia into Eurasia which is what pushed up the Himalayas which are still growing. The collision is still happening. Um so that's what happened. You had dinosaur species in India which originally may have been native to Africa and then the dinosaurs well the non-avian dinosaurs died out. The a the aven dinosaurs are still around. I saw some just now. I mean, I saw some aven dinosaurs just a few hours ago. Hyphen says, "I think most people don't know, but UK is already involved in the war since day two. The US is using British air bases and so much more." Absolutely. The UK is involved. The US is using British air bases as pit stops and refueling stops and so on in this war against Iran. Yeah, absolutely. The UK is involved. Ashish says, "If the US fights a direct war with India with boots on Indian soil, will it end US hijgemony? Explain how. I know they will not do this. But what if hypothetically? If the US fights a direct war with India, given India's current military capabilities, India will lose. India doesn't have the mountains all across its the subcontinent that will prevent the Americans from making big inroads quickly. India doesn't have a stockpile of hundreds of thousands of drones and tens of thousands of missiles. That will be a disaster for the US. India doesn't have any of that. India spends about 2% of its GDP on its military and a lot of that goes into pensions and salaries. India is not a nation that's that's geared to fight a long war. India imports more than 50% of its military equipment from other countries including the US. If the US launches an invasion, hypothetical invasion of India, India will lose very badly. India will lose very very badly. Yeah. So the the moral of the story is get prepared. Stockpile hundreds of thousands of drones and tens of thousands of missiles of different kinds. Militarize. In that case the story will be completely different. But right now we don't even have satellite navigation. Our government has been sleeping sleeping. What can I say? Ankur says if you were managing a global macro hedge fund what geopolitical signals would you track weekly and thank you for all the knowledge. Well if I was managing a global macro hedge fund um what would I track weekly? I don't I am not an e economics guy. I what geopolitical signals I would what geopolitical signals would I track? I would look for inflection points which is like very immediate urgent stuff. Inflection points. I would look for I would look for shadow signals. Shadow signals are like small insignificant pieces of news that typically get buried in the news. be page three, page five, whatever. But if you know how to look for shadow signals, they have the potential to turn into inflection points 6 months, 1 year, 2 years down the line. Things that look inconspicuous, but that they become very big eventually if you know what to look for. And there are some telltale characteristic signatures of shadow signals that that tell you that these could be important data points. H uh what else would I look for? I would look for the pulse of the global economy. All those that you can get from the Bloomberg terminal or whatever that sort of thing. Uh but what I would really look for would be shadow signals. That's what I would do. you know, things that are leading indicators of of of future inflection points. That's what I would look for. Okay. Empty box says, "Heard your ancestors protected Somnat." Can you tell more? My ancestors protected Somnat. Yes, they did. That was a very long time ago, more than a thousand years ago. uh there is something called the Chavda dynasty that ruled over that part of India and uh since they were the rulers of western India not western Gujarat present day Gujarat Snath came under their protection right they were the guardians and protectors and servants of the great jotir linga of sunnath so yeah my ancestors did uh perform that role for about two and a half centuries. Yes, Fields Strong Band says, "I would love to play a game, a full game of Civilization 6 with you in the distant future." Basically, building our country through geopolitics, diplomacy, trade, war, etc. as video game. I've heard of this game. I know some very intelligent people who play this game. Let's see what it looks like. I've seen Yeah. Civilization 6. Yeah, this game I I've never played it, but I'm pretty sure it's a fascinating game. You you essentially build your own country, your own your own empire, your own kingdom and empire and civilization, etc. And it's a game of strategy, long-term strategy, and so much more. I think it's a very interesting game. Yeah, maybe we'll one day we'll play it. Let's see. Okay. Astrophysics short videos says, "What are your views on Heen Shellar astrophysics book?" Astrophysicist book hyperrelativity. I am not aware of this uh book and this astrophysicist so I don't have any views hyper relativity really um I'm not aware of it hyper relativity what is this uh it's a book by Shellar I am not aware of this book I have no idea um no I am not aware so I can't say a thing about it obviously I've not read it. I'm not aware of it. McLevin says best time for RA and free the east from the west. Russia, India, China. Well, maybe maybe R could not be maybe RS could happen. Yeah, the way things are going, maybe it'll be it'll be a good thing for India and and and the world. Yeah. Phoneography says, why didn't you call Iran sovereign before? No nukes. One thing is no nukes. The other thing is that is that it was very very dependent on China and Russia for so many things but after the war started they have been fighting on their own without direct assistance from China or Russia. There is obviously some indirect assistance and so on you know BU and so on so forth but overall they're fighting on their own. There's no Russian supplies or Chinese supplies coming in. So clearly they're defending their sovereignty and they are acting as a completely sovereign nation and that's why I have added them to the list of sovereign nations. They completely deserve that. Vir Kapper says, "Iran leaders FM often stand out globally smart, charismatic and active even in old age. Many envy a culture that looks inward to its gods and good couple life. Iran has very good diplomats and good leadership." Yes, I I agree. Yes. Right. Okay. VSVS says, "Sir, have you ever watched Suits? I personally loved the show." I personally haven't watched it in great detail. I know somebody who used to be a big fan of the show and uh I think it's a very interesting show. At least the first few seasons, if I recall correctly, I may perhaps have seen an episode or two. It used to be a great show. Eventually, it did, as all shows typically go, it started meandering. Uh, but yes, I've seen a couple of episodes, I'm sure, at some point in time, many years ago, and I think it was a very smart, very intelligent, and very interesting show. Yeah, but yeah, I haven't seen the whole thing. Maybe a couple of episodes. Har what? Harvey. Okay, I forget. Harvey Spectre, I think that's that's the main guy's name. All right. V for valor says out of badach and chachore why to choose you should not choose any chore yeah but I'm not sure what you're saying but all right vid singh says go sleep yeah I look forward to sleeping if these questions I I need to finish the remaining super chats and then I shall sleep it's been more than 4 hours 22 minutes a very long session it's pretty late here it's really late so thank you I look forward to sleeping xzp is a new member welcome to the channel's membership thank you so much before becoming a member. Ramen Gil says, "Do you think Israel will use India to knock out Pakistan as that's the last straw with nukes after former prime minister of Israel says Turkey is the new Iran?" I don't think so. See, I'll tell you why. Pakistan is an American vasal state. It's an American asset. The United States has supported Pakistan for decades. The US has funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India historically. That is a known fact. Even the Americans can't deny this. Most likely Pakistani nukes are actually American nukes. I don't believe for one second that Pakistani engineers and scientists have the capability to develop nuclear weapons on their own. These nuclear warheads they have are most likely American nuclear warheads placed in Pakistan and they are most likely controlled only by Americans not by Pakistanis. So if that is so that is one and Pakistan is an American asset. Now America's number one ally and partner is Israel and America's vasal is Pakistan. So the question is what is the relationship between Israel and Pakistan? Most like see Pakistan doesn't recognize Israel officially and there are no diplomatic relations between the two two countries but when aimun went to Washington or wherever and the Pakistani embassy held a reception for him there was an Israeli military presence there so most likely there is a hidden relationship between Israel and Pakistan and most likely they are kind of on the same side now I'm not trying to say that Israel is India's enemy I'm not saying that but Israel has its own independent relationship with Pakistan and it's a secret relationship most likely and most likely it's a relationship that's good for Israel. So why will Israel knock out Pakistan? They won't. Most likely Pakistan is in some shape or form acceptable to Pak to Israel. Yeah, Shivam says, "Thoughts on Claude's fight with Pentagon?" Yeah, CL Yeah, Claude doesn't the Claude leadership doesn't want the Pentagon to use Claude to kill people. They want guardrails and so on. And Pentagon says, "No, we will use it whichever way we we want." So that's why there's a rift between the Pentagon and Claude. And that's why the Pentagon is going to go open ahead go ahead with open AI instead of claude and pent and and claude and anthropic will you will lose the contract which is what 200 to $300 million which is penis from their perspective because their revenue is so big. Uh so yeah and apparently claude was used for targeting targets selecting targets during the current war against Iran which has led to horrific circumstance consequences as we know targeting a school that sort of thing possibly. Mohit Raj Singh says is Russia benefit from is Russia benefit from it and vapes to build themselves like USSR and can Russia China help openly if Iran falls or get nuked like us? What is does Russia benefit from it? From what and vapes to build themselves like USSR and can Russia China help openly if Iran falls or get nuked like US have its puppets? Okay. If Iran is in deep trouble, Russia and China will openly help it. Okay. Yes. Most likely Russia and China will both openly help it. Russia more than China because Russia is geographically closer to Iran. If you see the see the map. Okay, let's open the map. Let me show you quickly. If you open the map, you will see that Russia and Iran are not far away. Just north of the Caspian Sea, you have Russia. The Sea of Kashup, Thean, North of Thran, you have the Caspian Sea. In north of the Caspian Sea, you have Russia. So, Russia is not there far away that far away. Uh what do I do? Okay, so that's a deal. So Russia can definitely help Iran if required. Okay, if Iran is in trouble, even the Chinese will help in some shape or form. Now the question you're asking is does Russia benefit from it from the war? Yeah, it does. It does because now Russian oil is very valuable. You see, that's why the whole world seeks Russian oil. India also seeks Russian oil right now and that's why Russian oil is now being sold at a premium even for India. Earlier it was sold to India at a discount. Now it's at a it's at a premium. Hersh Weren says atomic clock crisis in Navic satellites of ISRO views. I expressed my views in detail. It's a disaster. It is unacceptable that the government of India was sleeping on the job. It's unacceptable that we have not sent set sent replacement satellites. Yes, we had the PSLV failures and all. Deal with it. Fix the problem. Address the issue. identify the issue and fix it. It's unacceptable that we don't have satellite navigation anymore. This you could have seen coming from years ahead. The government of India has dropped the ball completely when it comes to India space program. And this is a strategic disaster for India. I don't know when the next satellites go up. India is a low ambition nation when it comes to space. We have a local regional satellite constellation and that too has failed now and it's failed because it's become too old. It's a this is a it's a sad joke sad joke. It's extremely frustrating and I blame nothing nobody but the government of India for this. They have this is a huge failure. They have failed to do the job. You can't blame Neo for this. The government of India can't blame Neu for what's happened here. Now Barat says what are some highquality news sources online and X? Uh no no I don't follow any one source. I look at hundreds of sources. Um X uh I look at everybody on X. All the major accounts that are twe tweeting about something. I don't know any high quality single news source. Sorry VSVS says Spider-Man Abijit he does many other things too. He is the purest definition of clown. He does many other things too. He is a purest definition of clown. Don't get fooled by his fake generosity. I have seen jokers like him. He is a zero self-respect bootlicker of anyone he thinks. G comments on me. I have no idea what this is about. Who is the purest definition of clown? Who is who has fake generosity? Zero self-respect bootlicker of anyone who thinks g comments on I have no idea what this is, but okay. Is it is somebody referring to me? I have no idea. Sorry, I don't speculate. I don't know what this is about. Okay, Jimmy Lee says, "The game Hearts of Iron 4 is interesting as well." Hearts of Iron 4. Let's quickly take a look. What's Hearts of Iron 4? Hearts of Iron 4. What is that? Hearts of Iron Form. It's It's on Steam. It's a grand strategy video game developed by Paradox Development Studio, published by Paradox Interactive, and so on. It's a grand strategy war game. It focuses on World War II. Very interesting. Players can control any country in the world and so on. Interesting. Interesting. Thank you. Samuel Kings has gifted one membership of the channel. Thank you very much, sir. Very kind of you. Very kind of you. Thank you. Samuel King says, "I am from the US. There are news. There's news that BB Netanyahu is dead. Not officially confirmed, but knowing how the Israelis are heavily censoring things." Yes, I remarked upon this at the very beginning of this live stream 4 and a half hours ago that that there are indications very serious indications that something may have happened to him. The most important indication is this deleted tweet from the official account of the prime minister of Israel, right? In which they are essentially admitting that they they they have lost contact with Netanyahu. So this came out about 24 hours ago then it was quickly deleted. This raises big questions about what has happened to Netanyahu. So it's obviously not officially confirmed but yeah. Yeah. The Israelis are obviously censoring things. It's it's war time so they will censor information. Yeah. Gesh says how can the US win war? How can USA win war with USA unethical? Yes. How can you war? How can USA win war with USA? I don't even know what the question means, sir. How can India win a war with India? How does it work? What are you asking? Not sure. Okay. Vsv says, "Sir, Spider-Man G is talking about me, sir. Calling me a clown." Oh, he's calling you a clown. Why? Why? Why? I think VSVS, you're doing such an such a good job. You're being very kind to people who want to ask questions but who maybe students or whatever they can't take super chats. You're being very kind to them and you're asking questions on their behalf. Why is somebody calling you a clown? Why? I don't get it. Anyway, yes, I appreciate you. Thank you for for what you're doing. Ashtik says, "Are chemtrails real? Can we do anything about it?" I don't know if they're real. Obviously, we have the contrails that we see of aircraft. I've been seeing that since I was a little toddler. You know, look out in the sky and there's these long contrails and I I used to wonder what they were about. But that that that comes from the condensation of water that's ejected out of jet engines as part of the exhaust and that condenses and that produces this cloud these long contrails. And uh some people said that these are chem trays that chemicals are being spread in that. And is it true? I have no idea. That's considered to possibly be a conspiracy theory. And there clearly is no hard evidence of it. But theoretically, it's possible that there could be something behind it, but I don't know. I'm I don't have the information. I don't know. Bua says, "What's the meaning of life?" Well, I don't know. I don't know what's the meaning of life. The meaning of life, meaning and purpose are different things. What's the meaning? Well, it's a mystery. We are still trying to find out what is the meaning of life. But what I'll say is that life exists and let's make the best of it. Enjoy life as much as possible and and create something of value and make it as meaningful as possible. So I suppose meaning depends on who you are. For me, meaning will be different. For somebody else, meaning will be something else. Whatever makes your life meaningful and worth living is the meaning of life. And for two different people, it will be two different things, I'm sure. But yeah, it's up to you. Okay. Gamer gamer Pravin says, "Your thoughts on the global firepower index." I haven't seen that, so I don't know. No, no, sorry. Bona graphi says, "How to email you to explain Zionist Christian worldview." Uh, my email ID will be there in the description. You can email me and I'll try to take a look at that. But I can't promise you in response because I get so many emails every day and I simply if I start responding to all the emails I that's all I'll be doing and even then I won't be able to respond to everybody. So yeah, please feel free to email me in the email address given in the description below. All right. All right. I think that's the end of the questions for today. It's been more than 4 and a half hours. So, so yeah, that brings me to the end of today's live stream. Thank you so much everybody. I think there's more questions coming up now. How the US can defeat India unethically? Yes, the US can defeat India. It's very powerful. Through firepower and through economic means and other means, it can. And Anaj, thank you very much. An Baj, thank you. And that finally brings me to the end of this live stream. More than four and a half hours. It's past midnight in India. So I shall now end this live stream. Thank you so much everybody. Keep asking questions. Ke raising your standards. Keep learning and I take care of yourselves and I'll see you in the next one very soon. Take care for now. Good night. Goodbye. Good day. Boy.