[Music] Hey, [Music] woo. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day wherever you are and uh welcome to episode 266 of the Ask a Bijit show. I hope everybody is doing great. Let us see who all is there on the live stream. I can see Shashank Koshik, Hunter, Hunter Kenway, Alvin Rodriguez, U025250, uh Lesie Baba, Aniketraati, Manish Shishta, Kenil, Maklavin, Yeshuan, Sudir, the magnificent Shuji, Niha Sharma, Aolai, Global Citizen, Arian Musk, Namaskar, Anudtas from Assam, Hitan Shua, Akash BA Latangi Suresh Malik Sayad Djam from the US. Geopolitical Dub from the from Indor anonymous scientist Bonjour Rahul Himani from Mumbai. Uh Ready always ready Shitan Shu freedom from outcome from Canada. Sha Shah Raj Jimmy Lee Wand Matram Latang Sur again uh who else do we have? Uh Akash BA uh who else do we have? Ra Rahul Dunak. Uh we have ICBM, ICMBBS, we have Chhatria Bal, thank you so much for your contribution and thank you so much for becoming a member. I really appreciate that. I never ask anyone to do that but you guys still do that. So thank you so much. Thank you you in in particular. Abhinav Kamani, thank you very much for that. Who else do we have? Who else do we have? We have Shah Raj. We have Aayush Mishra Raggavoj W Sharma Kumlist Manisha Kardo Mlvin again Sai Sai Asank Udai Rajawat Ankita Kachap Ashwini Ranjan Kamal01 uh and so many other people. Priam J RJ Prophet Bageshwar Army Abina 172 anonymous IQ0000 and very complicated names I'm seeing. So yeah, thank you so much all of you for being here and then let's get going with questions. This is a live chat episode. I will take your questions from the live chat. Uh no super chats today either. Okay. So please go ahead. Please, I request you all, please ask me good questions. I like nothing more than good questions. So, please ask good questions and let's have a very interesting 1-hour episode. Okay, let us see. Um, Mr. Magnificent Nuji says, "What's the ideal time to make public any classified information and why?" So the right time to make public any classified information is when the classified information is no longer sensitive or or or u or it's or revealing it could still be dangerous to uh the nation's security. So when you reach a time where revealing the information to the public is no longer dangerous to the nation's security, that's the right time to make that classified information public. That's the very simple um you know um logic behind that. Okay, let us see. Let's have some hopefully good questions. Okay, Mlevin says, "I have noticed that the the US and China might say that they are enemies, but when it comes to action, the US has supported China when it counts. What do you think?" Well, historically, if you look at if you go back to the 20th century, the US is the nation that was responsible for the the rise of China. The US aided and omitted and midwifed the why the rise of China. The US came in Russia's way. The USSR and China were adversaries after the death of Stalin. Uh the they had these clashes, border clashes because of territorial dispute. The Usuri River clashes. The USSR had decided to nuke China. The US prevented that from happening. then it helped China rise. So they have done that historically. Even today when they state that they are enemies, they are adversaries. You find both nations cooperating when it comes to Pakistan and you find Pakistan deliberately deliberately undermining the collective interests of racks in a way that actually strengthens the US primacy globally. So yeah, you are right that uh the US has supported China when it counts, China still seems to be supporting the US. I get the feel that despite whatever the Chinese say, they have this deep inferiority complex when it comes to the US. The hero worship the US. They they admire the US. They seek to emulate the US. And the only thing they seek is is US approval, right? I mean, the Chinese believe they're superior to everybody else. But when it comes to to the US, the Chinese have an inferiority complex despite whatever they say and their actions invariably end up strengthening US primacy and hedgemony right what are the questions um anonymous scientist says shouldn't India deepen its ties with Israel further as they can provide cutting edge technology and the US seems to be their wasal we deepen our ties with Israel pragmatically and practically. We have to understand that Israel has its own interests which are at times divergent from India's interests and obviously India also has its own interests which are at times divergent from Israel's interests but overall we have a significantly broad u convergence of interests on a large set of issues and for these matters India should certainly deepen its ties with Israel. Yeah, you're right. Israel can provide cutting edge technology to India, whatever cutting edge technology it has if it's open to doing that. And uh yeah, you could say that the US seems to be an Israeli vasal. But that that won't really help India because that's that's a bilateral issue between the US and Israel and even if India tremendously upgrades its partnership with Israel, that won't change the India US dynamic. I don't see that happening. But oral I agree that we should um deepen our ties with Israel. Okay. The civilizational warrior says you said that there are only five sovereign nations in the world. US, China, Russia, India, Israel. Excuse me. What? US, China, Russia, India and Israel. Okay, fine. Five. Uh then what about nations like Singapore and Switzerland? Well, if I said there are only five sovereign states in the world, it means that in my assessment, Singapore and Switzerland are not entirely sovereign nations. That's the simple answer to your question. Um, uh, Devar of Worlds says, can we really really achieve developed India with the current chaotic system? No, we can't. The only way we will have a properly developed India, a genuine India, India that genuinely achieves its full potential, we need a different system. This system won't take us there. Right? So yeah, we can't achieve a fully developed India with the current system. Not possible. Uh Malik says, what score will you give according to the Cha Index to these three major players in West Asia? Iran, Israel, Saudi Arabia. considering the 12- day war. Uh the 12-day war hasn't really changed the the dynamics the the uh scores in my index because the scores are based on a set of opensource factors. Um what are the factors? One is your land area. Second is your population. Third is your annual GDP, the latest figures. Then you have military budget. Um then you have energy self-sufficiently which is either one or less than one even if you're a net exporter I give it one so that it's easier to calculate u then you have number of nukes okay that matters then you have power projection ability capabilities how far can you project power that's another factor I take into consideration that essentially is how many uh extra territorial bases do you have military bases do you have and what kind of land area or sea area do they cover that sort of thing um and via factors such as these. So the current war that happened. So this index is not something that is meant to be uh modified every two weeks or every month. It's something that is meant to be to be updated once a year. So this war of course if a significant geopolitical upheaval happens that genuinely reshapes uh the power the balance of power in the region for example the 2003 invasion of Iraq which destroyed Iraq well then I would be forced to significantly change the the and recalculate the index in the middle of the year but thus far that's not happened this uh war in West Asia which involved Iran Israel and with US interferes it has not really changed anything fundamentally. Uh Israel hasn't got a victory. Iran hasn't failed. Iran claims to have succeeded in in a sense they have succeeded in a sense they have won by not being defeated. Um so nothing has really changed. So I will not change my scores at this point in time. My my my scores will remain the same. Um uh one Sharma says why is Donald Trump so keen on ceasefires and what benefits does he will he get from that? See my friends all foreign policy for any nation all foreign policy is an extension of domestic politics especially when it comes to democracies. If you're a democracy and you are the leader of a country, let's say the president or the prime minister, in that case, well, you depend on the people's approval and you depend on remaining popular with the people in order to stay in power, right? Because no matter how far away it is, there is an election coming coming at coming towards you. There's an election down the horizon, isn't it? Always. So because of that it's very important to remain super popular among your people and that's why whatever foreign policy decisions and actions you take they are driven by your desire to remain popular domestically. So all foreign policy is an extension of domestic policy and domestic politics. So why is Donald Trump so keen on ceasefires? Well, he wants to prove to the people who voted for him that you made the right choice. Donald Trump is the guy make America great again. See see how great the US is. We can go all over the world and and create and and and mediate ceasefires and he will obviously make these exaggerated claims like he the completely false claim that he the he mediated he mediated a ceasefire between India and Pakistan and then over here it looks like he actually did that when it comes to the West Asia Asia ceasefire between Israel and Iran. So he wants to demonstrate to the world to to to his voters that they have made the right choice and then and he objectly obviously has this objective this great aim this great aspiration of going down in history of leaving a legacy as the greatest US president. I negotiated ceasefires all over the world. I was the greatest peacemaker and obviously he wants to win a Nobel Prize. So these are the benefits that Donald Trump seeks to get. Okay. Um let us see. Hitan shummeta says will NATO article 5 come into force if Israel attacks Turkey someday? Erdogan administration the two countries relationship deteriorated considerably. Uh so there's a clause in NATO one of the articles I don't know if it's article four or five whichever it is uh which is the the mutual defense clause that if any one member of NATO is attacked it is to be regarded it is to be treated as a as an attack all everybody else. So if any member state of NATO is attacked all other members of NATO are supposed to come to that nation's defense immediately. So with that understood, what happens if Israel attacks Turkey? Well, well, Israel is a special nation. You see, no matter what happens, so Israel is not a member of NATO, first of all, Turkey is, but what if Israel attacks Turkey? I suppose the US will find ways of not acting. Um, obviously they'll be bound by the the NATO treaty, but I don't think the US will ever do anything that is detrimental to Israeli interests. So, I think in this scenario, the US essentially prevents NATO from acting against Israel. That's how I see it happening. Um, Subagal says, "Are news headlines scripted by the deep state to fool experts worldwide?" It's not meant to fool experts. It's it's first of all I'm not talking about the deep state here but it's true that all news is propaganda. We know that I mean if you have any sense you will understand that all news outlets they depend on funding. Some of them they depend on advertising which is fine but then the qu the user experience is deteriorated because there's too much advertising. You can see some Indian news channels. They're like that. But then they also get funding from other sources. Maybe that's a major part of the funding. Maybe some channels get full funding from some some sources. The question is who's funding them? When you have various sources funding you, you are constrained to operate and act in a way that is not detrimental to your funders interests and actually is positive for the for the funders which is good for the funders's interest, right? You to further their interests. So if somebody owns you, you will end up serving them. That's as simple as it gets. And all news outlets across the world are owned by somebody or the other. either collectively or partially or whatever. So that tells us that all news is actually narrative. All news headlines are essentially propaganda. Subtle propaganda at times, overt propaganda at times. Some of this could be funded by China. Some of this could be funded by the US. Some of this could be funded by Russia. None of it is funded by India because India doesn't play this game. We are good guys, right? So the objective of doing this is to create narratives and propagate narratives. And narratives are meant to fool the general population, the 99.9% people of the world. They can't fool experts, the 0.1%. Those can't be fooled. But as long as every news outlet is repeating the same lies, nobody will pay attention to the experts. That's how it goes. All right. Okay. Ananta Chandak says uh could can Starlink contain guns and with their access on India can they wipe out a place in an hour? Would something like this happen? What should we do if we have to counter it? No. Starlink can't contain guns because of the physics of the thing. So even if you could, you know, fire a gun in space, which you can't, can you fire a gun in space? I have never thought of that. It's a chemical reaction. Does it need oxygen? I suppose it needs oxygen or does it not need oxygen? I have to think about it. I'm not sure what's the chemistry is, what the chemistry is when it comes to gunpowder. Does it operate without oxygen? I doubt if it operates without oxygen. So if it doesn't ignite without oxygen, then you can't fire a gun in space. But even if you could fire a gun in space, hypothetically, there's a recoil. And these Starling satellites aren't very large. They aren't very large in mass. So they'll they will suffer from recoils and they'll get dislodged out of position. That doesn't work. That's terrible for the satellite. Then it's then it can be used only once to fire one bullet. So because of the physics, it's simply not possible for this to happen. Okay. So then what is the use of Starlink? Starling obviously is is something that provides space-based internet which can be used to undermine the sovereignty of a nation and I've discussed that in the past. I'll not go into it right now. For example, let me anyway tell you. Let's say for example you have Pakistani terrorists who have infiltrated into Kashmir or Mauist terrorists some somewhere in the red belt or some some uh uh for example some riers in some city in India or maybe um cookie terrorists in Manipur or whatever. So wherever they have you have some bad situation the Indian government can impose a phone and internet blacked out blackout for maybe 24 48 hours or whatever it is you can do it but if Starlink is coming in the terrorists or the riers or whoever can simply use Starlink devices to coordinate with with each other and outf fox the Indian authorities so that directly compromises India sovereignty that's why we should not have it so that is the first threat from threat from Starink apart from that I suspect that Starling satellites will have very sophisticated uh surveillance equipment which essentially means that each Starling satellite could be a spy satellite which could give the US real time intelligence about what is happening on the ground. So I think that's the utility of Starling not guns. Uh Jim Lee says, "Can we as a cold calculation swap Akai Chin for Arunachal Pradesh to reach a temporary peace with the Chinese and demarcate the border? Something like the Moloto of Ribbentrop Pact." Well, you have given us a nice historical precedent. The Moloto of Ribbentrop Pact. Now ask yourself, Jimmy Lee, how long did the Molo of Ribbentrop Pact last? Molotov kept his end of the bargain, but the Ribbentrop did not. and Germany ended up launching operation Barbar Roa. So that pact did not last. It was simply a placeholder and Stalin himself knew that it's going to happen sooner or later, right? Everyone knew it was just a temporary thing. What's the point of a temporary pact and why would you give up Arunachal Pradesh and the people who live there? They are Indians. How can you do that to our people? Think about it. Even it's a cold calculation. Why? Why? Why? Why? Why do that? Axai chain. Okay, you get excited in return, but there's nobody living there essentially. So, you give up a significant percentage of a population for a land where where there's almost nobody living. Isn't that a stab in the back for the people of Arunachal Pradesh? How can anybody do it? So, this is this doesn't make sense from from my perspective. Okay, it's a good uh academic discussion. uh but no we want to do that. Shiraawastasi says why is new advanced technology always used in the military first before any other sector because national security is paramount and lots of technology has multiple uses newly used technologies and you can't allow that to leak into the public sector because once it becomes public then other nations can steal that technology and use it before you for their military. So you always keep it secret. You always use it for the military first and only when you have mastered it and you're beyond anybody else can you slowly release it into into the public domain. That sort of thing. Um R says to which physicists are you petrified of in terms of intelligence? How good is Edward Whitten? Edward Whitten is fantastic. Who am I petrified of in terms of intelligence? Well, I don't mean to sound arrogant, but I'm not petrified of anybody in terms of intelligence. Okay. Um, let's see what this is. Hitanchu says, "We have come a long way. Back when American planes landed during operations in Iraq, it quietly shifted the trajectory for foreign policy towards the US. From there to here, times have changed. Is it true? uh we may have allowed US aircraft to perhaps potentially refuel in India during operations in Iraq possibly. I don't remember what was the case but maybe we did. Uh today I'm not sure if uh US aircraft have such uh privileges in India. We obviously don't have any foreign military bases on our soil because that would be a violation of our sovereignty. We are no one's vasal. We are sovereign. So we don't have any foreign bases on our soil. We sometimes have military exercises exercises with the coordinations with the west with the US in which case we can temporarily give access to our air bases for refueling and other purposes. Right now we have an F-35 of the UK which is squatting on our territory on uh on an airport in somewhere in the south that's owned by the Adani group right it's it's squatting there for I think more than a week now that's unusual and so on but overall yes times have changed um our policy is much more clear now as to what we will allow what we will not allow and yeah that's that indicates that we are very very uh clear we have we have clear red lines It's about our sovereignty. Okay. Nature vibe uh etc. says, "Can't Starlink operate without our permission?" Starlink can operate without our permission. Yes. So even if we don't give permission to Elon Musk, it's possible that he could turn off the beams of the satellite when they pass over India turn them on. So which means that Starlink could be beamed into India even if India does not give permission like he has said with respect to some other country that we will do what we want and you can shake your fist at the sky. He has said that right? So that's that's his attitude. That's his actual attitude. That's who he who he really is. So he he can certainly switch on the Starlink uh beaming into India. The question is will anybody be able to receive that without Starlink receivers. So as long as we don't give permission, we can. So as long as that we have a situation where India has not given permission to operate Starlink in India, it means that we will not allow Starlink receivers to be sold in India or to be possessed by anybody in India. Make it illegal as long as Starling doesn't have per permission which means that there will be essentially next to none next to zero Starlink receivers in India unless they are illegally smuggled into India. Right? So even if Elon Musk decides to beam his internet into India, as long as we ensure there are no Starlink receivers inside India, uh it will be very hard for people to actually use Starlink unless you find back doors and workarounds or whatever which I suppose could be possible if you are very techsavvy possibly but overall it can't operate even if uh uh Elon Musk decides to as long as we don't allow Starlink receivers to be used in India. Anonymous scientist says would China become friendlier to India if it became democratic? Well, China will never become democratic and even if it becomes democratic, it will have its own interests. And this is um this is a hypothetical question. So what's the point? Uh Haran Gokul says why is India singled out for castism even though many nations had cast systems and castlike constructs? Look, that's a good question. It's because yeah there is Hindu phobia and the west seeks to uh single out India because it it sees India as a threat and you are okay so what is this cast system thing right what's this cast system well there was no cast system in India we had the vernati system which was a very intricate system of uh division of labor and you had so many clans and lineages ages of people of families who were occupied in very specific um occupations for generations and they would me make sure that nobody else would could take up the profession they would safeguard it zealously zealously not jealously but zealously right and this was an accepted practice in India so that's why we had so many jatis and verna and all that jati verna It was very complicated. The British could not understand it. Their little minds could not get it. That's why they superimposed the forecasts on India. Now if you go back to the time of uh the Morian era, you had a Greek ambassador in Patipra which was our capital 2 and a half thousand years ago. The guy's name was Mastanis. He wrote a report about India, a pretty tactical report about India, strategic report. And this report was called indika. It doesn't survive. But there are other Greek texts that survive that have referred to the indika. So we know partially what wrote about and he wrote about Indian society and so on so forth. And he said that Indian society was divided into seven classes not cast seven classes. Uh and I don't remember what the various classes were but you had uh trades people and priests and warriors and seven classes not four seven. So during the Morian times during the time of uh Vishnagupta Chanaka and Chandra Gupta Gummoria and Ashok the great and so on you had seven classes in Indian society not four. Um and look any functioning society is an organized society. It has division of labor and when you have division of labor you have classes and these these constructs that organically form over time. And the sign of a disorganized society is that it has no division of labor. It's it's chaotic. And if you try that in a company, if you try to make the the the janitor equal to the CEO and make the CEO do the janitor's work and the janitor do the CEO's work, that company is going to crash and burn in no time. And the same goes for any nation. And uh India's system was never discriminatory. It was never discriminatory until India came under foreign occupation when India's culture and uh India's India society could no longer function the way it had evolved to function organically for thousands of years. So imagine this situation okay I suppose many of you must have read or watched Harry Potter. So in Harry Potter in Hogwarts there is a cast system four casts. What is it? Uh, Gryffindor, Slytherin, Ravenclaw, and Huffle Hufflepuff. But it's not a hereditary cast system. There is a sorting hat. So, whenever a new student reaches Hogwarts, they have to go through the sorting hat process. And the hat decides which cast they go into. Right now imagine that there's a disaster and Lord Voldemort emerges victorious and he destroys the sorting hat and he decrees that from now onwards nobody will be sorted into any cast. Then people will be forced to somehow keep the tradition alive which means that they will say okay now that we no longer have the sorting hat our kids will now now on take the cast of their parents so it becomes hereditary because of the foreign imposition by Voldemort because the society can no longer function the way it was supposed to function so it's forced to take recordourse to suboptimical suboptimal measures do you See what happens here. Voldemort destroys the way the society functions. So the society somehow wants to keep some tradition its tradition alive in some shape or form and that's why it resorts to making it hereditary now instead of making it making it happen through the sorting hat. And that's how these defects and deficiencies enter society because the cast was supposed to be determined by the sorting hat not by who what parents you have. And that's that's an analogy of kind of very simplistic analogy of what happened in India after the Turk occupation of India and the later uh European occupation of India. That's how things became rigid and maybe there was some oppression at some point in time only in the past thousand years not before that. Please understand that uh when India was under foreign management you blame the managers and the leadership not the not the workers right in any company when the company crashes uh that sort of thing. And yeah, there are other countries that also have had terribly oppressive systems. Good God. A thousand years ago in England, at least one out of 10 persons wore a copper collar. They were slaves. One out of 10 people were slaves in England. But nobody says England was oppressive. H nobody says that they they had this gong farmers in England. gong farmers, people who were allowed to come out only at night and in England they used to throw sewage and excretita on the streets. England was a disgustingly smelly place. This is all part of the historical record. They don't highlight it, but it's there. Look it up. So, there was something there was a profession called gong farmers. Gong farmers. These folks were only allowed to come out at night and their job was to come with buckets and scoop up the human excretita on the streets of England and dispose of it somewhere and those people were not allowed to mix with society. Isn't this a horrible form of discrimination and oppression? In France, you had people called people called the kag c a g- o ts who were similarly discriminated against. In Japan, you have the Burakumin. Once again, even today, they face discrimination. Even today, the Burakumin people face discrimination. You had this all across the world. We have never been that sort of thing. But we are singled out for this. And the worst thing is that our own people are brainwashed into believing that we were evil. We are a bad society. We have a bad civilization and culture. That's what your teachers in your textbooks do to you. Anyhow, anyhow. Um, well, I'm glad you like it, sir. Harry Potter analogy is excellent to explain about castism. Well, I'm I'm glad that helps see things in perspective, hopefully. Um, Amisha Mashara says, "What's the significance of Axiom mission 4?" I haven't really been pay paying attention to Axiom mission 4 because of all the other stuff that's happening in the world right now. The world is like on the brink of something or the other right now. But yeah, we have this Axiom mission mission 4 which was launched by I think the space space X Dragon capsule and you have an Indian astronaut who's gone into space. Well, okay, good, good. I forget his name but I think he has reached orbit if not the International Space Station by now possibly. And all right. So I'll be happy when we launch our astronauts on our own rockets in into our own space station. This is Space X launching in Indian to the International Space Station. The vehicle, the launch vehicle is American. The space station is Western. Well, it makes no difference to me. It's not some big cause for celebration. As far as I am concerned, I don't know what the significance is. I haven't paid attention to it. I don't feel like paying attention to it. I'll be interested when we launch our own spa, you know, human spaceflight mission with our own our own rocket, our own spacecraft and eventually we will have our own space station. That's what will interest me. That's what get me excited. This unfortunately, I'm sorry to say, doesn't really excite me. Right. Yeah. I will not discuss about what other people are saying about something. It's not important what the what other people are saying. Um uh Sha Shazi Shash. Okay. Whatever the name is, sorry. The question is, what's your opinion on the criticisms that our diplomatic relationships are broken like never before in recent years? Well, the opposition parties their job is to criticize the government. But hopefully they should criticize. There should be valid valid critic criticism. See, in recent years, everything has changed. The whole world is turning upside down. Everything is different today. Things no longer work the way they worked even 5 years ago. Forget about 10, 20 years ago. In the past, the world was stable. You could see geopolitical change happening only when you looked at the world decade upon decade. Right now the geopolitical situation is changing every week. So the world was a different place two weeks ago than it's than it was today than it is today. I mean what today is what June 27. Two weeks ago June 10 there was no West Asia war, no West Asia crisis. Iran's nuclear program was fine. Iran and the US were negotiating about the nuclear deal and all and look at where we are today. A whole different world. Things are changing so fast. The world is re realigning very fast. Multipolarity and by bipolar bifurcation of the world order and so much more happening right and India is growing. India is rising and now India is being seen as a potential future threat by lots of countries. Because of that we are under severe pressure from multiple fronts. This is a sign of our success not our failure. If we had remained mediocre like Dr. Manm Singh said that we have no ambition of being a major power then we would have had stable relations with everybody. Nobody would have considered us a threat and that's why everybody would have stable relations with us including China including the US. But today they are all unhappy with us because we are growing. This is a sign of our success not our failure. That's why they are leveraging Pakistan. That's why that's why they've done a regime change in Bangladesh. East Pakistan. That's why they are trying to encircle India. That's why China is helping Pakistan and Pakistan is sharing um you know battlefield intelligence with with China. That's why China wants to sell the J35 to Pakistan. That's why China and Pakistan and Bangladesh are doing this trilateral arrangement for the first time ever. That's why the US is uh siding with Pakistan over India. That's why Trump is investing in Pakistan. That's why the US is operating the Nurhan air base. That's why that's why Pakistan likely has US nuclear weapons, not its own nuclear weapons. All of this is a sign of our success. But it's very counterintuitive to understand that. But that is what it is. It's not a sign of our failure. It's a sign of our success. And the more we succeed, the more troubles we'll face. But that's the price you have to pay if you want to reach your full potential. Okay. Um, I'm trying to find some good questions. Trying to find some good questions. Yeah, it's hard to find good questions. H, okay, let's just take some questions because I'm not able to find like questions that excite me. Anyway, please why why don't you folks ask good questions? Please ask questions that are relevant to what's happening in the world today and questions that will be valuable for everybody to hear an answer to. Please do that. Anyway, let's see this. Isn't water also a resource like oil? Of course, it is. So, why can't we sell water to Pakistan and Bangladesh in instead of giving it for free? Look, water oil doesn't flow on the surface of the of the planet like water, right? Like rivers. Rivers flow but oil is underground so we can extract oil and then sell it. But water is something that flows freely and for us to stop it we have to we have to build dams and all that. I mean it should be obvious, right? It's not like or our water exists in packages. Okay, let's see if some there's some more interesting questions. Nilles says, "Will India industrialize in the next 5 years?" India is in the process of re-industrializing. We were the first industrialized society. The first fully industrialized society 5,000 years ago. We are in the process then we were de-industrialized by the British fully. Now we are in the process of reindustrializing. We will be further industrialized in 5 years. Uh I don't know what is fully industrialized. What it means? The west says that it is fully industrialized. Whatever. Um India is in the process of re-industrializing. So India will be significantly further ahead in the next 5 years. Um, what is the age of the sun according to the sun itself? Well, I have never had a conversation with the sun. That's why I have not been able to get the sun's perspective on what its age is according to itself. From the best that I know, it's about 4.5 billion years old. But that's my perspective. And that that's the perspective of these little humans who live on the planet. We don't know the perspective of the of the sun because as far as I know, no human has successfully communicated with the sun. We're not aware if the sun is conscious or if it can communicate or if it wishes to communicate and so on. Uh Akash says Japan abandoned its dharma during the Maji era to gain power. Must bat do the same or can it rise as a civilizational superpower while staying true to dharma? First of all, let us stop using this word superpower. This is the Indian obsession with status entitles to hell with the term vishwaguru. to hell with this term superpower. Be practical. Be pragmatic. My dear friends, my dear viewers, forget about these titles. Forget about the status. We are a nation that was for the past 1,000 years on its knees. Then we were made to crawl on all fours by the British. Now we are standing up again. We are in the process of standing up and starting to walk. Before we can fly, we have to start to walk. Then we can start jogging. Then we can start running. Then we can start sprinting. Then we can perhaps start think of flying. So forget about being a superpower. Forget about that right now for the next 50 years. This superpower obsession is just annoying. But coming to the question, Japan did abandon Dharma. Uh that's what happened as a consequence of the Maji restoration. The samuras were killed off. They were the guardians of dharma in Japan. Uh and Japan became a completely westernized society full of the cruelty of the west. They embraced it. They rejected dharma. The maji restoration attempted to eradicate Buddhism which came packaged with Hinduism from Japan. It failed. uh but the Japanese uh government and armed forces became entirely non-harmic and that led Japan to commit all kinds of horrific atrocities which nobody can deny in Korea in Manuria in China in Nanjing for example good God and so on and that eventually also you could say to some extent contributed to the fall of Japan and the continuing occupation of Japan by the Americans. So if Bat wants to rise not let's say as a superpower but as a great power let's say let's let's do it step by step. Let's say Barat wants to rise to the fullest extent of its potential which means that Barat will once again be the world's largest economy. Let's stop at stop at that for now. Okay, we certainly have historically always been the largest economy. So that is something we should aspire to in the next 50 years let's say. So do we have to abandon dharma to to achieve that? I don't think so. I think it will be horrific for us to abandon dharma. That's the one thing we have going for ourselves. That's the one thing that we have that was given to us by our ancestors 10,000 years ago. Something that all our ancestors have continued. And if we give it up, it will be the greatest betrayal of all. will betray hundreds of generations of of our ancestors. What it's like the what the Christians call a deal with the devil. The devil will give you whatever you want but in exchange for that you have to sell your soul to the devil. Uh I would never do that. So I would say bat should never give up its dharma. Barat should learn from its history and from its dharmic heritage. Learn how to succeed. Learn how to win. Learn how to conquer. Shri Krishna tells you all in the Bhagat Gita and and beyond. Uh so learn from the past. Uh we don't have to abandon dharma. We have to stay true to dharma. Okay. Arian says, "Doesn't China realize that Pakistan is a conflict of interest with respect to the US and a symbiotic rel relationship with India wouldn't be would be better for all parties involved?" I think China has eyes and ears. Yeah, China has eyes and ears. China is very well aware, please, more than me, more than all of us, what relationship the Chinese, the Pakistanis have with the US. What the Chinese are doing with Pakistan is supplementary to what the US is doing with China with Pakistan. And yeah, see for example, the Chinese are are possibly on the verge of selling J35 fighter planes to Pakistan. And the question you may ask is that if China sells this fifth generation fighter plane to Pakistan, will the Americans not get their hands on it and reverse engineer all the all the Chinese technology and then will China not become vulnerable when China has to fight the US for potentially in the future? Well, the J35s they will send to Pakistan will be downgraded, dumbed down J35s. They'll be the so-called export versions, not the full versions. They will not have the latest cutting edge edge technology. They'll be dumbed down versions of the J35 and they'll fail just like the other of Chinese systems failed. Okay, so China knows what it's doing. It's playing a very strategic game. Um, will a symbiotic relationship with India be better for China? Well, I suppose it would be, but China sees itself as very different from India. China sees itself as rightfully as the more powerful nation, significantly more powerful, two and a half times more powerful in terms of hard power. So they say that India should not be our our partner. India should be our vasal and India is not our equal. So we can't deal with India as an equal. Uh maybe they're right in saying so, maybe they are stupid in saying so. Only time will tell. But that is the approach they have chosen for the matter. Uh okay. Uh okay. Mlevin says, "What's the key difference between Zoran?" Zhan is that okay that new guy and Vive that helped Zoran win both are of Indian origin is it religion or the or the political party that they represent. So this new fella Zran Mani uh he has I I believe won the mayoral election in New York. So he is going to be the mayor of New York City. So what what does this development represent first of all? So from the Anglo perspective, from the perspective of the Anglo, there's the Atlantic and there's the two sides of the Atlantic. There's the there's east of the Atlantic, which is England and the UK, and there's west of the Atlantic, which is the US. So here's the deal, friends. And by the way, here's the deal. East of the Atlantic, you have the mayor of London, Sadi Khan. And now west of the Atlantic you have the upcoming mayor of New York City Zran Mamadani. London is the financial capital financial center of the UK and New York City is essentially the financial center of the US. So you see they are kind of balancing things out. So now you're going to have a US version an American version of Sadik Khan in their financial center. Both are of Indian origin. Saladi Khan is a Pakistani origin if I'm not mistaken but the same thing Indian origin. Yeah, because there was no Pakistan 80 years ago. Uh and it was all India. So yeah, both are of Indian origin. Uh what's the key difference between Zorhan and Vive? Uh Zoran is a is a standard issue lefty. Um he has no actual agenda of his own. He just wants to come to power and prominence and he will they will sell his soul if required. So he will do whatever his political masters tell him to do. It's just like Sadi Khan and as a consequence they will get all kinds of benefits and stuff. So he's a typical American lefty. He is not a Republican. He's a Democrat. Uh he's a recent immigrant if I'm not mistaken. And the key difference is that uh Vive Vivec is a grassroots guy. He's a self-made billionaire. He's a very highly intelligent person. Vivec and that's what annoys white Americans. A guy who had nothing when he was born. Very humble background, regular Indian background. s becomes a billionaire through his own work and is super intelligent and dares to run for the presidency of the US. Okay, that's Vive. On the other hand, you have Zuran Mani who has no qualities of his own. He's a Nepo child, Nepo baby. His mommy and daddy were people of of stature. His mommy is this leftist filmmaker Mirana na fake Mallayali person actually Punjabi Miran nayer and his daddy is some fellow who is some some academic somewhere Indian origin from Uganda that sort of thing. So, Zoran has benefited from the fact that his parents are both reasonably well placed in society and his mom helped him with his campaign, the movies and the the and and the campaign advertisements, the shooting and the filming of that and all that. His mom is a filmmaker so so she knows how to make really high quality films. So, all of that helped. So, Vive has risen on his own. Zoran is a Nepo child. Nepotistic child. That's a significant difference. But because he's part of the left, he's positioned and portrayed in a certain way as being not which is not offensive to the to the US white population. And so that's that's kind of the the key differences that I can see at this point. I have actually not looked into this Zan person at all. I have no interest in the guy. Um but maybe I'll have to look into it in the future. Let's see. Uh let's see what other questions we have. Questions that I've hopefully not taken a 100 times in the past. Let us see. Let us see. Okay. This I'm sure I've not taken in the past. Suas says u the recent Air India crash into a building raises doubts about 2611 or did the US hire engineers from Saudi Arabia and spend 10 trillion to dismantle the twin towers on a serious note what's your opinion okay so I have not raised this question but there have been people in the US who have been raising this question uh because of the very unfortunate and tragic accident that happened in Ahmedabad the Air India which still isn't resolved I mean it's still a mystery how did it happen but we'll not go into that. So the aircraft which was a Dreamlininer, Boeing Dreamlininer, it uh crashed into a building. Very tragic thing and the building still stands. So this big giant aircraft flies into a building and the building is intact. I mean it's not intact but it's standing. It did not collapse. On the other hand, we have these uh aircraft that crashed into the World Trade Center towers and the World Trade Center towers went down. Does it raise questions about 2611? Possibly. Possibly. Yeah. Um but we also have to understand the differences. The aircraft that were flown into the twin towers, they were flying at full speed essentially. They were trying to accelerate as they hit the towers. Okay. And the air in the aircraft was decelerating. It was going it was it was losing lift. So the momentum would be very different. Okay. MV squ mass times velocity squared. The momentum would be very different. I suppose the momentum of the twin towers aircraft would have been pro possibly significantly higher than the Air India flight that that flew into a building into a hostile building or whatever it was. Uh that's that. But even if the momentum is so high, the twin towers were made of very highly reinforced steel and steel cages all over the place. And there are still questions as to how they went down, but I'll not go into those questions. But yeah, um maybe it's something we should perhaps uh kind of investigate perhaps. Okay, Chiraawasti says, "Why don't we have strategic bombers like the B2 and Russian bombers? Is it because we are more of a defensive power or they're than an aggressive power?" It's because historically we have had no ambition of being a great power during the Nairovian time during the 20th century after the 20th century until Mr. Modi came to power we have had no ambition. Mr. Manm Singh had famously said that India has no ambition of being a great power. we are happy being in South Asia and remaining where we are that sort of thing. So when you have no ambition when you have prime minister like Mr. Moraji Desai who had no ambition from what it looks like then why would we why would you invest in these expensive platforms why would you either buy them or or have your scientists and engineers develop them why right so that's why we don't have the strategic strategic bombers the B2 is very advanced the Russians have plenty of high quality strategic bombers that date back to the USSR days but they are still very relevant and very useful today right uh it's because we have our leaders have never had any ambition We are a gigantic nation and our interests, our national interests require that we invest in all kinds of platforms including strategic bombers which are very long range bombers that can that can drop very significant quantities of uh explosive of of bombs but we don't have it. It's unfortunate. It makes sense to have strategic bombers but these are expensive and we have never developed them. If today we need them, we would have most likely we'll have to purchase them from probably Russia. It's because of our leaders having no ambition. That's why we are in the situation. Okay. Um Adv Abdut says the US Congress had a hearing yesterday on the UAP UFO issue. Okay. They almost agreed on the existence of nonhuman non-human intelligence technology and contact. What's my views? I am super skeptical. There's no question about the fact that these phenomena exist. Last year uh during the end of Mr. Biden's presidency, there was this UFO outbreak in the US, especially over New Jersey, New York, etc. UFOs all over the place. Now they've decided to call them UAPs. They've rebranded the thing UAPs. So you had all kinds of UAPs, UFOs across the US or sightings on live news with the city in the background. They could see a whole bunch of UFOs flying around on live news. So you can't deny the phenomenon. And you had these orb orblike UFOs which are just like balls of light. You had aircraft like UFOs with blinking lights and all that. You had all kinds of different kinds of UFOs. You even had an aircraft like UFO transforming into an orblike UFO. So what I think the situation is is that the US most likely has advanced technological programs and these technologies are what people consider to be UFOs. And I believe that after Mr. Trump came to power, his press secretary, she said, I believe that this was US technology. It was not UFOs or or aliens. What we saw in in dur during the last quarter of last year, it was US drones. I think that's what she said. Um, so I believe I am of the opinion that it's most likely. I think there are two scenarios. Scenario A and scenario B. In my opinion, scenario A has 99.9% likelihood of being true and that is that this is just advanced US technology that is secret from the world very advanced technology but human technology. So that is scenario A in my opinion it has a 99.9% chance of being true. Scenario B has a 0.1% chance of being true in my opinion and that is that this is aliens who are visiting the planet. Okay. So that has in my opinion 0.1% chance of being true. I am not ruling it out. Okay. But I think it's very unlikely and maybe there's a combination of scenario A and scenario B. That's also a possibility. Uh so I am super skeptical. I don't trust these claims easily. I think that it's most likely US technology and there's a very small likelihood that there you may have aliens uh present in the PL in our atmosphere perhaps. Uh let's take a couple more questions. Shoubam says, "Can India invade Bangladesh to protect Hindus?" Today we we have the news that came out that we expressed strong concern over the unilateral attacks on Iran by the US and Israel, unprovoked attacks, right? We express strong concern about this on on the bricks platform. So if we express strong concern about this, can we then attack Bangladesh unprovoked? Even if Bangladesh is killing its Hindus, the West will say that there's no provocation. It never happened because it's not being reported in the Western media. So even if this is happening, India is not in a position to invade Bangladesh. India is not in a position to do that. It would be great if we could do that and save the Hindus. But at this point in time, forget about the Hindus of Bangladesh, my friends. What about the Hindus of Banipur? What about the Hindus in certain other parts of India? What about the Kashmiri Hindus who are still not able to go back to Kashmir? What about the Hindus of our own country within India who are being terrorized? What about that? Let's first let's first take care of our Hindus, right? Then we'll think about Hindus from of outside India. Okay. Okay. This is a good question. This will be the final question of the day. How do space probes, says Amisha, how do they travel through the asteroid belt? They travel straight through the asteroid belt. Why is that? Because the asteroid belt is mostly empty space. when we look at depictions. Okay, let's take a look at depictions of the asteroid belt. Let's go to Google. Okay, what does the asteroid belt look like? Let's see that. This is how artists will depict the asteroid belt uh as this. This is a depiction of the asteroid belt. This is a depiction of the asteroid belt. This is another depiction. It looks so crowded. Look here. It looks so crowded. Look at this. So much rocks, debris, dust. Look at this. So crowded. But in reality, the asteroid belt is almost empty. The average distance between any two asteroids will be several million kilometers. You may have increased dust over there. So you will need to take some precautions like shielding and all just in case. But overall, there's no issue flying through the asteroid belt. So that's how you do it. Don't worry about it. Okay, with that we have come to the end of today's live stream. All right, I'll I'll end it over here. Thank you so much for all your questions and I will have a longer live stream, a regular ask a widget qu session tomorrow. Um maybe with super chat, maybe not. We will see about that. And uh Suresh is saying that Google maps has not been opened the show. Well, yeah, sometimes it happens. So hopefully it'll open tomorrow. So, thank you so much for all your questions. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. And I'll see you hopefully tomorrow. I I look forward to seeing you tomorrow, 8:00 p.m. for tomorrow's live stream. Thank you. Bye-bye.