Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the Askava know this is a history episode. We're going to talk about history. I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments. We'll do that. But before that, let's see who is there on the live chat today. Yes, it's an early episode. It's an early session. We couldn't do one yesterday because of various reasons. So, let's see who is there. I can see Sugjata is from Singapore. Well, namaste. Ahilia Patil, hello. Ronit Kumar, Sep Naik, Bharat Versa, Shashi Kumar, Vladimir Putin says my notifications have stopped. Well, I can't control that. So, uh, well, it is what it is. Anonymous scientist says, "Bonjour in congrats for publishing the brilliant books. Thank you so much. I appreciate that. Please do read." Uh, Shriika is there. Tushar Kalpur, Min Dave, Ammon from Mumbai, Vidi Manar, Adita Singh, Rat from Pune. Who else do we have? Satellite, we have Shri Satellite from Goa with us today. Abhishek, Kapil Singh, Rishab Shikhar, Creative Clips, Ammon, Ashwini, Abhinav, Vishra, Aayush Singh, Pranam, Vikas, PJ, Amatistic, Shashi Kumar, Hensi, Penguin, hello Shash, Sandep, Nyak, good evening, Ronitkumar, who else? Bharat, Bidori, Bidori event countdown. Vladimir Putin, Nabanita Das, team talks, Dharma, who else? Duv durya duv durya geopolitical dub from indoor from indor langi sur uh vikash pj shre vias rohit kalita vishwa samraat shukla push suri vikash parata yes yes yes full books will come eventually I'm writing books in a serialized fashion one chapter at a time each chapter is not small it's substantial is saying please launch the book in hard copy yeah I'll launch it once the book is complete complete right now I'm releasing the books the in episodic format so once the entire set of episodes is done I will have it published in hard copy format and yeah you will be able to get it at that point in physical form Kevin Shibu progressive pujan bill Aman how many hours do you read books daily well it depends I mean there's no set time a couple of hours maybe sometimes it's like a whole day depends and so much more subhhamve samraat shukla deadly ninja random Shorts. Hello Kevin Shibu. Aayush Nihal Nishal Ray Mahishta Cluster uh Aditia Chili Koti Adue Samarat Kevin Shibu feels strong man Sep Nyak Mayank and everybody else. All right. All right. I have greeted you all. I will not be able to greet everyone individually but thank you so much for being on the live. I can see Tjas. Hi Tjas. Good to see you sir. I hope your health is good. Do well sir. Keep taking care of yourself. pages, it's good to see you again, one of our longtime viewers. Very good to see you. All right. Uh, and so, thank you everyone for being on the live chat. Now, let's take some questions. Let's take some questions. Uh, Aman, you're very welcome. Rohit doesn't like fiction books. That's all right. That's okay. You should go with what you like, sir. We should go with what you like. Okay. Let's go and take some questions. I have a bunch of questions that you all have asked and I'll take as many as of these as possible. Let's go for the first one. This is by Rahul Dunak. The question is, the dinosaurs were killed off. Well, the non-avian dinosaurs were killed off 66 million years ago due to the impact of a 15 km wide roughly meteorite, asteroid, comet, whatever it was that happened. The impact was in Yucatan, present day Yucatan, the Chikshulub impact. So can we say that some of the megapona like the stigodon in the Indian subcontinent became extinct in the pristine epoch by the lonar crater causing meteorite. Interesting question. So do we know what the lonar crater is? I mean many of you may perhaps not know about it. It's a it's a significant meteorite crater meteor crater in India in Maharashtra. And uh so first of all let's go and find the lunar lonar crater. Let's go to the maps. Outstanding. First question itself brings the maps on the screen. All right. So we have well let's zoom into India and let's just search for it. Luna lake. It's a lake now but it was a crater. Well let's take a look at the satellite image. So as you can see it's a roughly circular thing. Yeah. And this is located if we zoom out you can see it is in Maharashtra. Let's zoom in again. It's a roughly circular structure right and uh you can see there are more structures nearby that seems to be a secondary impact umber lake and so on. So this is a lake which is actually a crater and this this impact event happened about I don't know 50,000 years before today 50,000 55,000 years before today that that sort of thing. Okay. So, it's a it's a significant impact crater, not gigantic. What's the dimensions of this crater? About a kilometer 1.1 1.2 1.3 km in diameter if you were considering it to be an approximate circle. Right? So, that was the deal. So, this this impact crater is about 1.2 km wide. The Chikshul impact crater which is no longer visible to the untrained naked eye. The Chichchulub impact crater is about 200 kilometers in diameter. Okay. And that was caused by something like a 10 to 15 kilometer large asteroid or comet impact. And that's the event that killed off the non-avian dinosaurs and it caused a mass extinction event in event in conjunction with the decken traps activity volcanic activity that was happening in in the decken region of India when India the Indian subcontinent was at the time in the middle of the uh Indian Ocean. It it had still not hit Asia. So the chik chilob impact crater is about 200 kilometers wide and it caused mass ext mass extinction on the planet. The lunar crater is one let's say 1 kilometer wide. So it's 200 times smaller. Right? So the the impact impactor the object that would have struck the earth at Lodar would be roughly you could say 200 times smaller than the chukul impact uh object. So if that thing was 15 km wide let's divide by 10. So that's 1.5 km. Let's divide by 10 again. That's 150 m divide by 2 75 m. So the the object that would have caused the lunar impact would have been about 75 m in diameter or so which is similar to the object the object that uh caused the Tonguska event in 1908. The Tunguska event was an it was not an impact event because the object exploded in the sky but it caused a gigantic area of of devastation in in essentially uninhabited part of Russia. it leveled enormous you know uh regions of forest and all that and there are some some lakes that you find in the region today that are possibly the cause the the consequence of that um of that event. So the so the lonar crater was probably caused by something similar to the object that caused the tunguska event in 1908. And as we know in 1908 it was pretty devastating locally over there but it not it did not cause any any extinction event event. It did not cause any species to go extinct or any such thing. So the lunar event would have been like that. It would have been pretty pretty big. It would have been devastating at the time locally. Maybe over over an area of maybe 500 square kilm, maybe 1,000 square kilm or maybe a radius of 500 km around the place where you have the impact crater but it would not have been so devastating that it would have caused uh the extinction of various megapona or any kind of fauna. So it would not have done that. Now the question people will be wondering what is a stegodon right it's it was an ancient form of elephant it was an ancient kind of elephant which used to live in the subcontinent which existed in the subcontinent and beyond the subcontinent so let's quickly take a look at what the stegodon looked like okay it was a a kind of elephant steodon steodon you see this is what a stegodon looked like and uh this is you could say an artistic representation it had larger tusks than present day elephants. And this animal uh went extinct about around 10,000 or so BC. That's not a whole lot of time ago. So the Lunar event happened let's say about 50,000 years before today. And the Stegodon went extinct about 12 13 15,000 years before today. So there's a significant time period time gap of more than 30,000 years between the extinction of the stegoon and the time when the lunar impact event happens. So clearly these two are not correlated. Okay. So that's how you look at it logically. You look at the time period of what happened when when the extinction of this animal happened. It happened about 10 12 15,000 years before today. But the Lodar event happened 50 55,000 years before today. So that's a significant time gap. So that's not there's no correlation there. And secondly, the lunar the the object that would have impacted the earth and created the lunar crater was way smaller than the chikulub impactor which was gigantic, massive. It caused a global mass extinction event. Right? So uh yeah. So it it would be incorrect to think or or or to say that uh the lonar event was uh responsible for the extinction of the stegodon or any other megapona. We have f I mean people have done some research here and there. in the Luna region and it it's pretty it's a pretty significant impact trader but they found no evidence of that event having caused any kind of mass extinction or even localized extinction events um in the Indian subcontinent. All right, second question it's by Napoleon Singh Shikhawat. Please take my question. I believe here we have it. Who was the priest king? Why was this statue given to Pakistan and why is Mr. Modi sometimes compared with him. Okay, let's find out who was the priest king. Let's put an image on the screen. Very very iconic, very famous im image, right? Priest. Sorry, forgive my spelling. Priest king priest king. This here image iconic image that was is of a statue that was discovered in Mohenadaro. probably Mohenjaro and uh very famous image it's one of the most iconic and most recognizable images from that time period of our history the Sarasoti Hindu phase of our history and this is one figurine of a human being of a person from that time possibly that has been discovered and this is for some reason called the priest king and there's a lot of speculation as to who this uh person may or may not have been okay so that's the priest king so the first question we have to ask ourselves is was this individual a priest and a king? Was it so? Well, the truth is that we have absolutely no idea about the identity of the person that this figurine may depict. We don't know who it was. Was it a real person? Was it just a representation of of a person? We don't know. Secondly, was he a priest? We have absolutely no idea. Was he a king? Well, did we have kings in those days? If you look at u if you look at the archaeological evidence that we have from that time period in northern western India, the Saraswati Hindu region, the so-called Indis Valley uh culture region or Harman culture region or whatever you want to call it. If you see uh that time period and the archaeological record from that from the time period, you will see that India in this region gigantic region which is larger than Egypt and Mesopotamia put together. So in this region at during that time 3,000 4,000 5,000 years before today even 4,000 years before today that time period big time period at that time India had by the what's called the mature Harapan phase become a completely fully uh um industrialized civilization and fully urbanized civilization. We have we had standardizations of weights standardization of weights and measures and we have the same grid layout of cities and towns and villages everywhere and we have the same system everywhere whether it is all the way north in in Punjab, Hiana even Kashmir all the way south to to northern Maharashtra eastwards in Madhya Pradesh or westwards to the to the border of present day Persia that entire region you will the same structure of cities with the same grid structure cities are well organiz ized and you know all of that is there. Civic amenities are available everywhere that sort of thing. But what is strikingly absent is the absolute complete absence of any palaces of any in of any any buildings or structures that are you would associate with powerful figures with power with kings like palaces or any such thing. There's no such thing. There is no building that is more magnificent than the other buildings. The biggest and magn supposed supposedly magnificent buildings were the public buildings like the public baths and assembly halls and all that right but that that those structures served a civic purpose. It served a purpose that was uh for all of society. It was not something that was restricted to a certain category of of of people from this time period. So there's the complete absence of palaces. You can't see I mean generally when you look at the archaeological record of any time period from any part of the world you will see that yeah you have certain social structure social stratification is visible and you can see that there are forts there are there are palaces even if they are ruined you can you can figure out what the social structure would have been like and what the power structure would have been like from the archaeological record from this time period of Indian history we find no such evidence it's it's puzz puzzling who ruled the people. How was the society organized? It was clearly fully industrialized. It was clearly clearly extremely technologically advanced. It was clearly extremely well organized and well planned. But who ran the whole show? Who are the administrators? Who are the kings? No idea. Nothing is visible. Nothing is you can't make out from the archaeological record. So clearly it looks like there was no monarchy or if there was a monarchy system then the kings lived very similar to the common people if there were kings and once again we don't find any great temples or any such any such thing from that time period we do find vic and we find shiblings and all so our culture was there but you did not have great temples you did not have great palaces no such thing so then the question arises who does this figure represent? Was it an important, let's say, politician from that time period? He does have a great amount of dignity if you look at the way he's depicted, right? Or was it a priest? Well, did we have priests at the So, the the point I'm trying to make is that we have no idea how the society was was run at the time. Did we have priests who were a higher class? Did we have kings and royalty or or an aristocracy that was a higher class? It doesn't look like that was the case because there's no evidence of that. Once again, let me say that the absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. Maybe it was done in a very subtle way, right? The organization of society and and the administration of society, but there's no evidence that we can find in the archaeological record. There were priests or there were kings. There would have been priests. But possibly, you see, one aspect of our culture, of our civilization, is that our religion, what we now call Hinduism, is extremely decentralized. We don't have any popes. We don't have any religious leaders as such. Today these days we have Babas and B what not. That's a very modern phenomenon. In the past we had people like Adish Shankarachara who were extremely influential but they were influential not powerful. They did not create this military structure. I'm at the top and then I have five lieutenants be below me and each lieutenant will have 20 lieutenants under them and that sort of pyramidal structure. We do not have we do not have that ever. So our religion was extremely decentralized. So every home would have a would have a fire haven place. Every home would possibly have a shivaling and people would do their worship on their own without needing higher guidance from from some religious leader. So once again the question is does it then make sense to call somebody a priest? Does it make sense to call someone a king? The Greeks had this ideal, you know, that they had this ideal of the philosopher king that the most enlightened kings are philosopher kings who are not just kings who hold power, but they're also extremely wise people, philosopher like people, that sort of thing. Maybe that has been transposed upon this figure and that's why it's called the priest king. I'm not sure who coined this term priest king, right? But there is no evidence that this person was a priest. There is no evidence that this person was a king. We don't even know who the person was. If it indeed depicts a real fe a real person from history. Maybe it does. Probably it does. Maybe it was a very popular person. Maybe it was a person who was of great importance to society. We don't know for sure. So the so the gist of my answer is that we have absolutely no idea who this represents. What was the person's name? What did what did he do? What was his function in society? During what time period did this person live? if he did live and so on. So that's about the priest king. It's a huge mystery. We don't know who it was. Why was this statue given to Pakistan? Well, don't ask me. I have no idea why the statue was given to Pakistan. It was discovered in the what 1920s 30s whenever it was discovered before the partition and you know destruction of India and it was for a long time in a museum in Delhi I believe and after the um 71 war when India for some reason became again friendly with Pakistan that's when the Zulfi Ali said that give us the figure of the priest king and give us the figure of the dancing girl it's another very iconic statueette that we have of a dancing world and it looks like we only gave one which was the priest king and now it is in Karachi somewhere in some museum in Karachi why did we have to give it to the Pakistanis I have no idea what was the need for that why do you have to make these unilateral concessions to a defeated country right and they don't even believe in this this culture anymore the Pakistanis so why did they want it why did we give it back why did we give it not give it back it was it is ours anyway even if it it may have been discovered in Harap Mohendra wherever it was which is currently in Pakistan temporarily but it it belongs to our civilization our culture not the not the culture and whatever the Pakistanis espoused today right so that's a political it was a political decision to give the priest king to the Pakistanis and that's where the statue is today why is Mr. Modi compared to him well look at the face it's a very similar face right Mr. Modi does resemble the person depicted in this uh statue and this figure. So that's why people compare Mr. Modi with him. I think I may have also been to some extent a a causative figure in this comparison because many years ago I think 21 or something I had put out a short video about something and I had it was about did the Indis Valley civilization die away. That was the the the answer the question that that I'd answered in the short clip and in the in the thumbnail I had put an image of the priest king so-called priest king and an image of Mr. Modi and you and you can see clearly so so much resemblance right so really it did die out we the same people we the descendants of the same people of of the people who lived during that time that's the deal so maybe that's why Mr. Mr. Modi is compared with him because people imagine that this the person depicted in the figure is perhaps a king a great king from from our ancient history and Mr. Modi somehow has those characteristics and facial uh the facial features are very similar. So that's why Okay. Okay. Real Vladimir Putin is here and the question is do you think that the painter's biggest mistake was attacking the USSR? If the painter didn't attack the USSR then the axis may have won. So and and if so what would the world have looked like as a consequence of such a decision and what have what would have been the impact on India? So the painter obviously refers to the Austrian painter which is Adolf Hitler who who who wanted to be a painter and yeah that's that's a whole different story from a from a certain period of his life. Uh was his biggest mistake attacking the USSR probably probably operation Barbarosa. So the Soviets and the and the and the Nazis the the two governments had this non-aggression pact the molotov ribbon throp pact right that we will not attack each other and we will uh we the two nations had an understanding of how various uh subjugated nations would their territories would be divided up up divided up and so on. So there was this non-aggression pact between the USSR and Nazi Germany and uh if if let's say Hitler had not attacked the USSR started operation Barbarosa then maybe he would have been able to focus on England on on on Britain and maybe he would have been able to conquer Britain that's a possibility and maybe he would have had more success in North Africa and whatever else he was doing through Raml and his campaign the desert fox's campaign in North Africa and so on and obviously that would and if he had not attacked the USSR then the whole might of the USSR eventually would not have been unleashed on Nazi Germany because 80% of the winning in second world war was done by the Soviets not by the Americans the Americans entered the war at a much later period in the war okay so it was the Soviets who did the fighting the dying and the winning and the Americans now because of Hollywood they portrayed themselves as the as the greatest victors of the second world war the consequence the the new world order that came as a consequence it it saw the ascendance of the US of the USA and it became the most powerful nation sure but the second world war was won by the Soviets 80% of it not in the European theater in the western theater not by the Americans so if the painter had decided not to attack the USSR what could have happened then you would you would probably have had a situation where the painter would have conquered Brit Britain and uh maybe he if if that would have happened he would have also captured much of North Africa the that desert fox campaign that was going on maybe he would have taken Suis and taken the Suez Canal in that case if the non-aggression pact had held right and then what would have been the situation like it would have been a a situation like what you have in Europe today you have western Europe which is dominated by dominated by NATO and you have the eastern European countries that are that are uh part of the Soviet block. I mean today many of the Eastern European countries are also part of NATO. So essentially it's the Russians standing alone against everyone in Europe apart from a couple of countries like Belarus and so on. Latia, Lithuania, Estonia, these are part of essentially the NATO block or EU block and all the former Soviet uh satellite states are you could say now allies or vasals of the Americans. So if Hitler had not attacked the USSR, maybe that sort of situation would have happened that you would have a bunch of nations that are under Soviet domination and the rest of Europe would have been under Nazi occupation. That's what would have happened. And if the painter had would have conquered the UK, then India would have been liberated, right? then the the connection between the u British occupiers in India and their overlords in the UK would have been severe. It would have been cut it would have been cut off and all the supplies and whatnot and the leadership and whatever else was provided from the UK would not have happened. So that would have led that would have probably led to the overthrow and all the all the puppets of the British Raj the various politicians who to whom power was eventually handed over in 1947 they would have lost power because their power came from from the overlordship of the British I'll not take any names because that would be controversial. So India would have been liberated then and the politicians who came to power in 4750 wherever they would probably not have come to power. It would have been a clean liberation of India and maybe India would have reverted to a civilizational status which it currently doesn't have. So it would have been a major major change. It would it would have had a major impact on India. A very positive impact on India actually. Yeah. That's how the world works. You see cause and effect. Nirvana Shanks says, "What no why is the Rosetta Stone so important and how did it help understand Egyptian writing? The Rosetta Stone, Egyptian heroglyphics. So the Egyptian script was not understood for a very long time, right? I mean the Egyptians understood it but then Egyptian culture and civilization was wiped out, right? Nothing persists to the day until today. nothing at all from the old Egyptian civilization and culture. Nothing exists today culturally. Right? So Egypt's culture disappeared. It was destroyed. And for the longest time, for a period of more than about 15,700 years, almost 2,000 years, let's say, people did not know how to read the Egyptian inscriptions, the heroglyphics. And once the west became dominant and they capt they subjugated Egypt in other countries, they were their historians were fascinated with this Egyptian writing. So they wanted to understand what's written but they had no way of deciphering the script and then this stone was discovered. Let's let's look take a look at what this stone looks like. It's an inscription in three different scripts. Okay, Rosetta stone. What's it look like? We'll look at an image. So this is the Rosetta stone. Okay, you can see there are three sections top, middle, and bottom. And the three sections are written. It's the same message essentially the same message that is written in three different scripts. So which scripts is is is this message written in? One was the Egyptian heroglyphic script. The second was the Egyptian demotic script and the third was Greek because this uh inscription was made the Rosetta stone was made around 30 300 BC or some around that time around that time when Egypt was ruled by the Greeks because of the uh effects of the of the conquest of Egypt by Alexander. So Egypt was ruled by the Tlemic dynasty and this Rosetta stone inscription is in is the same message in three different scripts. the herographic script, the demotic script and Greek. Now Greek was understood to the western historians. So then this started the process. Okay, now we have three scripts and we have the same message essentially. So let's try and now figure out. So slowly various historians various linguists worked on it and over a period of time they started cracking the script. So one of the ways of doing it is you find the names of kings in a script you understand right and if it's repeated two three times you look at you look for certain similar patterns in the scripts you don't understand and then you try and then you know what the name of the king sounds when you write in Greek now you find the same repeated patterns in the other scripts then it means it has the same sound so then you can understand what those two three characters what what the sounds of those two three characters mean so you can assign sounds to the characters and that's how you start working backwards and forwards and whichever way and eventually you can you can uh decipher the script. So that's how it was done and uh that's how it uh helped historians finally decipher the heroglyphic script. Magnificent Shri Nehuji says when we say Indo-Uropean languages what does it really mean in Bat? We have our languages which are you could say upper branch forms of mother Sanskrit corrupted forms of mother tanskrit and we understand u much of our language like people from the south will get an idea of punjabi people from Bengal understand marati gujati hindi marati Bengali almost the same here and there with some differences yep we do understand that yeah so what's the deal with the European languages because we don't understand a word of them even though we say that these are part of the indo-uropean language family we use the term Indo-uropean languages I am sure people of Europe will understand in some multiple languages here and there. So is this Euro Indo-Uropean language family a complete figment of imagination? Is it fiction or is it really a thing? Very good question you asked. So in India we understand each other's languages u it's u I mean look even if someone speaks Tamil or if someone speaks Malali or someone speaks Canada they will still be able to understand a lot of words from the northern languages and and so on. So because of because of the way the languages are and because of our because of thousands and tens and thousands of years of Indian history and when it comes to the what's called the Aian languages or Indo-arian languages well they are very mutually intelligible if you speak any for example Bengali you will be able to understand much of what someone says in Hindi or Gujarati or Marathi or Punjabi or whatever and so on very mutually intelligible with some changes but you can understand what someone is saying. Similarly, in Europe, if someone speaks, let's say, Spanish, they'll be able to figure out what an Italian person is saying to some extent, right? The Ramos languages, if someone speaks, let's say, German, they'll be able to understand what a Dutch person is speaking to some extent. Or if someone speaks English, they may be able to figure out what a German person is saying because of certain words that are kind of common. But when it comes to Indian languages and European languages, I mean you really can't understand each other's languages, right? And then there's the case of Persian. So if you pay attention to Persian, if someone speaks Persian slowly, you you will even be able to understand some Persian because the Persian is way way more similar, way closer to the Indian languages than to the Western languages, European languages. Now, so the question is, is what is this thing? Is this a truth? Is this a real thing? The Indo-Uropean language family or is it just fiction? So, let it's it's true. These these languages are part of the same language family. And let me show you why. So, let's see. Okay. Um, Indo Indo European language similar words. Okay. Mother, father, sister, day, night, etc. I'm going to show you the similarities. Indo-Uropean vocabulary. Where do we go? Indo-Uropean common words of Indo-Uropean language. Let's see this website. Okay. I have not seen it before. Do we have Okay, here we have it. Mother, father. Okay, so mama means me. In Greek, it's ma. In Latin, it's me. In English, it's me. Tu means you. It is Greek. In Greek, it's su. And tum in Latin becomes to in English it becomes thw similar then par in Sanskrit we say par pru right that's father in Greek it becomes per in Latin it becomes per in English becomes father and so on matter in Sanskrit is mother obviously which becomes matter in Greek matter in Latin and mother in English brother in Sanskrit becomes frater in Latin and brother in English. Swashtar or swastri in Sanskrit becomes soror in Latin and sister in English. Dhitar which is daughter becomes daughter in English and tugar in in Greek. Ashwas becomes hippos inquas in and so much more. Janu means ni. It's the same word in French janu which is janu in Sanskrit. Uh I mean there's so many examples of this you know septa is seven which is hap hapta in in Greek it's also it's it's in Latin and seven in English ashta becomes octo octo 8 na becomes no or nine dasa becomes da in Greek and desm in Latin shatam becomes hecton centm 100 indo-uropean europ indo-anian words it's even closer. Okay. Sanskrit in English, Mata becomes mother, pithar becomes father, brhar becomes brother and so much more. So much more. There there's so many similarities. If you look slightly below the surface, if you do a surface level analysis just on the bas basis of how languages sound, you won't see any similarities. But if you do a deeper analysis, you'll see shocking similarities emerge all over the place. All over the place. Um when it comes to the days of the week. Okay. In in in Sanskrit we have what? Raviar, Sumoir, Mangalwar, Buddha, Guru, Shukrash, Shani. Now, Raviar. Ravi. Who is Ravi? Ravi means the sun. Raviar becomes Sunday. Yes. Okay. Sar Monday, right? Who what is S? Sar. What is Som? S means moon, which is Monday. In French, it's learn. Lun means moon. Once again the same pattern. Uh so mangal mangal is mars in French you have mai which is Tuesday and Tuesday in English is from tier t y r it's a Nordic god then wens day mangal bud bud it's mercury right in French you say mehi mercury Thursday is what mal guru guru right guru is It is it is Jupiter. Guru is Jupiter. Jupiter. Who was Jupiter? Who was Jupiter? Well, it was Indra. Indra became Zeus. Zeus became Jupiter. Jupiter became Thor. Why is it called Thor's day? And so on. I can give you the whole thing. The similarities in language, culture are striking. They're unmistakable. But you need something beyond that goes deeper than surface level analysis. Then you will see the shocking patterns emerge everywhere. So it tells you that this was all part of one culture long long ago which originated somewhere and the question is where and the white supremacists will claim that it all originated in white Europe which is utter nonsense. All right. Okay. Nirvana Shanks says, "Who were the janiseries in the Ottoman Empire and how did they go from useful soldiers to causing problems?" The Janiseries in the Ottoman Empire. The Janiseries is a very well bloody period of history. So it was like this. See, first of all, let's take a look at the region we talking about and then we will uh go into a slightly more detail. Let's put the map on the screen. We're talking about Turkey, right? So Turkey a thousand years ago, there was no no Turkish person there. No one spoke Turkish or practice Islam, right? So what happened is about 11 around 11, 1200 AD, the Turks were fleeing from the Mongols. The Turks used to live in Central Asia. Central Asia, Kazakhstan, Tajakistan, not Tajakistan. Okay, not Tajak. Kazakhstan, Usbakistan, Kyrgystan, Turk Manistan, all those stands, not the Indo Iranian stan which is Tajakistan, the other stance and all of that. Okay. So the Turks lived in this region also in southern Russia. The Tatars were also Turks and then the Mongol Empire erupted out of nowhere and the Turks fled from the Mongols because the Mongols were an allconquering power and the Turks were frightened. So they fled, they fled, they fled westwards and they came in the region between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea and they went southwards and that's how they entered Anatolia. Anatolia is the major portion of Turkey, the Asiatic portion of Turkey. So they the Turks entered this region and they were well they were nomads used to fighting all the time and they found this population of peaceful Greek people, civilized Greek people and they smashed this population and they took the land and the they enslaved the people of of the Greek origin people and then they you know perpetrated the standic standard the standard Turkish atrocities and all conversion by force and uh you know thieving kidnapping women and forcibly marrying them to Turks and that sort of thing. And that's how the Turks became white people, essentially Greek people. If you look at the genetics of Turkey, it's it's Greek genetics or some and some Armenian genetics. That's it. Very little Turk genetics. So they um they essentially enslaved the local people and forced their women to marry Turks over and over again over God knows how many generations. And that's what happened. Now the Ottoman Empire then with the conquest of Constantinople 1453 it became a thing and then they became a powerful force and they were an expansionist force. They expanded westwards, eastwards and so on. They conquered the the Baltic regions and they enslaved the people there and one of the means of of subjugating these uh defeated populations was to extract what was called the blood tax. The blood tax. So every village they will go to every village and they'll they'll say that uh every year you will give us x number of boys young boys like less than 10 years old. You will give your young boys to us. Every village needs has a certain kota. Every year they need to provide a certain number of boys. Maybe it's 10 boys. Maybe it's 20 boys. Whatever it is and these boys would be taken by force from their families. There's nothing the families could do. The boys would be taken under the tutilage of the Turks. They would be converted to Islam, circumcised, all that and then they would be turned into soldiers and the indoctrination brainwashing was so thorough that they became this the strongest the most powerful fighting force of the Turks the elite fighting force the janiseries right eventually they became so powerful that they caused political problems and they they you know that that's how power works so that was the deal it was the devir system or something it's called the blood tax system horrific thing that they did they steal boys from the local people and then use those boys after they grow up to oppress the locals because by the time they're fully Islamized and Turkishized and then they would oppress their own people, their own families, their own villages and cities and countries, that's what they would do. Horrific. Well, that's part of Turkish history and culture. The system of the janiseries, the blood tax. Vashishta says how did the parliament come into existence in Britain and when did it power become more than that of the British crown the king or the queen how did that happen right interesting question so historically before the Normans conquered England in 1066 AD there was no parliament or or any such thing uh before the Normans you had the Anglo-Saxons the angles and the Saxons who uh ruled over these islands the British islands and they had a system they had kings obviously and the kings would have a a council of advisers which was called the whiten whiten gamut was the meeting of the council of the king that sort of thing and that's where the real power lay the king and and their council of advisers then once the normans took over when William the conqueror conquered England in the year 1066 AD he smashed the existing system destroyed it uh and replaced it with a Norman system and uh in which which eventually became what England is today, what what Britain is today. So the king William and his descendants for some for a couple of centuries they would have uh council of advisers themselves which was called I don't remember what it was called in Latin and that's where the power lay but eventually uh by the 13th century or something some kind of parliament had had uh had uh emerged which was essentially the powerful people they would be brought together in one place so that they could decide about the important things of the of of the country. So it would be uh priests which are cardinals and all that and there would be some wealthy land owners and and the nobles. So that was the kind of parliament you had. It was all entitled privileged people and they they would come and decide about minor affairs in the country and they would you know maybe make some decisions that would have some impact at a low level in the country. Then over time the parliament became a more established thing and then you would have the then eventually you had a house of lords and a house house of commons. The lords were the old parliament, the priests and the aristocrats and the landed nobles. All of those people those are the lords and then you had a house of commons which was which was the common people who had no nobility or any such thing no privilege and they also would send people and that's how the parliament was was divided into two uh two houses the house of lords and the house of uh the commons and eventually and slowly over time the parliament became slightly gradually over time see more more consequential slightly more powerful over time uh by the 14th 15th century the the parliament had significant control over uh taxation possibly and uh taxation taxation and legislation right but the power the ultimate power obviously lay in the in the crown the king it's then there was a revolution so then the parliament obviously the nature of power is that you want more and more power so there was a revolution in 1688. 1688 if I'm not mistaken. It was called the Glorious Revolution. Let's let's fact check my year. Do I have do I remember it correctly? Was it a the glorious thing in 168? Glorious reolution 16. Yeah. 1688. There was a glorious revolution in 1688 which which saw the deposition of uh these kings James and all and different different uh I think it was a woman who came to power who was put in power who was a relative of James and her husband was a foreigner I don't remember the specific details you can look it up and that's where parliament becomes more powerful than than the king 1688 and uh then then the king becomes a kind of a figurehead it So after the glorious revolution, England, Britain became a constitutional monarchy in which the king would give his rubber stamp approval to whatever parliament said and the king could not function without parliament support that sort of thing. Uh so that that caused a different kind of equilibrium and today it is said that the monarchy is just a set of figureheads and they don't they clearly don't really have any real power but they still are extremely wealthy. So that's how it happened. It's a very gradual process that took roughly a thousand years maybe 800 years that sort of thing. So that's how the power structure evolved in England and in Britain over a period of about 8 n centuries. So yeah. Okay. Aayush says please tell us in detail about Rajputs. How Rajuts contained the Mughals and what sacrifices they made in doing so. Look the Rajputs Muggals was a much later period. When did Baba in uh invade? When did Baba arrive in India? Let's uh let's find this. Baba was the first muggle, right? Wasn't he? Babber India. When did he founder of the Muggal Empire? He w he when did he come to power? Which year? Let's quickly reference this untrustworthy source. Okay. 1526. 1526 is when Baba becomes uh king of a small part in a small region in northern India, right? 1526. But the Turk and Arabic invasions started happening in the 700s in the 8th century. That's a full seven centuries before the muggles become the power in India. Right? And all these centuries, seven centuries, the Turks were trying their best to invade and occupy India. The first part of India to fall to the Turks was Gandhar which is now called Afghanistan, right? And it's the original Kashmir. What happened there, you saw later happen in Kashmir and other parts of India. So the Turks launched wave after wave after wave after wave of invasion of India and they got some footholds here and there. They took Gandhar. Yes. And from there they would then they used Gandhar as the launch pad for launching further invasions into India. The Gores and Gaznavis and all they came from Gandhar right which was turned into Afghanistan. And who fought? It was the Indian kings and kingdoms of that time. So if you look at the 7th century, 8th century, 10th century, 11th century, the term Rajput did not exist. This term came into existence much later. It's interesting. It would be interesting for historians to look at when does this term first appear in the historical record or Rajput or Rajaputra. Right? So when we say Rajput today we are referring to the kingdoms and the kings of those times the the monarchies of those times from the 8th century to the 14th 15th 16th whatever century and who were these Rajput they did not call themselves Rajput at the time right so who were these what we call Rajputs today who were these people these were the ancient ruling dynasties of India dating back to the late Vic age so they they were in charge of ruling various parts of India you had kingdoms. There were times when the whole of the subcontinent was united under a single emperor, a single empire and there were times of fragmentation which is what was the case when the Turks started started invading India. Um so the Rajputs who we know now called the Rajputs were the Chawans and all the various u not just the Cha so many so many famous surnames as we know all these kingdoms they fought but the problem was that they they were separated they were not under a single unified command like what you have in an empire so they all fought they made tremendous sacrifices they repelled the Turks you know we talk about the Hunik invasions because it's not it is not controversial right there were there was there Wave after wave after wave of Hunik invasions of India, the Huns tried their best to invade India for like two centuries and once again Gandhar was the first part of India to fall to the Huns. Okay. And it was the Gupta emperors who repulsed the Hunik invasions especially Scandupta. He spent his whole life fighting uh you know fighting of the Hoons and eventually after his death the Hoons were able to you know capture significant portions of India and settled down and they became Indians of course. So the Hunik invasion period took like two three centuries. The Turk invasions that went on for seven centuries before they made actual progress real progress and in the form of the Muggal Empire. Right? So that seven centuries of resistance was done by the Rajputs but you will not find any any of this given in any form of any sort of detail in your textbooks because then you will kind of be proud of your country right but we we are supposed to be portrayed as a country of losers that's why our history textbooks only talk about the glories of Baba and all whatnot this little chieftain who came from and John and Usbakistan but all the centuries of of of resistance to the Turks. Very little is mentioned. Baba Raul, he's a kind of semi-leendary, semi-th mythical person in the imagination of lots of Indians. Most most Indians probably don't even know Paparal existed and what he did and he he reconquered many parts of what is today Pakistan from the Turks. But eventually he also passed away and things went the way it is. So the the the resistance was fierce. It was centuries of resistance. Tremendous sacrifices were made and eventually the Rajputs the Rajput kingdoms of the later period like 16th century 17th century they were vasalized by the muggles. And that's why lots of people like to say that the Rajputs you know they they they became what allies of the muggals. Let me tell you something what happened after 1857. Everyone was vasalized by the British, right? But nobody taunts those. Nobody taunts those princely states and their kings whose descendants still live among us today. Nobody taunts them today. They also you could say sold their country because you would if if if becoming a vasal means you sold your country off. Well, what the hell happened there? You see when the when the oppressive when the occupying powers force is overwhelming then this sort of thing happens. So eventually after seven eight centuries of resistance the Raj portuts eventually became vasalized by by Jalaluduin right Jalaludin what what's his name Akbar Jalaluduin that sort of thing but the sacrifices were immense and the the the toll that they paid were was horrific horrific and yeah so that's the deal but this poor this this period of Indian history is not u examined by historians And there's very little of of it in your textbooks and that's why all these various misinterpretations exist about the Rajbuts. Nirvana Shanks says what was the typing rebellion and what beliefs of Hong Kuan started it? Hong Yukuan. The typing rebellion I mean China has these horrifying civil wars where 20 30 million people will die just just like that. The typing rebellion starts around 1850 or something. You can look up the exact dates yourself if you want are interested. Around 1850 the typing rebellion starts and it went on until about 1865 about 14 15 years it went on and the death toll was in excess of 20 million. So what was the deal? So the rebellion the the the leader of the rebellion was this individual called Hong Kuan and he aspired to become a high-ranking Chinese bureaucrat and the in the Chinese used to have this examination system. So you to sit for the exam it's a very very comprehensive exam and it's very hard to pass very difficult to very difficult to crack the exam and I think this guy he tried two three times and he failed every time and he eventually became disenchanted disillusioned and then he developed delusions of grandeur. So he declared that I am the younger brother of Jesus Christ and he became a and he started propounding you know propounding a new religion which is which was apparently a combination of Christianity with some local Chinese beliefs and he said that the Chinese society needs to be reformed and uh land and wealth needs to be redistributed among the poor. Very very nice thing to say. It was like kind of a communist propaganda kind of thing. And he amassed a lot of followers and he wanted to overthrow the the government of the the theQing Empire, theQing dynasty. Uh and he wanted to to overthrow Confucianism, the the belief system, which is an atheistic belief system in China and Buddhism, whatever. and he wanted to replace it with his weird form of religion which was Christianity mixed with some some other beliefs whatever I don't know what whatever it was. So this was the attempt to impose Christianity on China and because of his uh of of his uh what he said that the land and wealth needs to be distributed that sort of thing if I come to power I'll do it that's why he amassed a lot of followers and a significant part of uh south eastern China came under this guy's dominion Hong Huan and obviously the the empire will not tolerate that so that that caused a war between the two factions between the empire and uh the the forces of Hong Xi Shiu Kuan and this this war the civil war went on for about 10 14 15 years and it caused tremendous suffering famine massacres what not all of that the total death toll is in excess probably of 20 million and uh yeah so eventually Hong Shuan was whether he committed suicide or killed or whatever but he died and his son also was was dealt with and this was ended. So that was a typing rebellion in very short. It was a disaster for China. It caused tremendous well structural and other issues. It significantly weakened theqing empire and then you had another uh rebellion another revolt. Let's let's discuss that. So Yajnavalia says, "What were the causes of the Dongan revolt 1862 to 1877 in China that occurred against theQing dynasty? How did Zhong managed to suppress this revolt?" So Jehong Tang was the theQing Empire's principal general who fought against the the the people who who caused the revolt. What was this Dongan revolt? So you have the typing rebellion that is now in its last phase and then you have a dungan revolt that starts. The typing rebellion was in the southeast of China. The dungan revolt was in the northwest of China. Totally different like diametrically opposite places. Right? The dungan revolt is also called the hoi muslim rebellion. It was the attempt by Muslims in present day and also other provinces. Zing Jang came in later. Other provinces of China, eastern, sorry, western provinces, northern western provinces of China, the Muslims who lived there, they wanted to establish a new empire there, right? And it all started with massacres of Hanchinese by the by the Hui Muslims. So the Hoi Muslims started this revolt against the country, against the the empire. They started by massacring lots and lots of Hanchinese civilians. And then the Han Chinese started, you know, organizing and they fought back and that's how the whole revolt started and there were suspicions that the typing rebellion had a role the rebels of the typing rebellion the leaders possibly may have had a role in assisting the hoi Muslims who were revoling also at by 1862 so they wanted to create a separate amirat or or kingdom carved out of Chinese territory and that's what was the cause of the Dongan revolt or Hoi Muslim revolt and uh Shu Jong Tang he well he played a sophisticated game obviously he did use military force very powerful very organized military force he had a very he had a pretty modernized military for for that time very well organized very disciplined very professional so he took that into the battlefield against on very on lots of occasions lots of battles happened against as the Hoi Muslims and he crushed them. But he also played a political game in which he would he gave some inducements to some factions of the Hoi Muslims to come on the Chinese side and they would be elevated to high positions and given various inducements. So by that game of divide and rule that strategy he was able to weaken the the the rebellion and eventually he was able to defeat it militarily. Once again tremendous death toll I don't know 10 20 million very easily that that sort of death toll happened and uh entire provinces were like 60 70% depopulated because of this uh yeah so that was so the so the Chinese faced two rebellions one after the other I mean there was a period where both were happening at the same time and this caused great amount of weakening of the chin empire which eventually fell around what 1911 or thing. Okay, two questions about the same topic essentially. Aush says, "Why didn't we lose our polytheism despite we as an India despite being under a millennium of foreign occupation and those barbarians tried their best to do it after reading the darkening age?" Well, kudos you read the darkening age. All right, it's a book I have recommended on multiple occasions. So after reading the darkening age I discovered that Europe lost its majority culture in just four centuries the old Indo-Uropean culture and that too didn't happen with any very glorious resistance. So the resistance from Europe was not that significant and in in a matter of four centuries the Indo-Uropean religion was wiped out the culture was wiped out and superimposed with Christianity. Christianity became the dominant religion. It was forced onto Europe. And Amisha says why was Christianity so successful in eradicating the indigenous religious traditions of Europe. So essentially we need to contrast what happened in Europe with what happened in India. So in Europe you had the very rapid Christianization of Europe a complete destruction of the indigenous um culture and belief systems. And in India you had a thousand years of foreign occupation in various parts of India. It's not like for a thousand years the whole of India was under foreign occupation but over time it was a creeping creeping thing. The it was a creeping advance of foreign occupiers. It starts with Gandhar and that then it goes further eastwards and southwards and eventually you have the Muggal Empire during orex time that which conquered much of the subcontinent and then you have the Europeans who came in. So eventually the the Muggal Empire was destroyed by the Maratas, the great Maratas who liberated India from the Turks but the Maratas themselves had their their empire did not last very long because of various political reasons infighting and all that and the British took advantage of that and they created the British Raj and so on right so India was under the British under British occupation for about two and a half centuries and we were under Turk occupation various parts of India for about I don't know 7 8 centuries right that sort of thing various parts of India if you include Gandhar. So why were the occupiers of India, foreign occupiers, the Abrahamic occupiers of India, why were they not able to destroy our polytheistic uh culture and civilization? It still exists in some shape or form. But Europe it happened so fast. What what was the diff what was the reason? Why did it happen so easily in Europe? In Persia also but not in India. What was the deal? So you see it's like this. It's like this. In Europe, the kings themselves became Christians and then they forced their people to become Christian because they saw Christianity as something that will uh strengthen them strengthen their hold on power because now it's just one militarized structure of of priests that that control the religion as opposed to a completely decentralized religion that you had. So in Europe one after the other various kings and emperors started adopting Christianity and because they control power which means they they have the monopoly in violence that's why they were able to subjugate the people very rapidly and the the church was a very powerful force in that sense and they employed all kinds of brutal tactics. So you have kings like Charlean who launched the northern crusades which is brutalization of the people and and forcing them to to give up their religion and adopt Christianity that sort of thing. So in Europe you had kings and emperors who themselves became Christian and then forced it down the throats of the populations happened over a period of time like you say it's four centuries. Uh so once you you do a coup essentially at the very top then it's very easy to do it to to projected project it downwards. The same thing happened in Persia also. Kings very rapidly became Islamic and that's how Persia also very quickly uh the population was made to adopt Islam to to convert to Islam. Most of the population when it comes to India the kings never became you know they never converted to foreign religions. The kings kept on fighting. We speak about the Rajput resistance which I took two three questions ago. Well, if those Rajput kings from the 8th century to the 15th century, if they had decided that let's convert to the religion that the Turks have brought and and let's you know force our population to to convert too, it would have happened very rapidly. Understand that. But the the kings themselves decided that we will not give up our culture. We'll fight and we'll die if required. And that's why there was that's why it did not succeed. Once again when the British occupied India they brought in their legions of missionaries right but even though a lot after 1857 every single king every single Indian kingdom became vasalized. Every Indian kingdom became vasalized after 1857 but not a single king or queen converted to Christianity as far as we know. There may have been some some crypto converts here and there possibly. I'm not sure. But the overwhelming majority of our kings and queens did not convert to Christianity despite the European despite the British having brought in millions of not millions but legions of missionaries with the express purpose of converting Indians right so because of this resistance from India because our culture our religion of our civilization is so deep rooted it's thousands tens of thousands of years old we have had the say an evolving form of the same culture since about what 80 thou 80 80,000 years before today essentially It's so deeprooted that's why it it could not work. But today you will see that if the same efforts continue today we don't have kings right but we have politicians. Now do you know of any politicians who have converted or converts even crypto converts and they are pushing the agenda top to bottom. It happens. It works when the push comes from the top and it goes downwards because the entire might of the state apparatus is used to convert. Right? So as long as we had kings in India, even if it was vasalized kings under the British or for some time under the Muggal Empire, even the vasalized kings did not convert to the foreign religions. And because the conversion did not happen at the top, there was no top tobottom push, top to down push using the full might of the state apparatus, military, bureaucracy, everything to convert and that's why Indians did not convert. Thanks to our kings and queens, even those who had become vasalized, even they did not give up. Is that the case today? Ask yourselves, is that the case today? Today you don't have kings, you have politicians, and what are they doing? some of them hypothetically. So now today our culture is in under real threat. It's under siege. Yajj Navalia says, "Why did the monotheisms that form a majority of the world today emerge out of tiny regions of West Asia and only in the last 2,000 3,000 years in the 10,000 in the 100,000 plus years of existence of homo sapiens in such a relatively w large world? How is it the case that monotheism never developed independently in any other region of the world except the Israel Palestine region?" Interesting question, right? See monotheistic religions if you see they tend to develop in desert regions. Wherever you have lush forests and and abundance and the and the land gives you plenty of resources. You will find that people will have polytheistic beliefs because life is not hard and everything is beautiful. Everything is divine. So you will see divinity in trees. You will see divinity in in in in mountains, in hills. You will see divinity in animals. You will see divinity in each other. And that's why wherever you have a land of plenty and abundance, you will have polytheistic religions that develop from in these regions. But where you have a land of scarcity, a desert region, where you have to fight for every morsel to eat, you to fight and kill just to put food on the table. That's a region, that's a land of scarcity. And somehow it's in these places that monotheistic religions develop. I mean even if you look at Mongolia you could say it's a really harsh land very harsh climate and there are times in winter where you know food is not abundant at all. You have to fight for that and yet there are Mongolia is full of forests. It has the step of course but it also has rivers and lakes and forests. So Mongolia also developed a polytheistic religion. What today is called Tangriism based on the name of one god but it's a polytheistic religion. So wherever you have a land of scarcity that's where a monotheistic religion develops somehow because there is no divinity anywhere. So you have to invent some god one god possibly possibly that's the case. Hm. So uh so that's why monotheism came out of this region. The Israel Palestine, the Israel region, the deserts of Arabia, that region. I mean you could claim that even Egypt is mostly desert but Egyptian civilization flourished on the banks of the Nile which is a region of plenty and that's why they had a monothe polytheistic culture. So polytheism emerges from lands of plenty. Monotheism comes from desert regions. Interesting question by feminist slayer. Can you explain the historical significance of sitting bull especially his leadership in the battle of little little big horn and his role in resisting US government policies against native Americans. Okay, we'll go into who sitting bull was and what his significance was. But all of this what we're going to discuss it is in the context of the of the of the war against the native Americans the American Indian wars it's called I think American Indian wars I think it is called it was see the Europeans it's the French the Spanish the French and the British they came from Europe they discovered this land they knew this land existed because of you know Columbus and all And then they started colonizing the land. You know the Nazis, you know Nazis are very, you know, Nazis are evil. Do we all agree Nazi Germany was evil? What was the deal with Nazi Germany? What was one of the objectives of Nazi Germany? One of the objectives of Nazi Germany was to conquer more land for German people. Lebanon's realm, a large region of land where only Germans can be settled so that Germans will have more land to live in. That was one of the objectives of the Nazi government, right? To find more land, if necessary, clear that land of the original people and settle Germans there. Very evil, right? Very, very evil. Nazi Nazi level evil. Now what were the Spanish, French and English doing in America when they started conquering and colonizing? They were doing exactly that. They wanted this huge land for themselves. So what do you do? You exterminate the natives. You genocide the natives. You do this on a scale Nazis could not even have imagined. That's what happened. And the American Indian Wars are that the genocide of the natives. That's what these nations in the Americas are. Settler colonial nations that are that have been built on stolen land as a consequence of genocide and slavery and genocide on a scale that Nazi Germany could not imagine. So once the Anglo started settling in in the eastern part of North America, they started expanding westwards. The great western frontier and where wherever they went, they they encountered native people. So what do you do? You want the land. So you defeat them militarily. If they fight, you fight back. And once you subjugate them, you massacre as many as possible. Whoever is left, you sign a treaty. So it becomes legal. You sign a treaty that relegates the survivors to a reservation. A reservation which is like a concentration camp essentially. It's land where there's nothing available. You find the most barren land and settle people there. Settle the natives there. And the rest of the land becomes yours. So you did a fair treaty. See, we signed a treaty. You see, it's legal. We did not do this by force. We had a treaty. And they did this over and over again with various tribes that they they they they subjugated. And from the 1700s all the way to the beginning of the 1900s, the Americans did that, the Anglo from the 1600s, 1700s all the way to the until the end of the 19th century. This went on the American Indian Wars. Okay. It was the systematic genocide and of the native American American people, the theft of their land and the relegation of their of the survivors to essentially concentration camps, small parcels of land which would be given which would where there's nothing really of use and you settle them there and that's where natives still live today whoever has survived. Right? That's the deal. So now now that you understand what happened, what was done and how this nation of the United States was created right now let's talk about sitting bull sitting bull was the chief was one of the chiefs of the Lacakota tribe it's a plains tribe plains Indians they were called now what the plains the great plains the the flat plains of the Americas so let me give you uh let's let's let's put that on the screen so that you understand the geographical extent of the of the lands of the plains Indians. Okay. Uh plains Indians Indians. Uh what was the territory like territory? Let's go to images. Hopefully there's a map somewhere. And we're talking about not just Yeah, now we're talking. Look at this here. It's actually even bigger than that. The actual extent was bigger than that. They're just showing some part of it. It it encompasses the United States and Canada and it goes all the way north. It goes all the way north to further north than the further north than what is being shown here. Let me see. Do I have I think all of this history is nicely suppressed. Nicely suppressed. Anyway, they had a vast territory. Even if you look at just the US, it's it's a massive territory in the United States. Uh and it was more than what's being shown over here. So that was the dominion the domain of the plains Indians and they were slowly systematically you know deprived of their of their land. Now let's once again go back and let's see sitting bull sitting. So he was a leader of the lot. That's what he looked like. This is an artificially colorized photograph of him. Uh this is his face. That's what he looked like. And he spent his entire life fighting the invaders. his entire life fighting the invaders. That's what he did. And uh so in the 1870s somewhere he fought against the American invaders, the the Anglo invaders. And there was this very famous battle called the battle of Little Bigghorn in which there was this this this individual called George Kuster. George Kuster. Let's Google that guy. He was the leader of the invas invasive band. George Kuster, Lieutenant Colonel was he whatever George Kuster and he launched an invasion of Lakota land and the battle happened battle of little little big horn in which the Americans the Anglos suffered a catastrophic defeat. So this was Kuster who who maybe was over ambitious or maybe he was overconfident and he and his forces were were wiped out in the battle of the little big horn. But eventually the Americans won and the Lakota were also deprived of their land and uh sitting bull was sent into exile in Canada or wherever and he spent his entire life the rest of his life also in some way or the other opposing the invaders and occupiers of his land. So that's the leader the historical significance of setting bull. There were so many um you know resistance fighters from the native Americans who all met you know not a nice end at the hands of the Americans and sitting bull I think he died at an older age in exile in Canada away from his land away from his people and that's the deal so the story of the native Americans is a horrific tragic story a story of genocide and and a story of u their land being stolen being stolen to create an artificial nation. Okay? And this was done along the same lines of what the Nazis wanted to do in Europe, but on a scale that the Nazis could not imagine that vast a continent-sized scale. Anonymous scientist says according to Herodotus Neco II an Egyptian ruler sent Phoenician mariners to find a sea route around Africa then known as Libya and the Phoenicians succeeded in finding a sea route through the cape of Cape of Good Hope to India or maybe not to India. He's not mentioning India here. So why do we give credit to the Portuguese there then? Well, you see the Phoenicians were not Christians. They were not white Europeans and neither was Neco II. These were brownskinned people. They were not Christian and that's why they must not get any credit. See that's how the world works today. All credit is given to Europeans and Christians especially what happened in the past 500 years. Everything all the credit has to be given to Europeans. If the Europeans discovered arithmetic, the decimal system through the Arabs which came from the Indians, the best they will do is give a little bit of credit to the Arabs and then just digest all of that and say that we discovered everything. So that's that's what the Europeans have been doing the past 500 years. So look, Vasco the Gama discovered something, but it was it was known for a very very long time all of that. Just because a white Christian guy discovered it doesn't mean that he was the first person to discover something. People lived at the Cape of Good Hope. They knew that something existed on the other other side on both sides. Right? In in in Eastern Africa, you had Indians who lived all over the place. So this is the euro this is the consequence of the euroentric world that we live in today. The accidental centric western world that we live in today where all the credit has to be given to Europeans and white people. Right. Next. Somi says, "How did the Vikings suddenly rise in the sixth in in the 9th century despite being isolated and insignificant prior to the Viking age?" Okay, let's go to the map to understand uh what are we talking about here. Yes, you are right. The Viking age certainly begins around the 8th 9th century. What happened suddenly? How did they become so significant? Let's go to the map. We'll go to the Viking area. So, we're talking about Western Europe here and we have this this bunch of islands called today the United Kingdom which was the British islands, the English islands and to the northeast of that you have the Scandinavian region which is Denmark, Norway and Sweden. Okay, you have Sweden here, you have Norway here and you have Denmark here. The Vikings were mostly Danes and Norwegians. the Scandinavian people, they were called Vikings. So you can see that between Scandinavia and the British islands, you have the North Sea. And it's pretty it's pretty vast actually. If you look at the distance, it's not small. It's not insignificant. It's about more than 500 km of open sea and pretty rough sea and very cold sea. So back in the day, people just had boats, right? People just had boats. So how do you so you could not so people who lived in Scandinavia Scandinavia would not even know that 550 60 kilometers away this this bunch of islands or if they knew then it would be some some faraway mythical place if the existence of England was known so that's how it was the distances were very immense and the technology did not exist then how did the Viking age erupt out of nowhere as always technological ical advance. The Vikings developed long boats. Long boats were essentially small ships that could be crewed by 10 20 people who would have sails as well as oes and they were pretty hardy. They could survive the rough seas. And secondly, the Vikings discovered some sunstone or something. So, so in this part of the world, northern Europe, the atla, the the the eastern Atlantic region, the North Sea region, the the climate is terrible in the sense that it's always cloudy. It's always overcast. It's raining all the time. So, you hardly see the sun, the the sun. And if you don't see the sun, then how will you navigate properly? So, the Vikings discovered some stone, some translucent stone that if you put put against the sky, even if it's overcast, you can kind of detect where the sun is. And using that stone and using the long long ships, the Ving Viking long ships, they were able to start reaching England. And that's where the Viking age begins. And where does the Viking age begin? It begins. Let's find the place again. Okay. So, we are looking, let's zoom out. We're talking about the United Kingdom. Now, let's slowly zoom in. Here you have the city of London, right? We're going to go north. London, Cambridge, Manchester. We go further north. We don't go all the way to Edinburgh, but we kind of come here. This place is called Lindisfarn. It's also called Holy Island. And this is the first place where a Viking landing happened as far as I as I know. May have happened elsewhere, but this is the first properly recorded incident. So the Vikings came here and they sacked the Lindesfarn Abbey and they stole all the gold and valuables and then they discovered yeah we can reach England we can sack these weak people these these people and uh steal their land and and valuables and there's a lot of uh good valuable land there where where we can do farming and so on. So the word spread among the Vikings among the Scandinavians and they started organizing these raiding parties and eventually the raiding parties parties became very significant and this they started conquering England and that's how the Viking age began. It all began with technological advances. All empires that conquer they conquer because of technological advances and technological advantages they develop over the people they conquer. Sam says, "We're going to talk about the Cuban missile crisis. Please explain the Cuban missile crisis of 1962." Samar prammanic. Okay. So, we're talking about the cold war. The the second world war ended in 1945 and then the world was very rapidly divided into two camps. The US-led camp with its vasals and the USSR le camp with its vasals. And the Americans uh they were the people they were the country that first developed the the atomic bomb. And by the 1960s they had about I don't know 20 25,000 nuclear warheads including 3,000 plus deployed in Europe against the USSR. Imagine more than roughly 25,000 nuclear warheads the Americans had. And more than 3,000 of these were deployed in Europe aimed at the USSR. And at that time the Soviets had also you know developed atomic uh weapons. And the Soviets had maybe 3 4,000 nuclear warheads only a fraction of what the Americans had. And they feared that you know because of the American nuclear warheads and missiles on European soil very close to our borders pointed at us. It's a huge problem. We have to do something about this. So the Soviets sent dispatched a shipment or maybe multiple shipments of shipments of nuclear tipped missiles to Cuba. Where is Cuba in case some of you don't know? Let's go to Cuba. All right. So let's cross the Atlantic and we are talking about Hispanola. I'm sorry this not Hispanola. This is Hispanola. Hispanola. This is Cuba. Cuba is in the Caribbean region just south of Florida. You know the distance between Florida and and Cuba is what two 230 or so kilometers. So this is Cuba and Cuba used to be a US Vasal but then there was a revolution in Cuba and Fidel Castro came to power and Fidel Fidel Castro was a leftist and he aligned himself with the USSR. So the USSR sent nuclear tipped missiles to Cuba and these were then deployed in Cuba aimed at the US. Obviously, if the US can position nuclear weapons in Europe aimed at the USSR, why can't the USSR pay them back in kind by deploying missiles in Cuba? So, the Americans had these U2 spy plane program. They had this extremely high altitude spy spy aircraft called U2 aircraft. uh they would fly above the range of any known missile at the time and they would have these overflights over Russia or China also over Cuba and and they would take photographs of what was happening on the ground and during these warfights they discovered that there are missiles probably Soviet missiles in Cuba and that's where the alarm bells start ringing and eventually Kennedy addresses his nation and says that there is this threat to the US the Soviets have deployed Cub nuclear missiles aimed at us on Cuba and uh this led to a period of extremely tense diplomacy and uh a confrontation between between the navies and air forces of the two nations. There was an incident where a Soviet submarine in the Gulf of Mexico it uh it was patrolling there and the American warships detected it and started dropping depth charges at it at this submarine. A depth depth charge is a bomb that is designed to detonate at a certain depth below the surface of the sea. So you can set it to detonate at 50 m below the sea surface maybe 70 m 100 m 200 300 whatever you can set the detonation depth of this bomb. So these are called depth charges. So the Soviet submarine was there, diesel submarine I believe, not nuclear submarine, diesel submarine. And the Americans started, American warship started detonating depth charges to drive this submarine to the surface. The submarine surfaced and then there was an American helicopter hoing over it at a height of about 10 15 m and they started firing rounds at the submarine, firing machine gun rounds at the submarine. Now the the the protocol was that you don't do live firing on the opponent unless there's a war. So the captain of the submarine thought that World War II has broken out and he had a nuclear tipped torpedo and he wanted to use it but there was a political officer. So generally what happens in a submarine and what used to happen was that the the the the submarine's captain and his second in command had to agree both of them had to agree if both agreed they could launch a nuclear weapon but on this particular submarine there was a highranking Soviet political officer also who was there and that person disagreed that's why it did not happen so the world came to the brink of nuclear war eventually a diplomatic consens diplomatic uh settlement was was reached. The the Soviets agreed to withdraw to to withdraw the nuclear missiles from Cuba and the Americans secretly agreed to withdraw American nuclear missiles from Turkey that were aimed at the USSR. Today you have American nuclear missiles in Turkey, aimed at Russia. So that's kind of what this what this Cuban missile crisis was. The US president was John F. Kennedy at the time. It was 62, not 63. So yeah, that's what it was in brief. It it is probably the closest the world came to a nuclear exchange. So the Soviets had about 3,000 plus nuclear warheads. The Americans had 25,000 roughly nuclear warheads. And that would have been a catastrophe if a nuclear exchange had happened. Adwit Ashwani says, "What horrors did Belgium do in our DRC?" the democrat the democratic republic of Congo. So today's Congo region what what happened there? Once again we go to the map. So first of all we understand what this place is. It's in Africa. We go to Africa. Where is the DRC? Look at this place over here. DRC. So this is the Congo region and the Belgians occupied this region from about 18 from the 1880s until the until the 1910s 1920s. Belgium's king Leopold essentially owned this land. Okay. And they extracted the land of land land of everything of any value that existed here. Mainly rubber plantations. Okay. So now we understand we'll close the map. So Congo is rich in forests. So the Belgians planted rubber trees everywhere, rubber plantations and they enslaved the locals. The locals all became the property of the king. the local people who lived there became the property of the king and they would then have to do whatever they were told by their Belgian overlords. So there was a major Belgian military presence there and a major Belgian missionary presence there. So the people were enslaved. They were all put to work on the rubber plantations and various mines or whatever for what whatever other mineral wealth etc. Congo head. So so rubber plantations, mines, all of that. That's where the people were made to work forcibly. Children were made to work. Child labor, slave labor, doesn't matter. It's good as long as the the Belgian king, you know, profits. So the Belgians were enslaved. Sorry, the the the Congolese, the people of Congo were enslaved. Now what happened? They were brutalized. They were many of them were overworked. Some of them many of them were worked to death. And everybody every every slave was given a daily kota that you need to bring this amount of of produce or or material to the to the to your white boss every day. And if if there was a shortfall of even a little bit then they would meet brutal punishments. One of the common punishments was to chop off the person's hand and sometimes they would not chop the guy's hands off, they would chop the hands of his kids, right? And this was widespread brutal treatment. So today in the 20th century at least in Belgium there was this famous chocolate that you could buy. What was the chocolate? It was hands. Cut hands. Would you like to see is true? I'm I'm not making it up. Okay. Let's let's let's see. So one is that another is a tetany which we'll talk about. Okay. Belgian chocolateate hence chocolate unwrap hence whatever they call look at this look at this I think it's still available this is you know essentially all those hands of the Africans they chopped off look at this now look at this this blatant racism still continues look here can you see children with their hands chopped This is what Belgium did. This is just one example of what Belgium did. See these are children. Children with their arms, with their hands chopped off, legs, hands as well as feet chopped off. And they celebrated this through these chocolates. They still do now. I think it's called anter chocolate hands or whatever. But this is how they celebrated this. There is another there is another very famous uh chocolate confectionary that is that was available in Europe in the 20th century. It was called tetra tetra bomb. Look at this heads. Heads. Now it's called tetto shula. And this is it's very tasty. And now it is not shaped like the head of a person, but it still has this vaguely head-like shape. As a child living in Europe in the 1980s, I also ate some of these chocolates without knowing what it was at the time. It was very tasty. Yeah. So what was the brutality that was done to the Africans? They were enslaved. They were worked to death. There were brutal punishments. Hands chopped off, feet chopped off, children with arms and limbs amputated, people killed, people executed for showing the slightest disobedience. Um, children and families kidnapped and placed in internment or or concentration camps. Sexual abuse, widespread sexual abuse by the Belgians. brutal horrific abuse by the Belgians and the destruction of the local culture and the imposition of Christianity in a systematic manner. All of this was done by Belgian Belgium between the 1880s and the 1910s or 1920s. Yeah, good fun, wasn't it? For the Belgians, not for the not for the natives. Okay. Okay. No says in premodern times did China and Europe have thousands of indoamas jatis not to be confused with varnas but jatis as we had in India. So even today people are kind of vaguely aware of jati but we had this extremely intricate super complicated system of tens of thousands of jatis in India small clan-like communities where people would marry within the community with a set of rules and you would not marry outside that sort of thing it it emerged maybe during the Gupta empire period or something like that perhaps u so we had these thousands of indogamous jatis in India did the Chinese have Did the Europeans have it? The Chinese had a four layered cast system. What I mean what what is this guy saying? Pagaloya. What is he saying? Let me show you something, my friends. China. Google it yourself if you want to. China for occupations, not occupation. Occupations. Let's ask Wikipedia what it has to say. Okay. four categories of the people an occupation classification used in China ancient China by confusion or legally scholars as far as the late shoe dynasty and part of the social structure and so on so on so on from 10,000 from 146 to 256 BC so what was the division the shei or the warrior nobles later on gentry scholars the nong is the peasant farmers the gong is the artisans and craftsmen and the shang the merchants and traders. So you had four classes or casts of society in traditional Chinese society. So you you would not really have they did not have really this system of jatis. They had this four tired cast system or class system in China. And people would marry typically you marry among your social equals right? That's what society has always shown. Whenever you have a highly organized society which is typical of all civilizations advanced civilizations you have a highly organized and stratified society every civilization has this feature so generally people will marry people who are their social equals they won't marry down you won't marry up generally so so you that's what you would have in China of course there would be some some people who would be have practiced a certain skill or a certain trade for for god know centuries various generations they would probably want to there would have been some cases where you had some sort of endogamy but in China generally you had this four classes or four casts and people would marry within the the cast that that was the situation in Europe what was the situation Europe was a feudal society so you had the king at the top then you had the the aristocracy or nobility which is the the king and his vasals the people with the with the with the means to do violence Then you had the clergy, the the church people and then you had the peasants. Eventually a new class emerged which is the the merchants. So you had three, four, five different classes in Europe also and people would only marry within their own class. But they also did not have this jati system. They they had I mean if you look at English surnames Smith, Fletcher, Thatcher, Hatcher, whatever these are all occupation based surnames but they did not they they would probably marry among their own class. So they did not have the Jati system the way you had in India for about 1500 years. So yeah, China was different, Europe was different, Japan also had its own system. Okay, we'll not go there today. But yeah, it was different from the Indian jati system which was very very complex. Thousands maybe tens of thousands of jatis. Okay. Amisha says what was religion like in ancient Persia before Zoroastrianism. Very simple answer. Vic religion. That was it. Okay. Don't believe me? Right? Let's see what what twisted version of my answer Wikipedia will give you or or Google will give you. Okay. Uh so let's go to Google. Okay. What was the religion of Persia before? Let's ask them. What was the religion of Persia before Zoro? Yeah, there you have it. Zorosism. Let's see what Google AI says. Before Zoroastrinism, the Persians followed the ancient Indo-Iranian religion, a shared ancestor of both the Vic religion and the religion of the early Iranian. What what utter nonsense this polytheistic tradition worshiped multi. When I say utter nonsense, it means that it's an ancestor of the Vic religion. What absolute nonsense. The Vic religion was the ancestral religion of all of these things. So this polytheistic tradition worshiped multiple deities with aurora mista. How can aurora mazda exist before zurastinism? What? See this is complete contradic contradictory nonsense and mitra being prominent figures. Worship of fire and blah blah soma worship of other gods. Um this ancient faith was a common ancestor of the Vic religion of India and the ancient beliefs of the Iranian peoples. What evidence do you have to support this? Nothing absolute nothing lies shared with Vic religion. See they don't want to say it was the Vic religion. But the truth is that even through these distortions you can see it was the Vic religion. And if you go to Wikipedia it will have a different version of the same nonsense. What evidence do they have that there was an ancestor of the Vic religion anywhere? Show me evidence. not someone's claim or a consensus consensus of of of of professors. I don't want a consensus. I want evidence, hard undeniable evidence, not someone's opinion. Oh, so and so imminent professor said that and seven other imminent professors agreed. I don't care about anyone's opinions, no matter how imminent they may be in someone's opinion. Again, opinion, I want hard evidence. What was the religion of Persia before Zorastrianism? If there was a religion, was it the ancestor of Vic Hinduism or was it Vic Hinduism itself? So then the question is what was the ancestor of Vic Hinduism? Do we have an answer? There was nothing. It was just Vic Hinduism and the pre-vedic Hinduism. But it was all it would be categorized as Hinduism only if you want to use the term Hinduism like we do today. So the ancient religion in Persia before Zaratustra emerged was the old Indo Iranian Vic religion. Okay, long question here by UMAX. In May 2025, a paper was published in Nature showing that ancient DNA revealed 3,000 years of genetic continuity in the northern Iranian plateau from the copper age to the Societ Empire with no evidence of step migration into Iran. No Aran invasion. Oh my god. According to the step theory, it was earlier invasions now is migrations. Migrations into Iran according to the step theory from Central Asia should have occurred about 1,000 BC or 1500 BC. Yeah. same RN invasion simultaneously in India and Persia that's the claim however the study found no such gene flow sadly tragically this is significant because the step theory claims that both Indo-Arians and Iranians migrated from central Asia between 1200 BC to 1,000 BC or 1500 BC to 1,000 BC whatever yet the new findings so show no synashta or step ancestry in the iron age samples which presents a major challenge to the step theory I hope you've read the paper while it does not directly address the debate the genetic results clearly indicate the absence of step ad mixture in iron age. No matter how you try to spin this theory, Arian invasion theory or Arian migration theory or or or tourism theory or whatever picnic theory no matter what distorted twisted interpretation you create that that people came from the step well eventually the truth will come out. I haven't read this paper but you clearly have summarized it properly. I will look into it. So clearly this is another blow to this Iranian invasion migration claim. And the the crux of the matter of this of this Ian invasion claim or or migration claim is that Sanskrit and Hinduism came to India and Persia from outside of India from from central Asia. Prove it. Prove it. What proof do you have beyond someone's opinion? Nothing. So this yeah and and because there is no proof of this that's why they have brought the genetic angle in that maybe there was some gene flow which indicates there was perhaps language and and and religion flow if you have a gigantic region like India Persia put together and it's so prosperous mainly India then obviously people from all over the rest of the rest of the world will want to migrate there so you will have some some small trickles of of step ad mixture coming in does it mean that they brought the language and culture and everything? Such utter illogical nonsense. And yet so many people believe it because that's what you are taught in your textbooks in school and that's what your professors believe because they are because they they don't don't want to learn anything new anymore. So this theory is still the favorite theory of the white man and the favorite theory of the colonized Indian. But it will die a slow death this theory because no evidence is ever going to emerge which will prove any of the central claims of this theory. Okay. Amisha has two questions. Firstly, what's the difference between Persians and the Arabs? Secondly, what are the similarities and differences between the Persians, the Ottomans, Turks and the Arabs? So essentially what Amisha is asking is what's the difference between the Persians, the Turks and the Arabs? So first first of all if you call a Persian person Arabic you're Arabs they'll be offended. Okay. Um if you call a Persian person that you're Turkish they'll not like it either and so on because they're Persian right? If you call if you call an Indian something else the Indians will be offended. Sim similar similar thing. So what's the difference? The Persians are an Indo-Iranian people. The true Persians were just like people from western India. Today if you look at Persians and some of them look like white people because they were under Turk occupation for many centuries and the Turks brought in people from the Caucasus region and settled them in in Iran present day Iran and that's how and because everybody had the same religion they started inter intermingling intermaring and that's how many Persians became kind of Europeanized. So today you'll see many Persians with blue eyes or green eyes. Many some of them will have blonde hair. But the original parhua people, the original Persian people look like this. Okay. Um so the Persians, the true Persians are our close cousins. They're our brothers and sisters essentially. If you are a Indian from the north and west of India, the original Persians were just like us, same ethnicity. Today's Persians are maybe somewhat different. They may have kind of get got mixed up with these outside the immigrants who were brought in from outside but culturally they are still Persian at least the language. See the Persian language is very close to Indian languages. It has nothing in similar with the Arabic languages with the Arabic language. Of course a lot of Arabic loan words are used in Persian language today. Just like in Hindi we use a lot of Arabic and Turk and Persian loan words because of the history right of foreign occupation of India. So the Persians are an Indo-Iranian people. They are not a Semitic people like the Arabs. Okay different different ethnicity. The Turks are neither Persian nor Semitic. They're Turic. Their origin was in Central Asia. Their deep origin is in the Mongolia region where the horns emerged and the horns were the were the ancestors of the Turk Turk people and the Turkish people were the ancestors of today's Turks. But if you look at the genetics of today's Turkish people in Turkey, they are like more than 90 95% Greek and that's a whole different story. So that's the similarities, differences and so on. What's the similarities between the Turks, Arabs and Persians? Religion, Islam. The Persians today are are Shia Isl Shia Shia Muslims and most Arabs and Turks are Sunni Muslims. Yeah. So that's the differences and similarities between these three ethnic groups. Okay. Maji restoration. Amisha says how did the Maji dynasty restoration change Japan's political and economical landscape? And Nirvana Shanks says the Maji restoration crushed Buddhism and old traditions. What happened? How did it change society? So what is this major restoration? Did it really crush Buddhism and old traditions? The major restoration was a coup in Japan. It was essentially a takeover of power from the emperor by by a bunch of bureaucrats by a bunch of officials. But they did not kill the emperor or depos. They turned the emperor into a figurehead, into a puppet. They forced him to eat beef. The emperor was a teenager. with very little power. So the bureaucrats turned him into a puppet and they unleashed what is now called the Maji restoration which is named after the Maji emperor even though he was merely a puppet in the hands of these uh officials court officials. So, Japan has a 2,000 roughly 2,000 year history of a syncratic culture. Shinto and Indian culture mixed together. The Indian culture is mainly manifested in the form of Buddhism. But you will see every Indian god being woripped in Japan with with Japanese names. Saraswati is Benzin. Um Ganesha is Kangitan. You have Kuber. You have Lord Shiva. You have Bra. to have every Indian god worshiped in Japan uh through various local names and all of this is is portrayed as being part of Buddhism in Japan. So for at least 15,600 years close to 2,000 years, Japan practiced a syncratic form of Shinto which is the native culture and Buddhism, Hinduism which is which came through China from India and which also mixed synchronized beautifully with the local culture because both are polytheistic systems and both are super compatible with each other. Now and and the samurai class of Japan was Buddhist class. They abhor beef. They would never eat beef for a thousand years. No Japanese ate beef. Beef was taboo just like in India. And the samuras were mainly vegetarians. They ate some fish. And they were the you could say the cratrias or the rajuts of of Japan. Not the rajmuts, the chhatrias of Japan. They were the warrior class. And they held the real power in Japan. So the major restoration was about destroying the system of the samuris first of all that's the that was the first objective and what did the the maji restoration did the officials who were who really had the had the real power they brought in Americans to train the troops in western warfare methodologies they brought in gunpowder and guns and machine guns you know those gatling you know those primitive gatling guns and all that and they started employing a whole different set tactics and strategies compared to the samurai who were steeped in ancient tradition and then they wiped out the samurai. So the entire power structure of Japan was was made to disappear and all the power then became concentrated in the name of the emperor. But the actual power was with the it lay with the court officials. That's first. But the samurai were Buddhists. So you had to attack Buddhism also, right? Otherwise the people will still there'll be social issues. So then they tried to portray Buddhism as a foreign religion. And they tried to destroy Buddhism. Did not work. Did not work. Buddhism they could not approve from Japan. did not work. But what what did happen is that because of their efforts to destroy Buddhism, today Buddhism is looked upon in Japan as a foreign religion, a religion that came from outside. It's a Japanese religion. It's it's practiced by lots of people, but it's a religion that people in Japan today see as something that came from outside, came from India. Before the Maji restoration, it was seen as a purely Japanese religion. So that's what it did. So the old way of life was destroyed. The samurai tradition was destroyed. Buddhism was now regarded differently. Uh all power was concentrated in the in the figure head of the emperor but it was actually wielded by his officials and uh that laid led gave rise to the Japanese imperial era which ended with two American atomic tests on the people of Japan. Okay Swami this is the last question. Swami says who are the Hugenots? Why did the Hugenats fail to make France Protestant? Also, why did the Spanish Armada fail to make England Catholic again? Second question first, why did the Spanish Armada fail to make England Catholic again? Because the Armada was defeated. That's why they failed to make England Catholic again. As simple as that, they were defeated. The Spanish Armada was this huge fleet of I don't know 3 million ships the Spanish had sent to conquer England. They were so confident they sent all kinds of extra stuff with the ships. Several hundred trips but the English were able to defeat the Spanish Armada which was a catastrophe for Spain and the Spaniards wanted to turn England Catholic again. England was by that time a Protestant kingdom because of the great exploits of Shri Henry VIII. Uh we'll not go into that story right now. So that's why the Spanish Armada could not make England Catholic again because it failed. It was routed. Who were the Hugenauts? The Hugenauts were Calvinists, Protestants. Who was Calvin? John Calvin. If you go to Geneva, the University of Geneva, you'll see a mural with a with a set of human figures on it. One of which is Calvin. Uh, now Calvin was a was a reformer. He was a Protestant. He wanted to reform Christianity from the religion of the popes which he said which he said was very very very uh which was which was corrupted probably according to him. So we he needed to bring Christianity back to its roots which is the austere fundamentalist root roots of Christianity. So that and the people who followed him became known as the protestants or Calvinists. So the hug hugenauts were Calvinists and Protestants same thing essentially and they were French and some prominent people became hugenauts and that's why they gained some prominence in society and some small regions in France kind of became protest and very small it was a very minor thing but overall France was Catholic a deeply Catholic country and they didn't like this so that's why there was this social strife and there was there was some a few massacres there was this religious wars in France and this was all in the 16th century and eventually many of the Hugenauts they crossed the Atlantic Ocean and landed in uh the new world and they tried to establish a foothold there. Some of it succeeded, some of it most of it failed and uh yeah that's the Hugats. So they failed to make France Protestant because France was overwhelmingly Catholic. All the authorities were Catholic. The kings, the kings were Catholic and so on and they did not want this new nonsense to come in and to upend society and that's why this was crushed. Okay, end of the questions for today. Let me take some questions from the live chat. A few um Okay, in case you have some Okay, Shiv says, "Eat lamb's eggs and lamb. Stop the lentils overdose." All right. Okay, you're discussing something else entirely over here. A uh Japanese PM Ishiba resigned. Well, Japan is a revolving door prime ministership. Japan is not a sovereign country. Please understand that Japan is not a sovereign country. Their prime ministers don't matter. Only one prime minister has mattered in Japan's history after 1945 and he was assassinated. It doesn't matter. PMs come and PM go. PMs go. they don't really are able to achieve anything. Uh do we have super chats? Oh, we have super chats. Please don't take any more super chats please. I'm ending the stream now. But let me take these three since since these people have taken super chats. Gpati says you say Japan has been a vasal of the US since the second world war. But I disagree. Japan has been a vasal since 1853 since Perry forced them to open. The process started at that time. The process started at the time. But Japan was not a vasad at that time because you do not have a US written Japanese constitution and you do not have a US occupation of Japan. Japan went against the US. Japan fought the US. Japan defeated the the so the Russians. Japan invaded much of Asia. Do you does it look like the actions of a vasal? Completely independent actions. Do you understand that forcing somebody to to end the isolation strategy, isolation policy of several decades doesn't make that nation a vasal? It simply opens up the nation and then the nation realized that if we don't become like the westerners, we'll be enslaved by them. And that's why Japan underwent the major restoration and that's how Japan became this this hegemonic expansionist imperial power which is the exact opposite of a vasal. So please understand this, understand the difference. There are nuances that you have to understand. You have to take your analysis deeper than surface level. Secret billionaire says according to Bhagat Gita, vera isn't based on birth and family but nowadays we don't follow it. Question one, according to what is truth according to Hindism? I am I don't know. Question two, when did the switch happen? Who could have done it? Look, I I don't know about this entire thing. Look you you are so the question you're asking it's it's the presupposition you're making is that the Bhagat Gita is the one book we should refer to. Is that the only holy book in our our culture and civilization? We have hundreds thousands of holy books. We have a whole library that's holy. A massive library that's holy. We have the Vedas. The Vedas don't refer to any verna. Sure. Right. But eventually society changes. Our society has evolved over thousands of years. The Bhagat Gita, Bhagat Gita was spoken by Shri Krishna on the battlefield to Arjun. That happened maybe four, five, 6 th 6,000 years ago. But that was a modern period compared to the Vic age which happened several thousand years before that. So during the Vic age society was different. There was no varnati. During the Mahabharat era once again we do not have varnati as far as we know. Or if we had it, it was not based on birth of family. But during the Gupta era, which is the past 1500 years, this is 1500 years ago. Society was different. Our society is so so ancient. We've had time periods of thousands of years where lots of changes happened. At some point in time, something other that happened and indogami came in and certain changes happened in society. So I am it looks like this system of of of jati that people become the society becomes indoggamous within the jati system it probably happened about 1500 or so years before today during the gupta era probably what is the truth according to Hinduism there are so many truths according to Hinduism see if we have this abraic monotheistic outlook in which there is only one truth then it's no longer a hindu Hindu way of looking at things, right? So that's what I would say. The the truth is complicated. There's not one truth. We are a society that's been around for 10,000 plus years. We have had different truths in different thousand year periods. Understand that. That's the deal. Okay. Last question for today. Spur says, "Is the Mecca site in Caba related to ancient Hinduism and has connections to Shiva?" I am not aware of any of such thing because I've not looked into the history of Mecca Caba all that. I have never studied the ancient history of Arabia. I have not done that. I have not studied Islam. Okay? So I have zero standing to comment on these issues. I don't know about the history of I don't know in any great detail the history of Islam, the details of the history of Islam. I don't know in any great detail the history of Cabba and Mecca and all that in any great detail and if there are Indian connections I'm not aware of them. We know that there was a pagan temple. There were many maybe I don't know how many lots of statues of pagan gods. Yes, pre-Islabic gods. We know that it's true. Um there are reports of ancient 8,000 year old temple in Saudi Arabia. I I I'm not sure of that. So we know what what I can tell you from the little knowledge I have is that um this place was indeed a pre-Islamic polytheistic place and there apparently was a temple there with lots of different de uh statues of gods and goddesses which were all destroyed. That's what I know. Was there a connection with ancient Hinduism? Look, Arabia is right across the western Indian Ocean, the Sea of Saashtra. we had in you know during the during the Saraswati Hindu period of our history we had trading posts there in Oman and so on so we had a presence there so there was definitely people-to-people connection between the people of India of the subcontinent and the people of Arabia and Mesopotamia definite people-to-people connections were there right so was there a religious connection also it is possible but I can't say for sure because I haven't studied it. All right, that's all I can say. I'm sorry if I am not able to answer your question, but my knowledge is limited in these matters in the matters of the history of Arabia and the history of Islam. I my knowledge is limited. So yeah, that's what that's all I can tell you. All right, thank you everybody for all the questions. I'm going to end this here because in two hours I have another live stream which is about geopolitics. So I'm going to end this here. Thank you so much everybody for all the questions. We're going to keep doing this. Hopefully everybody gets to ask questions and get their questions answered as long as the questions are good and interesting to me. Okay, so I'll end it over here. Thank you so much everyone. Do check out the books I'm publishing. Okay, I'm writing it for you all. I'm not writing a black holes books for scientists. I'm writing it for the general public. All right, I'm ending it here. Thank you so much and I'll see you in the next live stream. Take care. Bye-bye soon. See you soon.