Heat. [Music] Heat. N. Heat up here. Well, hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to this special session of Askabit. Maybe an 8 hour session. Let's see how it goes. First time I'm ever doing something this long. I hope everyone is doing great. Let me see who is there on the live chat. I've got my screen over here. I'll see you all over here. So let's see who is there. I can see Suraj Johawan Ajinti Arand Hensi Penguin Geopolitical Dubai Binit Abu Singh Suhas Reddi Aayush Singh Iistic Saga Torat Ashish Singh Dave Shivasai Vladimir Putin Mama Baket VFX Duv Durya Shashank Koshik Jak Shri Krishna Vishwendra Singh Mystic SK Satish Chawan Nutan Roshan Random Shorts Shri Jawahar Lal Nehu Ashwani Dur Singh Sagar Toat Hensy Penguin Suman Shakar Sarangi Mayang Monk random shots Achinti Anand Geopolitical Dubet is here. Satish Chawhan who else do we have? Rudra Pragya Niranjan Ajintaran Pratik Vora Rudra once again Dave Dark Knight 5:30 a.m. Where Dark Dark Knight is Aush Singh, Mayang Binit Abijit M Shivasai, Arouch Rana, Kotilia, Rishi MK, Ashish Singh, Muhammad, Faison, Shatish, Johawan, UC Dib, Kumar, Minit, Yadav, Brlavin, Shanks, Konicha, Konicha, Bender, Upada, Adwit Meta, Dakshia, Vil, Na, Sharas, Mitra from Moscow, Moscow. All right, sir. Satellite from Goa. Swami Nathan Ayar Kula Oji Nutan Roshan Vikash PJ Tox Dharma Anahita Gorabka Priyanka Javalia Shrih Hari Arun Mahi Shishta Archan Vikas PJ Pratik Tagare Vnav Dates Swaminatan Shrihari Amish Mishra one of two LR ng RWRP Suraj from Bangalore and untriggered Mama Bakit Tanesh Pandi Namit Nabarita Das Kichi Shanks Wada GRS Vin Yadav everybody else everybody else all right uh Sam Puskar okay I guess everyone is here untriggered Alan J Victor sentin SP Tarun Beneath Priyani Sud Mayank Samulkar from Twitter from X okay so today let us discuss everything anything and everything everything goes You can ask me anything. I'll discuss anything you want. You want to talk history, you want to talk geopolitics, you want to talk science. It's been a long long time since we did any science live streams. I used to do a lot of those, but these days we doing that that uh Niha from Xinping Ashwani says, "Are you working on any physics research?" I'm working on writing a book on black holes. So that you can say is kind of physics research. And I get a lot of questions in the comments at least about physics, about black holes and stuff. But because I'm not doing live streams about physics these days, that's why I'm not able to take the questions. I remember there there's this gentleman called Rahul Dunaki who asks about black holes. I mean uh uh what's it look like when you fall into a black hole? That sort of thing. So I'll be happy to answer questions like that. Would you like me to take a question about black holes? So for example, okay, let's start with black holes. I'll take everybody's questions 8 hours. So no hurry. Let's answer the question about what does it look like? How does it feel when you fall inside a black hole? Black holes are the most extreme objects in the universe. What's it feel like when you What do you see when you fall into a black hole? Right? Have you ever thought about it? The effects are incredible. So if you So let me read out from my book, The Astronaut's Last Journey. What does that look like? Okay, let's let's read out and then we'll take other questions. So let's read this out. The astronaut's final journey. What follows isn't fiction. The physics is precise. The calculations exact. The predictions absolute. No dragons are here. Just mathematics which might be worse. So while physicists argue about frozen stars and coordinate systems, while mathematicians debate singularities and infinities, Dr. Singh, our brave astronaut falls towards the super massive black hole Sagittarius A star and he translates their equations into experience. The universe's ultimate revelation written in light and time. Looking back at the cosmos that he is leaving behind, not forward toward the darkness, but backward towards the stars, he witnesses reality itself violating every rule evolution has taught us to expect. The stars don't simply recede. They begin to burn with impossible colors. This isn't the peaceful stargazing of a summer night. This is the universe revealing its capacity for extremes, showing how the gentle starlight that once inspired poets becomes near a black hole something altogether more fierce. As Dr. Singh falls deeper into the black hole's gravitational well, the stars above piff towards blue like a cosmic symphony climbing towards higher notes. That red super giant that is studied in graduate school, it now blazes white hot. The yellow star that resembles our sun, it burns with the blue flame of the hottest stars known. This isn't an illusion. The light truly gains energy as it falls into the gravity well behind him. Its wavelength is compressed and its frequency rises. The process that physicists call gravitational blue shifting transforms the entire electromagnetic spectrum. Radio waves become in become visible light. Visible light becomes ultraviolet. The cosmic microwave background that faint echo of the big bang that baits the universe at a tiny 2.7 Kelvin warms and brightens until it glows like sunset. Dr. Singh is watching the universe is baby picture develop into something unrecognizable. All because gravity has compressed the light's wavelength. But the transformation of color pales before the transformation of time. Through gravitational time dilation, Dr. Singh watches the outside universe accelerate like a film with its speed control broken. The stars wheeling overhead complete orbits that should take millennia in what his watch calls minutes. Stellar nurseries birth new suns between his heartbeats. Red giants exhaust their fuel and collapse while he takes a breath. He's not traveling to the future. The future is racing past him. The universe aging rapidly while he falls for what feels like hours. This isn't science fiction's time travel. This is time itself re revealing its flexibility, showing that it flows at different rates for different observers. The black hole has made Dr. Singh the sole witness for the universe's accelerated history. The view itself shrinks with every passing second, compressed by aberration. The same effect that makes raindrops streak toward your windshield when you drive. The entire observable universe once spread across the sky in magnificent panorama crowds into an o ever smelling smaller circle above him. Stars that were separated by vast angles now clustered together. Constellations collapse into bright points. The Milky Way's grand spiral compresses into a brilliant disc. It's as if someone were slowly closing an iris above him. The universe visible through an increasingly narrow aperture. Around this shrinking window, darkness spreads. Not the darkness of empty space with its scattered scars, but the absolute darkness of spaceime curved so severely that light cannot traverse it. The universe is becoming a spotlight, then a flashlight, then a laser pointer aimed from above. Dr. Singh crosses the event horizon at 10:16 by his watch and nothing happens. No barrier stops him. No sensation marks the transition. No alarm sounds. The event horizon, that boundary that seems so dramatic from outside, passes without the slightest recognition from inside. He can still see out. The event horizon only pre prevents departure, not arrival. Light from the universe continues streaming in after him, following him down towards the singularity. The shrinking circle of blue-shifted stars still blazes above, now compressed into a tiny disc of impossible brightness. Dr. Singh has crossed history's most irreversible boundary, and he did not feel a thing. The event horizons drama is entirely for external observers. For those who cross it, it's as unremarkable as walking through a doorway. Inside the black hole, still looking outward, Dr. Singh becomes the sole audience for the cosmos's greatest and most extreme transformation. The entire external crosscossmos, every galaxy, every star, every photon that will ever fall toward the black hole, compresses into a brilliant point directly over overhead. This isn't metaphor. It's the literal geometric consequence of how light paths bend in the black holes interior. All of external spacetime, all of history and future appears through a pinhole that shrinks towards nothing. The light from this cosmic pin pinpoint blue shifts beyond blue, beyond ultraviolet, beyond X-rays. In principle, he is seeing the entire future history of the universe compressed in his final moments. Every event that will ever happen outside playing out in accelerated time, blue shifted into a single point of infinite brightness. Around this brilliant point, absolute darkness reigns. Not the darkness of night, not the darkness of empty space, but the darkness of spacetime itself funneling towards the singularity. He is inside a region where every direction leads to the same destination, where the future itself has been geometrically redirected toward a single point. This darkness isn't empty. It's full of curved spacetime, of geometry twisted beyond recognition, of physics pushed to its breaking point. In a stellar mass black hole, tidal forces would already have torn him apart, stretching him into a stream of atoms in a process physicists call with rare whimsy spaghettification. But in Sagittarius a star, massive enough that tidal forces remain gentle until near the singularity, he has minutes to contemplate the view that no human was ever meant to see. That profound paradox crystallizes in these final moments. While outside observers calculate that he takes infinite time to reach the event horizon, within he experiences perhaps an hour from the horizon to the singularity. He carries the image of the external universe with him to oblivion, watching it evolve at an ever accelerating pace until that final point of light represents not just the stars he knew, but everything that will ever be in the future. The black hole doesn't hide the universe from the following astronaut. It shows him everything all at once in an overwhelming crescendo of light that ends in absolute darkness. This is how a journey ends when spacetime itself has torn not with a wall or a barrier but with the universe compressed to a point time accelerated to infinity and physics pushed beyond meaning. Right? That's the deal. That is the final passage of book two of volume two of my black hole series. I hope it throws some light on what it feels like. what it what what you see when you fall inside a black hole. I don't think anyone has thought of this question or or has answered this question beyond equations and mathematics. So that's what I have done in this book. So the book that I'm referring to is this one here. It is this one. This book here it's the second volume in the series that I'm writing the black hole chronicles. The first one is called Dark Stars to Black Holes. So this is available on Amazon Kindle right now. When all the entire series is complete, I would publish it as a p as as a physical book. Right now it's available only as uh Kindle ebook. So the links are in the description. If you want to check it out, do check it out. I'll be very pleased if you do. Right. So that's about black holes. We start with a question about physics and black holes. Something that is always fun for me. Now let's take some questions. Uh that okay, Dnur Singh is active and lots of people active. Okay, let's take some questions. Uh, Dimnor Singh says, "Why why is the Russian emblem the same as the infamous Rothschild family emblem? Exactly the same with no difference." Interesting question. Let's let's check out what the Russian national emblem is. Uh, let me see. Um, let me let's let's let's find out. Let's discover this together. Let's go to our friend Google and let's see the Russian emblem. Okay. Russian emblem. The Russian emblem. The Russian Russian National Court of Arms. It's an eagle holding a skepter in its right claw and an orb in the left claw. So this is the Russian national emblem. And Dnour says that the Rothil family emblem. Let's see. Rothfield family emblem. What is that? Oh well. Oh well. There seems to be a significant uh similarity of some kind. It's very similar. But one could perhaps argue it's not the exactly the same thing. But it's an interesting question that Dnur Singh is asking us. Sir, I I don't know. See, I have not really studied the history of the Roshield family, the Roshill dynasty. I've heard a lot of uh talk about this this family that it's supposedly the most powerful family in the world. the richest family dynasty in the world and apparently they control the entire world. They may be the deep state or something. I'm not entirely sure. That is one part one portion of history that I'm not really dipped into. So can't say uh it is said that the Bolshevik revolution was also orchestrated perhaps by the Russians. That's what I've heard. Uh but I haven't personally studied it myself. So I don't really know the answer. But you are quite right. If you look at the two there seems to be a striking resemblance. So yeah, maybe there is more than than meets the eye here. Who knows? Okay, Richard says, "Was the Russian drone incursions into Poland's airspace a test for some future plans? And what's the NATO response going to be like?" So a few days ago, uh there was all this news on social media that Russia has attacked Poland. Russia has launched drone strikes in Poland, which is obviously misleading. It was all incorrect. Uh but it looks like some Russian drones may have crossed into Poland's airspace for some time. Uh that may be possible that may have happened. Uh was this a test for future plots? If if it if it did indeed happen then this could possibly been have been a test or to see the kind of reaction that you get from Poland. Poland a member of NATO. What's going to be the reaction like from Poland and what's going to be the broader reaction from NATO? So that if you if you test that then it kind of gives you an the ability to gorge future actions depending on the response time and the kind of response the severity of the resp response how high does it go up the escalation chain and all of that what's the NATO response going to be like nothing they'll talk they'll do some saber rattling but because there's been no uh strike on Polish soil on Polish territory or on Polish assets there's nothing really that that NATO can do beyond perhaps doing an incursion by air into Russian airspace possibly. So that's about it. Until you actually attack physically a member of NATO, nothing really happens. I mean, nothing should happen. A violation of airspace which is brief is is it can be looked upon as an accident and it doesn't require uh an escalatory response. So yeah, I think the situation is in under control. Tanmayesh Pand says that feminists claim that Einstein stole the work of his wife Mleva Marik but there's no proof of this of her even helping him. Matilda effect is real but is this but this is false. Look I haven't looked into his his his personal life history. His wife was indeed a mathematician or physicist and she did help him it is said with some proofreading and and and verifying his papers while they were still married. Eventually they got divorced and Einstein remarried. So there are claims there are these persistent claims that maleva marit should played a significant role in Einstein doing all the work that he did. 1905 was his anus miraabilis in which he published five groundbreaking papers that totally totally revolutionalized the world of physics. For example the photoelectric effect that he that paper that he published in 1905 before he published that paper the world did not believe that atoms existed. Today we take atoms for granted right until Einstein published the paper on the photoelectric effect in 1905 nobody believed in atoms right so so to what extent was she responsible if at all for his work I suppose look I if she was that good then she would have published on her own independently after they after they got divorced right if if she was if he was that good but how is it that she was only a good physicist This is as long as she was married to him and she was apparently helping him. How come she did nothing after that? So I don't know the circumstances that she went through after the divorce. I suppose that once he got the Nobel Prize, he gave a substantial part of the money to her in exchange for her her agreeing to the divorce, that sort of thing. So it's not like she would have been in poverty or anything. So I am not sure. Look, there are all these stories that go around especially when it comes to famous people. And uh I personally have seen no evidence that Einstein stole her work or it was all her work and it was credit credited to Einstein. I don't think that's the case. I don't know if it's something to do with feminism or what. But as far as I understand from whatever I have read and studied, I haven't seen anything that leads me to the kind of conclusion that these people are drawing. So yeah, that's what I can say. Godliness says, does the fear of regime change allow the government to stay blind to vandalism? Central cabinet under the constitution is blind is bind is bound to maintain law and order. Desecration of for red of the red fort was heart wrecking. The desecration of the red fort that's 2019 when some individuals climbed the red fort and and brought down the Indian flag and put something else up that sort of thing. Um does the fear of regime change? Look, isn't it important that this government stays in power or is it important to give give vent to emotional um to to let off emotional steam? So I know it's it's very unfortunate that somebody climbed the red foot and and pulled the Indian flag down, but it's a symbolic gesture, right? Did it hurt the country in any way? Ask yourself whatever would have happened if the government had taken strong action like you want like many people want many people were really upset. I think the whole country was very upset. So I completely agree what you agree with your sentiments. I understand totally your sentiment. Now imagine this imagine the government had dispatched the police. The police was there but imagine the government had ordered the police to take action physical action and stop these people from doing whatever they're doing. So there's a bunch of people there at the red ford in that area maybe 100 to maybe thousand or whatever the number was they were trying to create a problem and if if the police goes and does a lat charge and these people have come with bulldozers and they try to bulldoze the police then the police may have to resort to tear gas firing they still don't stop then what do you do you know fire fire bullets what if someone gets killed the moment someone gets killed or even shot and injured and bleeding then the entire world's media will portray India as a fascist nation that is not allowing people to demonstrate and then because these people claim to represent the farmers protest and they represent supposedly represent farmers then it will alienate farmers across the country because Indians are illiterate people Indians don't understand anything they will think that the government is anti-farmer that's the kind of propaganda that will be spread and then you may have genuine farmer revolutions coming up or or protest coming up coming up across the country is Is that what you want? Do you want the whole country to be in chaos? Sometimes you to swallow the insults. This is something that everybody has to understand in life. Not just the government of India, every individual. Sometimes people will try to provoke you. Sometimes they will try to provoke you by insulting you and by by by trying to hurt your honor, your sense of honor and and self-esteem. And the objective is to make you act in a way that is detrimental to your own interests. So, what should you do? Should you just give vent to your emotions and do what you feel like because yeah, they they've insulted me or should you just tell them to take a hike. I don't care. Keep doing what you want. I'll not respond. Who who wins ultimately? You win, right? So, I think the government did the right thing. The all the heartbreaking blah blah is all fine. But the country is doing well, right? Imagine there was a godamned color revolution in India because Mr. Modi said take strict strict action against these protesters. That's what that's that was the objective. The Dilly Ray, the Shahinbug thing, all these protests and blocking roads for months and all. They wanted the government to make a mistake. This sort of mistake and the government did the right thing by not giving them what they wanted. All right. Teen Talks Dharma says, "What does Chernobyl taught today's nuclear scientists?" What did what did Chernobyl teach today's nuclear scientists? See, Chernobyl was an engineering accident. It was not a nuclear physics accident. See, when when let's say you have a vehicle, you've got a car and the engine explodes for for whatever reason. Is that a physics accident or is there an engineering? Who who will you call a physicist to come and fix it or will you call a car mechanic to fix it? Engineering is applied physics. A nuclear reactor is an engineering problem. It's not a physics problem. Okay. Of course that is very high cutting edge engineering which means that you will have physicists who are available in a nuclear reactor to look at various parameters and all that. The question is what did Chernobyl teach you? It taught that it taught nuclear engineers nuclear reactor engineers that you need to have very high standards of safety. You cannot have uh laxity of standards. You cannot cut corners. uh you need to have redundancy and safeguards and all that. So the reason what was the reason why this happened? There was a series of escalating failures and these failures were detected but they were disregarded right and the engineering the design of the reactor itself had some issues. So all of that is what caused the catastrophe. It was a series of events that put together led to a a situation where the where the reactor had no exp had no choice but to explode. Uh so the lesson to be learned is that don't make those engineering mistakes and the reactor safety design has the reactor safety standards have to be improved and the Soviet Union learned from that. Russia has learned from that. You have not seen a single accident in Russia after that or the USSR. Uh you had some nuclear accidents after that. Fukushima was a great example, a terrible example actually what 2011 but that was nothing to do with the the kind of thing that happened in Chernobyl. That was because of the earthquake and the and the and the tsunami. So Chernobyl teaches you that you have to be really serious about your safety standards and you need to have well-trained staff who will recognize the earliest signs of danger and shut the goddamn thing down. Divor Singh says should India have its own conservatives, liberals, libertarians? Why do we need to copy the US? Why do we have to do to ape everything the west does? So because the west has a right wing and a left wing and a center wing, why should we also have it? Why don't we have our own system? Right? We had our own system. Look, I'll tell you historically what we had historically going back to the Vic age, we only had even in the Vic age. See we are told that we had Hinduism and then Janism and Buddhism and Sikism and whatever other isms came as different religions. The truth is that during the Vic age you had lots of different traditions in India. Lots of different traditions, lots of different gods, goddesses which were not originally Vic. But after the victory in the battle of the 10 kings, everything was brought together into one single uh tradition and that was the Vic system. All gods were welcome. You may have your own local village god or goddess. You may have your mountain spirits. We're going to welcome them all into the Vic system. So that's what was done several thousand thousand years ago. And then because India was a very pluralistic diverse society, lots of different philosophical schools of thought thought emerged. Naya, mimmansa, vdanta, sananka, yoga, um charvaka, all of these they are very very different schools of thought with very different worldviews. Each of these represents a certain model of the universe and its workings. Right? And for example, Charvaka is pure materialism. There are certain schools of thought that that don't believe in the existence of God. There are some schools of thought that believe in the existence of a supreme god. Some believe in the existence of the of the immortal soul. Some don't. So we had our own super pluralistic system which was then smashed by the Abrahamics. And the past thousand years the Indian society and and and system was not allowed to function the way it does. So all of this Abrahamic super simposition happened in the past 1,000 or so years. And now because we are so mentally brainwashed and colonized. That's why we want to ape everything the west does. The western system is a very crude inferior system. It's binary. It's a binary system. Good versus bad, black versus white. Yeah. That sort of thing. Left versus right. And sometimes to make to to port that they're not binary, they put us centrist. So it's like conservatives, liberals, libertarians which are different flavors of of of the same left and right thing. Why do we need that? We need to go back to our civilizational system which will take time. Maybe it will take a couple of centuries but that's what needs to happen. What's the point of us adopting inferior systems? So I am these are inferior systems you know what what the Americans have the the west has. The thing is that when someone is super wealthy and powerful everyone thinks they are the best and we want to ape them. And that's the mindset Indians have today. That's why India also wants to have our right wing and our left wing and that sort of thing. I don't think we need to have that. We need to have our our own system, our own civilizational system. Uh MX says what are your thoughts on vasu numerology etc. I have no thoughts on this. I am ignorant about this. Okay, very honestly I'm telling you I don't know anything about it. So I'm not the right person to ask any of this. Divor Singh says can we can have another universe inside a black hole. Mathematics adds up. Neil Degrass Tyson. Okay. Is it possible that our universe exists inside a black hole? Yeah. So, how do we assertain whether that's the case? What what are the what are the facts that we know of that are undisputable? Our universe has a certain size. Not the universe but the observable universe. The observable universe that we can see it has a diameter of about 90 95 trillion light years. Is it billion? Is it trillion? That's billion. It's billion. 95 billion light years. Okay. Beyond that there is a universe out there but we can't see beyond that. So we have an observable horizon of about 90 95 billion lightyears in diameters. So it's like we are at the center of a sphere and all around us at a radius of of about 45 47 billion lightyears we can see. Beyond that we can't see. But clearly there's a universe beyond that because the universe as we know is expanding and every day certain galaxies are going beyond the observable horizon. So that's what we know that we live in a sphere that we can observe and beyond that there's something out there but we have no access to it because of the limitations of light speed. Now we know that the universe is expanding. There is observational evidence that demonstrates this. Nobody can dispute that. Okay. red shifting and so on galaxies. We can see that the universe is expanding and the expansion is accelerating. We also know that a big bang happened an initial singularity or or compressed point was there from which everything expanded outwards. It was not an explosion. It was an expansion of spaceime. And we know this because we have the cosmic microwave background radiation which is the afterlow of the big bang. Right? That faint radiation that's that permeates empty space which is not really empty. So the question is inside a black hole can you have a situation when the where where there is expanding spacetime and cosmic microwave background radiation is it possible to have that inside a black hole well if you look at the Einstein field equations and what they say you'll find that that kind of doesn't add up okay the Einstein field equations that's what Albert Einstein came up with in 1915 and the field equations say they have two sides the left side is talks about geometry the geometry of the universe and right side is about the matter matter in density, matter in energy composition of the universe and these two balance out. So matter tells spacetime how to curve and the curvature of spacetime tells matter how to move that sort of thing. Now if you look at the Einstein field equations and you factor in other things it doesn't look like a black hole should have this sort of stuff inside a black hole you can model it as a bag of photons or or a bag of fuzz balls or whatever but still you don't have the situation of an expanding spaceime inside a black hole and all. So I would say it is rather unlikely that we may be inside a black hole but who knows it's not like we know all of physics. We know we actually know next to nothing of physics despite whatever advances we we've made. So anything is possible at the end of the day. We don't quite know what's inside a black hole, right? We can only describe what's inside a black hole using the equations and the theories that we have. The best theory is general relativity. We also have quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. But they don't give you all the answers because something is missing. Some pieces are missing. So I would say at the end of the day it's possible but from what we know it looks somewhat unlikely but we don't know everything so it's possible. Okay. All right. Dark Knight says how can wealthy or powerful Hindus world over call create a dharmic deep state? Would they have a strong int incentive to create one the way another much smaller group allegedly has? You see Hindus aren't political creatures. Hindus play little politics here and there in in India you have the you have the politicians and all but Hindus don't unite right see trying to unite Hindus is like trying to herd cats you can herd sheep together it's very easy to herd sheep sheep have the sheep mentality but have you tried hering cats have you seen ever have you ever seen in your life 17 cats together going in the same direction you won't see that cats are super individualistic they're like no me I'm different I'm not like you so Hindus are like that Hindu Hindus prioritize. Hindus don't prioritize their civilizational identity. Hindus prioritize their subnational identity. I am so and so language. I speak so and so language. So I will I'll hang around with people who speak the same language. Or I belong to so and so pa. So I'll hang around with people who belong to my punt and I'll ignore everybody else. That's how Hindus exist in isolated groups in silos. Okay? You go to the US, you'll see a perfect example of this. All the people who speak Telugu will be in in one group. All the all the people who speak Tamil will be in a different group. All the people who speak Bengali will be in a certain group. The people who speak Hindi will be in a different group. They all at the workplace they all together come come together as Indians. But outside the workplace in the social groups, they're all in different silos. That's how Indians are. And when it comes to the various uh subdenominations of of dharma, whether you're Vishnav or you this or that or whatever you Iscon or whatever it is. So there also you have your subdivisions. So Hindus don't unite and Hindus when they leave India all they want to do is make money and and live a peaceful quiet life and have their little social groups and that's it. Which is why Hindus simply can't unite. Hindus don't have the unity. You will need some tremendous leader to come up to really unite Hindus and make them see past their little petty mindset of sub subivilizational identities. How can Hindus unite? Only if there is a truly transcendent leader who emerges from somewhere that's the only way Hindus can unite. Who can some someone like Lord Krishna or or Sriam that sort of leader has to come or even like some of the greats like Chhatrapatwishi Maharaj or whoever someone of that caliber in stature has to emerge only then will Hindus unite. Even during the time of Chhatraati Shivaji Maharaj and the Marata Empire, you still had people within India who were fighting the Maratas or opposing the Maratas, our own people. I'm not talking about the Turks or the British. I'm talking about our own our own people. We've always had this problem, right? So, we need a a transcendent leader. Only then will Hindus unite. Hindus love to talk talk talk all day. I have been to enough of these gatherings. This congress in that congress and what not in which city in the world? What city in the world? They come together have all these have all these discussions on the stage on the panel discussion right they'll talk nice things then they will have a buffet lunch and then they go back oh yeah what happened what's the outcome what's the outcome of the 20 crores you spend or whatever for the event what's the outcome nothing so that's the deal with Hindus you know you need a a leader a transcendent leader otherwise this is never going to happen people are just going to keep talking Hindus love to talk Hindus love to argue They love arguing from morning till night. Watch the TV debates. Talk talk talk. Watch India's think tanks. Talk talk. What do they achieve? Nothing. Sad. Divor Singh says, "Amazing." Well, thank you, sir. Very nice uh to have you on the on the live stream. Thank you so much, sir. And once again, Dignor G, why are all the richest dark entities running the west from one place? Dimnor Singh G wants to get to the bottom of the black hole. He wants to reach the singularity. He wants to go past the event horizon. Look, I'll tell you what. The West has done something the world has never done before. Let me explain. Historically, okay, historically we had empires. We know the US is an empire. It masquerades as a democracy and human rights. Blah blah blah. The US is an empire. But how is it different historically? Whether it's the Roman Empire or whether it is Alexander's empire, whether it's the Seucid Empire, whether it is Napoleon's empire, whether it is the British Raj, whether it is various Indian empires, the whatever historically empires have always prioritized displays of wealth, opulence and power. The Persian Hakamanish Empire, the Aminid Empire, every empire would prioritize displaying these opulent displays of wealth, grandeur and power. Show off, flaunt your instruments of power. Display it to the world so that the world understands how powerful you are and they learn to respect you through fear or whatever through either through fear or through awe that how rich these people are. Right? Every empire has sought to do this. What the US empire has done is that they have very successfully concealed their instruments of power. They pretend to be just another country. We respect the UN charter. We will abide by the WTO rules. We believe in a free and fair uh global uh order, the rules-based world order. We will abide by the rules. Blah blah blah. That's what they claim. They claim that they are just another ordinary nation like everyone else. The truth is that they have more than 700 extr territorial territorial military bases and they have so many countries they have totally vasalized and and essentially finished. But they hide all of this and they also hide where the real power lies in the US or wherever in the world like you say. Sir, where does the real power lie? They have created this facade of democracy. Every four years there's an election electoral process and every state has a governor who's also elected. The the thing is that the US president serves a very specific purpose and role. The role of the US president is to make a lot of noise and and attract all the media and the world's attention to himself or her or himself so that nobody looks at where the real power lies. That stays hidden. So that's the deal. That's what they call the deep state. And one classic symptom and very clear example of that is the Fed, the Federal Reserve Bank of the US, which is the national essentially the the national bank, which is privately owned. It's not owned by the government and no one knows who really owns the bank, who are the real shareholders, stakeholders. They claim it is various other US banks that own it. That's all blah blah blah. It's it's a bunch of people who own it and they are the people who own the US. Now, who are these people? We don't know. So uh where do these people reside? Do they reside in one place? Are they decentralized? Are they distributed? I don't know that how do we know right? How to know such things? Yes. Uh DNU says do the same people control Russia and the west? Well, there have been tales or or claims that uh the Bolevik revolution was done by the ro shills or whatever. they financed it and maybe they financed both sides of the world wars and all. If there is some truth to that, then there could be some truth to perhaps some of these stories that the USSR was just one part of the global order. The same people created in order to extract the maximum benefit for themselves, whoever they are. Uh today, do do the same people like the deep state for example, whoever they are, do they control Russia in the west? Not really sure. Not really sure. Can't really say. But clearly Russia and the West are on opposite sides. and the and the west is trying to destroy Russia which has failed obviously miserably but they have tried. So from whatever we can see on the surface at least it doesn't look like that but who knows what lies below the surface like I always say take your analysis subsurface do don't be satisfied with surface level analysis but I haven't gone down this rabbit hole personally so I can't really say teen talks dharma says why is Vlad the Imperial called Draula he wasn't called Draula he was called Draula Draula what does the word Draul mean in Romanian Draul. Draul means dragon, dragon, dragon. And uh Draula means someone who is of who belongs to the order of the dragon. So it was Vlad Draa and then a guy called Bram Stoker converted that into Dracula. Okay. It is not something that means vampire. It means somebody who belongs to the lineage of the dragon. So Vlad Vlad tipes he was a freedom fighter for Romania and when you are up against the Turks you have to fight the Turks in a way that will scare the Turks. So Vlad would do frightful things to the Turks because the Turks were absolute barbarians. They did the most horrific things things to the natives of Europe. So when you're it's like why does think of our goddesses Mali Machamunda what do they look like? Do they look like the epitome of maternal love? Mali and Machamunda. Well you could think of them as the epitome of maternal love if if you're on their side. But they they have this fierce r. fierce uh nature that they've adopted because their job is to fight a dharma and when you're fighting demons you have to be so frightening that even demons will be frightened of you. So that is the kind of thing that Vladesh took to his heart and he said that in if I'm going to fight these demons the Turks I'm going to become even more evil than them. So he would then he would defeat the Turks and he would create a forest of impaled per impaled Turks. He will plant a spear in the ground and they will have he will impale Turks on the spears. So when the next invasion wave comes they will come across this entire forest of several thousand impaled Turks and even the Turks got frightened of that. So that's the kind of guy he he was he was he was an impaler. That's why he was called Vlad the Impaler. And because he belonged to the family uh that called itself the dragon family, the order of the dragon, that's why he was called Vlad Dracula, not Dracula. Okay, sir. Okay. Um Dr. Dimnat says, "Did the CIA create Nepal riot igniting India China shift?" Looks like looks like this is a regime change operation. Now there's a lady who has come to power, Dr. Sushila or Madame Sushila Kharki or something her name is uh and she seems to be the interim prime minister of Nepal. People are claiming that this is proof that this is not a CIA coup. It's not a regime change operation. We'll have to wait and watch. We have to wait and watch whatever happened in Nepal the past few days at the classic hallmarks of a of a color revolution. The same template the same playbook right so it so we'll have to wait and watch. Uh and who really who really is going to hold power in Nepal now? See this lady who's the interim caretaker whatever prime minister she's the figure head she will not really have the real power please understand this people power and position are different just because somebody gave you a seat it says prime minister doesn't make you the prime minister it makes you the prime minister in name in position in title you have the seat but who has the power you heard of the term kingmaker have you heard of the term power behind the throne there are such things too in world. So let's wait and watch. Let's wait and watch how things evolve in Nepal. Literally officer K says, "Is the Indian land blessed? Almost all religions have benefited here. Even at our expense, a bunch of homeless Usuzbcks and Brits managed to create prosperities for ourselves for the for themselves." Well, the land whether it's blessed or not depends on the people. If you create a land of prosperity and a land of abundance and a land of culture and civilization and if you continue that for several thousand years, everybody will consider that land to be blessed. If a lot of great literature and philosophy and and culture and civilization all of and and all of that emerges from your land because of the kind of people who live here, then everyone will look at that land as blessed. And if it is a land of great prosperity and abundance then even barbarians will come here settle down do all kinds of hor horrible things and they will also benefit from it and they will say the land is blessed. Ultimately a land whether it is blessed or not depends on the people on their on the people and their lifestyle and their culture and civilization. So if we want our land to remain blessed we have to reclaim recover our civilization. Right now we are going in in a different direction. We are becoming increasingly derinated. We are losing touch with our ancestral culture and civilization. We are becoming more and more superficial. Right? If you see our entertainment industry, that is how foreigners see Indian culture today. Bollywood dingchuck dingchuck dingch that if you look at the if you listen to the kind of music that comes out of the Indian entertainment industry is that culture that's not culture. So very soon the land will no longer be blessed if this continues. So that's the thing. It was blessed because of our ancestors. But will it remain blessed because of people like us. Do we have the same standards to continue making this land a blessed place? That's what we have to ask ourselves. Dru Singh says why does Mossad help India in many cases Hindenburg but it's still involved in project K etc. Ah look, every country has their own national interests and no country, no two countries are 100% aligned with each other. Not the case. Impossible. For example, right, right now the Israelis did um an air strike on Qatar on DHA and they took out some Hamas terrorists, right? So the Israelis did an air strike on on DHA Qatar and what did the prime minister of India do? He tweeted that we strongly condemn the the violation of Qatar sovereignty blah blah blah whatever he said he made a very clear diplomatic statement without naming Israel. Okay. So some people would interpret that as an anti-Israeli move. Right? But you must remember that Qatar when the Pahelgam attack happened Qatar had condemned the attack without naming Pakistan. So in response we condemn the attack on on on DHA without naming Israel. You see this is how it works. Now we have interests in various parts of the Gulf region, West Asia region. India supports the rights of rights of the Palestinians for alleged self-determination or whatever. That's our official stance that kind of goes against Israel. Right? There have been many instances where in the United Nations we have voted in a certain way and Israel has voted in the opposite way. So it's not like we are always handin glove and always in the same path. India has its own set of interests. Israel has a whole different set of interests. Wherever the interests converge, we work together and there are lots of areas where our interests converge. Which is why India and Israel have a robust relationship. But there are areas where they have divergence of interests. No question about it. For example, in India's far east, you have these cookies who have crossed over from Burma. Now the cookies someday some sometimes they will claim that they are animists. Sometimes they will claim that they are Christians. Sometimes they'll claim that they are Jews. They eat pork but now they some of them claim that they are Jews. That we have we are descendants of some lost Jewish tribe. And the Israelis have welcomed these people and they have converted them officially bapt not baptiz baptized but whatever it is to Judaism and many cookies now live in Israel and from Israel at least from the quarters of these cookies you have support for the terrorism that's happening in Manipur against the indigenous manipuries and recent not recently but last year somewhere a bunch of Indian influencers or whatever had gone to Israel and the Israeli authorities had the Indian influencers meet a cookie rabbi. So there is some Israeli government involvement in this and so on. So Israel has its own interests which it will pursue. India has its own interests with which India will pursue. But ideally you don't want the pursuit of these interests to to infringe upon each other's sovereignty or interests. But Israel may perhaps be on the borderline with that. Maybe they they may regard that maybe India is on the borderline with something else somewhere else. So that is how it goes. See international relations are complicated. It's not always 1 plus 1 equal to 2. It's very complicated. There are all kinds of complexities below the surface level which are not visible to to people who may not be aware of these things. Right? So that's how it is. Okay. Muhammad Faizan says, "I follow your and Prashand Davan's geopolitics and analysis and opinions. Have you ever checked Prashand Davan's content? How do you find?" I am not aware. I'm not aware of Prashand Davan his content and analysis. I don't watch any geopolitics channel. It's nothing to do with Prashand Davan or anybody else. I simply don't have the time to watch YouTube uh or or podcasts or any such thing. Before I became active on YouTube, I used to sometimes watch Joe Rogan. It was fun to watch. But ever since I started uh the channel, I have not been watching anyone's content whether it is geopolitics, whether it's history, whether it's anything else. I simply don't have the time to do it. With all the work that I'm doing, especially now that I'm writing books and all, I simply don't have a minute of spare time. So I am not aware of Prashand Davan. I've heard a lot that people keep speaking about him. I'm sure he's great, but uh I personally don't have any opinion because I haven't checked out his analysis. I'm sure he's a great guy because he has such a big following apparently. Right. That's that's all I can say. Shashad Jenna says, should India do something in Bangladesh before the US puts up a military base and creates more instability in the region and probably extract minerals from Burma also? What will India do? Look what the question is. What can India do? We should do something. Okay. Take very nice. What specifics? We need specifics. What are the options on the table? Can India do a regime change in Bangladesh? I think it's unlikely because Bangladesh has become super radicalized. Right. Um today I would say that most people in Bangladesh have the same kind of approach and attitude and feeling set of feelings towards India that the average Pakistani has. So it is a failure of India to to uh approach Bangladesh the right way since 1971. In 1971 there was a tremendous amount of goodwill towards India in Bangladesh and we completely frittered that away decade after decade. Today Bangladesh is like East Pakistan. The average Bangladeshi has the same feelings towards India as the average Pakistani. I'm sure there are some Bangladeshes who are really good and who love India. I'm sure some Pakistanis also are like that. But the average person it's a different story, right? So India can't really do a regime change operation in Bangladesh because no political party will want to align. You had Shasina who was favorably inclined towards India and she has been ousted. So let's say a regime change is not possible. So then what do we do? Military operation. If it was that easy, why doesn't China take Taiwan military operation? It's right there next door. Just like Bangladesh is next door. It's not that simple. Right now we have to think of Bangladesh as East Pakistan the way West Pakistan is and that's that's going to be the situation. It is now a US vasal. You don't tangle with US vasals. You wait it out. That's what you do. And Burma, yeah, there's a there's a civil war happening in Burma. It's a proxy war between the US and China. At the heart of the issue is minerals. You like you rightly say, Shana, what minerals? Rare earth minerals. Would you like to see? Okay, let's let's find out, shall we? Let me bring the map on the screen and we shall go to map and we shall discover what's going on in Burma. Yes. What is going on in Burma? Let give me a second. I'll put the map on the screen. Okay, let us put that on the screen. Where is map? Here is map. Let's take a look at Burma. Okay, here we have it on the screen. So, we have Burma here. Now, um if we zoom in, take a satellite image and one second. This is Arunachal Pradesh. We're talking about Burma. Let's talk about this region here. So, if we zoom into some No, this is the snowy region. That's too That's too far north. We need to One second. Let me orient myself. Let's Let's go somewhere here. Okay. Now, if we zoom in, zoom in, zoom in, zoom in. Do we have any settlement here? Give me a second or two. very ex uh Pangoir. Okay. Now, this is on the by the way, let's zoom out. This is on the border between Burma and China. Okay. To the right you have to the right you have China. To the left you have Burma. So, let's zoom in and let me show you something. For example, uh here you can see there are these these little ponds and what whatnot. One second. I'm sure I'll find something very quickly. So you have all these rare earth mines in this region. You'll have to give me a second before I can Ah, there we have it. Check it out. These are lithium mining operations. tremendous reserves of rare earths in this region right across the border with China. Look everywhere you will see these these little pits and wells that have been dug and you have all these uh uh you know what you what you do you take lithium and you liquefy it or you mix it with water over here and then you let let the whole thing dry and that's how you extract lithium. You can see all across the place. These are all rare earth mines strewn across this entire region. All across the place. If you take the time and look around, you will find mine after mine after mine after mine. And these are all right across. It even says rare earth mines here. See this rare earth mines. These are extraordinarily valuable. And all of this is going into China. and the Americans want it. Okay? And that is one of the driving factors when it comes to this civil war that is going on in Burma. The China is benefiting from all of this and the US would very much like to have it. So that sort of thing. So the US wants that, the Chinese will not want this to happen. So this is a tugof-war contest between the Burmese and the Chinese uh between the Chinese and the Americans. And Burma is the victim of this. Vnor Singh says, "Why is the Indian defense minister praying at the wailing wall?" A symbolic gesture. You know, it doesn't cost you anything to do it. Maybe it helps, maybe it makes the Israelis happy. See, see, we are not an Abrahamic religion, right? That certain things are are haram to us. We can go and pay our respects anywhere. I mean we have Hindus who go to all kinds of places of worship. Hindus go to Dargas and mosques and churches and whatnot. So what's the harm in going to a Jewish uh thing the the west wall of the former temple of Solomon that the Romans brought down? Yeah. So because India and Israel have a robust relationship maybe the defense minister thought let me go and make this symbolic gesture of friendship towards and respect towards Israel. I suppose that's about it. Beyond that I don't see anything deeper than that. Uh when an Indian minister goes and does it it generally means nothing. It's just a symbol. Indians love symbolism. Indians love symbolism. Indians love gestures and words. A few nice cho chosen nice words and Indians are they'll all melt. So Indians love to do it and they love to reciprocate in this matter. But when someone like Trump goes and does it, it may have a different meaning. Right? So okay Ravi says how can India crush kalistan movement there is no kalistan movement there's nothing there may be attempts to create recreate this movement in some parts of India especially punjab and all uh just starve the funds that's all whatever so-called kalistar movement exists it only exists in Canada and the US and the UK and stria and maybe New Zealand and maybe some other vasal countries of the US nothing in India. I I'm sure that we should not take it lightly. The the the external forces will try and create trouble in Punjab and other parts other such parts of India. All you have to do is starve off the funding. That's about it. That's all it takes. Uh and of course when it comes to Punjab, there's been this tremendous drug problem because right across the border of Pakistan, they would love to have Punjab abortion drugs. And another issue in Punjab is the is the industrial scale Christianization of Punjab. Six are becoming Christians. I mean what on earth? Don't you have any self-respect guys? What are you doing anyway? Yeah. So all these all these means are being used to create trouble in Punjab. Cautilia says territorial and future impact of 1967 Indochina war. But whatever future impact was to happen of 67 war, it's already happening now because we are what 60 years down the line almost. There was no territorial impact. Uh territory was not exchanged. the Chinese wanted to take some territory probably of India's territory and we thwarted that we defeated their their attempt and uh after that the Chinese became a little wary of India that this is no longer the India of 62 even 5 years after 62 they they faced this defeat in this localized uh you know u war that that we had so after that India and China the Chinese become a little more wary of India and you also had some other clashes the sumong chu clash and etc in ' 87 or whatever in which again India came out came out on top. So after 67 the the Chinese were were more careful when dealing with India. Swastik Mahesh says after the US backed regime change operation in Nepal is there going to be rapid increase in Christian conversions and religious demographic re-engineering. Wherever the US has an advantage they do all these things. The classic example is South Korea. South Korea historically a Buddhist kingdom historically Buddhist no Christianity today Buddhism is a minority the majority people are Christians or atheists Buddhism is regarded as backward so that's what the Americans have engineered in in South Korea South Korea is under US occupation in case you're not aware okay ever since the Korean war ended or paused South Korea has been under rigorous robust American military operation. South Korea is run by the US, right? The South Korean military essentially comes under the US. So when the US is the dominant force, they will destroy your culture. They tried the same with Japan. It's not succeeded that much in Japan. Japan is still not well there is there is a certain Christian population in Japan. Let's let's quickly look at the Christian demographics in Japan. Just just figure it out what's what the deal is. And since we are doing it, we may as well see for South Korea. South Korea religious demographics Christian. Okay, let's see. So, look at this. 51% is no religion. 31% is Christianity. 17% is Buddhism. My god, they've destroyed South Korea. Now let's look at Japan. So South Korea has been destroyed. Japan religious demographics. Now this is going to be different. Oopsie. So Japan has been more robust. They have resisted. As you can see, 46% of Japanese are still Buddhists. Uh what? Where is Shinto? What is this nonsense? They're not showing Shinto. Okay, Shinto is 48% in Japan. Buddhism is 46%. This is all Wikipedia. So it is not necessarily reliable. Remember that. But Christianity is just 1% in Japan. So Japan has somehow survived uh what the Americans have attempted. They have been very successful in South Korea. Japan, it's not really worked out. So Japan has been more resilient because their culture maybe is more deeprooted. Um but yeah but Japan became very prosperous very rapidly after the second world war ended and that's why it was hard to to and and South Korea was horribly povertyridden. That's the difference. So when you have a nation that's ridden with riddled with poverty it's very easy to Christianize it. When you have a prosperous nation it's very hard to Christianize it. Now consider Nepal. It's a poor nation. If the US has a puppet government in Nepal, it means that conversion efforts will will reach sky-high limits. So yeah, they will try and create a Christian country out of Nepal. Divor Singh says, "What is the wailing wall? Why does every political party pray that except JFK of course?" Well, did JFK never pay his respects? I wonder what happened to him. Um, well, so what is the Whailing Wall? The veiling wall was the I think the west wall or whichever wall of the temple of Solomon of the rebuilt temple of Solomon not the original temple of Solomon. So Solomon had a temple. Solomon lived about 900 or so BC. It is said around 900 or 1,000 BC around that time roughly give or take. We don't quite know for sure. So he was a he was a king of the of the Jews. Solomon Sullean Sullean and he had built a temple in that in that in that same location and after the Assyrian invasion I think it was destroyed don't quote me on that but it was destroyed and then the Persians liberated the Jews from the Assyrians under the great uh emperor Kurush and Kurush was a very respectful and like the westerners say tolerant emperor emperor and he repatriated the Jews back to Judea and he gave them the funds to rebuild the temple that had been destroyed. So the second temple was built and the wailing wall is what remains of that temple because after the revolt of the Mcabes or whatever whichever revolt it was against the Romans the Romans destroyed the temple but one wall remained and that is the wall that's now called the wailing wall. And why does every political party pray that well only those politicians can answer the question I don't know okay says is Nepal facing the US playbook like Bangladesh protests seem orchestrated not organic aimed at destabilizing India after failure regime change operations Nepal look everything that we saw that happened it it had the clear hallmarks of a color revolution of of an American regime change operation Now we'll have to wait and watch as to who is the real power in Nepal. Right now they have appointed some person this lady Supreme Court justice Madame Sushila Kharki um she her husband was the politician who was a hijacker of a plane and all that that sort of thing and uh let's see what role she plays but she is merely the caretaker prime minister the person who sits in the chair but where does does the real power lie that's the question and who's going to really run the show from behind the scenes that is going to tell us everything as to what has really happened uh so most likely this is an American mediated regime change operation to uh get rid of a pro-China government because Mr. KP Sharma was a Chinese agent. Uh and these protests look the protests protests that are widespread and super organized. They're never organic. There's always some organizing force behind the scenes that is taking care of all the logistics of of all the coordination and all these things. So uh the objective of all of these efforts that the US is doing is to encircle India with a fence of thorns. Our strategic experts like to talk about even today about the Chinese string of pearls strategy right of encircling India at sea in the in the Indian Ocean region through all these ports that the Chinese are building. Well the Americans are building a fence of thorns around India. There is West Pakistan where there was a regime change in 2022 and a pro- US government came to power. Then there's East Pakistan, Bangladesh where you had a regime change operation in 2024 and now you have a US wasal regime there. Now and Burma operation K project K cookie land for Christ that is a US project right and it has caused so much bloodshed and so much suffering for the indigenous people of Manipur. Then now we have Nepal. So they want to completely encircle India. The objective is to contain India, not let India grow to its full potential. Keep India down, suppress India, create all kinds of problems, internal problems, external problems from India so that India's economy doesn't grow in India doesn't become a threat in the future. Achintia Anand says what about western theft of our knowledge contribution to advanced sciences like surgery yoga surya sedant uh being 0.3 second difference with current system look they have stolen all of that but they will never give credit to it to us right for it they won't that's how it works you take all the knowledge you digest it you build on top of it then you claim it was yours all all along so that is well known I mean whether Whether it is the concept of the decimal system, the concept of the decimal point, whether it is the concept of zero itself, whether it is uh algebra, whether it is trigonometry, whether it is uh infinite series, whether it's uh calculus, all of this originated in India. Uh astronomy, tremendous astronomy data was taken from India by the Arabs. Then it went to the west and the westerners claimed it was all ours. when Kepler Johannes Kepler needed astronomical data he acquired astronomical data from Brahmin and Banaras and it's on the basis of that those detailed copious astronomical observations that was he was able to formulate the three laws that he's famous for Kepler's law planetary motion so all of this is known everyone knows it but nobody but it's not recognized you will not see a single western historian of science write about this but Indians are writing about this which is good. So it can no longer be swept under the carpet and today you have all these western um researchers whether it is in Princeton or Harvard or whatever who are claiming that meditation has been a global practice. It doesn't belong to any one culture or community. Meditation came from India. You little I don't have a polite word so I shall not say anything. Uh so they are trying to steal everything and uh and and rebrand it. So that guy Hubberman or whatever his name is he is one of the big culprits. So we have something called pranayam. Pranayam is a very ancient age-old practice in India. Hubberman and his and his friends they call it cardiac coherence breathing. Some other people call it box breathing. So they are rebranding it and trying to pass it off as something they have discovered themselves. The Wimhof method of cultural theft. The Wimhof method is an Indian method. It is called bastrika in Kapalabati but he has rebranded it the Wimhof method and ice bats. That's what Indian yogis do in the Himalayas. Everything is stolen from India but it's rebranded and he has made a fortune this Wimhof fellow. So that's the deal with the west a bunch of thieves. I'm not saying that all of the scientific advances the west has done are Indian advances. No, they took the knowledge that we had developed until about 11 1200 AD and then they built on top of that. Right? So, no one's taking any credit away from Einstein or or whoever but the foundations mathematical and scientific foundations came from India. Divor Singh says do bankers run the world essentially? Well, the entire economic financial system is run by bankers. No question about that, right? And since you are running the entire global economic system, you are super powerful. And therefore, whoever whoever owns the banks in the banking system, they run the world because not only do they have money, they also apparently have a lot of lot of power. So whoever that is, they could be super powerful. Maybe they are running the world from behind the scenes. Vim Singh says, "We saw rot shells at the Amani wedding. Aren't Roshills supposed to be anti-India?" Well, I am not aware of this. First of all, rot shields at the Ammani wedding. Well, let's say hypothetically the rot shells. Hypothetically, I I don't know. Okay, since I've said this, I I am not aware of the history of the rot shells and what they're up to and all that. I've never studied these people, so I can't really say. But let's say hypothetically that the these people are empty hypothetically. Then it doesn't mean they will never come to India, right? Let's say you are anti-India. It means you don't like India and you want to let's say destroy India. Then maybe instead of staying away, you will make trips to India and find out what the scene is like and make connections everywhere and then in the future perhaps try and operationalize some of these connections. So that's a better strategy than staying away, right? So so maybe that could perhaps explain why someone whoever it is who hypothetically may be anti-India would visit India. I'm not saying the rod shells are or are not. I don't know. I don't know. Okay. I'm like I said, I've not studied the history or or their present also. Cotishi says, "How and why is Israel a sovereign country? How come the US always bows down in front of Israel? Why does it seem like Israel is the master of the UA of the US? Why is the Israel a sovereign country?" So I have this hard power index in which I also have a sovereignty ranking and I have said this for several years that there's only a small number of sovereign countries in the world. All other countries are sovereign only name only technically the truly sovereign countries are the US, Russia, China, India and Israel. France isn't fully sovereign. The UK isn't sovereign at all. Germany isn't a sovereign nation. Turkey isn't a sovereign nation. Japan, South Korea, Australia, these are not sovereign nations. Only five nations are genuinely sovereign. So why is Israel a sovereign country? See, ask yourself, is Israel a member of NATO? If you are a member of NATO, it means that your armed forces can and do come under foreign command under the command of a foreigner who is generally American or whatever. Right? So if you are a nation that's a member of NATO, you will have to contribute contribute to ar your armed forces and put them under a foreigner's command at various points in time. That is directly a contravention of sovereignty which this means that you don't have military sovereignty. So Turkey is a member of NATO it means it is not militarily sovereign. Is Israel a member of the EU? If you are a member of the EU then you have no control over your borders. Your borders are open. Secondly, you don't have any control over your economy because you're using the EO which is controlled from Brussels, not from your capital. So, you don't have territorial sovereignty. You don't have economic sovereignty and you don't even have legislative sovereignty because the laws are being passed in Brussels and you don't have any control over that. So, if you're a member of EU, you don't have sovereignty. If you are a member of EU plus NATO, you're done, fried, finished. Israel is neither a member of the EU or NATO. But Israel is a small country, right? If you are a small country, you are by de facto not sovereign because you are so small that you are dependent on others for all kinds of things and anybody and a big power can anytime take you out. So by being a small country, you are by just def factor not sovereign. Israel is a very small country. So why is it still sovereign? Because it is a nuclear weapons power. If you're a nuclear weapons power, it augments your sovereignty multiple fold. Right? And then there's the special relationship Israel has with the US. Yeah. The US is an unconditional supporter of Israel. No matter what happens, we will always support Israel. Well, in in such a situation when you are such a special country, obviously you are sovereign. All right. How come the US bows down to Israel? Why does it seem like Israel is a master of the US? Well, that's a long story. There are lots of American politicians who are Jewish people and they consistently advocate excellent relations with Israel and unlike Hindus they are united which is why they are so much more effective that's one factor there are many other factors right all right how influential was Harry Truman as the US president true man true man Harry Truman what did he look like a second let me just see his face so that I recall who who this guy Truman. Harry Truman. Harry Truman. Okay. So, Harry Truman was the US president during the during the cold war during the World War II and cold war periods. And when he stepped down, he had given this very precious speech about the the dangers of the military-industrial complex. I think it was pretty influential. pretty influential and people still quote that speech that he gave at the end of his term. So yeah, why does the UN have the same emblem as the Roman emblem? Divor Singh has very interesting questions. Let's find out. Let's find out. Uh UN emblem. Um emblem. Ah, you mean the laurel wreath? The laurel wreath. Yes. Yes. Laurel wreath. Yeah, this was a symbol of triumph, right? The Romans, this was a symbol of honor for the Romans. Even the Greeks used it. And uh see the Greeks had something called the Olympic Games, right? The Olympic Games. And then they were discontinued for discontinued for more than 2,000 years. And then we have restarted in the 1900s. So in the Olympic games, the original Olympic games in Greece, uh the winners were not given gold medals or whatever, they were given a laurel wreath. And somehow this tradition influenced Rome. And in Rome also whenever a victorious general returned to Rome after carrying out a great victorious campaign, he would have what was called a triumph which was a parade with his legiance on the streets of Rome where all the citizens would come out and applaud him and you know bless him and all that. And the parade was interesting because he would also display the enemies he had captured. So when Caesar did a triumph in Rome, he paraded who was the leader of the Gauls and he was paraded in the triumph. At the end of the triumph, he was strangled human sacrifice. So the Romans used to have this triumphs, human sacrifices and the victorious generals would wear a laurel wreath which was a continuation of a Greek tradition and somehow it's become this thing, you know. So the UN also has it. I'm not sure why it has it, but it's a very interesting observation you made. Most people would kind of not see it, right? But it is indeed the case. It's a laurel wreath that they have around the globe. Why is it so? I don't know. Maybe we can maybe I can look into it at the future time. But interesting non-coincidence. It's not a coincidence for sure. Okay. Anonymous says, "Namaste Gurud. I hope you're doing well, sir. I'm doing very well. I hope you're doing well, too, sir. Thank you so much. Okay, AKS says, "What are thoughts about the second B-21 raider revealed yesterday at the Indonesian Defense Minister meeting under Secretary of Defense in the US just after the protests?" Second B-21 raider. What was that? Let me Google it. I haven't I'm See, I'll tell you something people. First of all, before I answer the question, I at any given point in time am never aware of the latest news. I am not someone who scrolls the news 24 by7 and I have to know the latest thing that's happening right now. I take my time. I never do knee-jerk reactions. That's why when the Nepal thing happened, I did not speak for 2 three days. I do not even tweet about it because I like to take my time before something happens and it it and and the patterns become visible then I speak about it after I have some understanding of it. So I'm not aware of the second B21 raider thing but let us Google it together. What is this B21 thing? Let's let's find out together. B21 radar. What is this? Is there some news? America's new stealth B21. Okay. Takes the N next step with a second bombber's first flight. Okay. So, this is a new strategic uh bomber that these Americans are uh developing and in development. Okay. And this thing is now undergoing test flights. Understood. Understood. Okay. So, this is the next generation uh strategic long long range stealth bomber. Stealth bomber that the Americans are developing. It's now in the test flight phase. And yesterday a second test flight happened. It looks like that's what the news just told us. So, yeah, good for them. They they will have even more teeth now. and they will have a new generation strategic stealth bomber. So, it's going to be great for them to bomb any country they want and anywhere in the world with a with a better aircraft, perhaps with uh with better stealth characteristics and better electronics and avionics and maybe uh more augmented payload capacity, whatever it is, right? Um so, yeah, see that's what the Americans do. They keep on innovating. They keep on developing new weapons and new weapon systems and new aircraft and that's how you stay on top of the game and that's how you remain the superpower. So that's something that India can certainly learn from. Now Indonesian defense minister meeting under secretary of defense. Once again I'm not seeing the news but not surprising. Recently there were student protest in Indonesia also right the US is unhappy with Indonesia. Is Indonesia a member of bricks? Let's let's quickly find out. Let us quickly find out. Is Indonesia a member of bricks? Has it joined bricks? Indonesia bricks. Indonesia joined bricks. Very very naughty very naughty Indonesia joint bricks. Now let's let's Google this also. Indonesia SEO is Indonesia member of SEO. Let us see Shangghai cooperation blah blah blah. Indonesia Indonesia is an observer. It looks like Indonesia is not a member state. But when the SEO summit happened, Indonesia was represented at the highest level. So Indonesia has been naughty enough to join bricks. They also participate in the SEO summit. I mean how naughty. So naturally they the students will be displeased with that because students understand geopolitics, right? So uh after all this happened there have been student protests in Indonesia and because of that I'm sure there there are panic stations in Indonesia because student protests are usually uh the threat of a color revolution. If you understand the playbook the color revolution playbook the regime change operation playbook you will understand it starts with student student protests. generally universities that have infiltration by the US and US agents. We have such universities in India many. So when these student protests happened clearly the Indonesians had to go and speak to the Americans. Sir, please please we we made mistakes. What what do you want us to do? Please tell us we'll do it. That sort of thing. So it's a it's a natural reaction to the protests. Uh Rohan Suja your views on confusing today's teachers with gurus. So today we are told your teacher is your guru. Worship your teacher. Go and touch their feet in the morning. Your teacher is your guru. That is nonsense. Let me explain why. A guru was something was a term a title. that was not applicable to everybody historically. Guru was the highest title somebody could have and you have to understand the nature of the Indian education system, historic education system to understand why today's teachers are not gurus. India's indigenous education system has been destroyed. It is a loss that you don't even feel today. We had an education system that was based that was decentralized and it it had it had several levels. The lowest level was the temples. You had temples all across the length and the breadth of the country. Every town, every village, every locality had a temple and temples were places of places of basic education. So the so the pujari there was not just a pujari. There was also a shikshak who would give basic education to the kids of the locality. basic education 1 + 1 equal to two kaga that sort of thing basic arithmetic and mathematics basic grammar basic itas puranas all that stuff basic stuff simple then if you are were a bright student and you wanted to do higher education you would go to a vihara you would go to you know a greater temple somewhere and eventually if you are a really great student you would go to a wish vidyal like nalandanda tilhara takashila vikramila Tapuri, Shardit, Walabi and so much more. So we had so many of these. So that's where you would have the highest education available in the universe in ancient times. And even there not every teacher was called a guru. You had adhyakas, adhyak and you had whole higher grading system and the highest level was guru. And no matter what level of teacher you were, maybe you were not a guru level teacher, you were just a dhapak or or or uph whatever it was, you never charged fees from your students. Education was universal and it was free. Until the 19th century, education in India was universal and free. Read the beautiful tree by Dar Pal who collected data from British statistics and he has proved that that education was universal. It was not restricted to only males. Females got education. It was not restricted to certain casts like people alleged today. Everybody got education using British records and statistics. Damal has proven it 19th century records. So education was free universal and education was free. It was free. Your guru would not stop teaching you if you did not give the next month's installment. Why was it like this? How how did they work for free? Because all education was state sponsored. The king or the emperor would pay for the upkeep of the temple or the vihara or the visha vidyale. Everything was paid for. The king or the emperor paid for the salaries and upkeep and everything of the of the staff and the teachers and the gurus and administration and whatever else. And they also ensure that all the education because of this was free. So and and your relationship was with your guru was a lifelong relationship. It was not like okay 3 years done and we out. No it was a lifelong relation rel relationship. Today the moment you don't give next week next week's fees your your teacher will stop fe will stop teaching you and the the level the caliber the standards of the teachers are abysmal today on average some are good but most are average most are abysmal. There's no connection between the gurus of ancient times and today's teachers. Today's teachers are service providers. You pay them, they'll provide you a service and that to a substandard service. And the moment you stop paying them, they will not look at you in the face. You call that a guru? Are these people worthy of respect? Some of them are really good people. And because the system is like this, they have no choice but to take fees from you. Some of them are really good, but most are useless. So you can't call these individuals your gurus. Come on, they are service providers. Dipam Mukapadia says I have the opportunity to work in a US tech firm on the latest technology and pro possible PhD also which I'm not getting here. I feel bad that I will have to leave my country. Why are you feeling bad? Why is your country going to miss you? Look, if you're feeling bad that you're leaving the country and you want to serve the country and so on, don't feel bad. I'll tell you why. Anybody who gets the opportunity to leave the country for better opportunities and prospects out of India, my advice is take the opportunity, go abroad. Here's what you should do. Go there, work there, learn everything you can, get your degree, get your PhD, get more job experience, and work another 10, 15, 20 years there. become very prosperous, very wealthy, very rich. Then come back to India when you're in your 40s. You want to serve your country, right? Will you serve? Will you be able to serve your country when you have no salary? When you have no skills, no knowledge, no expertise, no experience. What will you do? How will you serve your country? If you want to serve your country, become rich. Become rich on US dollars. Then bring those to India. become wealthy on on knowledge and experience and skills and bring all of that back to India when you can. Why are you feeling bad? Great opportunity for you to serve your country. Work outside for 20 years then come back. Then you will be in a much better position to actually genuinely and more impactfully serve your country. So dip mukad all the best. Go for it sir. Go for it. MK says, "What are the objectives of the US in the Russia Ukraine war? If a ceasefire takes place, how and where and when would the US create problems for Russia in the future?" So, what's the situation is is the question. Give me a second. What's the objectives? Look, what are the objectives of the US? The the How did the war start? First of all, the war happened because the US crossed Russia's red lines, which was regime change operation in Ukraine. See, imagine Russia does a regime change operation in Canada or Mexico. Will the US tolerate it? They will never tolerate it. When the Russians when the Soviets put miss put missiles in Cuba, the Americans didn't tolerate it. Kennedy did not tolerate it. The Soviets had to pull the missiles out again. So when the US is so touchy about nations in its periphery, how can they expect Russia to tolerate any any kind of nonsense in their periphery? So when the Americans did a regime change operation in Ukraine in 2014, the Euromaidan coup, that was a red line for Russia. That's why Russia immediately grabbed Crimea which was anyway Russian territory. Okay. And then they have been systematically essentially doing ethnic cleansing in the Donbas region. the Ukrainian government, the puppet government for several almost a decade they did this and that's why in 2022 the Russians eventually realized that now very soon the UK Ukrainians could become a NATO member state. So it's time to do something. So the Russians should actually have done this in 2014 but they did it in 2022. So the Americans knew that Russia will have to do something about this from a military perspective. They knew it. They were waiting for it. They induced Russia. They provoked and goded Russia into doing this. So eventually when this happened, the Americans took the opportunity to to dump every imaginable sanction on Russia and they thought that it would it would crush the Russian economy. They were so wrong. And the Russian economy has rebounded. It is it now it is now stronger than it was before than in 2022 and it's growing at a rate that's higher than the European nations. So Russia So the objective was to crush Russia. It was to destroy Russia and they thought that if if if the Ukraine war will go badly for Russia then Russians will get frustrated with Putin and they will do a regime change operation or they will overthrow Putin and then we can take Moscow itself. So the objective was to destroy Russia to defeat Russia and to take over the the overall great dream is a regime change in Moscow. That's the great dream of the US. Okay. Uh so yeah that's the deal. If a ceasefire takes place now takes place, how and where and when would the US create problems for Russia in the future? Um, how do you create ceasefire? We'll see about that. How can the US create more problems for Russia in the future and well, they've already created all the problems problems they can. >> They could perhaps then operationalize Poland and create trouble with Poland perhaps. So they you can always use a disposable vasal state to create more trouble for for Russia. And before you operationalize Poland, you turn Poland into a military superpower, which is what's happening right now. It's happening quietly. But Poland is being turned into a military superpower in Europe, more powerful than Germany now. Okay. And at some point, I suppose they will operationalize Poland against Russia. Okay. Divor Singh says Kirk's death was very serious here in the US. Yep. What do you think about the private plane which flew from a nearby airport after it got shot? Well, I am not aware of this priv private plane. I have not been really paying attention to this in great detail as to looking at everything that's happened. Uh it is said that somebody has been turned in. Some guy some young young guy 20 22 years old. He's apparently the shooter and his own father turned him in. And apparently people were claiming that other countries were involved in all of this is in the in the assassination of this person Charlie Kirk and uh so I am not aware of this private plane. Now what in case this private plane thing is significant what could it be? So let's say some some important person gets shot and then right after the person is shot a mysterious private plane takes off from a nearby airport. What could that signify? It potentially could signify that the person or persons involved in this operation, the assassination operation. They decamped. They escaped the region in their private plane. That's what it could perhaps potentially mean. It doesn't mean it it necessarily means that. But in case that is the correct situation in case then why has somebody been turned in? That's that's that's a question that arises. Is that person a pathy? Is that person a scapegoat? Who knows? Look, anything is possible. The US especially anything is possible. I mean 1963 happened everything was covered up. So you know who knows. Shashad Jenna says who was the actual victor in the battle of Jalum I don't know what is this battle of Jalum look we've had so many battles so I don't remember let's let's Google the battle of Jalum I don't remember which part of Indian history it is let's see who was the actual victor battle of Jalum or the the battle of the haspes or jalum do you really have to ask me this Alexander was defeated it was purush Cham who won. The Greeks called him Porus but the Greek historians supported it as a great victory for Alexander and then who he magnanimously forgave Porus and and reinstated him as a vasal king and that sort of nonsense. It was Porus who was a district level chieftain of a small district in western India who defeated Alexander the Great. Okay. And the wounds that Alexander incurred in this battle, they killed him. He limped back to Babylon which he had captured and he died there. And he also lost his great horse Bucifalis in this battle. Come on. Do we have to believe Western propaganda? Anan Fimat Anand Ray Fimate Fad or whatever. I'm sorry if I'm mispronouncing your name. I'm sorry about that. What was the 2008 financial crisis which what was the corruption which led to such an event? Can this happen again? Been watching you since episode 7. Really? Thank you so much. Well, you've got a long time you were here. It's been a while. It's been a while since we did this episode. Since we started. Well, good to have you, sir. Thank you so much for being a longtime watcher. What was this 2008 financial crisis? It was called the subprime crisis. Um housing crisis, all of that. So there was all this speculation on the on the market rates of property in the US and uh that sort of thing. The details are murky with for me right now. This question has come out of the blue. I don't remember exactly what it was at that time. I was not even that much of an observer of of I was at that time more of a student of history still. So it was called the subprime crisis crisis and a lot of these uh financial institutions had made all these bad loans on the basis of hyperinflated fin property rates and all of that and once the bubble burst all these investments turned bad and entire institutions like Leman Brothers etc they went under and that causes gigantic um readjustment of the market lots and lots of people who had invested in in the subprime and all that. They they lost their savings and all all of that. And u all the all the bosses and and managers of these speculative investory uh companies and all they got bonuses and they got uh they they were bailed out by Obama. But the little guy who the the little guys the average people they they lost a lot of money. So that was a big uh earthquake kind of situation financially economically in the US and that is the point where China decided that it is our time now. So the 2008 financial crisis was the the turning point in China's behavior. They decided it is now is China's time. The west has finally got on the back foot. Their economy is no longer on good ground, strong ground. Now is the time for China to step up and that's where you start seeing a very different China. Okay. Sharma says Cyrus or Kurush the great similarities to Chingish Khan. How were they different in the empires they founded? Kurush did not found any empire. Yeah. He was the son of an emperor and uh Kurush was um the emperor of the Hakshamanish or Hakamanish Empire. the Akimerid Empire. His ancestor was the great Haksham Manish or Akamanish. And uh so who was Kurush's father? Was it Chespish? Was it Let's let's quickly look into Kurush's father. Kurush the great father. Who was his dad? Kurush the Great's father. Who was his daddy? Kambuja. His father was Kambujia. In Greek Greek they call it Kam Kambis or something. Kambisis the first Kambuia. Okay. And Cyrus was Kurush. See they were they wouldn't even mention that name properly. They're always mentioned in the Greek the Greek version or Kuros or something. His name was Kurush. That's how they distort names that are not western. Anyway, he was the son of Kamuja the first and uh Kamuja was an emperor of the Kirid Empire and Kurush was one of the greatest of the emperors of this empire. So he was born into power and wealth. He was born the crown prince essentially if I'm not mistaken. Uh but he did eventually become the emperor. Chigis Khan was born into no such thing. His father was the chieftain of a small tribe called the Bourjigan tribe, the blue wolves. And Chingis Khan, well, his father died when he was about 8 years old. And his family, Chingish Khan's family, he was born, his his birth name was Teujin. So Teujin, his mother and his brothers, they were left to die by his tribe when Teujin was 8 years old. And if you are abandoned by your tribe in Mongolia in the winter, it means certain death. Even today, even today, that's how harsh Mongolia's terrain and climate is. But somehow they survived. And Chigasan spent the first after after his father's death, he spent about 35 36 37 years fighting fighting first just to survive and then when he became more powerful, he was he was fighting various tribe Mongolian tribes to unite them all. And it's only in his mid40s that he was able to defeat and unite all the Mongolian tribes and create an empire. And that's when he decided that we need to invade China and teach the the Chinese a lesson for what they've been doing to us for the past several centuries. Uh so that is Chingish Khan. A very different upbringing, very different background from Kurush. Totally different. Kurush was born into power and wealth. His father was the emperor. Right? similarities uh well I don't know similarities both were polytheists no kurush was zoroastrian so zoroastrianism is is is well today it's portrayed as monotheistic even zorostranism has multiple divinities so not entirely monotheistic and uh yeah they were both visionary leaders kurush conquered much of west Asia and he liberated the Greeks from the claws of the Assyrians uh and uh allowed them to go back to Judea to present day Israel, all of that. Um and and obviously the Mongol Empire was greater than the empire of the Akameids, greater in size, in strength, in explosive expansionist power, all of that totally different. So yeah, that's a comparison. Let's say Dnur Singh says for someone who wants me to ask you this, how does Ghar Raja have so much power? What's the source of power of Ghar Raja despite not being backed by the US constitution? How does it influence a deep state? How does it have so much power? What is the source of its power? Okay, fundamentals, basics. Let's go back to first principles. First principles thinking what is power in the simp in the simp the simplest possible explanation is this power is the ability to get things done. I have this hill outside my building. I don't like this hill. I want the hill to be gone. Can I get can I make the hill disappear? If I can make this hill disappear, I have power. How do I do it? Do I go and start digging it? No. I ask a 100 guys who work for me to go and dig it up. That's power. But what if instead of 100 guys, I have a thousand guys. Well, then I can have 10 hills disappear. What if I have a million guys at my disposal? And what if they're armed to the teeth and they will obey me unquestioningly? Well, that makes me kind of a superpower now. So, that is power. Power is always based on the ability to get things done, especially violent things. The more capable of violence you are, the more powerful you are. Even if you choose not to exercise the power, the ability of violence that you have. So when you say that the Ghar Raja has so much power, the deep state has so so much power. It means they command so much destructive power in their hands. They have it at at their disposal. Now which destructive power do they command? The United States and its resources, right? It means that they command all the resources of the United States including the economy, the military, the nuclear might and the administrative and governance mechanism. Then we understand why they why they are so powerful. But how are they so powerful when there's nothing in the US constitution about a deep state? Well, what if what if you are a small group of people who have who know all the deep dark secrets of all the politicians who are part of the constitutional framework. What if you know all the deep this is a hypothetical situation. I am not saying I know what's happening. I'm just saying hypothetically. If you are a small group of let's say 20 people and you know all the deep dark deep dark secrets of all the politicians who are part of the constitutional framework then will they not will it not give you complete control over the politicians? What if you own the bank that is the country's reserve bank? Will it not give you control over the nation's economy and by extension the world's economy? And if you control the the politicians who control the military, do you not control the military and the nuclear arsenal? And maybe it's not just blackmail power. Maybe it's also economic power. Maybe you have so much money you can buy anybody off and they're all controlled by you because you are drip feeding money to them. This is a completely hypothetical scenario that I'm painting for you. But such a scenario kind of works, doesn't it? And you don't need to be based in that country. You could be based anywhere. Once again, Dur Singh, I know you are thinking in that direction. It's possible you may be based somewhere else. So, you see that's how it works. Theoretically, hypothetically, I'm not saying that's a situation necessarily, but theoretically that that's how it can work. Nand Kishor says, why is the slave US hostile to India but master Israel isn't? Well, first of all, you are putting words in my mouth by making me assume that the US is the slave of the of Israel. I am not saying it is. Do we have evidence? Some people say there is plenty of evidence. Some see when I generally speak about the US or Israel, I get two kinds of comments in the comment section. One says the US is the master and Israel is the vasal. That's one category of comments about 50%. The other 50% say Israel is the master and the US is the is the vasal. So which is which? Which is which? I don't know. Right. Uh so the question is that look first we can agree all agree on one thing that the US and Israel have a very special relationship they do right best of relationship but the US is hostile to India Israel isn't why is that well is Israel entirely benign towards India we we have a great relationship with is with with Israel strategic relationship strategic partnership you could say significant convergence of interests now tell me something my friends my friends My friends, my friends, answer this question in the subcontinent. Historically, the US has had one long-term reliable vasal, West Pakistan, also known as Pakistan. So the US has Pakistan as its loyal vasal mostly more or less loyal vasal and Israel and US have a special relationship and some said that Israel is the master of the US some say so then what's the relationship between Israel and Pakistan in that case if hypothetically Israel is America's master and America is Pakistan's who doesn't mean Israel is de facto Pakistan's master. Yeah. Doesn't mean that. Now Pakistan officially you you people will many of you will say no but Pakistan says Israel does not have a right to exist. We don't recognize Israel. We don't have diplomatic relations. Okay good. So when Aim Munir goes to Washington and the Pakistani embassy holds some kind of banquet or dinner for in Aim Aim Mun's honor, why is why is there the presence of Israeli military personnel there? So if you look at all these things, can you really say that Israel is entirely benign towards India? It's all everything is well in the relationship. Can you really say that India and and Israel still have a great relationship? Overall, it's one of the best relationships India has. But like any relationship between any two people, there's always something or the other which is not entirely congruent. You see, godliness says, can we in the future build a nuclearpowered stealth drone with AI as its pilot? Theoretically, it can be done. a nuclear ramjet or a nuclear scramjet. It can be made. The Russians have a missile that's powered by nuclear uh energy. It's not a nuclear weapon tipped missile. It could be, but the source of energy, the source of combustion is a nuclearpowered ram ramjet. So this missile theoretically has unlimited range. It can fly for for months. You certainly can. Stealth drone will be a little more difficult because you need a whole nuclear power plant in this thing which is a little harder to do. But theoretically even this is possible. So you can have a nuclearpowered drone or stealth drone potentially depending on the technology you use with AI as its pilot. Yeah, it is possible certainly. Anonymous scientist is here. Bonjour. What are your thoughts on the strongest sign strongest signals of microbial life detected near GZ crater on Mars? Really? Let's discover it together. Okay. G0 crater. G00 crater. Uh Mars bios signatures. Interesting. What is it? Na. Okay. 8 hours ago something has happened or 4 days ago. Let's see what NASA has to say. NASA says Mars rover discovered potential bio signature last year. A sample collected by NASA's Perseverance Mars rover from an ancient dry river bed in Zero Crater could uh blah blah blah potential potential bio signatures. Okay. They published a paper in nature. Let's say the paper in nature. Okay. Redux blah blah blah driven mineral the perseverance investigated all that stuff. Okay. Detailed geological petrographic blah blah blah. Organic carbon bearing mudstones contain subm scale nodules and millimeter scale reaction fronts enriched by ferrus ion phosphate and sulfide minerals like likely vivvenite and grigite respectively. The organic carbon appears to have participated in post depositional redux reactions that produce the obser at low temperatures. We review the various pathways by which redux reactions can involve organic matter. Uh that ultimately we conclude that analysis of the core sample collected from this unit using blah blah blah will enable the okay so this paper is not claiming anything conclusive but it is being interpreted by NASA that it has potential bio signatures and then the times of India says NASA finds clearest sign. So you can see how each stage there is an escalation. The nature paper says that we've discovered this and there are certain reactions that that uh the the the signatures of certain redux reactions are visible on this millimeter and submar scale nodules and we investigated the various pathways through which these reactions could have happened at low temperature regimes. That's what the nature paper says. It doesn't draw at least the abstract that I read doesn't draw any conclusions about any bio signatures or potential bios signatures and maybe if I read the whole paper which will take half an hour I there may be something some clues more some more clues but the NASA press release says there are potential bio signatures and then the times of India report which is quoting the NASA release potentially it says this is the clearest sign of life. So journalists tend to overexaggerate everything you see. So I think it's it's still too early to make any such claims clearly from the paper that we just saw but interesting that you brought this up and I did not I was not aware of it. So thank you so much. DNU Singh says do we even have an actual uniting language? Well globally we today have English which is a colonial language which is a imperial language. It's like the days of Pax Romana when all the nations that had been vasalized and conquered and vasalized by Rome, they all spoke Roman to each other, Latin because that was the only common language they knew. So today the whole world has been essentially at some point in time either colonized or vasalized by the Anglos. So we all speak English as the world language today. It's not something to be proud of but it is what it is. Uh does India have an uniting language? Well, it was always Sanskrit. Today you see the British left behind divisions in society which they had created. They created all kinds of artificial divisions in the country in in Indian society because they were afraid of a unified India. They saw what happened in 1857 when Indians united for a change. So they wanted to ensure it never happens again. So they created all kinds of artificial divisions within India. Religious divisions within religion they they invented forecasts. We had the verna jati system which was a totally different thing. People cared about jati not about vera or cast. The British superimposed a four tire cast system and officialized and legalized it and we are still continuing that. So there is that division. Then there's the linguistic divisions. Then there's all kind of aranidian divisions and things like that. So because of these the legacy of the British rule or India, we have all these little divisions that have cropped up in India and those are being exacerbated by political parties and foreign forces today which is why Sanskrit is so controversial. The one thing that can that has historically united India today they have made it controversial so that India can't unite again. The unifying language is Sanskrit. It is not a dead dead language. We use Sanskrit vocabulary and grammar in all our languages today. North or south India, wherever you speak Harriani, it's a Sanskrit derived language. Most of the words came from Sanskrit. The entire grammar structure came from Sanskrit. Of course, there are some some changes which are inevitable like Italian from Roman, Italian from Latin. There are some changes, but it's still a language that came from Latin, right? That way. So, the unifying language has to be Sanskrit. It has been our civilizational language but today it's it's being turned into a gigantic controversy where half the country will not accept it. Ankita says now that the name of the PM candidate in Nepal is clear. What would you say? Regime change operation in Nepal successful or foiled wait and watch. No knee-jerk reactions because it takes time for the dust to clear and for the truth to become apparent. So right now we have what looks like somebody who was elected through a discord vote. That's that's what journalists and media outlets are saying that the Jenzi students came together and said that we will not our let our movement be hijacked by opportunistic external forces and they did a vote on discord and they decided that this lady Madame Susila Kharki will be our interim caretaker prime minister. Now who are they to decide? Who is Hami Nepal to decide this thing? Is Hammy Nepal a genzi organization? Hammy Nepal is an NGO that has plenty of foreign funding. There the head of Hami Nepal is uh this gentleman called Sudan Gurong. I think he's 34 35 years old. Is that Jenzi? There are plenty of unresolved questions right now. I am not making any I'm not drawing any conclusions right now. It is very tempting if you are in the business let's say of YouTube or if you're an influ influencer to make immediate instantaneous knee-jerk predictions. This is what I'm predicting. This is what I blah blah blah. I am not in that game. I'm going to take my time. I have already put my neck out and I've said that this is a US mediated regime in operation. Now let's wait and watch. This lady is the caretaker, interim, de facto, whatever prime minister, which means that she is the lady who will occupy the seat of the prime minister. The seat is not the place where power lies. Power lies somewhere else. Who controls the the Nepalese armed forces and police forces right now? Who controls them? Who will they support politically? That's where the power lies. So for that to become clear, we'll have to wait and watch. But I have already said this that this has all the hallmarks of a US mediated regime change operation. So when you want to obiscate that, you bring in a non-controversial person and put them in a ceremonial role. So it looks no this is not regime change. Look at this lady. She has no connections with the US. She was a Supreme Court person. her husband was a nationalist politician. She's the last person who would be this. Well, because of that, she's the best person. So, we will see. I am not going to jump to any conclusions right now. Let's wait and watch. In a few days, things will become much more clear. It's too early to start drawing conclusions right now. Okay, Mama Bucket VFX. Well, thank you so much. Very nice of you. Thank you. Divor Singh says we have 20 different clubs for 10 20 different states in India. No unity. Are we tribal in nature? All humans are by nature tribalistic. It's in our blood. It's in our DNA. It dates back to the time when we ran from predators on the savylvanas and steps of Africa. Our brains have evolved to be able to look far for threats and unite in small bands and keep moving, keep running, keep foraging, hunter gatherers. That's what we have been for the longest part of our history, which is about a couple of million years ever since we split off from our closest cousins, the chimpanzees. Chimpanzes, if you look at them, they're tribal in nature. They're very much like us. So by DNA we are tribalistic but the past 10 20,000 years whenever it happened we have tried to transcend this tribalism by constructing something entirely unnatural civilization and the oldest civilization is us. the oldest known civilization, the longest surviving civilization. But the tribalistic nature is still there in our blood. So civilization is a civilizing force which makes us transcend tribalism. But when civilization itself weakens, that's when tribalism resurfaces. So this entire thing that you are seeing this decentralization this feudalism so not feudalism federalism this this prioritization of sub civilizational subnational identities all of that this tells you that our civilization is weakening. We are no longer genuinely a civilization state today. We are no longer rooted in our culture. Our constitution is foreign in nature. Our laws are foreign in nature. Our institutions are foreign in nature. Our system of governance is foreign in nature. Our bureaucracy is a foreign imposition. Our education system is foreign in India. The language we speak is foreign. Our c culture in civilization is slowly being erased. And when you start losing your civilization, tribalism surfaces. That's what we are seeing in India. These are very alarming signs. It's not happening in rapid at a rapid pace. It's happening very slowly, very gradually. So it doesn't look alarming. But consider how India was 30 years ago and consider how it is today. A lot has changed and India has gone far far more towards tribalism than it was 20 30 years ago. This is very alarming for India. What the west wants is they want India to fragment. They want India to be balconized then they can deal with the different parts of India individually. So this is being mediated from outside and we are simply living in La La Land and essentially doing nothing about it. So we are tribal in nature. We are not tribal in nature as as a civilization but we are tribal by DNA by blood. That's homo sapiens for you tribal but civilization it seeks to transcend that. You see satellite says how much of the world will survive if any after a nuclear war. What will happen eventually as 10,000 plus nuclear weapons won't just disappear magically? I'll tell you what. Um when the Cuban missile crisis happened 1962 was it whenever it was? Yeah. 62 most likely. At that time the US had about 25,000 nuclear warheads. Only the US had about 25,000 nuclear warheads. The Soviets had about 3,000 3,500 roughly, give or take nuclear warheads. That's almost 30,000 at the time. Today, you have about 10 11,000 warheads in total officially. That's what people say. I don't know what the truth is. So clearly, we came down from that level and we had all those treaties in the 1980s. Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Reagan they met in Geneva when I was in Geneva as a kid I think it was 1985 and that was the what's the start treaty or whatever it was and they brought down the the the stockpiles on both sides so that the the level of potential destruction could be lowered that sort of thing. Um so today we have about 10,000 plus 10 11,000 nuclear warheads in existence. That's the official stated figure and that itself is enough to devastate the world. So in case there's a nuclear war, nuclear exchange in which all of these weapons are used, what does it do? If you have 10,000 nuclear explosions, okay, tens of kilotons, hundreds of kilotons, some are megat tons of of of yield in terms of kilotons in terms of TNT. And of if these nuclear warheads are detonated over land and 10,000 of them are detonated, it will it will put out a gigantic dust cloud in the atmosphere. And this dust cloud will be dust which has been pushed out and pulverized rock and whatnot, vaporized rock, vaporized forests, vaporized whatever. a gigantic dust cloud will go up into the atmosphere and it will surround surround the entire earth. So the earth will be enveloped in a thick cloud of dust. This will this situation will persist for a few years. There will be no sunlight on the planet for for a few years. So immediately temp global temperatures will drop. So whoever has survived the nuclear explosions will now have to face a global winter. So within a few hours you you would have a situation where you will have snow in Sri Lanka, snow falling in Sri Lanka and in Mauritius and there will be no sunlight for a few years possibly at least a few months. When there's no sunlight the plants die because there's no photosynthesis. If the plants die, animals die. Well, then what happens to us? So in this scenario, most of humanity will die out. Only those who have access to to to stored grains for and supplies that will last several years. Only those people will survive. Everybody else dies. So you may have a few thousand or maybe a few tens of thousands humans surviving at best by the time the the cloud lifts. So that's the situation. Yeah. Most of humanity will die out. Most of the animals will die out. It's like a an impact event. The kind of impact event that killed off the non-avian dinosaurs. That sort of situation will will arise. Vimnor Singh says, "Tell us about the battle of Waterloo and how one family of bankers knew the result even before the British." Yeah, I don't know about that. The battle of Waterloo was was obviously famous famous right um Admiral Nelson was it if you go to Trafalgar Square in London whose statue it's Nelson there right um yes so Waterloo was obviously Waterloo for Napoleon it was the defeat of Napoleon at the hands of the British who was it just the British or was it a coalition it was mostly the British if I remember I don't remember that part that portion of history in great detail right now. Um, did one family of bankers know the result beforehand? I I don't know about that. Did they know before the British? Yeah. Listen, my memory is a little hazy about this part of history. And this one family, I don't know anything about them because I have not studied their history. I think you're referring to the to the rot shells, but I have not studied the rot shells. So even if you ask me further questions about though about that particular angle of history I won't have much to much to tell you because I haven't studied the ro shells. I think it is maybe time for me to study them because I'm getting so many questions about them. Uh Dn Singh says JP Morgan almost owned the whole of America at a point. How is that? JP Morgan the banker right Morgan Chase Bank and all that. Yeah, the US is is JP Morgan. Now, what was this guy's history? He isn't isn't Rockefeller the oil baron. JP Morgan. Yeah, I'm a little hazy about JP Morgan also. You had all these all these where am I the Rockefellers? They Rockefeller was into oil then he was into pharmaceuticals and uh he wanted a certain kind of education system in the US. And JP Morgan is also one of the great colossal titans. But I don't really I'm a little hazy about that that about the history of JP JP Morgan. So not sure I can really give you much details about this either. Okay. Godliness says create controlled anarchy for a few days. Dismantle the current government. Then magically the sleeping army will intervene and everything goes back to normal. Can this happen to the master himself? The US Can this happen to the US? It's very difficult, very very hard to see this happening in the US. Um, why is it why is that so? Because for something like this to happen, you need a controlling force. See, spontaneous protests and spontaneous revolutions, they are disorganized and chaotic by nature. and they are disorganized which means they're not organized there isn't coord you don't have coordination you don't have logistical uh support you don't have all of that so it can happen but it'll eventually fizzle out and if the governance machinery which is coordinated very well if it just you know bites it its time it can deal with anything and and obviously if you look at the United States it's a police state anyone who lives in the West knows this. If you don't understand what I mean, spend 3 months in India, then spend 3 months in the US, then come back to India and you will immediately see the difference. The US is a police state. Cops all over the place. Go to New York City, cops everywhere, cops with guns everywhere. You take those cops away from New York City for 15 minutes, there will be riots on the street, on the streets of New York City. The cops keep the peace. So the US is a police state and if you want to create anarchy there well you will have to come up against the whole full might of the US state and all its various arms and branches. So you have the straight you know you have the the the cops you have the state troopers you have the the the armed forces the army itself the military the the citizens can't stand up against against that. Um, so it's it's very hard for something like this to happen in the US. And can an external power do something like this? Well, the most powerful power is the US. So I think it's very hard for something like this to happen in the US. But what can happen is 1963 like situation in which the US itself took out its own president. So the deep state essentially took out JFK. That's what is alleged. And clearly there's a cover up because clearly it's not like there was one shooter. Clearly he was not shot from behind. If you see the Zapru Zapru film, it's clear he was shot from the front. But the official report says he was he was shot from behind. Well, the head shot when it happens, his head is thrown backwards, which means the velocity the the momentum is coming from the from the forward direction. So it's clear that it's a cover up. So the US took out its own president. So that's sort of that. So essentially 1963 was a coup against the president. that sort of thing can happen but a regime change is very hard for for us to see happening in the US. Anonymous says one of the retired wing commanders of the IIAF tweeted about a Nepal-like situation in India. She we have a female wing commander retired of the IIAF. She even urged Indian Jenzi to replicate what Nepalese protesters did to their finance ministers against the Indian finance minister. >> Okay, I am not aware of this. First of all, this is the first time I'm seeing this news, but I'm sure what you're saying must be right. So, in case it is correct, well, that's that's horrific. And it kind of tells you that there are there are serious problems within India and many Indians are compromised. It looks like especially people who are potentially influential and who have had been who have been in positions of power. It looks like it's very easy to buy them out. Some of them, not all, some of them. I'm sure most are honest and patriotic, but it looks like some of them, these people can be bought out. I am aware of some journalists who are clearly foreign stooges. I'm aware of some retired armed forces personnel, some only a few who clearly work for foreign powers or at least are favorably inclined towards foreign powers. So yeah, like I've said before, there are many aspiring zalinskies in India. So I suppose the government of India will have to keep these people under observation and keep tabs on their activities and keep tabs on where the funds are coming in from. Yeah. But yeah, it's terrible. Right. Brother 8 says I am NPI. I'm Nepalese. Nepal is Indian. Okay. Some people in Nepal don't respect India because of expansionist mindset. Nepal is older than India. India looks at its neighbors like something lost from India. India's expansionist mindset. Sir, what are you talking about? India's expansionist mindset. How many countries has India invaded? Sir, how many? Have we invaded some foreign country, a neighboring country? When has India done that? Does India claim someone's territory? Does India claim that so and so state of of of Bangladesh is our our territory and so and so whatever do we behave like China claims territory from all its neighbors does India do that does India have a hegemonic mindset towards other countries I I don't know why the Nepalese people have been brainwashed into believing that we are the enemy India we are the same people Nepal is older than India now what is Yes, Nepal was created by Shri uh Priti Narayan Sha the great Gora king who created the kingdom. He was not the first king of the lineage. It was his great great grandfather or somebody like that few generations before him who founded the dynasty and Shri Priti Narancha was the greatest of the kings and who conquered the Nar Valley or Nepal valley and created the kingdom and it was an expansionist kingdom which expanded that's why Nepal is the size that it is. It was initially a small kingdom. So Nepal so Shri Prasin Narayan Sha was an expansionist king and he expanded the kingdom. Then when the British took over the subcontinent they decided that they wanted to keep Nepal as a buffer state between India and Tibet where you had some Chinese activity. So they wanted a buffer state which is why they did not annex Nepal and that's why Nepal stayed independent quasi sovereign um and then India was given some kind of what dominion status in 1947 by 1950 India became a republic. Now you see that Nepal is older than India. Nepal was founded in the 1700s by Shri Pratin Aaran Sha. Bhart Wash has been around for 10,000 plus years and Nepal is part of that Nepal the name itself did not exist before 1700s. Right? So I don't understand why this attitude exists or maybe I do understand because the godamned Mao have been ruling your country for the past 30 plus years and they have brainwashed all the youth into hating their own people. So that's why there is this hatred or this fear of India and it is not the please I'll tell my Indian viewers it is not the fault of the Nepalese people that they have this this this view of India. It's not their fault. They believe they genuinely believe that India is is an is a evil aggressive expansionist country. That's what they've been taught since they were 3 years old. What do you expect? So yeah, this is the situation where where two peoples were the same people have been alienated. Uh India looks at this neighbors as something lost from India. Of course we were once a united subcontinent, right? Under one civilization. So how do I see Nepal? Okay, forget about this that hypothetical. How do I see Nepal? I see Nepal as a sovereign nation. I see Nepal as another nation state which is the same people and culture and civilization as us. And I would actually say that Nepal should remain a separate nation. Many Indians say that Nepal should be absorbed into India, reabsorbed. I see that Nepal should be should stay a separate sovereign state so that it is not secularized like India. I would like to see the resurgence of of a Hindu raashtra in Nepal. That's what you should have. I want Nepal to remain sovereign independent and you need to return to your civilizational roots. We have lost our civilizational roots. You should regain that. That's what I would say. Okay. All right, what do we have next? Divor Singh says, "Why don't we talk about 60 million Christians killed in the Bolshevik Revolution? Isn't West a Christian empire? Am I noticing too much? The Bolshevik revolution killed 60 million Christians." Well, it killed 60 million Russians and Russians were Christians by that time. They had been deaganized. I'm sure it killed Tatars also. Tatars happened to be Muslims. But uh it is true that it killed about 60 million Christians or whatever. And I think what you're what you're implying is perhaps that the leaders of the Bolsheviks weren't Christians. Is that what you're implying, sir? Are you noticing too much? Okay, let's let's let us notice together. Okay. uh Dnor G is saying that uh let's just do a simple query uh who were the top leaders of the Bolshevik revolution Vladimir Lenin blah blah blah who are the leaders okay who is a Safhonovich Yenjik Okay. Um, da citizenship, political career, career, Kremlin plot, communist party. He was shot during the great purge. Oh, that's tragic. So, what is his background? That's what I'm trying to find out. It doesn't tell me about his background. There's no early life situation here. What about Khalen? Mikail Ivanovich Khalin and early life Georgia. No, nothing special about his early life. What about Bkharin? Bkharin. Bkharin was born etc. Not sure. So is there anything special about the top leaders of the Tomsky? Okay. What about Lenin? He was a Tatar. Was he was he a what was he born children orthodox Christian church Lutheran Christianity fuash mudwin kamlik okay so I'm trying to look at the the anticcedants of the leaders of the bolshevik but I'm not really able to find anything u specific so yeah I I think if you really want to make a case for something, you have to dig out the details and present the details in a very specific uh concise form. Then then we can have a more detailed discussion about things. But yeah, most of the people killed in the ble revolution were Christians. That's true. I don't think there there's any dispute about that. Yeah. Ah, our friend James is here. Well, it's always good to see James. Good to see you, sir. All Indian leaders will be of low caliber and men of straw. They will have sweet tongues and silly hearts and they'll fight amongst themselves said Winston Churchill. These are his words. Now let's since James is making the statement let us fact check it to assertain the veracity of the statement. Okay. Churchill quote. Okay. Let's let's go here. uh churchill church chill quote all Indians all Indian leaders. Okay. So this is the quote. If independence is granted to India, power will go to the hands of rascals, rogues, freebters. All Indian leaders will be of low caliber and men of straw. They will have sweet tongues and silly hearts. They will fight amongst themselves for power and India will be lost in political squables. The day would come when even air and water would be taxed in India. Well, I would like to ask my dear viewers, look, I am no fan of Churchill. Son of a [\h__\h] He was so Churchill. But this statement that he made Churchill, was he right or was was he wrong, was Churchill right that Indian leaders will be men of straw? They'll fight amongst themselves. They'll make the people fight amongst themselves. They will even tax air and water. Yeah, that's what he said. They will have sweet tongues and silly hearts. There will be rascals and rogues and free booters people of there will be men of low caliber. They will fight among themselves for power and India will be lost in political squables. Is it true? I think Churchill was absolutely right about this. Now how did he know this will happen? It's because the British had created a system in India, an environment in India, that the system can simply not produce a leader. Let me explain the profoundity of what James is pointing out to us over here and the profoundity of Churchill's statement. How was Churchill able to make such an accurate prediction? What Churchill said is absolutely true of the vast majority of Indian leaders and politicians today. Not all of them but the vast majority. So how did he know this and how was it how did it turn out to be true? It's because the British instituted a system in India that is designed to produce clerks and peons. The British education system which still continues in India today. The system is designed to produce mass-roduce lowquality lowc caliber people. A highly intelligent super curious bright child at 3 years of age goes into the education system. By the time he or she comes out of the education system by the age of 21, 22 whatever that person has lost every quality he or she had. Everything has been smashed out of them. They have been broken. That's what is done. So the system it identifies and destroys talent. If you have leadership potential, it'll destroy that. It'll turn up. It'll it'll mass-produce so-called leaders who are good at talking. Oh, I have won so many compet so many so many debate competitions. So, I'm a leader. I have leadership quality. That's not leadership quality. There is blah blah blah. Leadership quality is something entirely different. Just because you know how to do a debate doesn't make you a leader. So the entire system is designed to mass-roduce fraudulent quality fake leaders mass-produce inferior citizens. So such a system will will and and and apart from that the system the British designed was entirely based on corruption and they institutionalized corruption in across the system only for Indians not for themselves. So when a British person would go to the uh Indian legal British Indian legal system they would never be asked for bribes. But the same legal system if an Indian went there they would be asked for bribes. So this was another means of oppressing Indians and keeping Indians down and this was continued after the British left. So this was guaranteed to produce corruption in all aspects of society. So Churchill knew exactly what was going to happen because they laid the groundwork for this situation to happen. And because we did not dismantle the British system after 1947, we continued it and we built upon that. That's why our foundations are rotten today and that's why Churchill is 100% entirely right. This is the system he and his people designed and it still exists in India today. So that's why it's producing the results that he had predicted. Do you understand all of you? Well, James, thank you so much for pointing this out. I appreciate that. MK says post samurai Japan committed atrocities before because they left Dharma. Then why did ancient Greeks and Romans commit horrific violence like Alexander? They also left Dharma were Greeks Dharmic people, sir. Did they follow the Vic path? Did they worship the old gods in the old ways? They had left the Vic path. They still worship the old gods with new names in different forms and their mythology also got distorted. See for example in our Vic pantheon we have Indra and Indra's father is Petro Zeus Petru became Zeus Peter became Jupiter. Zeus Pet Zeus Peter is Greek Jupiter is Roman. So they took Diosh Petru his name and they gave it to the Indra-like figure the hammer and thunder god and they called him Zeus. And if you look at the stories if you read the book by Edith Hamilton for example about Greek and western mythology you will see that the Zeus in Greek mythology is a serial philanderer. He is a man he's a god of loose morals. Do you see that as being very dharmic? They corrupted their own gods and the Romans took the whole system from the Greeks and they they took the gods and gave them new names, similar names. So Zeus, Peter became Jupiter for the Romans and so on. So a corrupted pantheon was further corrupted unknowingly by the Romans. So are we surprised then that the Greeks under Alexander committed all kinds of horrific atrocities? Burning people alive, burning villages alive, crucifying people just for fun, for example, enslaving entire populations of cities, thieves, for example, or or or what he did at Akre was it? Yeah, Akar, I suppose, before he went to Egypt like crucifying people on the seashore. Would a dharmic person do that? The Greeks were no longer Dharmic. My dear friends, please think logically. Your question contains the answer. Okay. All right. Harshai says, "How did ancient kings used to manage polygamas relationships?" Like Bindusar had 100 wives. How practical is it in today's time? Should go for it. Bindusar. Bindusar had 100 wives. I I don't know how many wives he had. But look, see our our religion, our culture is a very accepting and tolerant and respectful culture. It says do whatever you want. As long as you don't do any sins, do whatever you want. You want to have three wives, go have three wives. You want to have 17 wives. If the ladies are willing, how do we care? You do what you want. No one's going to stop you. So, how do you manage it? Well, first of all, do you have the means to sustain such a large family? Huh? You have the wealth, you want to have 100 wives. Okay. And let's say the ladies are willing. You have the means to sustain such a large family. You can have 100 wives. You will eventually have 100 kids or who knows how many depending. So, do you have the means to sustain that? First of all, you to be wealthy, right? So, ancient kings were wealthy. So then uh there's no logistical issue. There we have it. How practical is it in today's time? Let's let's say see hers let's say you want to have five wives. Okay, I have nothing against that. Let's say you find five ladies who are willing who are okay that yeah we're going to have a marriage in which there are five wives and one husband. No secrets, no nothing hidden. Let's say they agree. The question is hers do you have the financial means to sustain this to provide for a family in which you have five wives obviously you will need sufficient room for this extended family right a 2 BHK will not do now even a 4 BHK will not do you will need a multi-story bungalow or maybe multiple bungalows especially once you have kids do you have the funds to sustain that so it's it's a question of practicality this is not a question of morals or ethics It's a practical, logistical question. Do you have the means to provide for all of this? That's all. If you have, well, I have nothing against it. You want to go for it, you go for it. I'm okay with it. I will not I will not oppose that. Okay. Uh AKM says, "What's your trick to focus for 8 hours straight?" When you do something you enjoy, you can focus. when you are for let's say you are let's say you are 15 years old or let's say you're 12 years old and you are pretty you're reasonably intelligent you're intelligent enough to understand that your your school textbooks are garbage and and reading them is going to actually corrupt your mind and and and degrade the quality of your intellect but let's say your parents tell you every day you must study 8 hours a day otherwise so then you will have to go go to the desk, put those goddamn textbooks in in front of you and you'll have to stare at them and your brain rebels. Your mind rebels. It is torture. It is mental torture for you to do that. But if you go and play, then your parents will punish you. So you have no choice but to sit there. So what do you do? Can you focus? For a while you'll try to focus. Then what happens? Your mind will drift off here, there, wherever. So you will be physically sitting there for 8 hours. But out of those 8 hours, 6 hours, you'll be mentally somewhere else. You can't focus because you hate this. This is torture. But on the other hand, if you enjoy something, if that's what you have always wanted to do, why will you not be able to focus? There are people who do gaming, right? They they're obsessed with gaming. They game for 12 hours straight. God knows a whole day, whole night straight. Why can they focus? Because they enjoy it. It's their passion. That's the answer. That's the simplest answer in the world. There you have it. Okay. Dur Singh says the British used to fight without clothes with colored faces in Roman times. So the Romans uh report wrote about the British. Julius Caesar was a historian. You know that uh he wrote about he wrote he maintained detailed records of his of his uh military uh conquests. Mhm. >> So his conquest of gold he spoke about the different kinds of gold. You have you have cis alpine and transalpine gold which is the nearer goal and the further gold from Rome from from Rome. Yeah. And then about the British about the conquest of the British territories, British Isles which is pretty difficult for him to do. Uh and he wrote about the different kinds of tribes you have in the in the British islands. you have the pictish tribes tribe uh who are further in the north towards present day Scotland and various other Bretonic tribes here and there and he spoke about something the alleged vicker men execution that the the the British used to have perhaps it was an exaggeration they would create a huge human figure made of vicker which is wood thin wood and the condemned would be put inside and then they would be burned to death it's called the vicker man execution so he wrote copiously about the British and he wrote that many of the British tribes were utterly barbaric. They were naked people who would paint their faces either blue or red or whatever and they would consume only one thing, milk, cow's milk, no other food. And it's it's plausible. So the Romans the Romans had rather unflattering descriptions uh of the of the people of the British islands. Now we have to remember one thing. the the British natives that the Romans uh came across, those were the original Celtic inhabitants of the British islands of the British Isles, the Celtic peoples. After the Romans left around 400 500 AD, there was an invasion of the British islands by the Angles and the Saxons who were a Germanic people and they defeated the Celtic peoples and they established an overlordship over the British Isles which is why the British culture is called Anglo-Saxon culture. So the angles and Saxons, the Romans, if they came across them, they would have come across them in Germany, in Saxony, in Germany, not in the British Isles. And around and in the year 1066, there was a new invasion of the British Isles, which was by the Normans, William the Conqueror, and that's how the French language dominated for a while, and it eventually coalesed into what is now called the English language. So the British people, the Romans encountered were the original Celtic natives of Britain, not today's British. Today's British will have some of that ancestry, but not fully that. Anonymous says, "Ago you mentioned that India needs some critical infrastructure and pointed out that India doesn't have a worldclass observatory. Can you please name all the critical infra India needs to build?" Okay. critical infrastructure India needs to build. An observatory isn't critical infrastructure. It's nice to have if you're a scientist, if you're a physicist, if you're an astronomer, if you're into cosmology, astrophysics, all that. Uh critical infrastructure, roads, high quality roads, roads, they don't have to be reconstructed every year to fill someone's pockets. Road. Once you build a road, it should last at least 10 years. High quality roads, flat roads, not uneven, bumpy roads. It's the least you can do. So, India needs roads, highways all across the country across the length, length and the breadth of the country. That's one. Number two, railways. Uh you need way more railways than we have right now. Third, airports. We just have 150, 60, 70, whatever. We have less than 200 airports I believe in the country. Let's let's fact check that in case I am uh mistaken. Let us fact check that. How many airports does India have? How many airports does India have? 427 airports and airirst strips. But proper airports is about so the airports authority of India manages 153 of these and there are 160 additional air strips, helip ports whatever. So it's actually about 150 that are maintained by the airports authority of India which are the proper airports only 150 airports we should have a thousand airports why not so that's one more thing because airports have multiple uses you see not just uh civilian use but also military use potentially so airports are necessary we need ports we need ports lots and lots of ports we need we need transshipment ports very important what's trans shipment port. Let's say you are a huge cargo ship that's going from let's say uh for example from Japan to Europe but you need to drop off a whole consignment of cargo to India on the way but to do that instead of going south of Sri Lanka you'll have to come all the way north to Vishaka Patnam offload that then once again go all the way south and cross Sri Lanka and go then further on your way it'll cost you 3 4 days it'll cost you a lot of money to do that just to offload offload some cargo cargo in India. So what these ships do is that they stop at Colbo Sri Lanka offload the cargo there and and Sri Lanka gets the money for that and then India has to do the trans shshipment from Colbo to India. So why doesn't India have trans shshipment port so that we don't need to rely on other countries even though they are in our neighborhood. So that's why there is this new trans shshipment port facility which is going to come up in the great Nikobar island in the Andermans and apparently I hear there is some political opposition to that. So India needs to go ahead with these projects. We need trans shshipment ports. We need lots of ports. We need lots of um airports. We need highways, highquality worldass highways all across the country. We need railway lines across the country. What else do we need? What other infrastructure? I think this is great to start off with. You see observatory and all these are not critical infrastructure. These are nice things to have from a scientific perspective but critical infrastructure it's it's all of this what else can I think of I think yeah every every um every city should have good roads not see you can have great roads that that interconnect the cities but if you go to a city and you find that it takes you two hours to come from the from the outskirts of the city into the heart of the city that's a problem big problem and there are so many cities in India where it takes 2 three hours to to transit the because of the congested roads and all that in the city. So all that needs to be fixed, right? Um and then infrastructure that's good for tourism, hotels, restaurants, clean facilities, welcoming facilities, all of that. Tourism, we need to really boost tourism. So there's so much I can speak about this for two hours actually. But these are some of the critical things that India needs to do on an urgent basis, urgent footing. Pratam Sony says why don't you clearly say because I never clearly say I am so bad I am so stupid I never clearly say anything abijit is so bad why don't you clearly say that NU and Gandhi was British agent even if controversy happened it will help more people to know about what the blah blah blah about what they had done by the way she was I say things see everybody has a certain style of saying if you don't like my style of saying things then maybe you can perhaps see somebody else who has the style that you like. See, I'm not going to change the way I talk. Right? I'll tell you something. Everybody has a certain set of characteristics. Do you understand? We all have a certain core set of characteristics that we are born with. And that fundamental set of characteristics doesn't change no matter how old you become. I at whatever age I am right now, I am the same exact same person I was when I was 2 years old. Nothing has changed at the core. I am still the same person. I've learned things. I've learned knowledge and gained skills and what not, but I'm still the same person. So, some things don't change. Certain ways of talking also don't change. If somebody has a certain amount of diplomacy in the way they talk, then that's going to stay. Now it's up to you whether you like it or not. If you don't like it, well, I cannot force you to like it, right? And and if you can't understand what I'm saying, then well, what can I say? I think I'm fairly understandable. I think people do understand what I'm saying, right? So when you talk about certain historical figures and all you may sometimes need to employ diplomatic language because there's a difference between somebody who somebody on the street and using street level language and someone who speaks at a different at a certain level. So I choose my words carefully and there's a reason why I use certain kinds of language and that's not going to change sir. All right and if it if if you if it disappoints you then I'm very sorry about that but uh I am not going to change that approach. All right. Okay. Next priest king says what do you think about the Gandhi Irvvin pact and the Bhagat Singh connection. Now what was this Gandhi urban pact? Gandhi Irvin pact Bhagat Singh connection I don't remember that. See Mr. Gandhi is not some of one of my most favorite historical figures. So let's let's Google what is Gandhi urban pact. See I don't know. Okay I don't recall right now what the Gandhi urban pact is. Gandhi Irwin pact what was this thing a proven political agreement signed between Mr. Muantas Gandhi and Lord Irvin victory of India fifth march before the second round table conference in London. What was this about? What was it about? Agreed terms. Discontinuation of the salt march by the Gandhi faction. Participation of the INC the second national roundt conference. Withdrawal of all ordinances issued by the colonial government. Imposing curves on the Congress. Withdrawal of all prosecutions related to various types of political rival act. Release of p prisoners arrested for participating in the salt march. Removal of tax on salt and withdraw all ordinances and pro prosecutions. Release political prisoners. Except those guilty of violence. Well, violence is very bad which is why Gandhi was very good. Permit peaceful picketing of liquor and foreign cloth shops. Restore confiscated properties of satag. Permit blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. So essentially it was the British agreeing to all the peaceful nonviolent harmless conditions of Mr. Gandhi. Right? So everybody who participated in a completely harmless way we will release you as long as you did not do any violence. Maybe if you had pushed a cop let's say a British cop you will stay in jail. But if you said sir please to the cop then you can be freed. So anybody who who was harmless was freed by the British and the Indian National Congress would be allowed to continue its activities. No curbs on that. Well anyway it's activities were harmless right? So the British said okay as long as you're harmless we will agree to your conditions but any conditions that are harmful which anyway Mr. Gandhi would never give which would be harmful to the British so those would not be agreed to. So that was the Gandhi win pact and that was the the prelude to the 1931 raund table conference Bat Singh connection I don't remember what was it when did Bhagat Singh when was Bhagat Singh murdered let's see first of all okay when was when did the British barbarously kill Bat Singh Bat Singh death date 31 31 Now let's see Gandhi Irvin pact first of all this is 23rd March March. Okay. Gi Gandhi Urban Pact. What date was it? What date? 5th March. 5th March is the pact. 23rd March. Aha. So the pact between Gandhi and Irvin was signed on the 5th of March and 18 days later the British murdered Bhagat Singh. And Mr. Gandhi, the great saint of nonviolence, did not exhort the British to not commit the murder. Yeah. Well, what can I say? What can I say? Mr. Gandhi was a great man. Mr. Gandhi was the father of the nation. Apparently, Mr. Gandhi abhored violence. Mr. Mr. Gandhi would have hated Shri Krishna. Mr. Gandhi would have hated Shri Ram because Shri Ram was a violent man, wasn't he? He participated in a war. He participated in an invasion of a neighboring kingdom, Sri Lanka. And and and and that's what Sri Ram did. And Sri Krishna he exhorted he he tried nonviolence first but then he exhorted the the pandas to go to war with the with the korovas war violence so Mr. Gandhi did not believe in violence and since Mr. Bhagat Singh had engaged in some form of violence Mr. Gandhi did not oppose his murder. What can I say sir? What can I say? Uh Mr. Gandhi was too high a person for us to understand. So yeah. Yeah. Vive Singh says how to get rid of this babu in Indian society. Many government projects are getting delayed because of their lackluster attitude towards work. Private sector is working hard though. Look there's nothing we the citizens can do about this babuom issue or whatever it is which it is. It is the change has to come from the government. India needs a few things urgently on high priority. One is a war on corruption and secondly is a streamlining of all these services. I am okay with even more bureaucrats being inducted but no bureaucrat should have a job for life and it it seems that if if in case some bureaucrat is caught doing some some malpractice or whatever they're suspended for a while and then then brought back. that job is never terminated. So all of these colonial legacies that we are carrying as as monkeys on our shoulder, they are keeping us down. So yeah, we need restructuring and and re deep reforms. But who will do it? See, the moment Mr. Modi tries to do something against the the bureaucrats, some kind of reforms, they will go on strike, then the whole country will be paralyzed. Then what happens? So that's the kind of strangle hold the system has over the country. There are solutions to that but uh right now they are not feasible. Aman Kumar Dhankar thank you sir. Thank you. Teentox dharma. What is neo-Nazi movement? Is it succeeding? Neo-Nazi movement there is for a while there was the the danger of a neo-Nazi movement in in Europe in Germany. So neo-Nazi movement is you know some Germans or whoever or maybe non-Germans. uh there are some people who apparently admire Adolf Hitler and want to bring back the the ideals and objectives of the of the Nazi Tri U movement. So that's a neo-Nazi movement. These are people who believe in white supremacy in so-called Arian supremacy. Arians is us you you losers. We are the Arians, not the Germans, not the white people. But they have stolen that word from us and uh that sort of thing. So uh so the neo-Nazi movement used to exist in Germany. to some extent it still may and there are neo-Nazi movements in various white countries and it's all about white supremacy on the supremacy of the white race and hatred xenophobia hatred of people with with darker skin color and uh anti-immigration policy which to some extent is understandable it's your country you do what you want which is fine is it succeeding it's not succeeding it's not succeeding at all and you may even have neo-Nazi movements in America for example some people who have sympathies or or or who admiration for the Nazi tuhik and Abdul Hitler. You have people like that in various countries. So these are the various scattered new Nazi movements and none of them is threatening to succeed at all. Anonymous is how can we bring back our culture and civilization? How can we sustain it for thousand years? Education system. Education system. Reform the education system. Everything comes back. Why did we have a culture that lasted 10,000 years? Education system. We had an indigenous education system that was deeply rooted in our indigenous values and culture and civilization. Today we have an education system which is mediocre at best. It is rooted in foreign values and western culture and all it does is is it destinates us and it it it puts this enormous inferiority complex on Indians education system. You want to bring back Indian civilization and culture, education system has to be reformed. That's the long and the short of it. Everything will flow from there. Divor Singh says, "How did we get into the Soviet arms when the post independence government was western?" Yeah, India is a weird country the past 70 80 years completely mentally mixed up country. I'll tell you how. So we the first prime minister of India was Shri Jawahar Lal Nehuji. He was appointed prime minister, selected prime minister, not elected. Now Mr. Nehu was an angophile. He spent a lot of time in England. He was educated there. He was a lawyer. He loved the English language. He saw him culturally himself culturally as an English man and only Indian by by blood I suppose. Uh so he was a great lover of England and England's culture, language, all of that. But he was also a Fabian socialist. So while studying in England, he he became influenced by Fabian socialism which was one of the flavors of socialism that was in vogue um in some quarters of of British society. So Fabian socialism is all about slowly slowly socialism it's about making change very slowly very steadily very gradually no rapid change everything has to happen gradually slowly gently gently so Mr. Mr. Neu was an Angloile. He was a Fabian socialist. He also visited the USSR and he was greatly impressed with whatever the Soviets had done. So he said yes socialism works but his brand of socialism was f was Fabian socialism. So even though he was ideologically a socialist and culturally English and by blood he was Indian apparently. So he he he made a combination of the worst of the three and that's what he operationalized. So socialism if you look at USSR so USSR style socialism it is massive industrialization massive rapid industrialization. How did the USSR become a superpower just a few years after it was almost conquered by the Triik through massive industrialization. That was Soviet style socialism, collectivization and massive industrialization. Mr. Nehu could have done that in India. Mass scale industrialization. He chose not to do that. He said poverty is great. Mr. Gandhi is right. Secondly, I will do socialism but I will have a strictly controlled economy and everything and any change if it happens, it has to happen very slowly, very gradually. So let's have a 3% economic rate of growth, the Nehuvian rate of growth. And he hated the Americans because the Americans had won a war of independence from the British. So they were bad guys and they were the brash noish, right? He didn't like them. He he considered them to be imperialists. He was not wrong in that. So that's why he decided that he will go with the USSR and he was very deeply impressed with with the Soviets. So Mr. Neu decided to align with the USSR despite nominally being non-aligned and that's how the whole thing happened. So the US so the US tried to have India on its side. The US and the USSR together offered India on multiple occasions the permanent the fifth permanent seat in the UN security council. Mr. Neu repeatedly said give it to China first not to us. Give it to China first. So he was almost like he was advocating for China ahead of India not almost that's what he did and then Kennedy offered India nuclear weapons and Nero said we don't believe in violence so because of all of these things the Americans said to hell with it we'll go with Pakistan and we went into the Soviet arms like you say that is how it all all transpired Kingston Crystal says why don't we claim merge land for our people. 1971 hurt a lot. Look, I want to have so much land for example. Let's say I want to have Alaska. I want it. So why don't I go and take it, right? That's what that's what we'll say. Wanting something in being and being cap capable of taking it is two different things, right? I want Alaska, let's say. But am I capable of going and taking Alaska? Am I capable of it? China wants Taiwan. So why doesn't it take Taiwan? It has to be able to take Taiwan, right? We are no longer 12 year olds right over here. Why don't we cla We can claim anything. I can claim the moon is mine. Claiming makes makes no difference. I will claim the moon is my territory. Mars is mine. What difference does it make me making a claim? claims do nothing. You have to create facts on the ground. Are we capable of creating facts on the ground? 1971 hurt a lot. We biseected Pakistan in 1971. Why does it hurt you? I maybe you mean to say something else. 19 1971 was an Indian victory, right? Of course we did not take we did not reintegrate Bangladesh into India which was a huge mistake or maybe not whatever. Uh but if you want to claim land and take land which earlier used to be yours you have to be capable of doing it. Right now we are not because there are other powers more powerful than ours than us who will prevent us from doing it. Okay. Uh DVN Singh says would you explicitly say capitalism is superior to communism and socialism. The communism and socialism. Socialism is terrible. Communism is just an operationalized form of socialism. So communism and socialism are terrible because it it gives you no incentive to perform. When no matter how high you perform, how well you perform, you are rewarded just just like everybody else. There's no incentive to perform. So it it gives rise to a culture of mediocrity. Communism as well as socialism. Even if you have a brutal totalitarian government, people will work hard but only up to a certain limit. They'll not work hard voluntarily. They'll work hard because of the whips at their back. So communism and socialism aren't great. Clearly they they you can't become great through those. Um unless you're doing slave labor and stuff. Uh capitalism definitely has better outcomes than communism and socialism. It is a dog eat dog world. The the the fittest survive. If you have the the the capabilities, if you have the capacity to work hard, if you are smart, if you're intelligent, if you can outwork and outthink others, then you will you will become richest beyond your wildest dreams. So, capitalis capitalism is fantastic. If you have that cutthroat attitude and you can work really hard and you have all those, you know, all the qualities that a great entrepreneur has and all that, you will be great. You'll thrive in capitalism. Capitalism is great for the individual. Now, let's let's zoom out. We are looking right now through the microscope at single individuals. If you are if you have the qualities, you will thrive under cap capitalism. If you don't have the qualities, you're going to have to work three jobs to put food on the table. That's also an outcome of capitalism because you can't have a capitalist society and a welfare state at the same time. So, some people will thrive, some people will struggle and inequality grows. The US is a very in unequal country. Now, zoom out from the individual level level to a to the collective level. Is capitalism great for a country? In capitalism, everybody competes against each other and the best ideas succeed. So you have all these different companies, AI companies and tech tech companies competing competing with each other and they're innovating. They're doing their best to rise above the others and that's why there is so much innovation that happens so much innovation and the country thrives as a consequence. So you can out compete all the other countries. So that's what the US has done through capitalism. Now let's zoom out beyond that to the global level. Capitalism in capitalism every company needs to prioritize profits. Every company forever pursues quarter upon quarter profits for itself and its shareholders. Not it's quarter upon quarter profits which means quarter upon quarter growth. So let's say you are a PC manufact a laptop manufacturer. It means you need to have more and more sales every quarter. If you are Apple, if you if you're manufacturing cell phones or watches or whatever, you need to have more and more sales every quarter. The moment you stop doing that, you are in the red. So so every company is seeking quarter upon quarter profit in growth. How do you do the profits? By selling more. How do you sell more? By manufacturing more. How do you manufacture manufacture more? By extracting more from the earth resources. Is it possible to have never ending quarter upon quarter growth on a finite planet? Capitalism is going to end up destroying the planet. That is the critical flaw in capitalism. Anonymous says what is the aftermath or significance of indust script decipherment other than RN inversion theory getting debunked? U the significance well the big significance obviously is the RN invasion theory, migration theory, picnic theory, tourism theory is debunked. Uh and it it proves that Sanskrit is indigenous to India. It did not come from some some some ragtag nomadic band that came in from some ragtag part of the world. Now what's the other consequences of that? The other consequence of that is that it kills the theory that the Brahi script was derived from the proto protosemitic some script Phoenician script. I I'll show you what I mean by that. Okay. So let's go to Google and let's see what Wikipedia has to say about the brahi script or let us see what Wikip Wikipedia has to say about Dvagari script. Dva Nagari script. Let us see what Wikipedia says about the ancestry of the Dvanagari script. See it says Dvagari comes from the Nagari script which comes from Siddham script which comes from the Gupta script which comes from the Brahmin script which comes from Aramaic which comes from Phoenician which comes from protosanatic which comes from Egyptian heroglyphics. So, Wikipedia claims and all western uh scholars claim that the brahi script came eventually from Egyptian hieroglyphics because the brah script was derived from the Aramaic script. What is the Aramaic script? This thing here. So, they claim that they claim that Brahi came from this. Okay? Because this was a semmitic script which came from the from Mesopotamia, West Asia. Now, once So, so if the script is deciphered then you can correlate the brahi script with the um so-called industali or saraspati synindu script. So that will eventually also end up debunking this entirely fictitious claim that the brahi script was derived from the Aramaic script which is utter nonsense but they are trying to forcefitit their worldview and their version of history on our history. So that is the next big thing we have to achieve to prove onetoone correspondence between the letters of the saraspatist sindu script and the brahmy script. So that's going to be the next major outcome and significance of the decipherment. Divor Singh says a Greek friend called the Roman plagiarizers in case of gods. I call the Greeks plagiarizers Indian cause. Was I right though? You are absolutely right and he's also right your friend. So when it comes to the U Roman gods, the the most prominent god obviously is Jupiter. Jupiter is the Roman version of Zeus Peter. Zeus Peter and Zeus Peter is the Greek version of Dors Petru, the ancient sky god of the Vic times. And of course Zeus who is named after the Dospitru, he has actually the attributes of of Indra because he is the god of the hammer and the thunderbolt. The vajra. What if you look at the vajra for example? Okay, let us Google vajra. It is both a hammer and a thunderbolt. See vajra. So the vajra is shaped like this. It is this instrument. It is today depicted stylistically as something you can hold in one palm. But it is also essentially a hammer-like instrument. It is said to have been constructed initially from the rib bones of of a saint of of of I don't know I I don't remember who it was. So today the vajra is shown as something you can hold in your palm but originally it was this dangerous hammer-like instrument and vajra also means thunderbolt of course. So the vajra of Indra is both a hammer and a thunderbolt but eventually among the later gods it became two things a hammer and a thunderbolt separately. So Thor has a hammer. Molir, he also has the thunderbolt. And uh was Zeus depicted with a hammer? I'm not sure, but he did have a thunderbolt and so does Jupiter. So the Greek gods are continuations of the older Indian gods. No question about it. And the Romans acquired many of their major gods from Greece. So the Romans plagiarized from Greece. In the Greeks you could say plagiarized or or brought it from India. So you were absolutely absolutely right in what you said. Scandium says what happened to the $45 trillion looted by the UK US. It was now it's about 60 something. Uh I think some scholar had said had given a number a figure of $45 trillion but eventually somebody has reworked it to about 69 or 67 or something trillion dollars looted from India. So what happened to it? So first of all understand it was not currency notes that diluted. It was the total amount of wealth they extracted extracted out of India in today's dollar dollar terms. It was not US dollar bills that was taken from India or it was not simply gold or silver that was taken from India. It was extraction of value out of India. All kinds of resources whether it is silver, whether it is copper, whether it is gold, whether it is diamonds, whether it is teakwood, whether it is uh whatever it was, whether it is various other other resources, whether whether it was u Indian farmers being forced to produce cotton and indigo and opium and then that was then taken by the British and exported to other countries. all of the cumulative benefit and and value the British extracted out of India if you put a dollar amount on it in today's US dollars then it's about 60s something trillion dollars where did it go it went all across the western world it was invested reinvested it became the foundation of various companies wealth it became the foundation of certain families wealth in some cases it was just pure plunder of treasure from from temples In some cases it was different kind of value that was extracted out out of India um and so on. So all of that was redistributed that formed you could say the foundation of a lot of the wealth and power of the western countries especially Britain and its vasals. Anonymous says why are Indian oligarchs or billionaires not as powerful as their western counterparts? Suppose someone aspires to be a future oligarch or billionaire. What steps should they take to become powerful? First of all, become a billionaire. On the way to becoming a billionaire, you will also understand how power works because once you become more and more prosperous, you will enter higher and higher levels where you will where you will inevitably come in contact with people who also hold power like politicians and so on, right? And once you start moving in those circles, you will understand how power works. It's a process you will learn gradually and automatically. Now it's up to you whether you have the aptitude for gaining power or not because power and wealth are very different things and wealth can to some extent buy power but power can acquire as much wealth as as it wants. So power always trumps wealth. Now why are Indian billionaires not that powerful? Because India is not that powerful. Right? When you are in a country that is the most powerful country in the world and you are a billionaire, you will automatically be way more powerful than a billionaire who is in India which is a much less powerful country. Because when you are a billionaire in the US, your actions can influence things globally. If you are in the tech sector, you can influence actions of the US military which can have consequences all across the world in a in a military dimension. But if you're an Indian billionaire and you're selling Kaparamakan whatever what what impact will it have I can't think of any Indian billionaires who are uh doing AI or whatever right and some Indian billionaires you could say are in investing in infrastructure and things that are critical to India's national interest well those could be powerful and that's the ones who are targeted the most by the west because they are making India more powerful so if you want to aspire to be a future oligarch billionaire. What steps you should you take to become powerful? First of all, become wealthy. Become wealthy. And if you want to be powerful, invest in sectors that come naturally with power like infrastructure, like ports, like like coal and oil and gas, ports. Invest in the defense sector. Defense in in you know, invest in the high-tech sectors. create a business in a high-tech sector like AI cutting edge or missiles hypersonics right but if you really want power in the political sense if you if you have dealings in the port sector in the infrastructure sector if you're building ports highways if you if you are um if you have a business that has to do with renewable energy oil and gas all of that is naturally something that comes with power right so that's what you would Naman Chabra says, "Considering the current circumstances, do you think the Indian administration will be able to avert this regime change operation? America has come out all guns blazing and can Osent be trusted?" I think the US will will certainly attempt a regime change operation or or or make or take steps that go in that direction in India. I think they are already laying the groundwork for that and some of their assets may already be may have been operationalized in various shapes and forms. I'm not I don't know who the assets may or may not be but I'm just saying um will India be able to avert this? It'll be I think India will be able to avert this but it will be a tough fight I think because see how do you how do you start a regime change operation? You start violence in the country. You start destabilizing the country. You have mass protests erupt all across the country through people that you control through resources that you are allocating to them and so on. So you want a regime change you can you have to create a a you have to create an atmosphere that is in the country that is destabilized an atmosphere of unease the people should should should feel like the country is unstable and they should feel like the government is not doing its job so that's what you do which means that they will have to create a lot of disturbance in India and you have to create narratives that that make the people question the way the government is functioning maybe they're not doing their hub maybe they are they are not a good government that sort of thing so once you start operationalizing all of this it it it's very problematic especially if you have the right people who are working for you but I think India will be able to avert it and the US definitely doesn't like Modi because Modi has stood up to them nobody else has stood up to them in the entire world apart from Mr. Shi and Mr. Putin so the US now cons looks upon Mr. Modi the same way perhaps as Mr. Shi and Mr. perhaps or similar to that. So yeah, it's going to be tough for India. Can OSENT be trusted to to a certain extent but not not completely? You can trust OSENT to a certain extent. Opensource intelligence can also be used to sow misinformation. Okay. So you have to be cognizant of that. Okay. Putin says, I sent you the Brahma security concept on Monday so and so time. It's a serious proposal. Please check the mail when possible. All right, sir. All right. Brahma Yantra. I'll check it out, sir. Thank you. Okay. Nav sense AI says, "What's the success and failure of the current government over?" See, look, you can do a whole Excel sheet and look at all the different parameters and aspects and so on. I would say overall if you look at Prime Minister Modi, I think he has been the best prime minister we have had since 1949, 47, whatever year it was. When was the first election? Mr. Neu when he came to when he became prime minister was selected right uh he's been the best ever elected prime minister of India that's what I will say I think that should answer most of the questions how did Rockefeller monopolize American oil once again I haven't studied the American oligarchs so I don't know exactly how it happened Rockefeller did monopolize American oil and then he went into the pharmaceuticals industry and he monopolized that also and he turned something that should have in well an industry dedicated to healing he dedic he he transformed that into an industry based on it became a parasitic industry right uh so yeah that's his legacy isn't good at all Rockefeller but how did he achieve this I am not sure I have not studied Rockefeller's life history so I won't be able to answer that question I'm sure it's a very interesting thing to study but I haven't had the time to study everything right so yeah I'm not I'm not aware of the specifics of how he monopolized Sorry. MK says, "What were Hitler's views on religion? Did he have any plans to bring back polytheism?" I believe I've heard that he was an admirer of Islam and he was also a Christian. I don't think he had any plans whatsoever to bring back polytheism in Germany. Uh polytheism had been hammered out out of Germany several centuries before Hitler came to power. Right? And you still have some some pre-Christian ideas and concepts in German culture. The ring of the neiling or whatever it is and some of the themes that he some of his themes vagner's music some of it has those pre-Christian themes and all but overall Germany is a very Christian nation now and I don't think Hitler had any plan of bringing back polytheism. Of course, the swastika that he first saw in his life was I think in a church or outside a church or something. Obviously, the swastika is a pre-Christian uh symbol, isn't it? It's it isn't it wasn't called the swastika in Germany. It was called the hacken kraut, but today they call it the swastika to mallay Hinduism. Anyhow, so that's what I have heard about Hitler. I haven't studied his views in detail about religion. I know about his career from a military and political perspective, but not from a religious perspective. But as far as I know that he he did not have any intention or any plans to bring back polytheism says how did the US maintain nationalism despite them being English, French, Hispanics, Germans and Afros. Look the today if you look at the US it's a multi multi-thnic nation. They call themselves a multi- multi-ultural nation. Yes. But when the US began it was a Puritan nation. Who are the Puritans? They were Calvinists. The French Puritans were called the Hugenauts. And the Calvinists were Protestant. And they wanted a much stricter form of Christianity than what you had in England and in Europe. And they felt that they were being persecuted back in Europe, which is why they decided to cross the Atlantic on a ship called the Mayflower. But that's not the first Americans. The first Americans were the gentleman's and ladies who lived in Jamestown. Those were the first Americans led by the indomitable Captain John Smith. He of the gunboat diplomacy. Anyhow, I'm going to old history now. The Americans, the American nation was an English nation. They captured territory that belongs to others. the the the browns, the the non-whites, the the native Americans, they killed most of them. Super genocide. Then you had then the captured territory where you had the French and Hispanic people and all. So those people came under the English. Even when you had a nation that was now multicultural, which also had enslaved African people, it was culturally English. It was linguistically English. The English dominated. It's only of late the past 20 30 years that the attitude has become more relaxed that the Hispanics are now being seen as no longer secondass citizens. Yeah. For the longest time Hispanic people were secondass citizens. So it's it's been a long slow process of change and it's always even today it's an English speaking nation. Right. Okay. Vivor Singh says Ben Franklin Hamilton to also Abe Lincoln warned America about evil banks. What banks? Why were so many powerful people afraid of them? because well I think there was a tremendous amount of anti-semitism in in America before the 20th century and u it is said that many banks were run by by people of Jewish origin and there was this deepseated mistrust of Jewish people in Europe and the the Americans well obviously or were all descendants of Europeans so some of that may have been there and People who run banks are often they often have predatory practices. They will you know be lone sharks. They will lend you money but then they will own your life. That sort of thing. And uh America was the land of freedom. So the the culture was it it was you know this sort of behavior was anthemma to America and I suppose that was about that was the thing. So banks were necessary but banks should should not become powerful and uh that was the thing I mean Europe has had a long history of merchants and bankers becoming super powerful you've had this pattern that you saw in Venice you so seen this in the Dutch guilds and so on so the Americans obviously since they came from Europe they were aware of the history and they do not did not want bankers to be power to be powerful the the elite should remain powerful so so if you if you read Howard Zinn's history of to the United States. It's called a people's history of the United States. It's a pretty leftist book, but it's an interesting book. And Howard Zinn says that the United States was not created for the revolution was not for for freedom. It was not that they wanted people to be free. It's that they wanted to create a group of elites who will not have to pay tax to the U to to the UK and they will control all the money and power in the United States. And the people the you know the people like George Washington, Ben Franklin, Thomas Jefferson and all the people around them they were the the elites who control who took the power in the US and the US according to Howard Zinn has been this sort of nation. It serves the elites. It doesn't serve the common person. If you see the US constitution for example, it is said that the US constitution was a democratic constitution. It was ratified by the people of the US. Well, is it true who was who was allowed? So the constitution was drafted and then it was put to a vote. That's how you ratify a constitution. In India, the constitution has never been ratified. Our constitution is not a democratic constitution by the way. So in the US, they drafted the constitution. We the people blah blah blah. And then it was put to a vote. Now who was allowed to vote on this? It was wealthy landowning white men who were allowed to vote. Everybody else was ex was excluded from voting, disbarred. So if you are if you were a white man who was landless, you could not vote for the constitution for or against. If you were a woman, you could not vote no matter whether you were wealthy or not. If you were a black person, no question of you voting. If you were native, the natives were savages. Have you read the Declaration of Independence of the US? How do they refer to the natives? Savages. So that's how it was. So the US constitution was voted for by a bunch of wealthy men and so on. So yeah, that's the kind of history you have you have in the US. But yeah, they were always suspicious of bankers. Any southern language is part of the Indo-Uropean language family or are a separate family? Um, one second. any southern languages part of the Indo-Uropean language family or are they a separate family? Well, they're classified as as as a Dravidian language family as members of of the so-called Dravidian language family. I think what we need to do in India is we need to revisit this the entire linguistic makeup of India a priority without any western a priority worldview. That's what we need to do because all the languages are interconnected whether they are south Indian languages or north Indian languages. There are so many interconnections. There are so many words that are common to the languages. Even if you are speak Tamil, you have so many Sanskrit words in Tamil. If you speak Mallayalam, I don't know about 60% of malam vocabulary comes from Sanskrit. So how can you say that these are this is a separate language family. So all of this needs to be looked at a prior once again reformulated a priority without having those preconceived uh europ euroentric notions uh in mind. Kithan WHMA says seems Shri Vlad embodied by bin ho naprit a truism bred out of Indians by years of socialism and Gandhiism. No questions just a comment. I would say that I have to agree with you sir. Okay. Vek Gada says please explain the origin of the country Israel. The origin of the country Israel. Well that's a tremendously long history. very ancient land about 3,000 years old. Uh the first kings of Israel were Saul and Solomon etc. Their prophet was Abraham. Um the first Hebrew uh presence of Hebrew language or whatever in the archaeological record goes back about 2,900 or almost 3,000 years. And uh they had this land called Judea. there are a couple of Jewish kingdoms there and then there came under occupation by I'm going to very old history but um in in the 1900s there was this demand for a land for the Jewish people because they had no country of their own and naturally they wanted to take back the land that their ancestors had lived in about 2,000 years ago. So in 1917 there was the Balur declaration and so on and uh the British started uh settling um Jewish people in the region uh in the 1910s, 1920s, 1930s and there were clashes between Jewish people and the local Arabs who were living there who had taken over the land in the previous several centuries and eventually in 1949 it was that Israel was was created as an official country and immediately all the Arab ne neighbors attacked Israel but Israel was able to uh defeat them because of western help and so on and eventually Israel developed its own very powerful army it's very powerful intelligence internal and external intelligence the internal one is the shinbeth the external one is the Mossad and they developed a nuclear deterrent and they became a very powerful country and they have excellent relations with the US and so on dark knight says the question then arises why did those brahmans of vanaras provide our civilizational knowledge to Kepler. Indians are super innocent people. We had lost what they call shatbod. They did not provide it to to Kepler. They provided it to some Jesuits. See, Jesuits are Christian missionaries who work for the Vatican who who have a scientific background and their job is to steal knowledge from other countries. So they they will come to your country and they will pretend like they are extremely aruck and impressed by your culture and by the wealth of your knowledge and learning. And they will come to the great learned acharas and brahinss with folded hands and they'll say swami g achar guru g please allow please bless me by by tolerating me in your presence. Let me sit at your feet as as a poor student and please please bless me with some knowledge. I am a deep deep and profound seeker of knowledge and you are so wise and so knowledgeable. Your culture is so ancient. Please help my poor poor backward culture with some of your knowledge. Then the Indian brahinss will feel pity for these people in their backward culture. They'll say okay let me help you with some of this knowledge that we have. You want to learn about stars? Well look at all this data that we have. Would you like to copy it? Please copy it. It will be very hard for you to understand but copy it. So slowly you gain trust. You take the knowledge. You transmit it back to the west. Then you claim it was yours all all the time. See how it works? Indians are super innocent. Indians assume the best of everyone. Well, I hope now at least we learn. Anonymous says this one is from old Askavij. There's nothing called the oldest religion. There is only oldest attested religion. What? Old Askabid? Really? There is nothing called Yeah. Okay, I know what you mean. We have no idea what the religion was of old homo sapiens. See, the best evidence that we have says that there was a migration out of Africa about 80 or 70 or 60,000 years before today and eventually the migrants came and settled in the Indian subcontinent where it became the settler zone and from the Indian subcontinent they went in all directions and that's how the non-affrican world was populated by homo sapiens. Now the question arises when they first settled in the subcontinent what language did they speak and what religion did they follow? They would have spoken some language obviously. What was that language? We have no memory of it. We have no record of it. And they would have had some religion because that's in our DNA, right? We are we we need religion. Humans wherever you have humans, you have some kind of religion. Even atheism is a form of religion today. It's a belief system. So humans are a religious species. So we would have had a religion. So some religion would have existed 60,000 years ago. We have evidence of homo sapiens surviving the Toba eruption in the subcontinent. The Toba eruption happened in in Indonesia but it was a super volcano eruption. It affected the entire region and you there is archaeological evidence of a cloud of ash that settled in the Indian subcontinent and that was a devastating event. It would have it could have killed off a lot of people. But there is evidence that humans survived in India before and after. So we had humans in India about 80,000 years ago. Homo sapiens. What was their language and religion at the time? It's lost. So So we don't know what the oldest religion was, right? But all we can speak of today is the oldest attested religion which is the oldest religious tradition that we know of today. We have old ones that disappeared. We have no idea what they even were. But which is the oldest one that we are aware of today? That is Hinduism. Rice query says really miss geostrategy and Indian interest episodes are one of a kind. and visit Geio Strategy once daily for updates. Love your channel. Thank you very much. Geost Strategy became problematic. The the the the platform started uh uh started demonetizing all those things all those episodes and after that my channel has also been affected views and subscribers going backwards. So I thought that it is prudent to stop that because uh this platform is not an Indian platform and uh they don't like my geio strategy episodes. I don't want to lose the channel, right? We don't want to be in a situation where that happens. It won't affect the rest of the world. It will affect me. I mean I would like to keep talking to to you all. Right? So that's why I have stopped it because it was clearly problem problematic. My my analysis is not like other analysts which is why even initially the views were were were more and then the views very quickly declined. It's like the the even if people had you know done the subscription and put the bell hit the bell bell icon or whatever they were not getting notifications and the videos were not being recommended to people which is why they were getting so few views. My analysis is very different from other Indians and which is why I think it's a problem. So that's why I've stopped it just out of prudence. Teen talks Dharma says why what caused the Korean War and why did the North become a dictatorship? Um the Korean War. What caused the Korean War? Well, it was see Korea is this small, it used to be the small kingdom south east of China and the Americans already had this nation called Japan that was under their occupation. Now the Soviets and the Chinese wanted to gain supremacy in Korea and the Americans wanted Korea to be under them. So that led to a ci to to a to a to a war in Korea. It was not a proxy war, it was a direct war between the US and China essentially and China was supported by the USSR. So the northern part of Korea was supported by China. The southern part of Korea was supported by the US and you had US troops in South Korea fighting the North. So it was kind of a proxy war but kind of a direct war. The US was directly involved. China was involved kind of indirectly but to some extent directly and the USSR was involved indirectly. So the the Korean peninsula became a battleground of the cold war between the US and and the USSR essentially and China was the proxy and South and Korea was the proxy and eventually it ended in a stalemate. There was no official ceasefire. The war still hasn't officially ended and North Korea ever since then came under the the Kim dynasty and it's it's supported by China. Okay? And if you're supported by China, you need a dictatorship. So that's how that happened. Um big brother says row and real analysis of Agnir system in army if I am I I have no idea. No I I haven't studied the Agnir system. I don't know what the detail what the details are. So I don't know. Sorry. Sorry. Shaswat Jana says I am 19. I'm going to enter MBBS first year soon. But seeing the toxic work culture of doctors in India, I am deeply depressed even though I really want to be one. Well, that's a decision you're going to have to make, sir. Is the work culture for doctors always toxic? I suppose it depends on the the environment you're in. If you have your own system, if you have your own clinic, let's say, then you control the work culture. But to have your own clinic and start your own practice, it takes a lot of time, effort and money. The easy thing is that you become a doctor, you get your degree and qualifications and then you join some hospital. But if you join a hospital, you're part of a big machine which is a very bureaucratic machine and the only objective of the machine is to make as much money as possible and their doctors are just tools and patients are just resources. So in that system you may find it very toxic for sure. Yeah. Well, the option is you either create your own your own clinic, your own practice and you can consult in hospitals at your discretion but that you can only do if you're a senior doctor with a lot of patients then the hospitals will be happy to entertain that otherwise you will have to be in a hospital or something and if it's a government hospital I suppose it's even worse and even in a private hospital they will be you'll be really overworked. I think doctors if they work in big hospitals no matter where in the world they have this this this problem of being overburdened and overworked. So um at the end of the day it's a choice that you're going to have to make. Is that something that is okay with you? If that's not what you want that sort of toxic work culture then maybe MBBS is not for you. Maybe you can go for something else. So u you will have to make the the decision for yourself. So all the best sir make the right choice for yourself. Okay. Divor Singh says, "What do you have to say about the Babylonian Talmud?" Trust me, everybody read it. I haven't read it. I haven't read the Talmud. Talmud, whichever Talmud. See the the the Jewish system has the Torah and the Talmud, right? The Talmud, I believe, is a very extensive document. Is it like thousands of pages or is that the Torah? I don't know, sir. I don't know. I haven't read it. I have nothing to say about it because I haven't read it. So, if I haven't read it, I suppose I should stay quiet about it because I don't know anything about it. Uh, Divor Singh says, "Why do we call the Catholic Church Roman and why does Tsar and Kaiser come from Caesar?" Well, interesting history here. Catholic Church. So the church see Rome was the great seat of the Roman Empire and eventually the Roman Empire kind of became divided into two empires which was the Eastern and Western Roman Empires. The Western Roman Empire the original one was based out of Rome. that was the the the center of gravity the capital and the eastern empire Roman Empire was based out of Bzantium or Constantinople which is now called Istanbul. So that was the Eastern Roman Empire and long after the Western Roman Empire fell the Eastern Roman Empire continued until 1453. Now it was the Eastern Roman Empire where where things have things changed because the emperor Constantine in order to consolidate power and gain more power he made Christianity the official state religion of the empire because Christianity is a monotheistic religion. It's a religion of control. That way you can control more people. So he said why not? Let's do it. Why is this polytheism? Polytheism is like hurting cats. Christianity means you convert everybody into into sheep and you become the shepherd. So he made Christianity the official state religion. Eventually it spread like wildfire across the Roman world and soon enough you had the the the the seat of the Christian church the global seat of the Christian church based out of Rome. Eventually it became Vatican City. So because it was based out of Rome because the popes were based in Rome that's why it was called the Roman church. So I think that should explain it. Now Caesar, Julius Caesar, his name was not Caesar, his name was Kaiser. Julius Gaios Kaiser or Gaos, Julius Kaiser. But because it is C A E S A R, that's how the Romans wrote it. That's why we call it Caesar. The actual pronunciation was Kaiser. And he was such a colossal historical figure that everybody in the west whoever became a strong powerful king they wanted to model themselves in the light of the great Julius Kaiser. So that's why um the the the term the term Kaiser K a I s a r or k a i s e r comes from caesar and also tsar the Russian word tsar. What does Kaiser a hind mean? It means the same thing. Kaiser Hind Caesar of Hind. It's because Julius Julius Kaiser was such a well pivotal figure in western history. Ganesha Koshik says how to read history in a chronological manner while covering simultaneous events across the world. Some books that cover Kushan Empire in detail. There are no books that cover Kushan Empire in detail. You will see some details of of the Kushan Empire in various RC Majunar books but little bit nothing much I haven't found a single book that covers the Kushian Empire in detail unfortunately how to read books in a chronological manner while covering simultaneous events across the world you don't you have to read history in a profoundly undisiplined manner read whatever captures your imagination if you try to grow go chronologically you will get disillusioned You'll get bored because there are periods of history that are really boring. If you try to read everything chronologically, you will get bored and you will lose interest. If you want to maintain interest in history, read whatever captures your imagination. Do it in a in the most wanted in manner you can think of. Read whatever interests you. No matter what the chronology, read something from 1700 AD, then read something from 3,000 BC. Fine. Why not? Over time you'll all the knowledge will interconnect. You can't read history chronolog chronologically. At least it doesn't work for me. Okay. So what doesn't work for me? I cannot give you advice for that. Okay. Kingston Crystal says why do spy agencies unclose mission to public after decades? Open up. See there are some there are certain um documents that are not disclosed after decades. I mean the Kennedy files still classified the Bose files, Subhashundra Bose files still classified. There so many documents that are classified beyond a century. It's not like after there's a rule that after so and so years we'll open up everything. No, no, no, no, no, no. Only they'll declassify only whatever stuff is no longer important, which is now irrelevant. That stuff you can declassify. And even when you declassify stuff, there will be things that are redacted with black ink, illeible ink. So nothing is it's not like there's a rule that spy agencies after a certain number of years, they have to put everything in the public domain like copyright free. No, no, no, no, no, no. Absolutely not. There are things from the Second World War that are still classified. There are things from the First World War that are still classified. There are British records of the Brit of the occupation of India that are still classified. I would love to go to the British archives in London and and read about the dispatches of various British administrators in South Africa reporting about Mr. Gandhi. What did the British administrators in South Africa when they reported to London through telegrams and letters? What did they write about Mr. Gandhi? I would love to read that. That will never be declassified. Imagine if they declassify that. What was their own assessment of Mr. Gandhi? Well, that would be a goddamn bombshell, wouldn't it? But they won't declassify that. Protect your own. Sandy 97. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you. Divor Singh says, "Can Elon Musk buy Pakistan?" If he wishes to, I suppose he can. I don't think Pakistan is worth $300 billion. I don't think it's it's worth that much. I suppose he if he wants to buy it, if he wants to waste his money, he could he can do it. Yeah. Yeah. So theoretically he can if he if he is so inclined. Anonymous says I'm sorry for this question. How to learn to think critically and develop critical thinking like you sorry for this question. It's a good question. Can you recommend any courses or books? Will you make a course on this in the future? Um how to think critically? I don't think there's any books available textbook for critical thinking. I'm not sure there's any such book available. How to think critically? The first step of the way in thinking critically is to question everything. See most Indians, most people in the world, they are afraid to question certain things. Even even privately. Okay, I'm sitting let's say I'm sitting in this room alone. Nobody here. Mommy not here, daddy not here. By behone here. Even sitting alone many most people are afraid to ask certain questions to themselves. So the first step in thinking critically is ask questions. Why is this the way it is? Right? Why is India called India? Simple question. Get to the bottom of it. Why is India otherwise called Bat? Get to the bottom of it. What does Bhat mean? Why do we say Bat Mata? Why Bat Mata? Because King Bat was a man and Bat is a masculine name. So why do people say Bat Mata when Bat is a masculine name? Isn't does it make any sense whatsoever? Ask such very uncomfortable questions. Ask questions and then if you get the answer, oh this is because of that. Then you ask why is that so? Then you get to the bottom of that and you go deeper and deeper until you get to the very roots of the matter to first principles. So that's one way of thinking critically. I'm not saying be disrespectful. No, ask questions because the only way to learn is to ask questions. Right? So that's how we do it. So that's one way of doing it. I don't know if I'll make a course on about this uh books. I don't know of any books. I I have not I have not learned critical thinking from books. Uh Dnur Singh says Trump was warned by the CIA to appoint Vance as a VP or he will be killed. Really reliable sources. Well, that's that's news for me. Uh so then the question is if this is true, why is Vance so valuable? Is he an insurance policy? I don't know. Could be. I So I I have no idea about this and it's the first time I'm hearing this one. But I suppose anything's possible in the world. Yeah. Especially if it's coming from like you say reliable sources which I am not making fun of at all. So if you take this seriously in hypothetically you see you think why would it be so? It would only make sense if if Wance is an insurance policy by the CIA then in case if if uh if Mr. Trump let's say what he's in his 80s right? So once a person is in is is in their 80s you need a good backup because you know in old age anything can happen. So it's always good to have a a good backup and maybe that's the case. So that's what I could speculate but this is the first time I'm I'm hearing of this one. Um isn't palant the most dystopian thing ever? Palanteer is this frightening technology of super surveillance isn't it? Let's see what Palanteer technologies does. It has this suite of surveillance equipment and surveillance technology. Uh Palantir Palantir technologies. What does it do? Big data AI software company specializing in big data integration platforms for government and commercial clients. Uh Alex Karp. Let's see. Uh Peter Theel is involved. Well, that's great. What's it do? What's it do? products talented Gotham defense and intelligence software uh used by intelligence. See this is all surveillance and spying software supports alerts. So you may have heard of prism. You may have heard of prism. Okay. First of all we have goautum. Then you have foundry which is used for used in what commercial and civil government sectors. I'm not sure what that is. Then you have Palantir Apollo continuous delivery system that manages Gotham and Foundry. Okay, very good. Artificial intelligence platform. Obviously, Titan tactical intelligence targeting access node, a truck, mobile ground station for AI applications, meta constellation. It's all surveillance. It's about surveilling your citizens. It's about surveying the world. It's about Yeah, that big eye in the sky, big brother on the ground, that sort of thing. It is super dystopian. You may recall like I was saying Prism. So Prism was this surveillance uh platform the US had in the 2000s late 2000s and u what's his name? The guy who defected to the to to to Russia Snowden Edward Snowden he was the whistleblower he leaked it into the public and he became America's person you know most wanted person but he escaped to the to to to Russia and that's where he lives today. Edward Snowden and if you saw the screenshots that he shared and all that the US were doing realtime surveillance of the entire world and India was probably the most surveiled country so that was in around 2009 2010 now this is 2025 that's 15 years hence so you can imagine the kind the level of sophistication and penetration American uh surveillance technology will have and palanteer obviously is going to be a critical component in that. >> So yeah, super dystopian. It's about 24 by7 surveillance of the entire world, all its people, your own people, foreign countries, subject, citizens, all of that. Governments, leaders, agencies, corporations, everything. Realtime surveillance. AI is involved. So AI can tell you exactly what's happening. They can possibly even make futuristic predictions that what's going to happen, what this corporation will do in the next six months, next quarter, what so and so leader is going to do, what is going to what's the next next so it's like being able to foresee chess moves like 10 15 moves ahead of time that sort of thing maybe hundreds of moves if you are an AI enabled uh technology. So yeah, super dystopian no question about it. Ritik P says India has issued a no time for the entire northeast for the tw for 22 days. Why air force exercises I suppose air force exercises and live firing of missiles and that sort of thing. So if you are doing military exercises which involves live firing of missiles and you have dog fights and stuff like that then you don't want anybody to intrude in the sector because you may shoot someone down by mistake. So you give a notice to airmen everybody stay out of this area. So I suppose that's that's the reason that's what one could speculate the no time has been issued but there's been no reason given why this no time exists. So one can only speculate maybe there will be some uh military exercises. Yes. Yes. Rati says due to increased digital infrastructure and individual data to MNC's and governments change is there any change in government espionage tactics how this how deeply are we penetrated solutions solutions is to cut off to go back to the analog age if you want to not be under surveillance you have to disconnect yourself from the digital world you have have a cell phone. Your cell phone can take voice commands. Yes. What is it called? AI has sorry Apple has Siri, right? And uh Android will have whatever Android has. So you can say, "Hey Siri, blah blah blah, do this for me. Do do." So the phone is always listening to you. The moment you issue a voice command, it's going to respond to you and and it's going to do what you what you say, what you command it to do. So it's always listening to you. So right now, I have my phone here. Okay? It's on silent mode. It's here. It's listening to me. I could be under surveillance. There's a high probability I may be under surveillance, right? And you all also, it's not like uh we are all special. The phone is always collecting data. It's always listening to us. It's always in our pockets. We're having the most uh private conversations with our business partners, with our spouses, with our parents, with our children, with what with our whatever with our tax guy, with our do doctor, all the conversations are being spied upon and whatever other digital footprint you have your your social media or or your email what everything is under surveillance. What can be done about this? you the only solution if you don't want to be under surveillance is to disconnect completely which is obviously not practical in today's today's world. Uh so yeah definitely change in conventional espionage tactics. Now a lot of espionage is is digital. It gives people it gives intelligence agencies way more data way more granular data about individuals. Your travel patterns what time you travel on a regular basis. Where do you go to on a regular basis? What days of the week do you do? What? Everything is known. Everything. So super deeply perpetrated. Divor Singh says Vance connects Trump to Peter the all these billionaires the leaked plan of CEO run cities which is private owned cities. Well that's interesting. All now so Peter the is the guy from the PayPal mafia isn't he? He's an oldtime connection of Elon Musk. They worked together on PayPal and Peter Thiel has had a hand in founding so many of these startups that became mega corporations uh tech companies in the US and uh yeah there's a bunch of billionaires who are super powerful super rich and they control well you could say a lot of the tech sector and other sectors in the US and uh yeah if they have plan of CEO run cities which is private owned cities that is super super dystopian and uh van himself is a billionaire. So, yep, it's plausible what you're saying. And even Vive is a billionaire, isn't he? I'm sure he will also throw his hat into the ring at some point in time. Vive Ramas Swami. Ishan Mukji says, "How to get rid of 700 bases of the USA deter its global dominance? How how do you do it? Tell me. You want to go to war? Try and touch one of their bases. See what happens. They will jealously and zealously guard their bases. You dare touch one of the bases, they will obliterate you to to the high heavens. How to get rid of it? You don't get rid of it. Unless you become a superpower without touching their bases, that's a whole different story. Meet Sandhu says can the ASI archaeological survey of India access and research Mahendaro and Harapa which are located in Pakistan? We can't. We will not be given access. The good thing is that the vast majority of archaeological sites of the Saraswati Hindu period and region are located in India, present day India. So the largest city that we know of from that time period is Rakari which is larger than Raki than Mojad and Harpa. We have that in India. We have Kalibangan in India which is another major city and there are more than 2,000 unexplored unexcavated archaeological sites that exist along the dry river banks of the Saraspati and the majority are in India. So it doesn't matter if we don't have access to Mohind and Harpa. We have access to way more sites than the Pakistanis have. That's great, isn't it? So yeah, that's good. That's good. Good enough for me. I'll have to light another candle. My candle has gone out. Looks like we've crossed 3 hours. Oh, we are reaching the 4hour mark and I'm still talking. I seem to have quite the stamina when it comes to speaking. Give me a second. Let me light this. Check it out. Okay, let me light this. All right, here we go. Here we are. Here we are. That goes in there. Okay, let me take a sip of water. All right. And let us continue. Sarak says where Jotiba Foule Rajaram Monroy EV Per told that backward and emphasized of English education where the social reformers of British agents. I'm going to have to say no comments on this one and I apologize that you spent some money on the question. If I could refund it, I would refund it. But I can I will not answer this question. Best not to stay I I'll stay out of this matter. Uh I can speak about Ram moanroy. I will and I suppose I can even speak about uh Eevee Rama Swami whatever. Uh but the rest of it I am staying out of it. I can't fight all the battles. You can't fight all battles. I I I'll stay in the realm of realm of geopolitics and history. I cannot fight every battle. Yeah. Sorry, I I apologize. Divor Singh says, "In a hypothetical full-blown war, could the US defeat or stalemate the whole world against it?" Look, in this hypothetical full-blown war, if you take out the nuclear factor so that the world isn't destroyed and if the whole world stands up against the US, the US can still defeat it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. They have that kind of power projection capability and that sort of lethal force, lethal force at their disposal. So they have the naval force, the tremendously powerful navy. Their navy has an air force of its own which is larger than the Indian and Chinese air forces. It's the fourth largest air force in the world. The third largest air force in the world is the US Marine Air Force. And there's one more air force and then then there's the US Air Force itself. And they have tremendously powerful uh a tremendously powerful navy. They have expeditionary forces called the Marines. And they have more than 700 extr territorial military bases from which they can uh rain down hell anywhere they want. So even without nuclear weapons, they can take out the rest of the world combined I suppose. Yeah, that's how powerful they are. Uh Vidi Manar says is major chaos coming from for India soon? Very anxious. There could be see India has done the unthinkable and stand and stood up to the US right we have refused to cave in we Trump was very clear and I saw this coming and that's why I thought that India will vasalize itself and that's why I had said that if Trump comes to power there's a very high chance that India and the US will be dancing hand in hand which means that India is of American masal but to my great surprise and great joy Mr. Modi has stood up to the US. He has said we will not vasalize ourselves at whatever cost that is going to infuriate the US and they will try regime change in India. They already putting up the infrastructure around India putting up a string of fence of thorns around India and they will operationalize their local zalinskis in India now. So there could be some kind of chaos coming in India maybe protests maybe whatever you had in Delhi Shahinag and whatn not that sort of thing could could start again farmer protests student protest that sort of thing is very much possible I hope it doesn't happen but we should be mentally prepared for something like that to to be unleashed across the country by foreign forces in collaboration with local zalinskis or aspiring zalinskis. So just be prepared for it. I am pretty sure that the government of India can handle this but we should be mentally prepared for it. Priojud Mandal thank you very much sir. Thank you so much. Anonymous says how can we make our education free again without the help of the government? Impossible. As of now 30 cr students are here in India. The government will not without the government help how will you change the education system? You can't see so much has to change the education system. so much. So for example, uh the education system and the job market are interconnected. Today if you want a job in India, okay, they will ask you to give us your CV and all your certificates. What did you have in how much marks did you get in 10th standard? How much marks did you get in 12th standard? What is your college record like? What did you do your master's degree in? You may be let's say you you're applying for a programming job. You're a great programmer. But still they will require you to have a 10th standard, 12th standard degree, college degree, master's degree, minimum college degree. What does all of that have to do with programming? Nothing really. So the the attitude everywhere is this very backward colonial attitude. If I was let's say running a software company, I would not ask you for your qualifications. I'll ask you to solve some problems and if you can solve the problems and you can show that you're competent, I'll hire you. I don't care whether you have a 10 standard degree or not. I seriously won't care. But all of these attitudes need to change. And then the education system, it is a very colonial system and it perpetuates the attitude. So it's a two-way thing. The people who are running the companies, they came for the education system. So so they think it's right and it should continue and they and and it's so it's it's a feedback loop, you know, it's like the chicken and egg thing. So if you want to free the education system without the help of the government, how will you do it? I I can't see. I mean you can create your own own university for example in which you teach things totally differently but then when the students go out of the of your university or your college or whatever that you created will they get jobs the companies will say that you came from a strange university where they teach things differently we don't want you then you will ruin those kids' lives right so a lot of reforms have to happen for us to be able to change the education system the education system really needs to change but but without government help it can't happen. If let's say I have 1,000 cr rupees to burn so I create my own college and university but at the end of the day the people the students who study there they should get jobs right otherwise what will happen to them so that's also my responsibility and if if I create a syllabus and a structure and a system where students will do well but they won't have the paper degrees to show to the to the to the interview people then it'll be a problem. So you know it's it's it's very complicated. That's the problem. The government has to be involved but the government doesn't seem to want to do it. So so that's where we are. Naman Jabra says quantum computers are thought of being extremely good at simulating nature. Can they be used for creating new artificial materials that combine traits that are not usually found in a single product? Quantum computers are they can sim they can simulate certain things that other computers can't. So quantum computers they they work on by by see the concept be behind the concepts behind quantum computers are superposition and entanglement. In a regular computer you have bits. A bit is either one or zero. Right? It's one or zero. But a cubit a quantum cubit can be in a super superp position of more than one and zero. It can be one or zero or one and zero and so on. And you can have entangled cubits that creates hyperdimensional spaces in which you can do tremendously complicated calculations. So that's the difference between a standard computer and a quantum computer. And you can quantum quantum computers can solve certain problems easily that uh regular computers will take decades or centuries or thousands of years or millions of years to solve. So that's the deal. So what's the what are quantum computers going to be useful for? They'll be useful for solving certain kinds and certain classes of problems. Like if you want to brute force a password, a quantum computer can do it super easily. A classical standard computer which also operates on the basis of quantum mechanics, but that's a different kind of thing. It will take a long time to do a brute force attack on passwords. A quantum computer will do it like that. A quantum computer will potentially break any cryptographic encryption, any kind of encryption, that sort of thing. If you want to create new artificial materials and combine traits that are usually not found in a single products, I think AI is better for that. AI can look for patterns and detect patterns that will take humans god knows how much time and experience to be able to detect. AI can do it brilliantly. So take a hyper powerful machine like a supercomput combined that with AI technology and then see what kind of new materials new new molecules new drugs can be discovered. AI is great at that. You don't need quantum computing for that. Quantum computing is good for certain classes of problems. classes that uh classical computers simply can't solve. Priojit Mandal, thank you very much once again sir. Thank you. Caution world says why can't we stop all wars and work towards human well-being of everyone consisting everyone is going to die and how insignificant we are in the universe. You see ideally that's how the world would be. Wouldn't it be great if we stop the wars? If we stop the fighting, we think about the well-being of everyone. Everyone's going to die in a 100 years. None of us will exist. In 50 years, most of us will will be gone. How many of us will be remembered? How many of us? God knows. We are insignificant. In a thousand years, which is nothing, there'll be no trace of our existence left individually, right? So, what are we doing? Why are we fighting? That's the question. This only works if everybody thinks this way. As long as there is injustice in the world, there's going to be wars. Let's say I don't want to fight. I'll say I will not fight anybody. Just just leave me alone. I I'll leave you alone. But then they have to leave me alone. Right? If I say I will leave you alone, I will not bother you. I will not fight you. I will do here sit here and mind my own business. But then my neighbor comes and bothers me. Then what do I do? Should I take it passively? Should I just be a passenger in the life or should on my life or should I then take steps to defend myself? And that's how war starts. And then there's the matter of honor and prestige that you did so and so things, your ancestors did so and so things to my ancestors. I feel the pain of my ancestors what they went through and my duty my honor requires that I will I will I will extract justice from you because you're still glorifying what your ancestors did. That's another problem. And then there are people who want to leave behind a legacy. There are people who don't care who know they'll die. That's fine. I'll die. But I want to live a glorious life and I want to be remembered for for for a thousand years. And those people because of that outsiz ambition. Napoleon is a great example and there are others. That's why you have wars. So ideally there should be no wars. Ideally we should all mind our own business and be happy and work for everyone's prosperity. But in the real world there are complications. You see sir complications. Complications. We are a complicated species and even if most of us want to be peaceful that that small minority will be there who will mess it up for us and that is the story of human history. That is the story of human history. A few people want war and they'll mess everything up. All right sir. Priyad Mandal once again. Thank you so much. Thank you sir. AI productivity magnet says naki wanted to support the axis during the second world war why didn't that happen and what would have happened had we fought for the axis instead of the allied forces nak wanted to support India sir and because India was under allied occupation that's why niti said that I will then take the help of the enemies of the allies who are the axis naki had no love for the Axis or the allies. But the Axis was the enemy of the allies who were occupying and brutalizing us. India had been under allied occupation, British occupation for almost two and a half centuries and they had destroyed India. So when somebody goes to war with my enemy, I'll support my enemy's enemy me. Right? That's the deal. Naji had no love for the axis. Naji was an Indian patriot. He was an Indian nationalist. He wanted to liberate India from the brutal barbarians who were destroying India for two and a half centuries. So he said that if there are my brutal barbarians have enemies, I'll go with them. And that's was the deal. All right? And we could have not fought for the axis instead of allies because we were under allied occupation. Understand that too. Okay. Viri warm says, "How long will it take for the American?" I don't know. I am not Nostra Damos. I don't know. Uh what are the possible scenarios? How can India have India should not even talk about this? India should not even talk about this. All right, sir. Feminist Slayer says, "How to deal with sorrow and accept the harsh realities of life? By looking for joy in the smallest things in in mundane life." There is joy and beauty in life. Life is a mixed bag. I'll tell you what, when you are a small child, everything is nice. You're learning new things every day. You're discovering new things every day. You're gaining something every day. Every day something nice happens to you. But as you grow older, you start losing things. You lose a pet. You lose a friend somewhere. You move to a different school, you lose all the old friends. Then as you grow older and after you become an adult at some point in time you'll unfortunately sadly tragically start losing parents and relatives. So as you grow older life becomes more tragic. But that is the nature of life. That is the nature of the universe. There is constant change. How to deal with that? Firstly remind yourself every single human being who has existed in the past or today on the planet has gone through all the same things. So you so we are not I am not a unique case. Secondly, despite all all the harsh things that life does have, there is beauty and joy in life. There is beauty in in a simple meal that you can have. There's beauty and joy in just taking a half an hour evening walk. There's beauty and joy in looking at the stars. That beauty and joy in in being with your close relatives. There's beauty. There's joy in so many small simple things. So it's up to you if you want to focus on the positives or the negatives. Both are present. But which one do you want to focus on more? You have to make a choice and a decision for myself. You either tell yourself yourself that I'm going to focus on the suffering and the misery and I'm going to be a sad miserable person. Or you tell yourself that from today onwards I know sometimes things bad things will happen but I will be positive and I will look for the silver linings. I will look for the bright side of life and then your life can be different. So it's up to you. It's a choice that you to make. All right. Sedhart says I have studied eight genetic articles on Iranian YDNA. None. So no none show indic descent. Most Indians are most Iranians are distant from South Asians except some patans. Even parses are diff distant. Just curious how can they be of Indian descent as I claim. Okay. Who who has done this genetic studies? Could you show me the genetic studies? I have um except some patam. The pashons are obviously even genetic studies have shown that they are an extension of the north Indian population. Now look I am not sure what genetic studies you've seen first of all and secondly uh most genetic studies that are done in Asia they typically the the authors of the studies are typically westerners. So you'll have a bunch of authors maybe 15 authors or 10 authors with one or one or two Iranian names in there who will be Iranians who will be working in the west and the genetic study will be done on a small sample of Iranian people who are expatriots migr who have migrated to the west. So we will take a sample of Iranian origin people in the west maybe 20 30 people or maybe 50 people maybe 100 people and do a and take their blood samples DNA samples and do a genetic study. Well, is that a representative sample of all of Persia? It's not. Will the government of Iran give access to Iranian genetic samples to the West? No. Which first of all immediately tells you that the sample size that the these studies have used is going to be not properly representative of the proper genet genetic diversity of Iranians. Now let's say the the population group that this study did was based on a sample of people from East Ajarbaijan which is in Iranian province. Those people will have no Persian DNA. No. And if there are eight studies they still could have these issues. My my thing is very simple. I would like to see a genetic study of 10,000 Iranian samples done in Iran itself by Iranian scientists. I would like to see the result of that. then you will have clarity on what the situation is. Okay. The thing is this, today's Iran is not the Iran of 2,000 years ago or 1400 years ago. In the past 14,300 years, there has been a lot of foreign immigration into Iran which was done by the foreign occupiers of Iran. They brought in foreign populations into Iran into present day Iran. people from the Caucasus region, people from people of Azeri origin, people of Arabic origin. Today only half of Iran's population is Persian and even that Persian is mixed Persian. The Persian people of 2,000 years ago, if they saw today's Iranian population, they would not be able to recognize the ethnicity to significant extent. So please understand the nuances and complexities. Sir, I would like to see a genetic study done in Iran, 10,000 samples from across the geography of Iran, proper representative samples of Persian genetics and a study done by Iranian scientists, not by American or whatever scientists that I would like to see then we'll talk. Okay. Divor Singh says why were a certain DV Singh Dor Singh sir DVD Singh I don't know I I don't know I was not there Europeans are very racist you see very racist people very racist you see how they treated the Romanis have you seen how the Europeans treated the Romani I I suppose you were talking about the Romani people, right? The Romani people, they were of Indian origin. They were Indians who were enslaved by the Turks. They were taken to the slave markets of Bkhar and Surma Samarand. And eventually the Turks realized that they have an excess of Indian slaves. They have taken too many slaves and they did not want to slaughter them in in Turk territory. It was okay to slaughter a few millions in India but not in in their cities. So they said get out. You can't go back to India. Not allowed. You go back. You go westwards. Get lost. So several thousand maybe tens of thousands of Indians were forced to get go into Europe from Central Asia. Indians and they have been wandering ever since. They are the Romani and they have been treated brutally horribly by the Europeans. A thousand years roughly of oppression, second class, third class citizen status. Right? Even today many of them are are are are stateless people. They don't have citizenship documents and so on. They have been enslaved. They've been massacred. All kinds of horrible atrocities they have been have been perpetrated on the Romani people, Indian origin people. And still they have contributed so much to European culture. So if the Europeans treated the Romani like this, I suppose a certain people the way they were treated may also you know fit the same pattern perhaps. I'm just saying perhaps. Okay. They've not Singh. I think you're not talking about the Romani people here. Okay. Viri Verma says, should Russia occupy the entire Ukraine and teach a lesson to US and NATO? Is it possible for in the current situation? What should Russia do? I think Russia should decide. Okay. Russia should every nation should prioritize its national interests and whatever Russia's per perception of its national interest is, that is what Russia should do. So I am no one to give recommendations to Russia as to what it should do. And if I do that then I will be portrayed as as a Russian agent, anti-West. I am non-West. I'm not anti-West. And I I mean I think Russia is the victim over here. It's not the aggressor. So I would say Russia should prioritize its national interest and whatever is its perception of the national interest and what is the best outcome in their in their perception they should go for that and NATO and Ukraine they should do whatever is best in their interests and we shall sit here and watch okay that's what that's what I would say let us not take sides sitting here more or less okay oh one second I need to Yes. Ah, T is good. T is very good. Okay. Uh, what's the question by MK? Did the Japanese gods were these gods created parallelly or due to Indian influence like ancient Greece or Europe? Japan is a very ancient land, very beautiful land, beautiful culture. The Japanese have indigenous gods called kami. Kami. Have you heard the term kamikaz? Kamik kaz. It means divine wind. The wind of the gods. The kami kaz was two sets of of uh typhoons or whatever it was that thwarted two invasion fleets that were supposed to invade Japan. who had launched those the Mongol Empire Shri Kubla Khan not Shir Chingish Khan Shri Kubla Khan and both times Kami Kaz came in the way and saved Japan. Uh so Kami are the indigenous Japanese gods they are the gods the ancestral gods of the Japanese people um ancestor worship nature worship or that sort of thing. The kami are the gods that are part of Shinto, the Shinto culture in religion of Japan. And over the centuries, over one and a half almost 2,000 years, Shinto and Indian religion synretized beautifully into a into a into a a single unified religion and culture which was both Shinto and and Indian at the same time. And all the Indian gods they were given Japanese names. So uh Saraswati Dvi becomes Benzaitan in Japan and uh and Lord Ganesha becomes Kangitan and in Japan he loves radishes instead of ladus and uh Lord Kuber I forget his name there. Lord Shiva also has a name Kalahav has a Japanese name. All Indian gods have Japanese names and most of these gods are Hindu gods not not Buddhist gods. And of course Lord the Buddha is also worshiped there in in Japan. So u so the Japanese gods the original Shinto gods were completely indigenous to Japan and then we have all the Indian divinity divinities that come in and they are also given places in the Japanese pantheon. So that was the deal. So ancient Greece and Europe they have the same gods as India and India was the origination place. India was the origin but Japan you got the same Indian gods but they already had their own gods and they coexisted and harmonized. You see that was the difference. Rohan Suna says Scandinavian education fields worldclass. Harvard and Warton grads seem mid but Scandinavian PhDs are just brilliant. Best problem solvers I have ever seen. Well, okay. Interesting. Interesting. H see people believe that Cambridge and and uh Oxford are the best in the world. That's what people used to believe. Now it's all Harvard and Princeton and whatn not Watton and so on. Uh but it's because Britain Britain was the most powerful empire for the longest time for for two centuries two and a half centuries. So whatever was their best universities was those were regarded as the best in the world. Then the Americans became the world's premier supreme empire the superpower. So now people think that their universities are the best but that's not always the case. The Scandinavian countries they are like they don't aspire to great power status but it's possible that they may have a superior education system. So yeah uh I've heard a lot about the Scandinavian education system. It's not based on root learning and memorization and all that nonsense. It's about you know you go with your interests and learn as you play and that sort of thing and maybe it's a better approach and eventually at a certain level you can formalize education after you enter college or whatever by the time you've acquired the knowledge the basic knowledge that you need so yeah I I would say it makes sense what you're saying a lot of sense rama 100 well thank you so much thank you I was wondering what's the question thank you very much for the contribution sir okay Ankita sorry I'm sorry ankit ta says How to learn coding and AI effectively to master it. Get your hands dirty. Get down and dirty into it. You want to learn coding, you can't learn coding by reading a book. You learn coding by starting stuff. Try hello world. Can I write a program that can display hello world? The first time it works, you'll be like, "Wow, I did it. Now let me write hello world and go away world or something like that." Then you try to expand it, extend it, then you try to make it interactive. So you have to learn coding, you have to do coding. You have to do coding. You can only learn something by doing it. You can't learn something by reading a book. And the same with AI. AI also I mean it's it's a the basis is is computer science. So you first learn by you first start by learning one programming language. These days they recommend Python. Back in the day it was C. uh Python is a good enough programming language to start off with and then then you can go on to other languages and so on server side back end blah blah blah and you have to learn computer science fundamentals algorithms and whatnot if you want to go into AI and all that and obviously you need to learn statistics um yeah so it's a long path but the way to learn anything is to do it by doing it by making a lot of mistakes and by correcting those mistakes that's how we learn things um aurva ja says Please explain the original jati vera jati system. So it's something that evolved in the past 1500 or 2,000 years maximum. The jati system may be very ancient. The vera system is more recent because uh 2 and a half thousand years ago when the Greek ambassador was in India, his name was Mastanes. He was in the in partra in the court of Chandra Gupta. He wrote a a a field report let's say called Indica which was which was a description of Indian society and the Indian cities and so on and he said that Indian society was was divided into seven classes. So we think of four casts right today four casts India had seven classes uh I don't remember the classes but we can look it up right now. Okay, let's go to Google and Megasan Indian classes. I think it'll give you the okay Indian classes of society, philosophers, farmers, soldiers, herdsmen, hunters, artisans, traders, magistrates and counselors or ministers, right? It's a Greek filtered view of morian society focus focusing on professions rather than the he mentions there's no cast system you godamned AI look at look at look at the perspective it's trying to put on on things did not mention any cast system he said there were seven classes of people in India and still this AI overview thing is trying to superimpose the cast system see this is how they mislead Indians and Indians are so docsile today they'll be misled misled very easily. Anyhow, those were the seven classes of society during Morian during the Morian Empire. And then you have the Jati and Vera. So the Vera are the four major like those those so-called casts. But the real system was the was the Jati system. Jati is a occupation based system. Let's say someone's family is in the process is is in the business of uh being a goldsmith. You know you're all goldsmith. You have a set of trade secrets and skills that you want to keep within the family within the lineage. You don't want the secrets to go out and be be you know be be stolen by other families. So you keep everything tight-knit and that is your jati. Somebody else has a different occupation and they also have the trade secrets. So they will only marry among people of the same community. Same community means the same trade, the same trade and same profession. And you keep it strictly within that. And because India was the first fully industrialized society, you had so many different occupations and professions, thousands of these maybe tens of thousands. And because India is such an ancient land, you had people connection people to people connections all for like spans of thousands of kilometers very ancient connections. So you will know that you know 17 generations ago one of my family members went and settled in that city 2,000 km away. So if I travel there today and I enquire I will still find my my family people there my family members there and then if it's like that then you know you can have you can establish trade networks and all or whatever and you marry only among the same uh the same profession essentially. So the so the jati system was an occupation and profession based system and you had thousands of jatis in India and that's how India was was was organized because okay let's ask Google what are the defining characteristics of a civilization okay let's ask and let's let's see it live what Google says what are the defining characterist istics of civilization. Let's see. Highly organized society. Does it say complex division of labor? Advanced cities, specialized labor, complex institutions, social structure and stratification. Societies are organized into different social classes or roles with varying responsibilities, influence. Every civilization has that, right? But India is demonized for this. You see, did you did you see what Google says? Every civilization has this characteristic. The societies are organized into different social classes or rules with varying responsibilities and influence. Every civilization, every civilization has this characteristic. But India is demonized for being a civilization. This is the central characteristic of a civilization. A highly evolved and stratified society with proper organization and division of labor. That's the sign of a highly evolved and ancient society and civilization. But we are demonized for that. So if you have thousands of jatis, tens of thousands of jatis, imagine how ancient our civilization is. And today what exists? Nothing. Everything has been smashed. Okay. Sam Suba says, "Who is Nepal's new lady prime minister and is linked with the US and China? What is the potential impact?" I have no idea at this point in time. I have no idea. I don't I know very little about this lady. She is a former member of the Supreme Court. I believe it's a former justice apparently and she was married to a politician who was involved in a plane hijacking in the 20th century. And beyond that, we don't we don't know much. So, we'll have to wait and watch what her potential impact is going to be. uh ideally if you want to run a puppet government and have the real power hidden behind the scenes then you have somebody in the front who seems to have be of no consequence. So we I am not going to make any any remarks or any any statements at this point in time. I'm going to wait and watch for at least a week. But I have already said this. My gut feeling is that this is a US mediated regime change operation. Now, let's see if I pro am proven to be wrong or right about this. But I'm going to wait at least a week to see the patterns that that emerge out of things before I start making wonderful great pronouncements like an expert. A real expert will shut the shut the hell up until things calm down. So, I'm going to I'm going to wait for the patterns to emerge. No knee-jerk reactions, no premature reactions. You have to be mature in these things. Okay. All right. Uh, Retwik Yuani says, "Your 10 trillion dollar 10 trillion containment hypothesis was spot on. US and China encircle India via unrest. Can we manage both adversaries at once?" Look, if you are a Chanakian state, you can manage multiple adversaries at once. You need to know each adversaries strengths and weaknesses. You need to know which what each adversary seeks. You have to know which what each adversary fears. You have to know your strengths, your weaknesses, your red lines, their red lines. Once you have a clear understanding of the entire scenario, of the entire battlefield, let's say, then if you play the game right, you'll be fine. So, it's about clarity. It's about clarity of understanding of everyone's purpose, everyone's ambitions, and everyone's needs, desires, wants, fears, threat perceptions, red lines, strengths, weaknesses, all of that. We can manage both adversaries at once. Serva Maya Ai, thank you, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Sir or ma'am, thank you. Kajoro Batthon says, "See being the global left justify and celebrate murder of Kirk and praise the Nepal revolution as a righteous people's revolt. Will our leftist lunatics be emboldened by this? They're openly saying no more debate, go for violent carry." Yeah. The global left is like this. You see, they claim to be liberal. They claim to be liberal, but they want to silence everybody who has an opinion that that they don't agree with. And violence is a is a form of silence silencing someone. Assassination is a form of silencing silencing someone. Now this Charlie Kirk, whoever he was, good, bad, whatever, he was a legal citizen of that country and he had the right according to his constitution to do whatever he was doing. If he was engaging in political activity, everybody has a right to do that. But he was silenced in the most ultimate in in the most uh uh final way possible, right? And we're not quite sure who did that. Somebody has been arrested for this, but we're not sure who knows if it's a cover up or if that person is a scapegoat, a pathy. Yeah, your own father turned you in, so it must be true. I don't know. Anything's possible in the world. And there are there are apparently elements within India who are saying that they're praising the Nepal situation and they are saying that there should be a Jenzi thing in India also. If since the Nepal thing seems to have succeeded, the Indian lefties will be emboldened by this especially the ones who have foreign funding who will be ged to potentially do this in the coming days, weeks, months, whatever. Yeah, potentially. Potentially. Uh and they are saying openly that we need to go for violence. Well, yeah. So, like I've said, there is there is a higher probability of uh some such situation that could potentially be engineered in India by foreign forces in the coming future sometime. Yeah, there is a higher probability of this happening and the objective is to destabilize the government of India to to create this impression that the that the prime minister and his government are weak and they are not able to to control the country. that sort of thing that that that is a great way of starting the process of regime change. So that is most likely something that has a higher probability of happening in the coming future whatever time it is. I hope it doesn't happen first of all but we have to be aware that this is a situation that could perhaps happen and we should be mentally prepared for that. Geopolitical Dubai says, "Have the bodies of men and women evolved side by side and in which ways has this taken place? Don't quote me. I'm not a science guy." It's okay. It's okay. No, no issues. One second. Um, see, we are the same species. We have two genders, two sexes. It's called sexual dimmorphism, right? So, if you look at frogs, let's let's take a science examples. You look at frogs, they look very similar, but they have certain diorphic uh characteristics between the two genders or sexes. If you look at lions, lion, male lion, female lion, they look different. Tigers only only size difference and certain very subtle differences apart from that they look very similar and so on. Cats, you can't really tell sometimes, you know, especially when they're kids. Uh dogs all that. So, we we are the same species. We haven't evolved side by side. We have evolved together. I mean males when they are born they are born from their mothers from women right? So it's not like we are evolving evolving separately as two separate species. We are the same species and our evolution happens simultaneously together. In what ways has it happened has it taken place? It's happened in what ways? It has happened through the process of Darwinian evolution. the survival of the fittest, the evolution of the fittest. So if you look at Homo sapiens um u fossils from 400,000 four lakh years ago, if you look at the fossils that were found in Jabel Hud in North Africa, you will see that those fossils of homo sapiens, they exhibit certain features that are pretty archaic. They overall are anatomically similar to modern human beings, but they have certain features that are archaic like the the ridge of the brow. It's it's larger. It's like more pronounced and and so on. Certain characteristics that you don't really see in modern populations. So you can see male and female skeletons there which have the same characteristics. So the same charact because because parents and children they share DNA, right? A child let's say it's it's a male child or a female child will have 50 50 cont 50% 50% contribution from both parents right so the evolution is happening from both parents you know if if it's a girl who is born she will not only have DNA from the mother's side she will also have 50% of the father father's DNA so evolution is happening simultaneously at the same time and you're getting contribution from both your parents so it's not evolving side by side or evolving parallelly it's evolving it's the species evolving the way all species do. All right. Tarun says, "Do you think Indians in Greece is credible?" It's full of pseudo linguistics like Aditi. Aditi Athina. Who says that? My god. I have never said Aditi is Athena. Aditi is Athena with different meaning. The author wasn't a historian of I am not talking about P and Oak. PN Oak by God the kind of PN Oak is not a credible author. My god the kind of absolute nonsense he has written in some cases. My god P and Oak you can't take that as a credible author unfortunately. I have never ever referred to P and Oak for anything. I have never said Aditi Aditi is Athena Athena. I've never said that. What I have said is this and please pay attention. What I have said is Zeus Peter is Dios Petru. It is the Greek version of Dios Petru the name but the characteristics are those of Indra. And try and debunk this please. That's all I'm saying. Right. Try and debunk that. try and debunk my claim that Jupiter, the Roman Jupiter is the Roman version of Zeus Peter. Jupiter came from Zeus Peter and the Greek Zeus Peter came from Dios Petru, the Vic sky god, the father of Indra. and also try and disprove the fact that Zeus per the Greek Zeus per has all the characteristics of Indra. The hammer and thunderbolt the Vajger symbology symbolism. The fact that that Indra defeats Vitra, the great sea monster who had encircled the world ocean and he he defeated this great sea monster Indra. And what does the Zeus paid do? He defeats Typhon, a Greek sea monster. Same story. Now try and debunk this. I am not going the way of P and Oak. My god, P and Oak is not credible. I never said Aditi is Athena. Come on. No, I am saying Zeus Peter is Dio Pitru. And now try and debunk that. All right. Okay. Da Chandan Malik says, "What happens if the US exploits? Why is there no physics question? Why? whole history, geopolitics, no one interested in science. It's so disappointing. Anyway, Da Chandan Malik says, "What happens if the US exploits internal political force lines in India to bring an inexperienced leader to power leading to failures in rising social communal tensions?" Part one Chat. What happens if this succeeds? India is namu. We're done. We're cooked. We're baked. That's what happens. If they succeed, that is what happens. We're done. It's over. Vnor Singh says, "So we were also probably the first people to make alcohol for consumption, madiraa or mead, honey, wine in in Celtic history." Um, meid is probably an English old English word. Honey wine madu. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We we I'm sure even during the vic times people some people would have had alcohol. It's not like it was taboo or ferbothan. Uh we do have the word madira. What's the sanskrit word for al alcohol? Is it madira? Let me let me just check it. Check it. Okay. Okay, let's always fact check ourselves. Sunkrit dictionary. Let's go to Sanskrit dictionary. Do we have this? Okay, we'll go here and uh let us say wine. What was the wine? Wine. Madya. Madya. Madira. Wine. Yeah. So, yeah, that is the one there. There's so many other words for wine. Sura, Maduri, Kadamara, Draaras, Draxaras, which which is which is grape wine, grape juice actually, hal and so on. So anyway, yeah, the word for for the the first word, the madira and madhya that comes from madu, which is obviously honey. So it's possible that we may have been the first. But I suppose that wherever you had human beings, the wine would have existed in some form. I think it's a pretty ancient phenomenon. I'm I'm sure that even the out of Africa migrants may have known why but perhaps the oldest word that is in existence is ours. So yeah, Priojit Mandal says the Hindus themselves are pretty divided. I saw many Shivbaks always insult Bhagan Vishnu online and many more. It hurts me. I don't know what to do. You know what? Ignore all this. Ignore it. There are many of us who don't do it. Right? It is unfortunate that we are divided. This community will will taunt that community. That taunt community will taunt this. Why do this? You do your thing. Let them do their thing. Respect what they are doing. They have a different way of doing things. They worship so and so God. You worship so and so God. You do your thing. Let them do. I don't understand why people do all these things. If if only India was a more literate society and a more civilized society. this would not happen. Now my point is don't take it personally. You may follow whichever p of of dharma. Please happily follow it. There will always be some people who are who are misled, who are misguided, who have not got the correct guidance, which is why they behave in ways that our civilization would not have tolerated and would not have recommended in the past. But today we are less civilized and all of this that we are seeing are symptoms of us being in a in a less civilized state. Today our civilization is being eroded. Right? So that is why these things are happening. Um don't take it personally. Don't be hurt but don't indulge in in counter stone throwing. What's the point? Stay out of all these unnecessary disputes. There are many people who are very respectful of of all the different uh of all the different uh parts of Hindu dharma. I mean Bhagwan Shiva and Bhagwan Vishnu. Aren't they two sides of the same coin? Part of the morti. So why would you do that? I mean it's so it is it is it is it's something that shows that you have very little knowledge about your own religion. Right? Anyway, don't take it personally and uh ignore all this nonsense. But that's what I would say. Data Chandan Malik says, "Could these tensions enable the rise of a far right leader backed by the US who mobilizes large scale national protests and eventually takes power?" Part two. uh you mean in India who a farright leader in India who's backed by the US? The US will never do it. The US will never back a right soft right or farright leader in India. They will only back left leaders. Okay. Um there's no chance of a farright leader coming from US backed nationwide protests in India. Impossible. The US will never tolerate farright leaders because farright leaders are nationalists and nationalists will never vaselize their country. Do you understand why? It's only lefties who will vaselize their their country. Okay. Harsha Patel says, "I've been following you. You're amazing. Well, thank you so much, sir. You you're also amazing for following me. Thank you so much. Honestly, really. Now, uh with all the insight you have, it's frustrating you share. It's frustrating not being able to act. How can I help spread awareness or join a movement? Can't be in if you form a team. Well, as individuals, we can't do a thing, you see. and spreading awareness. I mean you can spread awareness but um it's it's essentially talk or or or or writing. Beyond that what awareness can you spread? Yeah, you can you can achieve more if you are in a team as such. I have never thought of forming a team. Um I don't know. Let's see if I ever think of forming a team. I will invite all like-minded people. The question is if I form a team let's say hypothetically forming a team you need to have an objective you need to have a clear direction clear goal and when there's where there's a team there's a leadership structure you need someone has to be the leader and that has its own set of problems and all so it's something you don't do lightly let's form a team it's not like forming a discord server then where everything goes haywire right so let's see if I ever decide in the future to form a team I certainly will count you in and thank you so much for for for following it for everything else. Thank you so much. Ryikani says, "There was a recent congressional there were recent congressional UFO hearings. Are they a cover to distract from the Epstein fallout and the alleged Charlie Kirk assassination?" UFOs are always a great smoke screen to cover up things. Whenever there is something inconvenient happening in the US, let's have a spate of UFO sightings. So, the media will say, "Oh, UFO, UFO, UFO, UFO sighting here, UFO sighting there." and the and the big news is covered up. It's it's drowned out in this avalanche of noise coming from UFO sightings. I remember during the last around the time of the last presidential election in the US which was last year, the second half of the last year, last quarter of the last year at that time there was this big spate of UFO UFO sightings. If you were in New Jersey, my goodness, hundreds of UFO sightings every day. And later the the State Department, no, the the the White House spokesperson, spokes lady or whoever she is right now, she said that these are all US government drones. So she essentially admitted the US has this technology that looks like UFOs, right? Uh so these UFOs, I don't think there's any alien involvement in this, extraterrestrial involvement. I think these are all uh American technological programs that are classified and when they are cited they are they look like UFOs and they can be weaponized in this manner. So whenever something inconvenient is happening let's do a spate of UFO UFO sightings. So all the media attention can be and social media attention can be focused on the UFOs and what's happening the inconvenience stuff can be quietly forgotten. So yes yes it's I think it's a standard operating procedure actually isn't it? Nila Shivasov says your theory of primordial black black holes as dark matter candidate was given by an green of from the University of Nottingham without giving due credit to you. What's my POV? She is doing independent research. An green great lady. She isn't uh see my theory is this quantized bound states stable quantum mechanical bound states of primordial black holes as a potential candidate for dark matter for the cold dark matter that that seems to permeate the universe. That's my theory which first came out in the year 2002. That's 23 years ago. Anne Green has done a lot of work on primordial black holes, but she hasn't proposed a parallel or rival theory of bound states of primordial black holes as a candidate for dark matter. She's doing different research on primordial black holes. She has put out constraints on primordial black hole formation and so on. I haven't seen her more recent research in case she has done it. But I don't think she has done research in which she has taken something from me and not given credit to me. That's not the case. She's a great lady and she's a very good researcher. So, as far as I know, that's not the case. But if since you're saying, I'll check it out once once again. I I don't think uh that's the case. But anyway, thank you for looking out for me and thank you for letting me know in case there's something. Thank you. Okay. Da Chandan Malik says, "If such a hardline regime deepens unrest, could this trigger regional resistance strong enough to push the country towards fragmentation or bulcanization? Um if there's any deepened unrest in the country whether there's a hardline regime or a very weak regime if there is deepening unrest and especially if there is engineered regional resistance to the union and all that that can push the country towards balconization and fragmentation and that obviously is the ultimate objective of anti-India forces more powerful anti-India forces and countries And they are they have been fund funding this these movements for decades since the 1950s and60s the these movements the the roots for which were planted by the British and then the other powers have taken over so yeah it is certainly a threat that's an everpresent threat for India which is why it is very important to clamp down on all these foreign activities in India or foreign funded activis activities in India through through all legal means possible. Right? That that's what needs to happen. If you have large scale industrial scale religious conversion activities that needs to stop and there are so many other activities under under the guise of NGO activities and god knows what else is academic activities, seminars, uh tourism, all kinds of stuff. So I think we have been pretty lax in uh doing this. Maybe there's pressure from outside to allow this to continue perhaps. But yeah, it can certainly push the country towards balkcanization, fragmentation. Indeed, it's a big big threat to India. Uh DVN Singh says big no go nose guys who clip coins are demonized unjustifiably or justifiably. Look, I haven't studied the history of the big nose guys who clipped coins. I am look I I know what you're talking about. You're talking about the Jews. Are they demonized unjustifiably or justifiably? I know about the the allegations the Europeans used to make about the Jews. The Europeans used to accuse the Jews of blood liel. The Europeans used to claim in different parts of Europe they used to claim that Jews allegedly according to the Europeans they they poison wells. That's what some Europeans used to claim. Other Europeans used to claim that the Jews abduct children and drink their blood or something like that. I don't know what it was. So all these accusations used to be ba made against Jews. It's it's part of the historical record. It's some of it is called the blood liel against Jews. And uh because of this, Jews were persecuted in various parts of Europe. There were anti-Jewish pograms in some some places. There was there were multiple occasions where this happened in England. You had uh the expulsion of Jews from Spain after the reconista and Jews faced persecution in I don't know Germany, Saxony, Romania, other places. Was this demonization justifiable, unjustifiable? Well, I I haven't looked deep into the matter. I may only have superficial knowledge on this. And the superficial knowledge says that these are all false accusations. That's what I've read. Now, I can only comment on this if I have gone deeper into the topic, which I have not because this is this this aspect of history has not really interested interested me much. So, I don't know. I can't really say for sure whether this was justifiable or or unjustifiable. Um so I'll I'll leave it at that sir. Okay. Godliness says are we postponing the worst from happening? We don't have a one party system. Someday the BJP will lose and then what I fear all the hard work and hope for 20 47 vit can derail. Um yeah perhaps see a one party system is well it can happen actually see the US doesn't have any constitutional mandate that you need to have a two-party system but it's become a two-party system so in India also since even though there is no constitutional mandate for a two-party or one party system it can be made to happen through constitutional means um and the thing is that once you come to power you have to the nature of power is that If you don't hold on to power and and entrench your power and augment your power, you're going to lose power at some point in time. So, is the BJP has the BJP been um too too lax? Have they not taken the opportunities they've got? Have they not done enough? I don't know. I think it's it's for you all to decide. I don't really look at internal politics. So, I don't know. But yeah, if if someday the BJP loses and then everything they did was is undone, then it's going to be all have it will all have been worth nothing, right? So I suppose if there is a threat of that situation occurring, then the BJP should take it extremely seriously. Yes. DN Singh says, "How was Yale founded on looted money from India?" Ili Yahu Yale was a British official of the East India Company. Where was he stationed? Was he stationed somewhere in southern India? I don't recall where he was stationed. But he was a British official of the East India Company. Ilahuil or Ilihu, whatever the name was. It's a very weird name, foreign name to me. So I don't So apologies if if I mispronounce it. So this guy he served in India and then he clearly amassed a fortune uh that was plundered from India and then he goes to the United States and then uh he donates some money eventually which founds which is the seed money for the foundation of Yale College which eventually becomes Yale University. So the seed money that was required for the initial founding of Yale College came from money plundered from India. No question about it. Yes. And there could be many such more instances that we are not aware of. Yale somehow has come to light. There may be many more because there was a time when the what is today the United States was a territory that was in the in the um in the possession of the British and the British also possessed India at the time. So you had a flow of officials. For example, the the the guy the the the British general or or administrator who surrendered to the uh Americans when they finally won their war of independence was Lord Cornwallis. He is the guy who surrendered to the Americans and surrendered the country and that led to the foundation of the new country the United States. That same lord the coronalis then came to India and lorded over Indians. It's a pity that we did not kick him out the same way the Americans did but anyhow that's how history went. Uh Dark Knight says is Dnor Singh being possibly funded by the US? Well only Dur Singh G can tell us. Uh Bharati says have you read the books by Nilles Oak during dating Ramay and Mahabarat using astrology? Your thoughts? Um I have not read his books and so I can't really comment on that and he has not done this through astrology. He has done through this through archo astronomy that much I know but I haven't studied his books so I will not be able to comment on because I because I've not read them so sorry about that. Ritik Yiddwanchi says will you be at Jaipur dialogues on day one or two? Most likely I'll be there. Yes. Ritik Yuani says India faces more threats from India from outside or inside. I think equal most of the internal threats in India are funded from the outside. So so the outside threats threat not threats okay potentially outside threats. So the outside threats want to create aspiring zeal they want to identify aspiring zalinskies in India and fund the more capable ones and those become the internal threats and they are full of outside funding. So they have resources that's what happens. So I think we face equal the the the we face 50% outside threat 50% internal threat but the nature of the two threats are is very different. The internal threats are very different from the external threats even though the two are intertwined. Prashant says India vote for two state in Palestine in UNG. What are my thoughts? Okay. I have no thoughts. It's all right. It's okay. I I am not angry or upset or anything. That's just the stand we have. That's all right. I have no issue with that. I think there should be a two-state solution. And to to be very honest, Israel tried for a two-state solution. They gave a separate piece of land to the Palestinians called Gaza. So, what did they do there? They elected Hamas, a terrorist organization. Israel tried for a two-state solution, but the Palestinians weaponized that. Anyway, there still, I would say, should be a two-state solution, and I suppose that's why India has voted for that. Uh, someday there should be peace there, hopefully, whichever way. So, that's all right. That's perfectly all right. I have no other thoughts or comments beyond that. Amisha says, "How do you see the claim that Kilji saved India from Mongols?" H that's how I see it. He Kilji was defending his sultanet from Mongol parties that were passing ac near the border and maybe they were curious to see how how deep can we investigate or do a reconnaissance miss mission into Indian territory or or or Turk held territory of India. It was not an invasion of India by the Mongol Empire and and Kilji was very very very fortunate that he did not live during the time that Shir Chingish Khan was alive. There are many Indians, okay, many genius level Indians who tell me that Chingghist Khan was defeated by Laen Kilji. Okay. Now, now let's do some facteing for the this is for those geniuses who comment every day. Okay. Pingis Khan death. So when did he die? August 2027. 1227. Okay. Now Allah admin Kalgi 1227 Chinghan died. And this guy when did when was he born? Kalji he was he reigned from 1296. That is almost 70 years after Chingish Khan died. When was this fellow born? He was born in 12 1266. So he was born 39 years after the death of Shir Chingis Khan. Allahadin Kilji. If Allahadin Kilji had been the Sultan of Delhi or whatever during Chingish Khan's time and if Chingish Khan had decided that I will invade India, Allah Kilji would have run back to Turkey or wherever or he would have been decimated, obliterated, eviscerated. Allad Kilji was no great ruler. He was a fortunate guy. He was not he had he did not have to face Chingishan's army. It was just a marauding reconnaissance party of a few hundred, you know, few few dozen Mongol uh scouts or whatever. That's that's all it was. It's a joke. The some people claim that Allahin Kilji saved India from Mongols. What a joke. Absolute joke. Surva Ai says how to tackle internal 0.5 and Hindu become Hindu ashtra. I don't know. I I talk about geopolitics. I I don't talk about these Hindu Muslim issues and internal problems and all. That's a whole different set of issues that I don't look into. I look at the external issues. I look at history. I look at geopolitics. I look at science. I don't know about this. This is not within my my purview so to say. So I won't be able to answer this question sir. Sorry. Uh Ritiki says some Nepalese like Bangladesh see India as evil due to foreign propaganda despite shared roots. Have we lost them though they're part of us? The past 30 plus years there has been brainwashing. See there was a regime change operation in Nepal in the 1990s. The Mauist terrorist insurgency succeeded. The Nepales Rajat Tantra or monarchy was thrown out. Their royal family was wiped out and the corrupt communists and Mauists ruled the country ever since. And they were in the pocket of China and other foreign forces. And that's why they for the past 30 years have been brainwashing the children of Nepal into hating India. And that's why most Nepales see India as an enemy nation. Not most but many. I think there are still many Nepalese who don't see India as an enemy nation. You don't hate India or don't fear India. But I think there is a significant population percentage of the population especially young population in Nepal who see India as as this aggressive expansionist nation that wants to break Nepal or whatever. So this is propaganda and this is I mean whose fault is it to some extent it's our fault our governments that they did nothing to counter this right test user says how long do you for how long will you do 8our study work live videos I don't know I'll see as long as it's fun yeahan says what's the likelihood of putin invading very What's the likelihood of Putin invading another country like the Baltics during Trump's term? Would it be right to say the chances are high? I think the chances are very low. Very low. Putin is not crazy. He's not a maniac. He's a very rational person. No. What's the point of doing that? What will he get? What will he gain from this? Nothing. I think the likelihood is very low. Of course, I may be proven wrong, which is okay. But I think the likelihood is very low. Okay. Godliness says, "Your view on the Russian cancer vaccine, is it some kind of pharma warfare against the West?" A vaccine is not a warfare, right? A vaccine is a good thing. So, if the Russians have indeed developed a a cancer vaccine, I would say congratulations to Russia. Very impressive job. Very well done. And if if possible, do export it to India as well because I'm sure lots of Indians can benefit from that. I don't see this as as any kind of warfare against anybody. This is something they're doing to benefit their own citizens. That's how I see it. Okay. Dana Chand says, "Is there any hope the Indian judiciary will be reformed? Is this something the BJP is serious about? The judiciary right now is part of the 0.5 front." I look this is once again an internal matter of India. I look at the external matters. I don't know about this. I can't I I don't comment about everything in the world when it comes to internal politics, internal issues. I will talk about the education system, the need for reforms and so on. But all of these things I I see first of all I don't really have deep enough understanding of this. I have studied things across the world. I've not studied the judiciary and all that. So yeah, I don't know about this. Sorry. Dur Singh says does multiple gods in a culture means multiple moralities? Abrahamic people say they have one book one morality. Well that's a that's a hyper simplistic way of looking at things. The world is complicated. The world is super complex. The human psyche is complex. Think about it. A single person can be seen as a superposition of multiple personalities. You have some good in you. You have some ambiguity in you. You have some bad also in you. You can be a nice person but be capable of cruelty at times. You can be a good person but be capable of violent temper sometimes. Then you can be a bad person and sometimes do some good things completely uncharacteristic. The human psyche itself is so complicated. And the root causes of all these things, the good and the bad and whatever it goes back to to deep roots, cultural roots, uh philosophical roots, childhood, the kind of childhood you had, the kind of influences you had. And when it comes to a culture, the roots, especially when it comes to India, our roots goes back go back thousands of years. We have so many superposed um all of these, you know, all of these memories, civilizational memories, civilizational um influences, all of that. So if you try to boil everything and distill everything down to just one morality, I think you're doing yourself a tremendous injustice. And if you have multiple gods, it it it kind of honors the fact that divinity also takes multiple shapes and forms. It's like it's like division of labor in the in the in the realm of divinity. Some gods will look look at learning, some gods will look at, you know, wealth, some gods will be the god god of whatever whatever whatever, right? And when it comes to the major gods in in our culture, we have the the trinity, the morti, right? Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva, and they also have their functions. Um, Brahma is is the Vishnu is an is is an eternal immortal god. Is it? No, I think only Shiva is an immortal god and Brahma is the is the god that is associated with this particular universe and so on. So, our culture is complex. The Abrahamic people want to oversimplify everything. It's it's fine. They like to have a very simple life. We are a complicated people and we we have a different worldview and a different way of looking at the universe. And uh strangely enough, our worldview when it comes to looking at the universe seems to be sometimes coming true. I mean the complexities that we have in Hindu Dharma for example multiple universes and all that kind of sometimes emerges from physics and so on. Yeah. So, so I think to to each their own. Okay. I believe in live and let lively. You want to have your morality, one God, one book, one for morality. Please be happy with that. I have nothing against that. But don't come and judge me for having my own way of doing things. I won't judge you. You stay out of my business. That's it. UMX says, "I have a Bengali professor in a Christian college. He calls Churchill a great man. How manipulated are current Bengales, especially the old ones." Look, I would not say that all Bengales or all so and so people from so and so state have a certain set of attributes. If you have a professor who calls Churchill a great man, it tells you that in his childhood, in his youth, he was exposed to certain ideas that he deeply embied and he still regards as correct and he is trying to pass on the same values to the pupils he instructs. Perhaps he thinks that he is right. Perhaps he is not an anti-inational person. Perhaps he truly believes that the British did good things for India and Churchill was a great man. Uh are all Bengales like this? I would be very reluctant to say that all Bengales are like this. Right? There are many non-Bengales who have similar ideas. Right? U so I I would not pass a blanket kind of judgment that all people from a certain state are a certain kind of people. I would not say that. uh but I can say certainly about this particular professor that that's the kind of upbringing and and set of influences that he might have had which have contributed to him having this specific worldview that Churchill was a great man clearly he was a he was a genocidal monster Churchill despite whatever great things he may have done or not for his country that's his problem for us he was a monster okay Shirinat hello uh my question is that what does the west gain in by regime change in a region where countries eventually will come to India because of sheer economic theft geographical area that we can carry that we carry. In the case of the Maldives and Sri Lanka, as a famous saying goes, the house always wins in a casino. In a casino, the house always wins. But who owns the casino? Maybe you can get rid of the current master of the casino and have in bring in a new new master of the house. and that then the house will always win but the house will now belong to somebody else. Now what does the west gain by regime change in a region where countries will eventually come to India because of the sheer size of the economy and so on. But what if you balconize India? What if you convert India into a bunch of small nations? Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andra, Hana, Punjab uh Kashmir all of these let's say hypothetically become separate nations then who will come to India then these will all operate independently maybe they will be they will not cooperate among each other so the entire potential that this subcontinent had will evaporate and they will all be at cross purposes with with each other how about that for a scenario so maybe the eventual objective of the US is to achieve that and by the time you achieve that you don't then start working on the other countries in the region, you first start working with them, right? So, so that's why you do regime change in the easier countries first. Pakistan, West Pakistan, so easy. Just pay a few million dollars to the army chief. Done. Immran Khan gone. Bangladesh pay a few students to go and do something and then have somebody else hijack the whole protest and and get and then pay the army chief to ou Shik Hasina give her 45 minutes to leave the country or else done then do something in Nepal do something elsewhere then you can completely ring fence India and then you get to work on India so it makes sense it's a very good long-term strategy right so the objective could be that the house may win but what if the house is broken into ser into 50 pieces then how will a house win so that could be the the game plan you see and that's why India has to be really really careful very careful Jen says please talk about the Shakum valley okay we haven't really opened the map too much today so let us open the map Shakum valley so the Shakum valley is in northern India here we are. So you see the Pakistanis they currently um occupy some parts of Jammu and Kashmir which is called Pakistan occupied Kashmir P and Gilgit Paltasan. So there is this region in the northern part okay which they have given to the Chinese as you can see China occupies Tibet and and so-called sing over here and there is this place where there is a trijunction of India Pakistan Pakistan Pakistani occupied territory and China and then the Pakistanis gave up some of this territory to the Chinese so if I look Shak Gum Ali. So it is this region here. As you can see like I was zooming in this region. As you can see there you can see that some of the text is in the Chinese script over here. Gasher the first. This is now occupied by China because the Chinese acquired this from the Pakistanis. K2 is part of P. It's the world's second highest mountain K2. and Gasha Broom the first or one is currently under Chinese occupation because the Pakistanis gave it to China in order to complicate the Kashmir issue which was created by Shin Nehuji. So that's why the Pakistanis gave the seeded the gifted Shakgam Valley to the Chinese to have China also involved in the Kashmir conflict. Yeah. So that's the deal. Okay. Uh Arun Kumar says Greeks are descendants of Vic people. Question mark. Lol. Okay. Now once again we are coming up with this uh haplo group business and all that. Um tell me something if you see Turkey today. Okay let me first read it out. Okay let me uh let me read it out. Greeks are descendants of Vic people. Question mark. lol laughing out loud. Greek specific haplo group E1B is found rare in the whole Indian subcontinent and modern Greeks show direct continuity from the ancient Greeks and genetically distant from Indians fake pride. Okay, so Arun Kumar is saying that I am a person with fake pride who is kanging. What's the word kanging? Uh so Greeks are genetically descended from ancient Greeks. Okay, if you look at the people of Turkey, H today's Turkey, you do the testing, genetic testing, will they show any affinity with the Turk tribes of Central Asia, will you see any genetic affinity with them? You will see if you do a genetic survey of Turks, Turkish people, Turkish citizens today that you will see mostly you will see mostly Greek or Armenian ancestry. You will see no Turk ancestry whatsoever. And yet the culture and language and religion is Turkish or Turk. You go to Syria today. Hm. My friend Arun Arun Kumar go to Syria today. Do a genetic survey of the people there. You will hardly find any trace of Indian genetics there in Syria. Syria had the Mitani Empire which was ruled by Indoarians by Indians who spoke Sanskrit late Vic Sanskrit. Where did the genetics disappear? What happened? It never happened. We have the archaeological evidence that proves it. So these genetic studies my dear friend let me tell you I don't want to be disrespectful to you even though you have been loling at me. It's fine. I would say first of all Arun please learn a little bit of humility. Don't be convinced always that you are always right. You have understood a little bit of genetics so you have understood everything. Understand that there are nuances and complications in everything. The Mitani Empire was ruled by Indians. Where's the tra where are the traces of Indian genetics there today? And when it comes to Turkey, another example, where's the traces of Turk Turkish genetics there? Turk genetics, hardly at all. But can you deny that the people of Turkey are descended from Turkish invaders? They are. Was everybody converted? No, there will be some traces but they they are no longer visible. So that's how it goes. Now the question is in case hypothetically lol Greeks are descended from Indians when did it happen? You are saying that there is genetic continuity between modern Greeks and ancient Greeks. So the ancient Greeks you're talking about which ancient Greeks? The Greek city states that is about 500 BC. Let's say 1,000 BC. You're talking about 2,000 BC. You're talking about 3,000 BC. The battle of the 10 kings would have happened closer to 10 6,000 BC during the rigidic age maybe let's say 5,000 BC maybe 4,000 BC it's before the before the dawn of the first Greeks do you understand the time periods I would say have an open mind and try and pay attention to what I'm saying don't have this attitude that I have understood some genetics so I understand everything it's not a healthy attitude You will never learn things if you have this approach and don't be so disrespectful and so dismissive of your own culture and history. That's all I would say. All right, sir. All the best. All the best. I wish you the best. Priya Bharatwaj says, "Thanks for motivation." Well, you're most welcome, sir. Got a semiconductor job leading role with a Taiwan based company. I'll keep learning for India and help my fellow sisters and brothers. All the best, sir. All the best. I wish you the best. Do very well for yourself, for your family, in your life and when you are in the position to help India. We you are always welcome back. Do well, sir. All all the best. AKS says, "What's going to happen in Venezuela? Is Maduro cooked?" Well, if the Americans want him cooked, he's cooked. There's not much he can do. America, see, there's only a couple of How many countries do we have in the Americas that stand up to the US? We have Venezuela for sure. Let's quickly take do a survey of the world map and of the of the map of Latin America and see. So Mexico does whatever the US says. No question. Biz of course they'll do what the US says. Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, everybody will say what the US does. Colombia, they will never go against the US. Ecuador, no, no chance. Peru, of course, US. Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, everybody does what the US tells. French Guyana, Surinam, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago, the the Caribbean countries, apart from Cuba and Venezuela, nobody dares to stand up to the US. Okay. So now, is Maduro cooked? The US can cook him anytime they want. So it's a I think it's going to be entirely in the hands of the US. What do they want to do? How do they want to deal with this guy? Do they do a clean regime change or a dirty regime change and grab all the oil and then control the oil that comes from Venezuela? They can do it. It's not hard for them to do it. All Trump has to do is give one order and JD vanil says we'll do whatever you want. Right. So yeah, it could h it could happen. Maduro and and if if the US attempts a regime change or an invasion, a military or naval invasion of of of Venezuela, who's going to stop it? Even even Saddam Hussein had some form of military power, Venezuela doesn't have that. So unfortunately, if the US decides uh yeah, it's cooked. He's cooked unfortunately. Suas says, "If India's oil fines size of Guyana comes true, are we capable today of exploiting resources fascin if if we discover and you know if this if we come across an oil find oil discovery the size of what Guyana has discovered uh are we capable of immediately explo exploiting the resources. We not right now. It'll take a few years to to build the oil wells to position them in the in in the right places above the oil oil disc, the oil reservoirs and then create the infrastructure, the super tankers with that will transport the oil from the oil rigs to the mainland. Then we're going to need more processing facilities. So we may need more oil processing plants and all that. So it will take maybe maybe 5 years maybe even 10 years hopefully not 10 years at least 3 four 5 years it will take to operationalize this I mean how long does it take to build an oil rig it'll take a year or two perhaps I suppose if you have a very professional company they can do it in a few months depending on the situation oil rigs can be built on the deepest of discoveries so that is not an issue but do Indian companies have the expertise or will you have to bring in foreign companies in which case there's another complication so all of these things will have to be looked too. So I think in case the government of India is confident that we're going to discover oil a huge oil discovery then they should start you know doing the homework right now for for doing this. The moment you discover start the process of operationalizing that. Okay. Valika says how do people of prominence withstand relentless criticism and the pressures of visibility and what does it reveal about human resilience? You see people of prominence don't become people of prominence unless they have the the capacity to withstand this sort of scrutiny and criticism. You simply won't rise to a level of provenence if you are thin skinned. If you are visible, if you are a public figure of any kind, you're going to going to face criticism of various kinds and you've got to have the ability to take the good with the bad, right? Um, so it only works if you have a thick skin. And how do you develop a thick skin? Either you're born with thick skin, which means that the attitude that I don't care what people say. I know that I'm right. I'm on the right track and I'll keep doing it. And I welcome the criticism because it's it shows that I'm I'm doing something right. So that's the attitude some people have which is innate in them. And some people are kind of vulnerable and then they have to mentally steal themselves over the years that okay I it it affects me but I'll still continue no matter what happens. But ideally a person of prominence should be somebody who it doesn't affect at all what people say. Uh so if it doesn't affect you then then there's no pressure of visibility. You don't care about the criticism. Right? And what does it reveal about human resilience? Human resilience is is is is you know it's boundless. You can dig deep inside your psyche inside inside inside yourself and you'll find a lot of resilience but it's it's not an easy process. And I I believe that almost anyone is capable of tremendous resilience but it's not the n the nicest thing to be a to have to dig deep and and find those reserves of resilience because that means that you're going through something painful. Yeah. So that's how it is. Yeah. All right. Shatsa, thank you very much sir or ma'am. Thank you. Priyak Chawhan says, "Please cover Rajput's great resistance of 500 years." Rajput resistance. So I'll tell you what, the word Rajput did not exist in 700, 800 AD, even 10,000 AD. This term came into existence at a later time perhaps during the Turk occupation era, the Muggal Empire era of India. Perhaps that time. Today we call those kingdoms and those lineages Rajput lineages right. Um it is said that there are 33 royal clans ancient royal clans of India and those are the Rajput clans. So they are warriors, Khatrias and they are also ancient rulers lineages and those are now called Rajputs. I don't think they called themselves the Rajbuts back in the day. Now they are the ones who resisted the initial Arabic and Turk invasions for centuries. So Muhammadbin Kasim, he invades the western part of India. He attempts an invasion of the western part of India in the 700s AD. Right? So the the Arabs have overrun Persia and ruined Persia and now they are trying to come into Sind western India and that's the first incursion into India by the by the Arabs by Muhammad bin Kasim and uh it was various dynasties that exist in the region uh who resisted that and then there were multiple then then you started seeing wave after wave of attempted Turkish invasions Turk invasions into India. The first part region of India to fall was Gandhar. Right around 10,000 AD Gandhar was gone. And there also you had resistance. You had the Turk Shahis and the Hindu Shahis who were descendants of Shwa Hunas, white Huns who had become Indianized and they defended India from the Turk invasions. The Turk Shahis and the Kabul Shahis. Yeah. And eventually Gandhar fell and it became Afghanistan. And then so Afghanistan falls, Gandhar falls around 1,000 AD. The Turkish invasion start about 900 or whatever AD. Yeah. And when Babar the first Muggal king acquires a small piece of land in in Delhi or northern India. Which year was that? Let's look into it. Okay. Let's look into it. Babar Muggal Empire. Uh Babber Babber. Uh so when did he become the king of small little kingdom first battle etc. He reigned from 1526. So he became the king of the muggal kingdom at the time in 1526. Babar okay 1526. When did Gori Gnavi whatever when did um when did Prasurat Johan fight the barbarian from Gori Gaznavi? Whatever that was at least 400 500 years before this Pritara Johan was a contemporary of Shri Jingist Khan. So it was 1190s that Pritara Johan fought the Turks and before Prara Johan many other Rajbuts many other kingdoms fought the Turks. Even in 1526 when Babber takes a small piece of Indian territory, it's such small piece of Indian territory. Most of India is still fighting the the the Turks, it's only until Jalaludin who be who who creates a vast empire Akbar that's when the Rajputs start getting defeated. So for for what 7 800 years these Indian kingdoms fought and repulsed the Turks but not a word will be written about this in the Indian textbooks because they want Indians to fight each other. Maratas and Rajput should keep fighting each other. Gurjas and Rajput should keep fighting each other. If somebody has done something for the country that should be erased so that you know all all these problems of of which which ensue is as as a consequence of distorting history you know it's all been artificially engineered for 800 years the people we now call the Rajputs they fought the Turks constantly and the sacrifices they made were horrific immense sacrifices but uh your history books won't won't teach you that. So that's a little bit about the Rajput defense of India for 8 centuries plus more than eight more than eight centuries. Sorab says with India's population in the billions how could a benevolent dictatorship should be reinstated in place of a democracy and how and will it be as effective today? I shall not go into the mechanics and dynamics of that sort of thing because I have no idea. I don't know. I don't know. create a one party state two-party state like the US that itself is a democ is a dictatorship right the US is a two-party system and both parties have the same foreign policy and whatever else so that's essentially a one one party dictatorship essentially their domestic policies may be different but externally they're the same so replicate the American experiment in India how about that yeah there's an idea sir Ryik yadaweni says shouldn't we have more appropriate faces on Indian bills like Bhagat Singh Net Gi and many other freedom fighters other than Gandhi G. Well, I if I were in charge of of that, I would have Chhatraatishi Maharaj. That's one. I would Who else would I have? I would We don't know what Shri Raj Raj Chola Rajendra Chola looked like. We don't know what Shri Kaleshki looked like. We don't know what Chandra Gupta looked like. We don't have those likenesses anymore. But we have sculptures and carvings. So, we could have those. These are our great kings and emperors. Can we think of any queens? We I'm sure we have um that's what I would do. I would certainly do that. So I I agree with you. I agree with your sentiment totally. I think it's time we move past be past the the transfer of power that happened in 1947. Right. Enough of that now. Okay. What next? We have Valika says, "Your pursuit of knowledge shows depth such depth across disciplines. How did your childhood youth and experiences shape who you are today?" Um, look, first of all, I'll tell you people don't really change. I today I have gray hair, but I am the same person that I was when I was 2 years old. Nothing has really changed. I obviously I've learned a lot since I was 2 years old. I have had a lot of experiences and lived, traveled and whatnot, but I'm still the same person. So, a lot of it depends on who you are when you born with the kind of attributes you were born with. Secondly, um yeah, I have pursued a lot of disciplines. I have be I was born with this curiosity. I wanted to understand the world and I was curious about very well all kinds of things. Everything interested me. So I I pursued I just pursued my curiosity. How did my childhood youth experiences? Well, one of the good things I had as a child was access to a university library. And I did not really get the permission to use it a lot. But whenever I did, I would well spend a lot of time there. And back in the day when I was a kid, little kid, there was no internet. The only place you could where you could gain any knowledge was the library because your school textbooks were garbage. There was nothing of value in that. So I I was always gravitating. I was always drawn towards the library. And if I was allowed to go to the library, I would just run loose. I I would be set loose on the place and I would read everything possible. I used to read about crystals. I used to read about industrial light and magic that's Hollywood. I used to read about uh Russia. I used to read about geography, science, every sort of thing you could imagine. I used to read biology. I read uh Will Duran's history of civilization at the age of what 9 10 whatever uh and so on. So I was very curious. I was kind of a nerd. The only saving grace was that I was well tall boy and good at sports. So not entirely a nerd and so on. So I I was I I was very curious. I was drawn towards knowledge and I I could read all day and that's u yeah that's some of the things that have shaped me and of course I I was the strongest the strongest attraction was was towards physics and uh so that that was yeah that's kind of shaped who I am but I was always curious about history and eventually I realized at some point in my life that what the hell I because I know history I now understand geopolitics. I understand what's happening. The same things have been happening forever. So eventually, yeah, I realize that. Yeah. All right. Pratik Vora says, "Part of Hutan Prefecture was part of Hutan Prefecture was in BR British India. Why we lost?" Well, you see you we had we had a visionary magnificent leader as prime minister and his thinking was a multiverse ahead of us and we can't really think understand we can't even begin to understand the vision he he had for our country and he took us in the directions that you know led to his vision and that's why we are in the shape and form that we are today his name was the great magnificent of Shri Jawal Nehuji and uh why did we lose whatever? Well, I suppose we will have to ask Shri Nuji. Why did we lose all of this? Really, why? Dinor Singh says 1666 London fire. Ah, remodeling of London. You mean a French man claimed to starting the fire, but there was proven physically not possible to be started. Like he said, he was executed. Well, I'm not aware of this, but I am aware of misu the pipes. What? What was his name? Uh, Samuel Pepis once. Peep. Peep. What was his name? Give me a second. Let me let me let me let me Google this. Pipus diary. P YS. P YS diary. The diary of Samuel Peepus. So, he does mention the London fire, doesn't he? In this, the great plague of London s second end of the Dutch war. the great fire of London 1666 which is 600 years after the Norman conquest and he also talks about what an execution execution of Charles the first yeah this guy was he was a he was a blogger or a vlogger of the time he he was a politician and so on so the London fire that you're talking about a French man claimed to starting the fire was okay he was executed well I was not aware of this this particular aspect of the fire. But the fire of London was a great opportunity to completely remodel the city because so much of the city was destroyed in the fire. They could create a new modern London because so much of the city had been cleared by the fire and that laid the foundation of the London that we have today that that they have today, right? Um, and this was the age when British science and architecture and all of that was taking off because of the golden uh Elizabethan era. Elizabeth. Yeah. The daughter of uh of Henry VIII. Uh, and and she was well a very uh liberal person who tolerated science who did not execute people for believing that science should be a thing and all. And that's why England kind of took off during the time. uh scientifically and technologically and you had many great architects and other people who who became prominent around this time and after the fire of London they redesigned the city and reconstructed the city in a completely modern way. So it was kind of a boon according to some people for London that this fire happened and all the old the old city the old congested horrible city was was destroyed and a new London was built. James says we gave you fine universities like Xavier but you you ungrateful Hindus still hate us. Well, you see, Javier, Javier, it's not Xavier, it's Javier. Javier was a missionary, he was a Spanish missionary who lived in India during a Portuguese occupation of India. And his greatest achievement is to bring the Spanish Inquisition to India. Because according to Francis Xavier, this individual, Hindus who had been converted by force to Christianity were not practicing Christianity rigorously enough. You see, they were reverting to their barbarous hidden polytheistic idolatrous ways in secret. And so Francis Xavier said, "Bring the Spanish Inquisition to India. Let these cursed Hindus taste what an oto is. Ottoaf, fire by fire. So Francis Xavier brought the Spanish Inquisition to India and he had lots and why why am I talking about this? Don't tell showed you know the cardinal rule in writing. I'm I'm a writer now, right? I'm I'm a writer. I'm an author. The cardinal rule in writing is to don't tell show. So let me show you what this individual was able to manifest in India. Let me show you what uh Francis Xavier. So let's look at this. You may not have heard of this term oto but not just oto. Let's say oto gua. Now see Goa Inquisition. Check this out. Otto Dafe Goa procession clergy. A whole bunch. This is another one. Oto in Goa. Uh let's zoom into this. Let me open this image. Let me let me ambigon. Let me ambigon this image. Bigify it. Let's bigify this image. Okay. Let's let's zoom in. What you will see is a bunch of priests and churchmen uh dancing around a fire and celebrating and you will see that in the fire there are Hindus who are burning and you will see ships at sea the Portuguese ships. So Francis Xavier brought this thing into India, the Spanish Inquisition. The objective was to root out Hinduism root and stem. Root out Hinduism root and stem because the Hindus they were secreting secretly practicing Hinduism in private and Francis Xavier sniffed that out. So he brought in the barbaric port the barbaric Spanish inquisition in India and they did all kinds of horrific atrocities to Indians burning Indians alive because they were practicing Hinduism chopping people's hands off and and all kinds of barbarities. The Spanish were renowned for this. I mean just look at what they did did in the Americas. You can see some of my older videos for that. So Javier, Francis Kavier, he brought this barbarity to India. Um and yeah you have some colleges and today every school college etc is named after Francis Kavier because of the object mental colonization that Indians labor under today. So yeah that's so James once once again James I I I thank you for bringing out these very fine topics for me to discuss. I appreciate this is an honest appreciation. Thank you so much James. Appreciate it. Anonymous says followup other than critical infrastructure what infrastructure do we need like observatory okay okay okay that's what we're talking about maybe labs let's suppose we are a hyper power then that then what infra must we have other than other critical infra such as okay so let's say we are an established power we have all the basic stuff done roads railways train stations airports ports blah blah blah blah blah All of that is the basic stuff. We're done with that. Then we need worldclass universities, world-class colleges. Every university must be a research institution, not just godamn professors boring the hell out of you by brooding monotonously from a book. Read open chapter page number 28. Now let us read together. We don't want this professors. Put them out to pasture. We need real professors. We need real teachers. Teachers who actually do research. We need every university to be a research institution. We need to have research institutes for all disciplines. Whether it's chemistry, whether it's materials technology, material science, whether it is quantum computing, whether it's AI, whether it is whatever, whether it is astronomy, astrophysics, cosmology, whether it is nuclear physics, whether it is particle physics, high energy physics, whether it is technological pursuits like for example fusion reactions, Okamax, we need to have institutions not just one in each country but one in each state. One in each state. So yeah, all of this needs to happen. All the cutting edge deep research that needs to happen. We need to have institutions for that. Beyond that, we need to have a world yoga standards institute which will decide what is yoga, what is not yoga. We can certify that if someone is doing goat yoga or yoga that means to end it is not yoga. We don't consider to be yoga and so on. We need to have all the all of these institutions. We need to become a nation of institutions that are rooted in based in our country in our culture and we need to go all in on science and technology. It is super important we do that. You cannot rem afford to remain backward in science and technology. We were the most advanced nation in science and technology in the past before the foreign occupations of India. We need to go back to that status. We keep on moaning about vishua guru vishwa guru. We are not even visual student right now. If you want to be visual guru, you need to have the institutions like we used to have all the vishua vidyal, the universities. So all of that needs to happen, right? All right. Good question actually. Very good. Thank you. Godliness says today it's asking anything. So Mr. Cha, how do you define love? How strongly do you believe in romance? Which essential human attributes are dying in the 21st century? And what emotions mean to you? How do I define love? Well, that's a question that I did not expect. You're putting me on the spot. How strongly do you believe in romance? Romance, love, it's an important integral part of life. You need to have that. Every person needs to experience this. I mean, if you don't experience this, what are you doing with your with your life? You can have your professional pursuits and all, but your your personal life that also needs to be complete. So, how do I define love? I don't know. I don't know how to define love. I'm not a poet. But it's an integral part of life and you need you need to have that. Love is not just physical attraction or sexual attraction. Obviously, there's a component in that al of of that also in that. But beyond that, it's about it's about uh it's about compatibility. It's about loyalty, right? That's very important. Uh it's not love if if if it lasts 3 months or 6 months and then you move on somewhere else, then you move on somewhere else. Like butterfly going from flower to flower, that's not love. That's animal-like behavior. I I think I think the integral component in love is honest is not it's it's it's loyalty and loyalty is a test of your own character. So I think there is that how strongly do I believe in romance? Yeah, it's it should be there everybody. There should be romance in everyone's life. It's very important otherwise otherwise what's the point of life? you need to experience all of these highs and all all the tumult of emotions that comes with all of this. Um, what do emotions mean to me? Emotions? Well, everybody has emotions. I also have emotions. I have very strong emotions, but I'm not ruled by my emotions. So, emotions are a barometer. For me, well, I have a very scientific way of looking at things. Emotions tell me the state of being right now. Am I how am I feeling? How am I feeling? Am I feeling good? Am I feeling bad? If I have an emotional reaction, why is it so? What does it mean? What caused it? And why has this emotion come? That sort of thing. So I I'm kind of analytical about this. But I yeah, I'm also prone to emotions, but I'm not ruled by at least I I strive not to be ruled by my emotions. Because people who are ruled by their emotions and who get carried away by emotions, they can be very easily manipulated. Very easy to manipulate. If you understand that a person is emotion emotional and their emotions get the better of them that those people are the easiest to manipulate but if you can control your emotions and you can carry on despite whatever emotions may be happening inside then people can't manipulate you. So yeah that that's one way of seeing emotions right. Okay. Prashant says um history teaches border nations end up in conflicts. Well, every nation has b every nation has borders doesn't mean that every nations have conflicts. No. Uh it's not necessarily that way. Um what does history actually teach? It says when that when two large powers or equally powerful nations have a shared border, they can't be friends. It is best to be a powerful nation surrounded by smaller nations who will naturally be dependent on you or or or subservient to you. That's the Chanakin worldview, right? So if you have if you are a major border, if you're a large nation and you have let's say 12 small border nations at your border, there's no need for conflict ever. But if you are a large nation and if you have another large equally large nation at your border, conflict is more or less inevitable in some shape or form. That's what history teaches us. Aravsha, thank you very much. Welcome to new membership. I never ever ask anybody to be a member, but some of you still do it. So, thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Chinmai says, I greatly admireful. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you. My question is, why do North and South Indians differ so much in appearance and complexion despite a shared culture? See in the past today today if I feel say let's say tomorrow morning before I go to sleep let's say I feel like let me go to Chennai and shop for something h I can tomorrow morning take a flight to Chennai and go there honestly I can go tomorrow morning if I want to I I'll not get the best seat in the aircraft but I'll get a seat somewhere in some aircraft tomorrow morning I can be on a plane to Chennai or I can go to Lelay tomorrow I'm sure I can go to tomorrow I can go anywhere in the country or anywhere in the world essentially if I have visa for that country so today you can travel anywhere so we look at the world from that perspective like the world is a very small place 100 years ago if you were living in let's say northern India and you wanted to visit Thirupati Balaji or you wanted to visit uh um Mahabalesh what whatever let's say you wanted to visit Ram Romeshwaram it would take you months of travel to go there. So people did not travel that much. Only scholars and and important people would travel across the subcontinent. Most people stayed put where they were. They would have heard of this place and that place and all but most people rarely ever traveled very far unless you were an important government official or something. So for example, Ashoke, Emperor Ashoke when he was a young man when he was a teenager, he was born probably in Partutra somewhere in in present day in Mad right but he was the governor of Gandhar. His his father said go and and govern Gandhar which is like 2,000 km away. So if you were an important person you traveled but back in the day ordinary people did not travel the state put and that's why you had different populations in different parts of the country which which evolved differently and our our ethnic mix is about 70 80,000 years old and at that time all these thousands of tens of thousands of years we did not mass transportation and that's why people who lived in the southern part of India where there's much higher exposure to the sun and much higher temperatures they eventually naturally evolved to grow darker skin and people who lived in the northern part of northern parts of India because of somewhat less exposure to the sun we developed slightly less dark skin and that's why there's a difference in in appearance and all that but today I think it the situation is that in a few generations there'll be no difference between north and North India. So there we have it. Yeah. Ryik Yiddangi says, "I in love with Indian music. I wonder why new classical and folk rarely emerge and lyrics have declined. Will this rich heritage fade despite fusion efforts? It looks like it because our musicians don't care about our culture. You I mean look, I'll not take anyone's names, but what kind of music emerges from Bollywood? It doesn't even sound like Indian music. We have the world's richest, oldest musical tradition, Raas. Yesterday I was recommending a book. I have it here. Give me a second. See this book is called the Raas of Northern Indian music. It's by Ana Dany, French man. No Indian has bothered to write a book like this. The Raa system is the most it's it's the most refined system of music in the world. It's way way ahead of anything the west has produced in in in the west you have scales. Scales what is what is the scale in music? It's CD E F GC. These are that's a scale. In Indian and Western music we have seven notes. In Chinese music, you have five notes. It's a pentatonic scale. We have a heptatonic scale. So, we have seven notes that we can play around with. And in western music, you have these different uh scales that they use. We have the Dorian scale, you have the Lucian scale, you have the mixelyian scale and so on so forth. All these different scales of music that you can play on the guitar. Uh the pentatonic scale that they use, the minor pentatonic scale and so on. Um so, they have scales in the west in western music. In Indian music, we have scale. We we have ragas. A raga is not merely a scale. A ra a raa is what's a raga? A raga has an ascending scale and a descending scale. Ascending scale means when you go to higher frequencies from low s to higher sa. And a descending scale is when you go downwards in frequency which is from higher sa to lower sa. So you may have a certain set of nodes for the ascending scale and you may have a different set of notes for the descending scale. And then you have a sonent note and a consonant note which is the note that gets the most highest emphasis and the second highest emphasis. Then you have drone notes typically two or three drone notes for each raa. And when you have all of these rules together it produces incredible musical effects. Each raa has its own personality with its own character. It's like two different people. The moment you change the raga you feel a whole different atmosphere nuance. Yeah. And ragas have have well they they are either seasonal or they are temporal. So you have you have seasonal ragas like raga mega malhar which is a monsoon raga. We have we have temporal ragas like early morning ragas like raga vibas rahav rahir behav. You have night ragas like raga malouse which was earlier called raga malavoshik. You have afternoon ragas. You have certain ragas evoke beautiful emotions, happy emotions. Raadi is there. Yes. Raavasant is a beautiful raga. That's that's a seasonal raga again. And there are some ragas that are very like they they evoke sensations of pain and and and sadness. For example, Ra Jayat is one. Ra Marwa is there and so on. So these the Indian system of music is the most evolved system of music humankind has ever created and this is a book that speaks about that it has got you know musical scales the raas and various in in in musical notation staff notation and so on and today we are just completely ignoring this incredible aspect of our heritage and just blindly copying degraded music. It's it's so painful to see that. So I'm glad Ry that you have mentioned this and I hope something otherwise I'll have to do that. I'll have to go back to my guitar and do something about it. Yeah, it's been a while since I've touched the guitar. I've got like three three guitars hanging outside waiting for me to get back to them. Parag Johan says your response to Nlesh Oak theory of dating back ma. Do I have to respond to everything sir? I have no response sir. I I haven't studied it. I don't have the time to study everything. There's only I'm just one person. I I only have 24 hours in a day and uh so I I I don't have I I have so many interests. I want to read everything. I want to study everything. But I have to pick and choose. So I haven't studied Shri Dlesh Oak G's work. So I can't really comment about it. All right, sir. Okay. Okay. AI productivity magnet says please talk about second world war differences between Shbashundra Bose and Neu Gandhi. What would have happened if India fought alongside Germany and not the allies? So Shbashundra Bose was of the opinion that when you have a foreign occupier who occupying your country, it is your duty to get rid of get rid of the occupier through any means necessary. It is okay to kill them all if required because they don't belong in your country. They do not come into your country by by through legal means by asking for visas. They have come and occupied your country. They're engineering famines in your country. They're killing millions of your people. They are plundering the nation's resources. So why should I deal with them by by by putting handcuffs on my arms on on my wrists? Why don't I just use every means at my disposal including the most violent means if if necessary? Why not kill them all? So that was what Subashidra Bos said. I don't believe in this god damned ainsa which is nothing but um a euphemism for cowardice and a euphemism for collaboration with the enemy. So he said that if I want to defeat the British and they occupy every inch of my country, I'll go outside of my country and I will seek an alliance with their enemies who seek to destroy them and that's how I will liberate my country. And Suband was not aware of any any thing that the Germans were doing wherever. Yeah. Um or the Awitz or whatever. He was not aware of any of that. He said that these are my enemies, the British. They are my people's enemies. They're my civilization's enemies. So I will align or ally with their enemies. Um and that's why he did what he did and that's why the the Americans and British and the whole world still today even today they portray Subbashandra Bose as as um as someone who allied himself with the axis with the Nazis and that's why Subashandra Bose had to stay hidden until 1985 when he died. Uh what would have happened if India fought alongside Germany not allies? How could it happen when we were occupied by the allies? Please logically think about it. If we are under allied occupation, how do we fight with the with the axis with Germany? How how is it practically possible? Please explain how it's not possible. Sor Pande says, "Do you still enjoy coding? Is it and is it worth learning in today's AIdriven world? I'm starting my software career. Any advice for someone like me? Coding can be fun if you're if you're coding something fun. Uh I haven't done coding in ages now. I'm not sure how good my skills are. I'm sure it's they are very rusty. It's it's like playing guitar. You may be a good guitar player, but if you put the guitar away for 6 months and you pick you know pick it pick it up again, you'll find that you've gone rusty. your fingers no longer move the way they used to move. But if you don't do don't play the guitar for 10 years. Well, you go back to almost beginner status. You may learn again very fast compared to a beginner. But when you pick the guitar up again after 10 years, you're going to be super rusty. You're going to be almost like a beginner. And a lot of the concepts you may have forgotten them. You may have to revisit them. Similarly with coding. So um I haven't done coding in quite a while like more than a decade for sure. Is it worth learning in today's AIdriven world? I think you should still learn it. I don't think AI can replace everything. Yeah, AI is not magic, right? Uh AI will be able to automate a lot of the stuff. But if you are a coder or a programmer of a certain level, then you can have AI employees work for you. But you will have to prepare the designs, the design documents, the requirement documents, and you you'll have to supervise the AI at every step to ensure it's implementing your instructions properly. And if you understand the code then you will be able to catch bugs because I believe AI throws up bugs and sometimes AI is not able to solve problems. So I think it is still worthwhile to to learn coding but to be able to harness the power of AI you'll have to learn coding at to a higher level where you can actually um act as a project manager without any employees only AI employees. So you'll have to ascend to that level in in coding. But yeah, coding is fun. Coding is fun and uh it gives you immense power. And if you really know coding well, then then I suppose if you are in that position where you really know coding well, then the real power of of AI becomes available to you. You really have to be a master at the craft to be able to genuinely leverage AI in that craft. If you are a complete novice, then you don't know what to tell AI. you don't even know how to how to explain what you are trying to do. So you have to learn it. So I would say yeah it's still worthwhile learning coding. Okay. Kishan Borer says did Pakistan get their independence in 1947 or they got dominion status like us? When did the Pakistan get their independence keeping Vasalhud aside? So Pakistan got dominion status on the 14th of August 1947 and India got dominion status on the 15th of August 1947. One day later why one day later? Because if India had been given dominant status before Pakistan then but then then technically Pakistan would still be part of India and then India can prevent Pakistan from getting a separate dominion status. So that's why they gave Pakistan dominion status first on the 15th on the 14th of August and uh India on the 15th of August. So, so what we call independence day is actually dominion status day. Fact check it if you want. It is not independence day. It's dominion status day. Uh Shri Neuji was still writing letters to the to the king of England. Uh referring to him as his king. Yeah. Allegedly. Uh when did Pakistan get its independence? I don't really know. After 47, what happened? When did they become so Pakistan once they got dominion status? They had Muhammad Ali Jina as that governor general or whatever it was. We had Mount Batton. We had a foreigner. They had an they had an Indian. I mean he was now Pakistani but whatever. Right. Until 1947 Jana was also Indian, wasn't he? So they got a native man to be their governor general. But we had Mount Batton because white man better, right? White man better. Yes sir. Always full support. So that sort of thing. So I'm not sure when Pakistan got their actual independence. when they when the when did they transition from being a dominion to an actual whatever they became I'm not sure I've not looked into it but I'm sure it can be searched up very quickly okay Jay well thank you so much Jay appreciate it sir um Kishin Borer says how are wormholes created if you are bending the fabric of space wouldn't it disperse other objects or am I visualizing the fabric to be two-dimensional What is the concept of bending the fabric to create a shortcut? Okay, so all these uh analogies we are given. Let's say you take a sheet of paper and you poke a hole through it and then you bend it like this and you create a shortcut. That's only for visualizing. That's not how it actually works. See, why do we use this analogy? Why do we use the analogy? Let me explain. I mean, I have written about this. Maybe I'll find where is it? uh which book was it? Okay, in case so you have this question I think I've closed that but in case you want to read in detail I'll tell you where you can find it. I'll tell you exactly where you can find it. I have published this new book called dark stars to black holes. There is the first book in my series of the black hole chronicles in which I speak I I write about these things and I write about it in a in a way that the public will understand. People will understand. It's not full of equations. It's explaining black holes the way you want to actually understand black holes. And wormholes will also will also come into that. See black holes are the world's universe's most extreme objects. And it's it's these are fascinating objects but you don't get to understand what these are because it's the concepts are so complicated. So my what I'm doing is I am making the concepts accessible to everybody. When I'm writing this I'm thinking will my 12year-old self be able to understand this? That's how I'm writing it. So the answer to your question is in the second book that I've written. So I'm writing each chapter as a separate volume. I'm putting it on Amazon Kindle. The links are in the description in case you want to read it and the answers will come in the series. But uh okay. So so that is that's about the books. Now let me answer your question. So so that visualization that we had that we have of that trampoline like rubber sheet and you put a bowling ball on that and it creates a depression and then you put a marble around it. It spins around and that's how gravity is explained. That is a two-dimensional interpretation which is very valuable to kind of conceptualize things, visualize what is unvisisualizable. But that curvature that has been created of the sheet, we are using gravity for it. So you using gravity to to visualize gravity which is a circular reasoning. Okay. The real bending of the fabric is not it's not a bending of the fabric of space. It's a bending of the fabric of spacetime. Spacetime not just space even time is being distorted. Time is being bent. Do you know why you have gravity on the earth? It's not of because of the bending of space. It is because of the bending of time. Do you know that your head ages faster than your feet? Do you know that the GPS satellites if we did not incorporate time dilation and relativistic effects they would give you an error of 11 km every day and every day it will get get 11 11 km larger. So the point is it's the the the the visualization of the paper and the rubber sheet that's that's not entirely accurate. So how are wormholes created? Wormholes are solutions. It's one particular set of solutions of Einstein's field equations. Einstein field equations. Einstein came discovered or developed these equations after eight years of incredible mental torture because he was not a mathematician and he had to do all this advanced mathematics which even today tortures students you know if you do tensor tensure algebra and all that and tensor calculus. So the field equations that he came up with in the year 1915 he thought it will take decades to solve them but in 8 weeks a dying man was able to solve them on the battlefield in the first world war. His name was Carl Schwath Stilled and eventually there were more solutions of the equations that came up and one of these equa solutions of the equations is the wormhole solution. It's called the Einstein Rosen bridge. So one of the analogies is that you can poke a hole through a paper and that's a that's a shortcut through through space but it's actually a hole in space and time. So if we are warping the fabric of spacetime it will not disgorge other orbit or other objects. That's not what happens. Spacetime is the stage on which the universe exists. We are inside spaceime. Yeah. So you are kind of visualizing the fabric to be 2D. you have that analogy in your mind and I don't blame you for that because everybody grows up seeing that. So that's what you have in your mind but that's not exactly how it is. What's the concept of bending the fabric to create a shortcut? That's you can only explain this through equations but I'm attempting to explain it um in my in in the books in the in the in the volumes. The concept is that space time. Okay. So if you look at the Einstein field equations it has two sides left hand side and right hand side. The left hand side it tells you about the warping or bending of spaceime through the richy tensor richy scaler all of that. Yeah. On the right hand side you have a complete tally a complete census of all the mass and energy. And if you take the whole equation it says that matter and energy tell spacetime how to bend and the bending of spacetime tells matter and energy how to move and it's a dance constant dance. So if I have I'll tell you something. So I have a I have a cup of coffee here, right? Super hot coffee. Every atom in this cup of coffee is right now deciding the curvature of spaceime in the Andromeda galaxy. That's what Einstein's field equations tell you. So um that's the concept of bending the the fabric of space and time. And one of the solutions is a shortcut solutions which kind of Yeah. So that's how it is. But u it's it's not a hole in space and time. It's just a different kind of solution. And wormholes don't stay open. They want to close shut immediately. Right? You don't have a stable solutions of wormholes. They they close shut. They become two black holes quickly. So if you want to keep a wormhole open, you have to introduce something very strange inside which is either some kind of exotic matter like negative mass or negative energy or something even more exotic like a topological defect like perhaps a cosmic string or something. So anyway, that's about it. If you're if you're curious interested about this, please check out my books. That's exactly the kind of answers I'm giving in in my books. Anyhow, thank you. Great question. Finally, somebody's asked something about black holes and and physics. Thank you. Next question. Uh anonymous says, "How do you have so much such memory? How can I develop it?" One second. I to be to be very honest, I don't think I've I've got a great memory. I forget all kinds of stuff. Um I just remember whatever interests me. Everything else I forget. I forget. Look, if you ask me what was the Gandhi Irwin pact, somebody asked me a couple of hours ago, what was the Gandhi Urban Pact? I had no memory of what was the details of the pact or which year it happened. So, I forget stuff. Things that I don't find interesting, I forget them. But things that I am interested in, I can speak about them for hours because I have I can recall them the information. Uh how do you develop it? Just follow your curiosity. Whatever you find like look I show you two movies. One movie you find boring, after a month you will remember nothing. Another movie you'll find extremely interesting. You will remember after even after 20 years all the details. That's the secret. Okay. Okay. Black star says I left my job a 24 star startup tried three four ideas didn't work out. Burned all my cash. Now I'm 25 with 30 days cash left. Trying my last idea with no intention to do job. Now I have low confidence and no hope. Any advice? My advice to you is be super practical. Be super practical. Don't put all your eggs like they say in the cliche in in the same basket. If you want to burn cash, don't burn all your cash. Always keep a backup. Let's say you got okay hypothetically 1 cr rupees in your in your kitty. Don't burn the whole 1 cr rupees. At least keep 30% aside. You want to burn, burn 70%, minimum 30%, 40% keep aside. Don't touch that. Okay? But anyway, since you've done it, it's okay. It happens. You're still what? How old you? You're 25 years old. You're still a young person. You have a long way ahead of you. If if something like this happens, no big deal. No big deal. Um next time once you have some cash I would say keep keep a certain percentage aside. It is not to be touched under any circumstances. That's how you do risk management. So if you want to be play risky games risk 60%, don't risk the remaining 40%. That's what you would do right now. I would say you don't have any intention to to do a job again. You have low confidence, no hope. Any advice? I would say be super practical. Don't say I will never do a job again. If you are in a situation where you are running out of cash, do a job for a while. What's the big deal? I did a job for 10 years. Did I enjoy it? Not one day. But I still learned things from it. So if required, do a job. Tell yourself it's temporary. I'll do it for a few months or few weeks. Oh, whatever few year or two until I have some cash again. Then incorporate the learnings from the previous experiment and try again. But don't burn everything this time. And lastly, never stop believing in yourself. When you fail, people will make fun of you. People will taunt you. People will say you're a failure. Ignore them because you will never succeed unless you learn how to fail multiple times. Look at the most successful people in the world and see how many times they have failed and how much ridicule they faced at the time. So don't let that affect you. Okay. All the best sir. Do well and uh in the future I look forward to seeing a different aspect of black star. All the best sir. Don't give up. Don't stop believing in yourself. All the best. Anonymous says how to study a topic for example Rockefellers. What's the steps you go through to gain knowledge about a topic like internet book etc. How do you sort out which info is correct and which info is propaganda? How do you uh study a topic? You just start studying it. You don't have to study it in a systematic manner. Initially just dive into it from whichever angle you want. Be extremely in discipline in your in your research. Initially spend a certain amount of time reading as much as possible looking into all sources of information wherever you find them whatever randomly. Then after some time the patterns start clicking in your mind and then you know where where the gaps of knowledge are and what you need to look into and then you pursue that and you do that in a more systematic manner. After some time when you start understanding the patterns and the gaps of knowledge and all how do you make out which is in which info is correct which is propaganda. Well there are different ways of doing it. First of all, if the information is clearly just opinions without any solid evidence that backs it up, it's clearly it could still be true, but it is less valuable information. Let's say you have blog post somewhere in which somebody says blah blah blah blah blah, but they don't give any evidence or proof to to back up their blah blah. See, people say that Chowa, you speak for two hours on the on the on the internet on YouTube and you never get give any sources by I'm speaking here. How will I pull out sources while I'm speaking? But when I write I give you all the sources. Check out my books on physics. I have published two volumes. See how many sources I've given there. So my point is when somebody gives information in writing there has to be sources. And if the sources are not present, it is more likely to be propaganda. Okay. Um and I I go through books. I go through internet. Mainly it's online these days. You can get almost anything online especially research papers and whatnot. Then you need to know how to look for things. That's that's how I do it. Yeah. And after many many years, you have a sixth sense for which info is right, which is wrong, and where the real thing lies. It's it's it's a sense you to develop through a lot of research. Okay. Kishan says, "Think tanks of pus did not consider the scenario where India would not accept tariffs." Um or why or or they want other countries to go against for future. They will have no reason to take any measure. Drink water please. I'll drink some coffee. Black coffee. M black coffee. Tasty. Bitter. So what was the deal? What happened? Did they not consider this? I think they were surprised. They were taken by surprise. They were caught unawares. They were stumped by a mile scratching their head in perplexity. What on earth happened? They never expected that India will stand firm. They did not expect that uh Prime Minister Modi will will not cave in. They're very surprised. Yeah, it looks like they did not anticipate a scenario where the government of India would would not accept their demands, their maximalist positions and all that. Um and what else they want other countries to go against for future they will have no reason to take any measure. See most countries have given into them. I think only India stood up. India, China, Russia are standing up to the US. So now they're clubbing all three together kind of. Uh so yeah I think they were caught unaware. They did not anticipate that this kind of thing could happen. Vom what a nice name. Vom Pande a request. Don't use term south India language from use language from south. Uh thank you for the recommendations sir. Thank you. Tarun says what is the dynamics in between cookies and other indigenous tribes in the hills of Manipur as both follow Christism? What is the role of misoram in Manipur? Look in Manipur. Manipur you have to understand the fundamentals. Okay since we are doing a long discussion today let's let's do a slightly deepish dive in this. You want to understand the dynamics of what's happening right now. Right? Um so first of all let us understand what is manipur. We have to understand the fundamentals and basics right before we discuss the situation. What is Manipur? Okay. What do we know about Manipur from far away? We know there is something called Manipuri language. Yeah. We know there is something called Manipuri dance. Yeah. Beyond that we don't know much. If we do a little bit of research you will see that Manipur has a list of kings, history of kings that goes back more than 2,000 years. Okay. three three facts we have a Manipuri language a very famous dance form of India Manipuri dance and third Manipuri kings that go back 2,000 years now let us ask ourselves a simple question this Manipuri language that exists it's also more than 2,000 years old h which ethnic group of Manipur speaks the Manipuri language in Manipur today you have three ethnic groups they are called three ethnic groups one is the mates one is the naga us. Third is the cookies. Three ethnic groups. So this language which is more than 2,000 years old, Manipuri language, which ethnic group speaks it? Is it the manip is it the matees? Is it the nagas or is the is it the cookies? Answer is matees. So the matees speak the manipuri language which is more than 2,000 years old. Not the nagas, not the cookies. Second, manipuri classical dance. One of India's great dance forms, world famous. Which ethnic group is the originator? Is it the cookies? Is it the nagas? Is it the matees? Answer is mate. Not cookies, not nagas. Okay. So, manipuri language is a mate language. Manipuri dance is matey culture. V of culture. Third, the manipuri list of kings, the Ningoja dynasty, it has existed for 2,000 plus years. Which ethnic group did the kings belong to? Nagas, cookies or mates? The answer is mate. So the kings of Manipur were all matey. The Manipuri language 2,000 plus years old all matey. The kings are more than 2,000 years lineage and the manipur dance is also matey. So who is the ethnic indigenous people of Manipur? Answer is mate and nagas. The nagas are also closely related to the mate people but they live in the hills and all. Okay. Historically they've lived far across Manipur in the kingdom of Manipur. Mostly in the hills and forests. The nagas are tribals. The mate is I don't consider them to be a tribe. They are people with a very ancient culture and civilization. You can't call them tribals. Now who are the cookies? The cookies are infiltrators who came from Burma. But they are not even Burmese. They don't speak the Burmese language. They don't respect the Burmese culture. They are fighting the Burmese government. The the cookies are not even Burmese. Forget about Manipuris or Indians. And in 1900 if you look at the British census records of Manipur, there is hardly any cookies in Manipur. So what happened in 1891? The Manipuris fought for independence and the British defeated them. So Manipur became a British wasal. It was annexed by Britain. And to punish the Matees who fought the British, the British started pushing cookies from Burma into into Manipur to punish the Matees. And to punish the mis the British confined the mateis in 6% of the manipur kingdom's territory only 6% the imal valley and the rest of the land was given to the cookies and the nagas nagas anyway are indigenous fine and the cookies came in like like in incredible numbers after 1949 when manipur becomes part of India the Indian government continued the same British policy because British white man is the right man. So after 40 49 more cookies are allowed by Indian government into into into Manipur and allowed to settle in Manipur territory and in the last two years I don't know how many lakhs have come in. That is the situation. It's an invasion by foreigners. The natives of Manipur are the matees and the Nagas. The cookies they may have Aadhaar cards. Some of them may be in government positions today but they are not Indians. They don't have any allegiance to India or India's culture. Understand that very clearly. All right. Manak sorry man Saka says Indians should back the global left but stay conservative with respect to India. What do I think? Clearly pro pro Trump leanings did not help Indians in the US. Indians should be pro- India to hell with the left and the right in the rest of the world. Whoever is willing to work with India in a mutually beneficial manner will work with them. I don't care if they're left or right. Mu mu mak France Emanuel M he's left does it a is it a problem for us I'm perfectly fine with him he's his policies are good for us and for himself for his country as long as the policies are mutually beneficial great Shri Benjamin Netanyahu is right-wing do I have a problem with that absolutely not as long as as he is cooperating with India and and working in a mutually beneficial Great. I don't care if somebody is left or right as long as they are willing to work in a mutually constructive and beneficial manner. That's all I'll say. Right? That that that's as simple as the clarity should be. Nothing beyond that. Let's not over complicate things by looking at either left or right. We don't care. We don't care. Whoever it is, as long as they are willing to work with us in a mutually beneficial way, in a mutually respectful way, we are perfectly fine with you. Whoever you are left or right Sarab Sharma says how can we remove freebies if any government even tries to do that the whole country won't go for it and the other party will take to the full extent the only way to remove the freebies is to reform the education system and teach children from the very beginning of their life that freebies are poison and then in 20 years you may have a reasonably literate and educated population. There is no other way. There is no other way. There is no shortcut. Nothing. Right now, if the government ends the freebies next election, bye-bye. Bye-bye. Goodbye. Over. Oh man. Mama. Namaste. Ma'am. Should we be scared of Israel as Israel is now the attack doggy that can attack any country at will and inform the masters leader? No. Israel is not crazy. Israel has a lot of strategic convergence with with India and there's nothing that we should be scared about. So no I I don't say it that way. No don't worry about that. Uh Abinov says are we heading towards a collapse of the American empire? The US makes the world a stable place through its domination. Is the world ready for it? Look whether are first of all are we heading towards the collapse of the US empire? I think it's is it's a little premature to anticipate the collapse of the US empire. It could happen. It could happen. I'm not saying it could. It I'm not saying it could not, but I think it's it's still a little premature to anticipate a collapse. It will depend on various factors. First of all, if the world rejects the dollar, if that is feasible, then that could have a significant delterious effect on um on US interests. Right? So that's that is indeed the case. But right now it's not like the world is moving away from the US dollar. Uh and the US will do its best not to have make this let this happen and they have they are burdened with this tremendous debt right and the Russians seem to have given us the the the plan the Americans have to to transfer all the debt into crypto and then devalue the crypto gone. Um so the US has answers to many of the problems that that people are thinking of. Um the US indeed has made the world a stable place through its domination. Any empire once it dominates it makes the world a stable place through their own rules. The Ottoman Empire made the world the the the countries the kingdoms under its domination a stable place through Ottoman Turkish rules. The Roman Empire did the same through Rome through Pax Pax Romana. Today we used to have Pax Americana. So that's the situation always wherever you have a large empire there's a significant period of stability in a large part of the world wherever the empire has it its domination and once the empire event in event eventually whenever it it crumbles and falls there's going to be a period of destabilization that's a cyclical process we have seen we have seen countless times in world history and eventually it will happen again. So the question is if the US empire declines and crumbles will some other empire rise up take the opportunity and replace it in that case there could be a shorter period of destabilization. So is the world ready for it? The world is never ready for these events. Ankur Saraf says how can Indian talent in fang build homegrown social media like China to share freely without relying on western platforms and agendas. I think you you take let's say you take 10 talented programmers 10 talented programmers all in their 20s okay 10 guys or girls whatever you put them in a in a bungalow you give them all the food whatever they need you give them a salary of 1 cr rupes a month which is 10 crores a month which is like what 12 crores a year nothing Okay? And you give them whatever they need. They'll build you a Facebook or whatever. In less than one year, they'll build you a Facebook plus something else on Twitter in one year. The talent is here. You don't need to find talent from fang companies in the US who are Indians. It's there. Um it's it's just a question of of whether we we have the will to do it. We have so many big companies with so much money, but they don't want to invest in all of these things. they don't care they just want to you know save money and whatever so it's an attitudinal problem among the old old generation Indians entrepreneurs business people uh I mean can't Infosys or Vipro or whatever build it build this thing of course they can but they don't want to they don't care it's not necessarily a criticism it's their money it's their company they can do whatever they want with it but you know that that desire isn't there and this is not something government of India will do. It's something the private company should do. So it can be done easily. Find 10 hungry, ambitious, talented programmers, put them in a one bungalow, give them everything they need and give them a tremendous salary, they'll do it happily. Even you give them a salary of 10 lakhs a month instead of instead of 1 cr 1 cr a month, they'll do it. 10 lakhs is like 1/10enth of a cr. They'll be happy. You give them a salary of five lakhs a month, they'll do it, right? Ashish Chabaraji, thank you so much. Right. Um, Harshai says, "Thoughts on stupid Asia Cup?" What? What is this Asia Cup? Is it hockey, boxing, football, cricket? Of course. Is it on? Uh, I'm not aware of it. I I don't know. I've kind of lost a lot of interest in cricket these days. And there's so many different tournaments, so many different formats. Uh I still watch cricket sometimes especially the the big series India Australia or whatever India England I most mostly missed so um I don't have many thoughts about the Asia Cup I think there's some controversy or something whatever is it Pakistan it must be Pakistan oh whatever sandy says can you can you share briefly your personal background schooling how did you end up being a YouTuber author Restoring physicist my personal background what's important which how is it important look I've as a kid I was always interested in physics okay my dad is a physicist himself physics professor and he's been around the world so I already had that that thing that some exposure to physics my dad had a library in the in the house full of physics and other books so there was that and I had access to university library. So um and um I was just genuinely c curious as a kid and I had a decentish intelligence. So I followed my curiosity and schooling was uh I I had some schooling abroad in Europe. I had schooling in India as well. Very different things and uh that sort of thing. But eventually I wanted to be financially independent. So I went into IT right and uh that's how I spent a decade in IT and after that eventually I I just made a video about Chingish Khan or something yeah Chingan and that kind of blew up and that's that's how my foray into YouTube started right u so I haven't done a tremendous amount of physics research there's one theory called the holium theory which I co-authored which is a theory of dark matter you know, primordial black holes, stable bound states, stable quantum mechanical bound states or primary black holes being a candidate particle for dark matter. Yeah, that that sort of thing. And now I'm writing books, a book on black holes, a series. I'm serializing it the way Charles Dickens used to serialize his novels. I'm writing non-fiction. I'm writing u a book on black holes. So that's what I'm doing right now. So that's kind of a very very brief highlights reel so to say. Okay. Duryodan Patak Duryodan Patak thank you so much. Great name. Love it. Shashwat Jana. Leaving aside tech how how important is this the quality of soldiers? Oh very important very important the quality of the soldiers. It's it's your soldiers your manpower is the backbone of the of the military. Your soldiers need to be very well trained not just physically but also mentally right. They need to have the right values instilled in them. They need to be patriotic. They need to well soldiers being a soldier is not an easy job because the contract is that you may have to give up your life for the country. So that that has to be there. So when the time comes your s the soldier has actually be has to be actually willing to do that and so on. So the quality of the soldier is very important. You can't degrade that. You can't adulterate that. You can't do experiments with with the you know the composition of your military and all that which is unfortunately kind of sometimes being attempted in some places. So on so soldier quality is very important. Nishant Kumar says do the US billionaires oligarchs think that common US citizens will let them take over the cities also is deolarization going to happen? Okay. Do the US billionaires think that the US citizens will let them take over the cities? Well, do the cities belong to the citizens citizen may own a house perhaps or may rent a house. Does it mean that they they own the cities. Whoever can pay in the US owns everything. Of course, a city is public land and all, but if you can have a proper certain a certain kind of arrangement with the government of the US or the state government or the federal government or whatever the hell you can actually take over a city as a billionaire. I suppose especially take over some systems administration or or some some infrastructure or whatever and slowly you can expand that and take over a city. I suppose it can happen. There's nothing illegal about it. I suppose so. If it is not illegal, why should the US citizen stand up to it? That's the way the that's the kind of country the US is. That is their social contract, right? So it may happen and you can always do creeping takeover. Don't take over everything in one go. Give it 5 10 years. Make it happen slowly, slowly, inch by inch, inch by inch, inch by inch, foot by foot. Nobody will understand. Nobody will realize. And sometimes you can do it in very subtle ways that people don't realize it. So anything's possible. Is dolization ddollarization going to happen? Well, we'll we'll see. I don't know. We'll see. Uh look, darization will be bad for the US. The US will resist that with all its might. Its might is super mighty in case we are not aware. Super mighty. So the US will resist it and that's why the that's why the Trump administration especially the man himself they he is so against bricks right so yeah they will do their best to prevent any sort of dolorization from happening. Okay, Shardul Desh Pande, are mind sweepers useless as Indian Navy has zero? Well, it depends. You see, mind sweepers can be extremely valuable in choke points. And if you have an adversary who has the ability to deploy thousands of miles along your coastline, then a mind sweeper sweeper becomes invaluable. But because of the kind of coastline we have, it's almost impossible for for an adversary to come and deploy mines. So which is why mind sweepers are maybe perhaps a lower priority for India. I'm not sure what the actual number is. You're saying it's zero. Maybe it's right. Maybe it's true. I have not seen but maybe it's a lower priority for India because of the kind of geographical advantages we have. You see Arian says thoughts on an algorithm to engineer a more powerful powerhouse than that that of the American deep state of worried Nepalese citizen. All right. One second. Look, power doesn't come from algorithms. Algorithms can help you control aspects of a platform. So let's say you have a social media platform and you want to modulate the behavior on the platform. You can use the algorithm for that. Let's say you want to suppress the voices of people who who have a certain kind of belief. So the algorithm can make that happen. You look at what the people have been saying and you find instances of certain words in that or certain phrases and if you see a pattern of that happening uh you can blacklist the person and and significantly reduce the kind of visibility they have. So you can do that very easily through an algorithm. So algorithms can help you modulate and control behavior on social media networks and maybe in other places also. But power doesn't come from algorithms. Algorithms can can help you control things and and create narratives and push certain narratives and and destroy other narratives and so on. But power comes from power. Power comes from like the crudest way of putting it is what Maetung said, power flows from power flows from the barrel of a gun. So why is the US all powerful? because it has the most firepower of any nation in the world. It has more firepower than the other nations put together. Only in nuclear firepower is it lacking compared to Russia but just slightly. The US has the four largest air forces in the world or at least three largest air forces. The US Air Force, the Marine Air Force and the Naval Air Force. These are the three largest air forces in the world and they have more than six 700 extra territorial military bases. They have nuclear missiles aimed everywhere. That's their power. Now try and counter that. Algorithms can't counter that. Of course, if you have certain kinds of technologies, then they can make all this power worthless if you can have something that's more powerful than that. Right? So until that happens, the US is going to remain all powerful. Um yeah, so I understand people are worried, people in India are worried, people in in our neighborhood are worried, our friendly nations and all. And yeah, when you when you have an imperial power, there is reason to worry because they're going to interfere in your in your internal affairs and use you for their own purposes which will eventually cause you to suffer in some way. Right. So yeah, I understand the worry. Being enlight says you decode world power so well. Thank you, sir. What lessons from power and strategy can help a man struggling in dating dynamics? You must be great. I strongly believe dating dynamics. I have never thought of applying power and strategy to dating dynamics. Okay. Let's say you are a person who's struggling in dating dynamics. Ah power does is is strategy. I can think of power. See dating dynamics the the male female interaction that that's how I see dating. I don't see any that that's maybe I'm old fashion. I only see male female dynamics and dating dynamics. That's not is is there an element of power? Maybe there is to some extent. A man who doesn't who doesn't appear powerful in some way is obviously not going to be seen perceived as attractive. Um doesn't have to be physical power always. You can have some other qualities that are powerful in their own way. U so you need to have some kind of power in some sense. And strategy well strategy it depends. If you want to have a string of relationships, then you may need a strategy. But if you just want one partner for the rest of your life, you don't need a strategy. You need to find the right right compatible person. So, I don't know. I've not really applied this to I've never thought of applying. I'm sure there are applications. There are all these, you know, dating coaches and whatnot. And there is a there's a weird community called pickup artists who use all kinds of kinds of nefarious techniques in this. But the Yeah, that that's something that never has never appealed to me. So I I've never thought about this. Yeah, I'm not in the dating dating game. I don't need that. So I've never thought about it. So I I apologize. I don't have the answer to this. It's never thought of it. Never once in my life. So if you if you've thought of it even 10 years ago, then I could I could give you some kind of answer. But I don't have any answer right now. Sorry. Okay. Rishit Singh says, "The new Nepal leader seems to be pro- India. my thoughts. I don't have any thoughts right now. I'm going to wait and watch at least a week. I am not prone to giving knee-jerk reactions. So, I'm not saying I'm I don't want to answer you. I'm just saying that wait for a while. I when the time is right, when I've seen enough, when I've discerned some patterns, then I'll think that I when when I think that I have some understanding now, that's when I'll say something about it. See, this lady, I don't know her. I don't know her in any depth at all, in any any way. What's her background? She is she was a Supreme Court justice apparently in Nepal. That's what I know. I know that she's married to a politician who hijacked an aircraft in the 19 1900s. An aircraft that had the Indian actress Malasina. And that's all I know about her. I don't know anything beyond that. So, I'm going to wait and watch. It's too early for me to make a statement to give a reaction. It's not advisable to always have a reaction ready when whenever required. You don't do that knee-jerk nonsense. Wait and watch. Be patient. I'm sure there are all kinds of influencers and ex analysts and experts who are giving their opinion right now. Let them do it. I'll wait. So, I don't have an answer right now. Sorry. Matrix says Shri Datria is shown in human form with dogs around him, but humans and dogs came later in evolution. Did Bhagwan exist before? How should I say this? I have no idea. Humans and dogs came later in evolution. Uh um yeah this is a question that's beyond my un my my capabilities of answering. Shatraa is shown in human form with dogs and humans came later in um yeah see I'm I'm a this is this is not my expertise. This is not my forte. Ask me about black holes I'll answer. Uh this this is beyond me. I'm so sorry. I don't have the answer. I apologize. Sorry. Okay. Safe heavens considering current chaos South Asia. Not sure what your question is Anub G. Safe heavens considering current chaos in South Asia. We don't have chaos as I mean chaos chaos right now. We may have a gathering storm perhaps, but it's not a storm yet. So what's a safe heaven? Not sure. You mean countries where there'll be peace? Is that what you're asking? No, no, no. There's no safety guaranteed any anywhere. Maybe you can go to I don't know New Zealand or I have no idea. Yeah. Can't say. Rywick says on Manipur, I found that good YouTubers like Hush Sham Sharma, Bijit Ayat all said cookies are outsiders, but a German YouTuber said that cookies are our people. What's their agenda? Look, I don't know which I mean I I I think I know who you're referring to. Look, without naming anyone, there are YouTubers who potentially could hypothetically be on the payroll of foreign governments and whose agenda may not be the agenda that is that of the national interest of India. That's all I'll say about this. Okay. So, I'm I'm glad that other people are sensible and they at least are not lying. I mean, why would Sham Sharma Abijit Mitra lie? Nitish, I'm not sure about him. I I mean, I've heard the name, but I've not watched the video, so I don't know about him in in in any detail, but I'm glad that he's also telling the truth. A German YouTuber or whatever. Well, no comments, but no surprise. Okay, satellite. Thank you so much. Very nice of you. Thank you. Shardul Desh Pande, how was your experiment? How was your experiment with Maharashtra CM Devendra Fernis? I did not have any experiment with him. I have met him once. Um I met him during that special one day event of the Jaipur dialogues in Pune early this year. So he very nicely came to me and he said that he has uh what read my article on the Arian invasion myth and he has watched some of the videos and he just we just had a brief interaction like like a couple of minutes that's all. So I was very pleased and he's a very nice gentleman, very nice to speak to him and yeah it was a very nice very pleasant interaction, very nice gentleman and very kind of him to come up to me and speak to me. Yeah. After after his uh event on the stage so it was I really enjoyed that. That's all I Yeah, that's that's the that's the recollection. Uh VK says who was June of Ark? Was she a warrior or saint? Jean D. That's was her name in French and she was a young girl of 16 when she became a warrior. So this was during the time probably of the 100 days 100 years war between the British and the French. I think that was the time period. And this girl she was from the city of Orlon Orleans. And at that time I think Orleans was under British occupation and uh France wasn't doing too great. And this girl I think she's associated with Orleans in some way whe whether she was from there or or she met her end there or something like that. I don't remember all the details but uh she went to the DOA of France that is the the crown prince of France and she said that um I want to serve the country or something and uh she was very charismatic and people followed her. She's a 16-year-old kid a girl and seasoned soldiers came and followed her and she led the army into battle and she defeated the British in some some military action. So people started seeing her as some kind of saint or something, somebody who was touched with by divinity and eventually she was captured by the British and they burned her alive at the stake for being a witch. Such nice people the British, right? They burned a 16-year-old girl alive girl alive because she was extraordinary. So she must obviously be a witch, right? Women with any special talent, we would burn them. That's what the British what it was not limited to the British. Even the French and the other Europeans did that from time to time. Burning women for having special abilities and qualities. Rohan Allen says more red meat eating is culturally invasive and hostile society. I'm not sure about that. I've not thought along those lines. So can't say red meat eating means more invasive. Maybe there's a pattern. I'm not really sure but interesting hypothesis. Interesting. Okay. Wen Muri says how to build discipline and focus in life by taking action. By taking action. So let's say you want to build discipline. You want to start a new habit. Let's say you want to do you want to get stronger and fitter. But for that you need discipline, right? But you're not disciplined. Then what do you do? The only way to build discipline and focus is by taking action. Get down right now and do two push-ups. Just start with two push-ups. Any anybody can do two push-ups. Yes, do two push-ups. Tomorrow again, do two push-ups every time. Every day, let's say 7:00 p.m. you do two push-up or 7:00 a.m. you do two push-ups. After a week, you have a habit of doing two push-ups at 7:00 a.m. every day. And you were able to maintain the habit. Well, congratulate yourself. Now you say that I'll do five now. So next one week you just do five push-ups at 7:00 a.m. very feasible. Then slowly slowly you gradually in increase the number of push-ups and you don't stop the momentum. You keep doing it every day. That's how you build discipline and focus in anything. And once you start doing this and and you don't break the habit, don't break the momentum. Then you start gaining confidence and you start gaining selfrespect that I am able to do something that's not that easy now anymore because now it's no longer five push-ups. That's 25 push-ups, right? 25 push-ups is is not a joke. Okay? Even if it's just 25, eventually you'll be able to do hundreds in a day. But you even 25 I think it's it's not that easy for ordinary people. So start doing difficult things like this gradually slowly. That's how you build discipline and focus by taking action. Sitting and thinking will do nothing. The only thing only way to achieve anything is by taking action. Barat Bidori says why rise hate against India trans shooter guns said nuke India yeah it's all online social media propaganda and there's a whole narrative being created created against India and Indians and that's why you're seeing this rise of hatred in India towards India and Indians across the western world okay Nandanda Kishor Rao says do you think it's a good idea to pursue mathematics degree for to pursue mathematics degree being an IT computer science degree professional. What paths will it open for me further? Well, it depends what you want to achieve in life, right? See, you don't the way to approach this question is you to first ask yourself what do I want to achieve in my life? So once you have that clarity of what you want to achieve and not what do I want to achieve someday what do I want to achieve in the next 3 years ask yourself that or or in the next 5 years or let's say next 10 years in 10 years what do I want to achieve then you ask yourself okay now I have this objective what is the optimal path towards that objective does it involve a mathematics degree or can I do without a mathematics degree can I still reach that path that objective without mathematics degree then if you can reach the objective without a math degree then why do it but imagine that it's not but imagine that you love math and it'll it'll you'll find that it will make it make the path easier then you can go through a mathematics degree so that's the approach mental approach towards it beyond that I have no idea because I don't know you I don't know your your objectives your goals your background so I can't say for every person it'll I I I'll have a different answer depending who on who that person is what their background is, what their goals are, what their objectives are, what their strengths and weaknesses are. So, all right, that's that's how you approach this question. Today, PM Modi visited Manipur. What's the result? I have no idea. Maybe the visit happened while we were doing this live stream. I have no idea. We'll I I'll see tomorrow. What will be the result? some some ribbon cutting, some some ceremony, some foundation stone laying, maybe a speech here and there. Yeah, he's visiting Chur he visited Churachanpur and Infal. Uh beyond that, I have no idea. I have not seen I've been here right since 4 p.m. What's the time now? Let me see. It's 10:52 like 7 hours done. Would you believe it? So, if I'm doing 7 hours live stream, how will I know what Mr. Modi did? So, no idea. No idea. And anyway, there's no outcome of it. The outcome if you want an outcome is get rid of all the foreigners. That's the outcome that we need. Nothing else. Rishi Barat says longtime listener. Thank you very first time asking question. Well welcome and thank you so much for being a long time listener. Thank you. See thank you sir. Uh I want to ask how and when did the Mauist movement started in India? It's something that dates back to the 20th century. Probably the 1950s60s. I I may be wrong about that. Okay. I've not studied the history of the maist movement but it's been this red corridor. Satisgund um Madhya Pradesh uh Maharashtra this entire red corridor and uh I think the roots of the movement lie it all started in a place called Nakalbar or something that's why it's called the Nakalite movement when was it was it 15s 60s7s I don't remember because I've never studied this movement never interested me but it was yeah very damaging to India very problematic there was a time And a large part of central India was not under under the control of the government of India. Would you believe it? When was that? Dr. Manm Singh's time like 20 30% of India I don't know how what the percentage was maybe 20 maybe at least 10%. Was not under the control of the government of India. That's the kind of situation you had right. Um how and when I don't remember the story. I have not studied the movement but clearly it had foreign funding. It had it had support from various political certain political factions in India and uh it had support from various academics in India. I mean I personally have known people who believed that the naxelite movement was good and those were not bad people those people were not evil but they genuinely believed the nalite movement was good and it should be supported. So that's the kind of brainwashing the education system does to people to good people you see. So that was a deal. So I don't know when it started sometime in the 20th century and uh the objective was to destabilize India obviously. So who was behind it? There could be at least two countries I can think of. Okay. Prashant says some tips on how to be effective in multitasking. I am the last person to ask how to be a multitasker. I can't multitask. I cannot multitask. I am incapable of multitasking. My brain is so small. I can only do one thing at a time. Yeah. Uh what's the what's the best I can do? Perhaps the best I can do is this. You know, while talking, see this. Maybe that's the best multitasking I can do. No, honestly I can't multitask. I am the last person who should ask this. I can focus on one thing for 7 8 hours but only one thing. I think multitasking is a myth. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm just too smallrained but yeah doesn't work for me at all. Never ever. Uh Nandanda Kishor Rao says opinion on government facilitating safe prostitution and cannabis consumption and bringing them under tax ambit. Pros outweighs the cons in my opinion. Old profession. I have not heard about this. I don't have any idea about this thing. Safe prostitution. [Music] Yeah. I I don't know. Look, cannabis consumption is a different story. Cannabis has been part of Indian culture and tradition. It's not like I'm saying everybody should do it. No, no, no. Don't do it. But there are certain festivals on which some people they do a token consumption of cannabis right bhang on shivatri or that sort of thing it doesn't mean that you should do it every day no please please please don't but it's it's a herb it obviously causes these mental effects and all so it's not something that is advisable but but in our culture and tradition some people chose to do it on certain festive occasions like once a year or one night or whatever I don't think there's any there should be any restrictions on that sort of thing and apart from that if you allow people to smoke tobacco then you might as well allow them to smoke a different weed right so I think I think the country should be more liberal towards its own cultural practices that's that's all I'm saying as long as it doesn't result in criminal behavior or antisocial behavior as long as it doesn't victimize anybody so smoking it can still victimize people through passive smoking Right? But you still allow it. So if somebody wants to smoke cannabis or or consume bhang or whatever whichever way it is done, if if it doesn't hurt anyone, let them do it. That's all I'll say. Prostitution, I have no idea. Okay. So that's not a topic that I'm any in any way familiar with. Um so yeah, Mandep. Well, thank you very much. So thank you. Life is sus says brilliant student. I only watch podcast whenever you come. Well, thank you so much. Brilliant student studies may I was not that brilliant. How do you quantify or measure brilliance in studies? Marks, right? Marks. I never got super brilliant marks. I think when I was in very when I was very young like Junior KG, senior kg, first standard, second standard that time I used to be always topper in the class always. But I think it was in the I think even in the in the in the primary school I used to be a topper usually I mean effortlessly but I kind of lost interest to a certain extent in studies because of the horrific nature of the Indian education system during my my high school days. So those days I did not really do super well. I did okay in studies because you know I just had no interest in this and during college also I did okay but then last year of college I don't know what the hell happened and I got like 86% in the last year of college that sort of thing so I was kind of a student that did did not always perform to my potential because performing to my potential means lowering standards and studying all the garbage and which was extremely painful to me mentally uh that sort of thing but I used to read a And I used to I mean whatever I whatever I enjoyed I used to read a lot of that. Uh D banner says why Chingish Khan refused to invade India. Watch my video. Watch the video that is pinned to the channel on the videos tab. I have explained that in detail. It takes 23 minutes to explain that. Uh I can't explain that here in like 2 minutes but watch the video. It tells you exactly why Chinghan refused to invade India. All right sir. Pranjul Mishra says, "I read South Africa used to have nukes once. Have you heard of the VA incident?" Okay. Uh, so how did they lose it? Also, how do you see their position on the modern day geopolitical chess board? South Africa and Israel apparently were developing nukes together. And Google or or whatever you do it these days, Google the VA incident. Let me do it for you. the VA satellites they even helped people theoretical physicists discover gamma ray bursts but I'll I'll I'll go here okay so let us Google the VA incident 1979 here we have it an unidentified double flash which is a signature of a nuclear explosion VA hotel satellite near the South African territory of Prince Edward Islands in the Indian Ocean roughly mid midway between Africa and Antarctica So most independent independent researchers believe that the flash was caused by a nuclear explosion and an undeclared ocean surface nuclear test of an Israeli device carried out by jointly by South Africa and Israel. Okay. So that is the VA incident and u South Africa I think they they voluntarily decided to end their program. I think they were given some incentives by the US to end the program maybe some kind of security guarantees or whatever. So the South Africans ended their program. The Israelis did not. What is South Africa's position on the modern day geopolitical transport? Nothing significant unfortunately. Aravasha says is it's all it's it's often portrayed by colonial people that foreign countries gave us crops and so on. I want to know the truth behind this crops. So everything comes from foreign countries. The rose plant came from Persia because Indians did not have roses. Uh the lion came from Persia claims. No no no no no. Alexander the great brought lions to India because India had no lions. You see the Sarasati Hindu pottery with lions and tigers is is is fictitious. So Romeula Tapar says lions were brought by Alexander Greek. Um then there there are some other people who say that you know India did not have gold coins before the Kushans introduced them into India. So everything of any value was introduced into India by foreigners. Our Brahi script was actually a derivative of the Aramaic script because we were so backward. We do not have a writing system of our own. Everything has come from outside apparently. I mean how do you want me to to react to this nonsense? Utter nonsense. Okay. Uh Mohit Vijay says any idea to start brand export for China or Russia? I am I have no idea. Sorry. Sorry. No idea. Abida Singh says AC sir if I were to conduct a podcast or just a conversation with a couple of astrology behav creator of an app called Jaganath Hurah. Will you be willing to spend a couple of hours? You see sir, I have zero understanding of astrology. Zero. I have not read a single word of an astrology book in my entire life. I would be a worthless addition to that podcast. I will provide no value whatsoever. I if I'm not providing value then there is no use for me for being there. You see? So astrology podcast that's that's not my cup of tea sir. It's like asking me to you know it's it's it's it's like asking Mike Tyson to play chess or it's like asking Vishnatan to to go and box you know fish out of water. That sort of thing not not the thing for me but but thank you for the suggestion. Thank you. Um what two or three advice will you give to your son for great life? two or three advice to my son for great life. Always believe in yourself. Always work super hard. Always work super smart. Right. Three things. Believe in yourself. Work as hard as you can. And work smart. Don't be stupid. And work hard on the wrong things. Okay. Aravsha says, "I want to know the truth about the Sufi movement. I have no idea about Sufi movement. I am not someone who has studied Islam. I am the last person you should ask about this. I don't know. I don't know anything about Islam. All right. So, I am not competent to answer this. Sorry. Okay. Maz says, "I read about a breed of cow in Russia and Mongolia having sweat glands indicating evolution from zebu cattle. Indicator of out of India perhaps." Um, if fit is descended from zebu cattle, it is an indication that its ancestors were in India. Zebu cattle first appeared in West Asia about 5,000 years ago and they appeared in Egypt about 4,000 years ago. Zebu cattle which means that Indians were in West Asia and Egypt about 4 5,000 years ago because cattle don't don't decide okay hey cattle come on now let's go for a walk we'll migrate to West Asia cattle don't do that cattle are domestic animals wherever they go they go with their human masters okay and today many of the cattle in Africa across Africa even West Africa are descendants of zebu cattle interbred with u with local domesticated African cattle so there was an integr in progression of of Indian zebu cattle genetics into Africa about 4 5,000 years ago. So that is out of India clearly and if the same situation has happened in Mongolia and and Russia well that's something that also needs to be investigated. So when did that happen? When did the integration of Indian zebu cattle genetics happen in Mongolian and Russia? So has there any research been done in that? In case there is then I would be very interested to see that. So interesting question. Thank you. Sedhart says, "Whatever I have given about Indian Iranian DNA are headed by Iranians. I fact checked universal SNP databases matching PCA plots distant from South Asians done on Iranians in Iranian soil, not immigrants. Nature play. What do what? Why? Okay. Okay. I'll I'll check it out, sir. I'll check it out. Um, see, I I'm not here to argue with you. I'm sure that you are making good points. Um once this live stream is done, please do me a favor, Sedat. Um in my description of the video, there is an email id. Please email that paper to me. I will check it out. Okay, I'm I'm I'll check it out honestly. Or you can just put it in the comments below this video. When when when the when the live stream is over, I will check it out. All right. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. I'll check it out. So Chin Kumar says, "How do you see advances in AI influencing geopolitics over the next decade especially in non-western countries?" Okay, AI and geopolitics. So AI like any technology is a force multiplier and how much of a force multiplier it is that is the indication of its impact in any domain. So when it comes to AI and geopolitics, AI can be useful in multiple ways. First of all in the military sphere geopolitics and the military sphere military domain go hand in hand. One of the aspects in geopolitics is military expansion and military activities. So if you can have if you can augment your military capabilities through through AI for example have AI enabled drones have AI enabled drone swarms have AI enabled robotic dogs with the rifles on their head um and and so much other things you can do. Then when it comes to for example if you if you have surveillance satellites and you are tracking the deployments and movements of the enemy on their territory or whichever territory then you can feed the the movement patterns to AI the past 6 months and AI will tell you exactly what's happening what they're going to what they're planning to do and especially when you integrate that with other information and they can AI can tell you exactly what what the the their their intentions are what their plans are and it can predict their moves and when it comes comes to for example gamification, game theory. I mean game theory is is something that you can do for simple situations Nash equilibrium and all that but when it comes to complicated things like you know an arms race or military deployments it's very hard to use game theory uh methods because uh the situations are so complex but AI I suppose can gify it and give you predictions so there's so many ways in which AI can be involved in geopolitics especially in the military domain and also in the economic domain you can you can forecast you can do economic forecasts about nations GDPs and nation strategies and all. So that's how that's how AI can be used in in a huge multiplicity of ways. Generally about non-vein nations look how many non-veest nations actually have proper AI systems high quality AI systems only China has it. So then China has an advantage then right? Okay. Test user says will time travel forward and backward ever happen. The only way you can do time travel is if you can tra if you have if you can have a traversible wormhole and you can travel through it. In that case you will actually end up in a different time and spa time and place. Not just it is not just travel in in in space but also also travel in time. You can theoretically have time travel if you use wormholes. But wormholes are theoretical objects. Nobody has seen them. But the Einstein field equations predict them. So you will have to create a wormhole that is traversible because wormholes won't snapshot. So time travel is theoretically possible if you use wormholes otherwise it can't happen. Okay. ISX777 says isn't capitalism the only way we can have innovation to extract resources from the space then maybe find technology which is more planet friendly than like hydrogen powered cars so will it destroy the planet very interesting question sir I really like this question because you have changed the paradigm here so I said in my criticism of capitalism a while ago I said that it is far superior to socialism and communism but capitalism has one fatal flaw and that fatal flaw is that capitalism capitalism demands quarter upon quarter never ending infinite profits on a finite planet which will end up destroying the planet. But what if we are no longer plundering the planet? Maybe we are plundering Mars now or maybe we are plundering the moon or maybe we have gone to some asteroid and we are mining it, strip mining it for whatever. Sure, it won't destroy our planet. It will destroy that resource. Eventually, you will run out of real estate to plunder. Right? Let's say that we destroy we decide that we will stop destroying our planet. We'll move to to the moon. So maybe in a 100 years when you look out at the night sky you will see moon full of lights and you have mining equipment everywhere and they're they're digging holes across the moon. Maybe that will happen. Maybe in 200 years we will be done with the moon. Everything extracted nothing of value left. Then we move to Mars and in a thousand years we consume Mars. Then where do we go? You see the same problem once again applies. If you want to treat everything as a resource then whatever resource you have let's say you capture a whole new planet even that will be exhausted eventually. So the best thing is not to plunder and extract and strip mine everything. Don't treat it as a resource to be extracted and utilized. Treat it as a home to live in. But yeah so that that's the flaw with capitalism you know but of course you will say that you know 200 days is a long time it is a long time so enjoy while while it lasts see the plundering of the planet has been happening for the past 500 years but now we are reaching a point where we have microplastics everywhere and all kinds of other issues takes time 200 years is a long time 500 years is long is a long time but the time will pass and you will eventually reach a situation where you have degraded whatever resource you had do we really want to keep on doing that. I mean that's sort of an parasitic extractive species. I think that's the worst form of human nature coming to the four. Right. Uh MK says why didn't the US try to install a puppet in France to fully vaselize by interfering in elections like 2024 India or color revolution? Interesting question. Why hasn't the US tried this to look the US doesn't need to vaselize France? I'll tell you why. France is a member of NATO. France is also a member of the EU. If you are a member of NATO, it means that your military comes under NATO command, not French command. In NATO command is generally a non-French man. So the France the French military or at least significant part of it at various points in time comes under foreign command. There goes your military sovereignty. France is a member of NATO is not entirely military militarily sovereign. Number one second France is a member of the EU which is why France has open borders. It does not have territorial sovereignty as a member of the EU. France doesn't even have its own currency. They have to use the euro which is a rebranded deutsch mark and that is controlled by Brussels not by Paris. So there goes your economic sovereignty. Then the laws and the policies that are applied in French territory are not decided by from Paris. They decided from Brussels. So there goes your legislative sovereignty. So France doesn't have full military sovereignty. It doesn't have economic sovereignty. It doesn't have territorial sovereignty. It doesn't have legislative sovereignty. Why why do you need to vaselize that nation? Tell me why [Laughter] Duv thank you very much. Shri Trump thank you Shindai says what's left right exactly mean in the India in India and the west. Left and right very simply put forward right means more patriotic more nationalistic more conservative more traditional. Left means less conservative, less traditional, more experimental, more more non-nationalistic, more non-patriotic, etc. Okay, that's the deal. Bat Knight says, "While reading Hawking, I wondered, does do modern cosmologies shifts echo ancient Bharat's ideas of creation, dissolution, and cycles? Look, so if you look at modern cosmology, we have the evolution of the universe. Well, it all started with uh with what we call the big bang, which was not an explosion. It was an expansion. And space time has been expanding ever since. And what's the eventual fate of the universe? We're not quite sure, right? Is are we going to have a big are we going to have a big rip? Will theorous era end? Are we going to have complete darkness eventually? Will it be a big rip or or are we going to have the heat death of the universe or uh are we actually in a in a cyclical universe where eventually the universe is expanding? Expansion stops. It starts contracting after god knows how much time and then there's a big crunch. Um what exactly is the deal? We don't quite sure right. Um so Bat's ideas are that of creation, dissolution and cycles. That's a cyclical cosmology that we have. But modern cosmology doesn't give you the answer right now as of now. Whether the universe will will once again contract after a certain period of time and you know have that sort of thing. Do we have two universes one universe and another anti-universe created from the big bang that also we don't know. So there are so many questions that modern cosmology currently doesn't answer because we don't have the data. We don't have sufficient data to to formulate a proper answer. So uh but if you look at Indian cosmology, Hindu cosmology, it's the closest that we have to the lambda CDM model so to say big bang cosmology. It's the closest that we have. Rushi Jooshi says namaste. Well, namaste sir. Uh you mentioned that Ukraine is on the Russian border so it joining NATO is a current issue but even Finland borders Russia has recently joined NATO. Is this not an issue for Russia? Yeah, very good question, very good comparison. That's how you give counterpoints. Really intelligent counterpoint. Okay, look. Um, let's very good question. Let's go to the map. We shall um let's let me pull out the map. All right. All right. Okay. So, let's look at it systematically. Yes. So, here is the map. Now, we go to uh the region we're talking about. So see if you go to the north of Russia we have Murmansk which is very close to the the border with Finland. It's a significant city Murmansk and as you can see uh there we have essentially a trijunction between Norway, Finland and Russia. Uh and Finland is a nation that has a significant border with Russia like you rightly say and it has recently joined NATO. So why doesn't Russia consider Finland to be its red line? And why different treatment for Ukraine? Because you see Ukraine is not Finland. Wow. What a brilliant thing to say. Ukraine was historically Russian territory. Do you know the the history of the Roose people? What was the first capital of the Roose people? It was Kiev. It wasn't Moscow. Moscow comes much later. The original capital of the Roose people, the Russian people was Kiev. Ukraine the name Ukraine. What does it mean? It means Ukraine in Russian. What does Ukraine mean in Russian? It means the borderlands. The borderlands of what? The borderlands of Russia. Ukraine is Russian territory. If you look at history from a historical perspective, not from a, you know, not from an ideological perspective. If you look at a historical perspective, this was Russia and the Ukrainian people are a Slavic people. The lang Ukrainian language is very similar to Russian. How come Russians and Ukrainians can speak to each other? Because it's almost the same language. It's like han Punjabi that sort of thing, right? So Ukraine is a totally different situation. The Finnish people are not Slavic people. They have nothing in common essentially with the Russians and Finland is a different territory. It's not that you see even the geography matters. Finland is frozen land and NATO cannot really weaponize it that much against Russia. Russia has an advantage when it comes to Ukraine. Ukraine can be significantly weaponized against Russia. So there are so many aspects to this because Ukraine oversees the Black Sea, right? Ukraine has a there are all these factors that that have to be taken into consideration. So that's why Ukraine is a red line for Russia. Finland is not right. Okay. Okay. We have reached 7 hours 21 minutes. I will do this for 20 minutes more. 20 minutes more. That's sorry 40 minutes more until we complete 8 hours. Anonymous says how should one progress in the direction of inventions and discoveries? For example, the there was physics. Then someone thought further and quantum physics emerged. Similarly, 2D to 3D video to AR, VR came. How should one progress in the direction of innovations and discoveries? Well, always ask yourself what can you do that's to improve the current situation and you need to have an imagination and you need to have a vision. And in physics, in physics you have open questions. You have open problems. So it's not like you have to think further to come up with quantum mechanics. There were questions that you couldn't answer. That's why quantum mechanics emerge from that. You see, for example, if you heat a rod of metal, okay, you you take a iron rod and you heat it. Why does it progress along a certain range of colors? It starts with dull red then becomes bright red then it becomes yellowish then whitish then bluish. Why why this particular sequence of colors and what does the wavelength or frequency of the of the light have to do with the temperature and all these things you could not answer it using Newton's physics. So eventually quantum mechanics was inevitable because of these open questions also the discovery of X-rays radioactivity all of that. So that's how quantum physics emerged because there were open questions that nobody could answer. So you had to find a solution when it comes to discoveries and in when it comes to inventions. Well, you have to think out out of the box. You know, you had the Blackberry, you know, mobile phone thing. So why why did BlackBerry die? Because Steve Jobs decided he he looked at things differently. He said, why do you need 50 different buttons to to, you know, type things? Why can't you use the entire screen as something you can use to type? And that's why we have these these phones today, smartphones and blackberry became obsolete. So you have to look at things from outside of the box to to invent things. Discoveries come out of necessity because there are problems that are open problems and uh you need solutions to that otherwise you don't understand the universe well. So different different ways of thinking. Anonymous says, "How are Israel China relations historically? Allegedly, Israel gave plans for the Lavi fighter jet to China and AS uh yeah advanced electronics ASAR radar technology to China which became the J10. Do you did you know it's the US Jewish tradition to eat Chinese food and Christmas? I am not aware of this tradition of eating Chinese food on Christmas. I Christmas. Okay. Thanksgiving is the turkey, right? Uh, chi Chinese food on Christmas. Okay. Jewish American Jewish tradition to eat Chinese food on Christmas. That's interesting. I have no idea. Okay. I learned something different something new today. Israel China relations. Israel wanted great relations with China. Israel wanted to sell sell whatever it could to China including weapons, whatever technology. The Lavi fighter jet, you know what the Lavi fighter jet is? It's an Israeli version of the F-16. The American F-16. Would you like to look at it? Let's look at it. The Lavi fighter is an Israeli version of the American F-16. Okay. Let's go to Let's go to Google. Okay. Isra is lavi fighter. So this thing, the Israeli live fighter jet is a derivative of the F-16. And there you see the Chinese plane that came out as a result. So the Israelis gave the Chinese u you know some kind of technology or or blueprints or whatever transfer. Yeah. So the Israelis gave the Chinese the ability to develop an aircraft like the like the Lavi fighter jet and the maybe the ASA radar attack. So the Israelis wanted to have the kind of relationship with China that they now have with India and even bigger probably even more than what they have with India but the Americans stopped it they told Israel look we are your number one supporters but this is something we don't want so you need to stop it so then Israel stopped stopped the stuff with China and then we have the India Israel relationship as a consequence okay says did Spain and Portugal really divide A world equal to rule. Yes. Treaty of toes. Would you like to look at it? Let's look at it. Treaty of Toria. 1494. An agreement between Spain and Portugal to divide newly discovered lands outside of Europe. Europe along a merid meridian 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands. So this was the division. Can you see this? On the west everything belongs to Spain. On the east everything belongs to Portugal. That was the deal. So they divided up the world into two halves. Half Spain will take half Portugal will take so that there is no conflict between the two. Which is why the Portuguese came and tried to colonize India. You understand now why? That's why explore world says if God is world why can't humans if God is one why can't humans be one to achieve I have no idea sir I have no idea sorry no idea whatsoever nilastam says what's your comments on the new fascinating theory of 3D time coordinates given by ketchka how can this theory be proven I haven't looked into it yet I haven't interesting that time has three dimensions yeah That's the kind of uh theory that has appeared. I haven't looked into it yet so I can't really comment at this point in time but yeah interesting question and finally a physics question. Yeah. Uh unknown user says 24 CPG unimp 24 computer science postgraduates unemployed have nar emo available mother and grandfather. My duty towards them as son but I hate them a lot. I wasted my potential. Jack of master all master of none. How? Where to start? How to change? What to do with his life? You're 24 years old, computer science, post-graduate, unemployed. Have nar emo available mother and grandfather. My duty towards them as son, but I hate them a lot. Okay. Jack of all, master of none. Where where to start, how to change, what to do with this life. You have to find a purpose. You have to find a purpose. You have to find a direction that you want to go towards. You have to find a goal for yourself. And then you have to find a way to move to school. See, life is a challenge. Sometimes things happen that you know that force you to go into completely unexpected directions. Uh but you're 24 years old, so you're a pretty young person. Life is long. So don't get the feeling that life is wasted and it's it's all over. No, no, no. You're just starting off. There is no life without challenges. There is no person in that exists in the world today who doesn't have problems and challenges. Some are bigger problems, some are smaller problems and so on. What you need to do is simple. U you need to figure out exactly what is it that you want to have achieved by the age of 30. Take a piece of paper, write it down. Whatever comes to your mind, whatever is is is is is you know, whatever your deepest desires are, write it down. This is what I want to achieve. This this this by the by the age of 30. Then ask yourself, how do I achieve it? How do I reach that thing? Reverse engineer. If you have already achieved it, how would how would I have done it? And then figure out the way way to do it. And then find a way. Find a way. No one's going to help you to find the way. You'll have to find it yourself. We have to move heaven and earth if required. But that's how you do it sir. That's how you do it. So you have to understand two things. Remember two things. First of all, always be positive. Have a positive attitude. Always trust yourself. Believe in yourself and work very hard but also work smart. All right. That's the best I can say sir. Okay. I wish you all the best. Be positive and succeed. All right. Vare says you deny the Arian invasion theory. Which Indian institute also has the same opinion? Are all western in institutions uh biased against it? That can't be true with love. You deny the Arian invasion theory. Indian institutes also have the same opinion. Are all western institutions biased against it? That can't be true. Why can't it be true, sir? Why can't it be true? You are saying your your argument is that because a bunch of experts all say that the invasion theory is true. That's why I must be wrong. In 1905, everybody said atoms can't exist. In 195 everybody, every expert said there's no such thing as atoms. Einstein said you're all wrong. And who was right? Einstein was right. So please don't go by people's opinions. Just look at the hard facts. If you are going to be like this with this attitude that 50 people say something then it must be true and one person is saying it's not true. He must be wrong. Then sir you are a sheep not not a leader in life. Please change this mindset. All right? Just because everybody is saying something doesn't mean it is true. I will show you so many examples for from history where the majority has been wrong. and they have been proven wrong. All right. Einstein said black holes can't exist. He spent 30 years of his life trying to prove that black holes cannot form. Einstein himself who proved everybody wrong about black about atoms. He himself was later trying to deny the existence of the possibility that black holes could form. a man of Einstein's stature. In 1939, Oppenheimer and Snider published a paper saying that black hole collapse will continue. It will not stop. But Einstein that year published a paper saying that it collapse will never happen. And people ignored Oppenheimer and Snider. Well, who came who turned out to be true? So sir, I would say please don't have this sheep mentality that 78 white people are saying that in theory is true. So me brown person must be wrong. Please don't have that defeatist attitude that inferiority complex. All right sir all the best. Nishan Singh says what's your view regarding SSC exam where there are several problems regarding this examination. Government are not taking it seriously that leads to antagonized aspirants opposition may get traction. SSC exam is the 10th standard exam. H misery. Several problems regarding this examination. Government not taking it. I am not aware of the specific details of which SSC exam which state or is it is it nationwide? What is it? I I I don't know what problems exist. There are different boards across the nation. Every state has its own state board. There are some central boards and god knows how many boards and things. So I don't know where the problems exist. Problems plague the Indian education system and I don't know what's been done to resolve them. So my my my overall perspective is that the entire education system needs a overhole and first of all you need you need to end all the all the commercialization of education all the corruption in the education all the vested interests and so much more. All of this needs to be fixed otherwise India is not not going to be fixed. Okay. Dijoni says many now see global dynamics openly. Is this exposure intentional or are these narratives themselves a strategy? So many people know Israel's control over the US. Are they failing to keep it secret? Look, there are two perspectives that I keep seeing. Half the people say Israel controls the US. The other half says no, the US controls Israel. Which is which? Um many see global dynamics openly. So yeah, there are so many things that should should that would have been kept secret in the past which are now open. Many things are now now flaunted openly. No one cares, right? Um it's not like they are failing to keep it secret. It's impossible to keep certain things secret in today's age of social media. And you know the US is the kind of nation that they will even flaunt the atrocities they've done. They genocided the Native Americans, right? Instead of hiding that, they glorify that in their in their cowboy movies, the western movies. They glorify that. They nuked, they tested nuclear weapons, two nuclear weapons on Japan. They make movies about it. They have this horrific violence culture, culture of violence, people shooting each other all the time. They make movies and series about it. The Americans are that sort of people. They won't hide the dark side. They will glorify it and they'll they'll turn that into something fancy. and Indians will start copying it. So, so there is this culture, right? This this criminal culture, rap culture. Now, Indians start rapping. Indians think rap music is cool. It is very cool, sir. What's cool about rap music? There's nothing cool about it. I don't see that as music music at all. But whatever the Americans do, Indians ape them. So, yeah, they're not failing to keep them something secret. They they they're happy to openly flaunt it. James is back. You boast of grand ideas, but never forget our empire built the railways, the courts, the order you walk upon. We still hold the re you tug. You see the railways, the railways you built were the infrastructure of extraction, the infrastructure of occupation and extraction. Uh you did not build the railways. Okay. You and Indians build the railways using Indian resources and money extracted out of India. And you built the railways as the infrastructure of occupation and extraction. Whenever you engineered famines in India, did you employ these said railways for famine relief? You did not. The railways were oneway traffic extraction out of India. So if you really built the railways for our benefit well did the railways not serve any purpose during the famines you you engineered across India, right? the courts, you know the kind of court system you had, it was a two-t tire court system. When when a British person when a British occupier of India approached the judiciary, the British judiciary in India, the court case would be dealt with with lightning fast speed. When an Indian person approached the courts, they would be they would have to pay bribes and the court pro the legal procedure would take months or years. So it was a two-tier system, an aparthide system, a discriminatory system and so much more. So I'm I'm I'm once again grateful to James once again. Thank you so much, sir, for for highlighting these things that I need to talk about. Thank you very much. I appreciate what you're doing, sir. Richard. Richard says recent stray dog protest was also probably a way of bringing instability in India. This was majorly orchestrated by the so-called liberals. Well, uh I haven't looked into this in detail in any any kind of detail but okay interesting. So that that's another strategy that could possibly being you be used to destabilize India. Interesting. Interesting. AKS BGA says right are right right Taiwan lobby is much more stronger than Israeli lobby in the US and is it possible that the Israeli F-35 evaded the Patriots and THA the th8 in Qatar? Okay. I am not aware of the Taiwan lobby being stronger than the Israeli lobby in the US. Okay. I'm not aware of that. The Israeli F-35 which bombed some a certain location in in Doha in Qatar, did it evade the Patriot missiles and the terminal high altitude air defense system? Had did it? Well, what I heard is that a British air refueling tanker aircraft took off from an air base in Qatar. It refueled the Israeli jets after they bombed Duha and then the Israeli jets went back. So you have an aircraft that that took off from Qatar. It refueled the Israeli aircraft that did a strike on Qatar. The Israeli aircraft went back and then the refueling aircraft goes back to its base in Qatar. What sort of fixed match is this? So if it is a fixed match as it looks like then do you think the F-35 was ever under any pressure from the THA or Patriot missiles or whatever. Okay. Arun Kumar says I never meant to disrespect anyone sir but actually 20 30%age of modern day Turks carry Turk ancestry but Greek one BHS nothing to do with Indian subcontia. All right sir thank you very much. Thank you for the information and do um do leave be do do uh leave behind that that uh the p the the link to the paper I I'll check it out. Okay sir. Thank you. Nilvastam says my POV on Shiva impactor theory of cretaceious age the real dinosaur killing asteroid they created 500 km wide crater near Mumbai. There is something called the Shiva crater near Mumbai and it's a teardropshaped crater. It's not your standard impact crater which is genuine which is typically circular or or mostly circular in nature. Sometimes you have concentrate rings like you have with a chikchulub impactor and this shiva crater is like like about 500 km wide. The chikchulub impact crater is about 200 km wide. So this one is much much larger. The thing is that there is doubt whether it's a genuine impact event created or whether it is something else. I'm not very sure. I have not looked into the details. So some people some researchers geologists say that it is a natural formation. It's not an impact event because that would have been a glancing impact which would create more than a teardrop shaped thing perhaps. But maybe it is an impact event thing. I'm not 100% sure. So I don't know. It seems to have formed during the Cretaceous age around the time potentially that the dinosaurs were wiped out, the non-avian dinosaurs. So maybe there is some connection. Maybe there is not there see still seems to be some kind of uh u dispute about this. So that's all I know about it. I haven't looked into this in detail. All right. LR, thank you. Well, thank you so much. Thank you yourself. Thank you. Abhishek Ja says sir's understanding America is Chinese B r i om shanti we'll see about that you know you can't have too many projects you work on at the same time uh understanding America will obviously have a life of its own at some point in time right now it is kind of in cold storage for now cuz I am working on other projects which right now are much more important to me my writing projects and also So doing doing this stuff, right? So there's only so much one person can do and you you got to prioritize things in the right order. Yeah, but we'll see about that. Okay. I ba says, "Have you ever been contacted by foreign agencies?" That's quite a question you're asking, sir. Not by foreign agencies. I haven't been contacted by foreign by contacted by foreign agencies. I've been invited to visit this country that that country u and I may have taken up some of that but see for example I went to Hong Kong okay to participate in an event uh that was last year I put out one photograph from Hong Kong on my Instagram. So that was an event and it was kind of semiofficial Chinese government thing to in Hong Kong not in not in mainland China to uh with uh the delegations were there was an Indian delegation there was a European EU delegation and there was a Chinese delegation so it was a trilateral kind of thing to to try and understand each other it was a two-day event and yeah so I I went for that and that happened under the cham house rules which means that you can speak about what happened but you can't reveal who was there and that was the agreement. Uh was there some agency involved in that? There's always the possibility of that. So you always have to be cognizant of that and and I have been invited by some other governments also to come and visit their country. Some I I haven't taken up. So I am sure I am potentially on the radar of certain countries but India's interest is always the top priority and the only priority for me that you can be assured of. Uh Sharma says Buddhists helped bin Kasam and ethnically cleansed Hindus from Sri Lanka and the Lord Champas and Bhutan. They think Vic gods are slaves of Buddha. Uh well, do you think Vic gods are slaves of Buddha? Well, it is what it is. If it if if that is the case, the way I see it, both the Dharma is just another branch, another path of dharma itself. And if some see Buddhism itself has so many different paths today there are so many this vajayana there there is how many yanas there vajayana mahayana Buddhism there and there are other paths as well there's tantric Buddhism and there is other Buddhism there so many different scriptures and all so maybe some of these paths see it that way possibly okay but the buddhi the Buddhist bikus bikes and monks and all that I've met in in my life I have never sensed any sort of animosity or hostility or any such attitude from from them from them ever so from personal experience which is not universal experience I'm sure but I personally have never felt felt it that way it is possible that there may be certain parts of Buddhism that that see things in that manner u so yeah The world is complicated. The world is complicated. Uh it is possible that there was help given to the Turk invaders of of Gandhar. We know that what was it the Guris the Gurids were originally Buddhists who converted right and then they then became one of the worst Muhammad Guri. he became one of the worst uh you know tyrants to brutalize India and so on. So the history is complicated but you can't deny what you're saying to to a very large extent. Yes. Uh Mr. Saka says big fan. Thank you sir. Thank you very much. If all of Europe is considered to be the west the Gulf countries are the Middle East then what is the center or the middle? It depends where you are sitting. Look why do we say Middle East? From whose perspective is is it the Middle East? It's from the western perspective because from there there is the far from the west there is the far east there is the Middle East and there's the near east. The near east is Turkey. The Middle East is uh the Gulf region the Arabian nations in the far east is is is China and all of that. That is if you are sitting in Paris or London that's how you see it. So all this terminology that we are used to we accustomed to to employing it is all a euroentric terminology it's an accidental terminology it's not from our perspective the center or the middle is wherever you are okay so the the Chinese said that China is the center of the world fine from their perspective it is from my perspective where I am is center of the world this is entirely subjective okay there is no hard and fast rule Vishal Ro says, "I know you don't answer live news, but air raid sirens currently in Poland after drones in Poland and Romania." Interesting. I'll check it out after this is over. Thank you for letting me know, sir. Thank you, Vishal. Okay. Shir Shir Shandhu Pande, thank you very much, sir. Thank you. AKS Buga says, "Did you see Epstein's pick with the Saudi crown prince?" What? I haven't seen that. I haven't seen that. I will we'll look it up. Very interesting. Very interesting. Yeah. Okay. JT says, "I want to be the Dharaj like Yudeshir Nashok for Bharatwash in the future. Please explain in detail how to prepare for it. How to learn Rajantra and war." Yeah. Well, how to learn Rajantra and war? To learn something, you have to do something. If you want to learn coding, you have to do coding. You can't learn by reading books. If you want to learn martial arts, do you think that you will read 20 books of martial arts and become an expert? No. You go and practice. So if you want to learn Rajantra and war, you do get involved in politics and warfare. That's the only way you learn. You don't learn by sitting at the feet of a teacher and listening to lectures. No, the only way to learn is by doing. Okay? Okay. So that's what I would recommend. Learn it by doing. All right. Let's take the next question. U says Poland is so much family ccentric and welcoming. I am following an Indo-Pish couple on YouTube. Very nice. Okay. But Japan is not familycentric at all compared as compared how I think Poland is a very good place to relocate. All right. Japan what happened? Japan has become work obsessed. See, Japan is under foreign occupation. Please understand one thing, my dear friends. When a country is under foreign occupation, it can its society can no longer function the way it was supposed to function. There is something that they will never teach you because they don't want you to realize this thing. When a country is under foreign occupation, its society and culture get distorted and its society can no longer function the way it was originally supposed to function. The way it had evolved over centuries or thousands of years to function. Japan also underwent something called the major restoration in the 19th century which also caused you know caused distortions of Japanese culture. They tried to overthrow Dharmic culture from Japan. The Miji emperor said that we will now eat beef and he was the first to eat beef and then every all Japanese people slowly adopted eating beef. For a thousand years, eating beef was taboo in Japan. So Japanese society has changed a lot in the past 150 years. A lot of it because of the foreign occupation of Japan. And the Japanese have been worked to death. The Japanese work culture today is insane. It's insane. There's no happiness in life. All you do is work, work, work, work, work. So that's and if you have that sort of culture in the country, how can you have families? That's why the the birth rates have have declined abysmally. So yeah, it may not be that familycentric anymore, Japan, compared to what it was before the major restoration. I can assure you in 1840 Japan would have been way more familycentric than it is today but things change. Ammon George says been watching your show since 2022. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. The current development of AI is rapidly progressing. So as a new architect in India what will the future be like? What can I do to be relevant? You are a new architect and what can you do to be relevant? Well India needs good architecture. Trust, believe you me, India needs good architecture. India's architecture is ugly. It is a pale imitation of the Soviet brutalist style. I suppose you will know what brutalism is in architecture. India needs aesthetic beauty. So if you can provide that aesthetic beauty not a a watered down imitation of whatever is currently the in vogue in the west but something entirely Indian which will be unique in the world then I suppose then you will do well of course if there are buyers for that but you know that's also an issue because most Indians are mentally colonized and they want something that copies the west not something that's indigenous. So I think look you've got to have clients you've got to have an income. Uh so I suppose you have to do whatever the the client wants. The customer wants the customer is the king. Um can you incorporate AI into architecture? I suppose it should be possible, right? AI can come up with ideas and you can then pick a design that you like and then you can adapt it or something like that. I'm not sure. Um what will the future be like for architects? I think there's a tremendous amount of scope for architects but I don't know what kind of architects they need just just functional buildings or do we need aesthetic buildings? I would be I would love to have aesthetic buildings in India but I'm not sure about that. What can you do to be relevant? You have to stand out to be relevant in any profession. You have to be super competent first of all. You have to be different in some superior way from from uh the average architect. You have to be super professional and you have to deliver results, right? So you have to stand out in some way. You have to develop your unique style or voice. Not voice in architecture, style in architecture, right? That's what you have to do. So you have to find a way to differentiate yourself while maintaining the highest standards. Um that's how you stand out as an architect. And of course you need clients. So ensure you get clients. All the best sir. Okay, we are almost at 8 hours. So I'm going to have to stop this end this soon. I still have a mountain of super chats. So please stop taking super chats now please. I cannot do beyond way beyond 8 hours. It's incredible that I've done 8 hours. Then says there's a theory going on that we are behind regime regime change in Nepal because our PM congratulated Nepal PM but he said nothing during the Bangladesh crisis. It's a theory I read. I hope I won't make you angry. Why should it make me angry sir? Why? Please let's talk about things. Let's discuss things. There's a there's a theory going on that we India is behind regime change. You know people will come up with all kinds of theories. The moment the wind changes direction from here to here new theory will come up. That's the deal in social media. That's the deal with the influencers. They have to be relevant in some way. So they have to come up with theories. Uh so uh I am absolutely not angry sir and uh I don't believe that we are we are behind this regime change operation. We are not. Okay. Karan says Athena is Adidi claim was actually from India in Greece book by Edward Pokeok uh it also had okay okay okay oh yeah I've read that book I have that book I may have recommended it sometime it's an interesting book to explore different ideas right if I if I recommend RC Majunar am I also recommending the Arian invasion theory that's embedded in it no you should read because you should explore different ideas uh it also had pseudo connections like Buddha became backers pandova became Pandandy and Himbal has became the yeah well all that I obviously cannot agree to right okay spade says there is this uh our politician who's ready to say sell his country uh can we as corn people do something to protect our sovereignty from such r look I don't discuss domestic politics okay and overall unless you are in politics you can't really do much to counter politics unless you start a mass movement or you you start um a strong narrative on social media. So there are things people can do overall to create a narrative or to counter various narratives but at the end of the day to counter politicians you have to be in politics. Atarva says greetings can you brief about your holium research? Holium theory is the theory okay look there's a big open problem in physics in astrophysics in cosmology dark matter if you look at the mass energy composition of the universe about 4% is visible matter everything you can see in the sky all the stars planets galaxies quazars everything nebula all the visible matter it's just 4% of the mass energy composition of the universe about 70% roughly is dark energy and about 25% 26% is dark matter. What is dark matter? We don't know. So the theory holium theory is that the there is a very high likelihood that an overabundance of primordial microscopic primordial black holes were formed during various epochs in the early history of the universe like uh like for example the pre-inflationary period, the post-inflationary period, the re reheating period and so on. So you had possible overabundance of production of of primordial black holes, microscopic black holes in the early universe. And what if they formed stable quantum mechanical stable bound states? What if that's the case? In that case, if those bound states are stable, then they will not disintegrate through whole through Hawking radiation and they could form an important component of of dark matter. So that's the research. Okay, that's the theory. Uh Kl Mundal says, "Are you familiar with the MBTI personality based on Carl Jung's work? Curious if you have typed yourself and what's your type, if I may ask?" INTP. I am I NTP. That's my type. Yeah, I mean I every single M MTI test I've taken on whichever website, it's a long tedious test. Okay. First of all, it takes half an hour. Every single time I'm taken, it's always been INTP. So yeah, I I I supposedly I am am an INTP. Okay. Tanish says, "Evening, evening, sir. Big fan of." Thank you so much. Uh please elaborate on Singapore's geopolitical stance historically in the current scenario in the coming future. Singapore Singapore's geopolitical stance. Well, Singapore is uh it's an important nation economically in our neighborhood. um geopolitical stance. Look, when you are just a city state, your geopolitical stance doesn't really uh isn't that impactful. It's important economically and financially. It's important because it occupies an an important position in the Mala region. It's got major port facilities where the Americans can dock aircraft carriers and it's been part of the western world Singapore just like Japan is part of the west and South Korea is part of the west not physically not geographically but politically that way Singapore is also part of the west and that's been its geopolitical scenario uh and uh in the coming future we'll see I think Singapore will remain significantly uh significantly significant. Yeah. Economically, financially um but see the geopolitical perspective is a multi-dimensional perspective. It's economy, it's it's diplomacy and it's the military aspect and the technological aspect. So when it comes to those aspects, diplomatically, Singapore is is excellent. It's got lot of diplomats, high quality diplomats. U economically it's it's a major economic center. Excellent. Um technologically I'm not sure where Singapore is and militarily well Singapore has a decent enough military to take care of its uh national security but nothing beyond that and it's it's part of the overall western world. So that is the situation and that's probably how it it will continue in the coming future. Shir Shendu Pande says please consider one live session per week in Hindi. Two as others of family can understand may improve channel growth as potentially one half country can benefit. Okay, I'll I'll consider that. Thank you. Thank you sir. Being enlight says sir you are great at power. I bet girls loved it. 25 tips for me. I look I I was not that sort of person who was you know what you may perhaps imagine. Um so tips for you I I don't know be the best version I my only tip for everybody is be the best version of yourself right be at the peak of your physical and mental prowess that's what I would say and that makes any person attractive in all ways right uh CR says Modi today Manipur speech praised the young people of Nepal can be seen working hard to clean and paint the roads of Nepal I have seen their pictures as well any role in India any Indian role in this regime change? I don't think so. I don't think so. Uh this is merely encouragement to the people of Nepal. Uh that's all I can read into that. I haven't seen the speech myself because it must have happened while I was doing this live stream and we have reached 8 hours. I have been sitting here for 8 hours and speaking. I don't think I have in my entire life spoken for 8 hours at a at a stretch. Okay. Uh so I don't think there is any Indian rule in the region operation. Okay. All right, I'm going to have to end this soon. I got a hundred more super chats. Please stop taking super chats. Uh, should we show inhumane nature when thinking of national interest? Well, all I would say is read the ara shastra. Yeah, shastra. The ara shastra will give you the answer. Essentially you do whatever it takes to prioritize your national interest because your enemy will do whatever it takes to prioritize his national nation's interest including the inhumane aspects you are discussing here. So in when it comes to things matters of national security a everything is allowed you can cheat you can break the rules as long as you are on the right side of dhmalites essentially aniket says currently a US student I have a Muslim friend saying that Hinduism is not valid and all Hindus will go to hell why so much hate how to handle it I have no idea I have no understanding of this this world this particular religion And I don't comment about these topics. So I have no idea sir. I'm not the right person to ask this. I can answer geopolitic history or science these religious matters. Well, what can I say? I have no idea. Sorry. Uh Spade says in today's world what skills and capabilities would be required for a person to be leader like Chaparati Shwaji, Yingis Khan or Vikram Madita. leadership qualities. A tremendous amount of persistence, tremendous amount of willingness to work hard, tremendous vision, intelligence, the leadership qualities, the abilities you need to handle people, different kinds of people and make them work together, organizational abilities, tremendous courage, willingness to sacrifice everything. All these qualities are needed. Only then can you reach that level. Shinmai Gosavi says, "Is antimatter dangerous?" very very very dangerous. It's lethal. Antimatter is lethal. The moment it comes into contact with ordinary matter, it annihilates itself and the ordinary matter in an explosion of pure energy. It's lethally dangerous. One microgram of of antimatter can blow up an entire room or maybe more than that. I have what was the calculation? It's been a very long time since I've done these calculations. Uh the basis of the calculation is calculating the energy output in mess mega electron volts and then translating that into jewels and then into kilo kilotons of TNT. And the basis of the of the calculation is the simple equation E= MC² very dangerous super dangerous cause and effect. This is all speculation but do you think there was an eastern channel of the Sarasati river? I kind of think the story of Bhagat could be related. I have absolutely no idea. I've never thought about it. I have only looked at the Saraspati as this great river in the in western India an eastern channel of the Saraspati. The thought has never crossed my mind. So yeah, I don't know. Do I think there was one? Well, have we found any evidence of any paleo channel dating back to those times? in case we have found evidence there would be talk about it but I have never heard anyone speak about it so it looks like the likelihood seems to be low and I personally have not thought about it so that's all I can say yav thank you very much sir thank youi says flamingco looks oddly similar to katak did the romani people who had Indian roots take it with them and give it a different name they were outside of India for 800 years so so clearly it has Indian roots the you know the hand movements the hand movements and all that it's very Indian so flamco is very similar to katak it's functionally the same dance form with different music and but it's functionally the same thing so obviously because of the romani people and their Indian roots flamco is a romani dance and flamco music is romani music uh so it's called flamco I'm not sure how the name evolved but it's it's roots lie in India Hesh Kumarov says, "Is Europe really a continent?" Look at the map. Good question. Now, this is first principles thinking. Look at the map. Is it a separate continent? Is it is it a separate landmass? It's not. It's a fictional continent. The real continent is Eurasia. AKS BA says, "Do you think geopolitical analysts before besides yourself are very delusional are riddled with pride? For example, Jaipur diaries with fake false rational. Look, I will not offer any comments or criticism about other people. All I can say is in general the quality of the geopolitical analysis in India is is is not good. It's not it's not good. It's uh yeah that's all I'll say. I will I will not comment about anybody in specific. Um yeah, but overall the quality of discourse in India is is is very poor. very poor very surface level analysis very wrong analysis very often but I I will not take anyone by name says what is happening in Dhastala dakanda I have absolutely zero idea sir I'm very sorry I have no idea okay Srishti says you're an well thank you ma'am thank you so much for the kind words uh I want to research ancient Indian lost history should I pursue it through a formal academic background or conduct my own independent research Look, I'll tell you what. If you pursue it through a formal academic background, it means that you have to spend a significant portion of your life and career doing it because that's now the path you have chosen academically and those degree certificates you have. We'll say that. So, in that case, you will also have to gain employment through those academic qualifications. Is that something you are willing to do or is that something you would like to do? Is that a path that appeals to you? I mean, a long-term path. If it does appeal to you, then by all means do it through formal academic uh qualifications. But if it's something that is not something you want to do in your full-time, you're curious and you may want to do research on it, but it should not it's not something you want to make your career, then I would say don't do it through academic research. Do it through independent research. You can gain the same expertise without an academic degree. Right? So let's say you want to have a career in so and so field which is not this. Then I would say don't get an academic degree in that. Don't waste two three years of your life in that. All right. All the best ma'am. Hunter Kenway says, "What are your thoughts on the relevance of the rimland and sea power theories in today's geopolitics since both the US and China are strategically implementing them in some form to gain or maintain power? What are my thoughts? Look, it's one way of looking at the world with the rimland theory, the the the world ocean theory. Uh that's that's Mackander's theory, right? That's that's a theory that was formulated about 100 or so years ago. And there is some merit to this theory is whoever controls the heartland of of the world island which is Eurasia, the heartland of Eurasia essentially controls the world and and and for the west the the pathway to the heartland is through Ukraine by the way. So the US is operationalizing that they they are definitely following that theory for sure at least to some extent. Uh China is a rimland power. It it is also a heartland power because it it controls a significant portion of eastern and central Asia. So China is a heartland power. Russia is very much a heartland power. India is a rimland power. India has not made any inclusions into the heartland. So the relevance is kind of there. The US does believe in this theory and which is why they're going after Ukraine as you can see right. Yep. Okay. Shashank Wangari says market leaders Germany 1400 India 62. Okay, I'm sure Germany 1400, India 62. What are these numbers? Market leaders. Yeah, I'm not sure exactly what these numbers represent. If you could give some context, maybe I would understand more. Germany 1400, India 62. Uh I I apologize, but I'm not able to understand. Maybe brain is not braining too much. Hunter Kenway says, "Why doesn't India give rimland and sea power much practice despite having an ancient entire ocean at it at its fingertips with great success in the past like the Chulas?" Well, I have been saying this, India needs to become a great maritime power again. We've always been a maritime civilization. We need to develop a powerful navy, a navy with distributed lethality. And always remember that quantity has a quality of its own. India needs to do that. So maybe we need to invest not maybe we definitely need to invest more in the naval naval aspect of our military. I agree Madara says why isn't it possible to Charlie Kulk antiational CM uh sir we should not sir I would request you not to ask such questions it is not appropriate at all sir. All right thank you. CA aan reddi ventula says good evening well thank you sir I am a maraharashan readyi from varangal and curious about the origins and history of the readyi people well I am so sorry sir I have not researched this I I don't know sir very sorry I have no idea there's so many uh there are so many very interesting histories in India of various communities and I get questions about these but my my research and my study has been of history globally I have not done a deep research into all all these Indian histories which are fascinating but there's only so much you can read and and historically I'll tell you why as a kid I disliked Indian history because it I saw it as a history of defeats a history of sadness and pain which is why I stayed away from Indian history and I read world history and only later did I enter the realm of Indian history but I have not researched all of these aspect. So I'm I'm very sorry sir but uh I'm glad that you're curious about your ancestry and heritage. Curious RC says big fan never miss video. Thank you so much sir. How does the entire gambit of current works? Who decides the value of currency? Our GDP is increasing but when does the value of currency actually increase and how uh how does the entire gamut of currency work? Who decides the value of currency? exchange rates, GDP is increasing, but why does the value of currency actually increase and how? Very interesting story, very interesting question. And I am not sure that I have the answer right now at my fingertips. Right? We I understand how GDP works, gross domestic product also GMP which is related to that. I also understand how the purchasing power parity thing works against the other one. How how does the value of currency work? The exchange rate I think it's if in a free floating market it depends kind of on the kind of demand a currency has. So I think in a free floating market it depends the exchange rates depend on ho how much people are willing to buy and sell a currency for that's the basic understanding I have and beyond that I may not be able to answer in detail at this point in time because I yeah I haven't thought of this question for the longest time I think in a free floating see some nations they decide what the rate is going to be for the currency exchange rates with versus with various currencies so in the past India had India used to decide the exchange rate and sometimes you would hear in the duration news when I was a kid India has devalued the currency by so and so the government of India would decide the exchange rate but today the rupee is a free floating currency which means the market decides the rate of the rupee that's the best I can tell you okay susant baraj says souls are of two kinds new ones are still learning so they run after pleasures wealth old ones live wiser with meaning and purpose. Dharma says that when two people come together a new soul is formed. Well, that is profound and that maybe makes a lot of sense what you're saying sir. Yeah. Uh new ones, new souls. So, new souls can be formed when you have the evolution of a soul from a lower realm to a higher realm. And uh yeah, new souls will run after material pleasures. Bold ones have gone through the cycle multiple times and they are wiser and they will live with more meaning and purpose. Make makes a lot of sense. Very interesting. Thank you sir. Dshot [Music] recently saw a Russian official explaining how the UK US is planning to remove its debt through stable coins at the expense of the world by devaluing the coins. There is a park angle. Please explain the process. Please explain the process and physibility. very interesting theory coming out from Russia. It makes a lot of sense. So the US is is saddled with this tremendous debt right and it obviously it needs to remove the debt. So what it will do is it will transfer all the debt to these cryptocurrencies stable coins and once all the debt is transferred so you you make cryptocurrency a thing you bring the crypto cryptocurrency on par with the US dollar for a few years and you offload all your debt national debt into cryptocurrency and then eventually you devalue the cryptocurrency and the debt disappears evaporates just a magic trick. Pakistani angle. Pakistan has a cryptocurrency sector now and the Trump empire is investing in that stable coins. Yeah. So that's the deal. Feasibility very feasible. Uh Dorji says small thank you from Nagar and hope you visit us. I would love to. I would love to. Thank you so much sir. Thank you. Uh Kathan Varma says OMG CN versus Cap James is China. Ian versus gap James is bety his funny okay if you say so sir I didn't understand but thank you dush low birth rates in India thoughts not good uh alarm bells because that will cause population collapse eventually if we don't have to deal with it our kids will have to deal with it right not good for Indian nation I would I agree that the population is too high we need to bring it down to about 330 400 million right now it's 1.4 4 billion. That process of bringing the population down should take a couple of centuries. Centuries should be global. If you try to make it happen fast, it's going to cause cause demographic collapse. And that is not good for civilization for the country. So yeah, it's it's alarming. Vishuvendra Singh says what's the relationship between the US and Brazil? Why was the same 50% tariff as India imposed on them? Because they were kind of uncooperative in some way. because they have also joined a breaks but overall Brazil cannot really go against the US dictats. Yeah. And if they are if they are trying to be a little bit independent then the US will punish them with the tariffs and so on. Right. Hersh Rati says why resistance of kanjs not taught in history? I'm not sure. I myself am not aware of this. I myself am not aware. Kikan jats. Interesting. I'll look it up sir. I'll look it up. Thank you. uh a Rahul says what is systems why is systems thinking not taught in our schools our schools teach you surface level stuff and stuff some stuff they teaches very advanced which even gods don't know but these important things they will not teach you system level thinking systems thinking critical thinking first principles thinking these are the fundamentals of of of constructing a competent person who can adapt to new situations right mental models systems all of that it's not taught because they don't want you to they don't want you to be competent they want Indian people to remain like sheep slaveminded so that's why okay being enlight well thank you sir ma'am whoever you are ma'am thank you thank you sir saited thank you for your selflessness service to the nation thank you very much sir thank Danosh says, "Is there any proof of Abrahamic religions?" Asking because I grew up abroad and in history class they taught the Abrahamic history is real and I was shocked. Well, the Abrahamic religions are indeed a thing and the root of the Abrahamic religions is Judaism and one of their prophets was Abraham. Right? the who are their major prophets? Moses or Musa and Abraham or Ibraim? And Moses is the is the prophet who apparently, you know, brought them out of exile and slavery in Egypt, of which we have no archaeological evidence, but whatever. And the other is Abraham, prophet Abraham. Um, so what proof the Abrahamic religions do exist? The oldest proof of Judaism goes back about 900 BC or thereabouts. Uh you have uh King Solomon, King Saul. I'm sure they existed and that sort of thing. So the religions are indeed real. Did Abraham, prophet Abraham, prophet Moses exist? Well, they are convinced. They are certain that they existed even though there may not be evidence which is you know what absence of evidence is not the evidence of absence. So indeed it may be true. Uh okay. Riti Kedwani says these are there are movies about Shivaji Maharaj and many other Indian empires and things but never about ohms and lit Borpukan. Ask Bollywood why we have no dirt. We have no shortage of great heroes in India but they won't make movies about the Aomes about Lachit Book and there are so many more they won't do it. Especially Bollywood used to earlier invite Pakistani actors and actresses and singers because cultural exchange. Why did they never have a nasame singer or a Nepalese singer or or or or a singer from Odisa Odisha? Why in Bollywood? Why only these people? Why not a singer from Thailand or an actor or actress from Thailand or Myanmar or Indonesia or whatever? Why always Pakistan? That's a problem with Bollywood, right? A Rahul says, "I have recently uh started reading philosophical texts of Ad Van, the Kashmir, Shaism, Ashtavakra Gita, etc. Why aren't they popular? They're beautiful. They'll be popular if they more people are exposed to them and the best way to do it is through the education system by giving some level of exposure which will then induce the intelligent kids and the kids with curiosity to pursue it more. But we simply don't even teach the existence of these philosophical texts in our education system. That's why they aren't popular. No one knows about them and people aren't the education system kills your curiosity. So then once you grow up, once you're out of the education system, you will never in be inclined to read a single word again in any book. You see that's why Rahul says literally the first page of the Ashtap ashtavakraita completely rejects cast chhatta. Why do people cite manusmitti but not see text but not texts like these? Because it's called cherrypicking. Cherry-picking. Find one one text out of thousands which has something that looks like what we can weaponize and that's it. Just keep on harping on that. There is a clear agenda to portray Hinduism as as evil, regressive, patriarchal, cast, blah blah blah blah blah and to convince Hindus themselves that their religion is like that and there's a whole ecosystem and a whole industry built around that. So they have found something in somewhere and then they will keep on harping about that. We have so many like like what you're saying the first page of Vikra Gita completely rejects the these concepts. But you see even if you say it the the the the academics who have who have a strangled hold on the education system they will never publish a word of that and people will look up to authority right these are the authority these people are the authorities in in history and education. So that's why these the truth gets whitewashed. Jugnaf Vignesh says love your work sir. Thank you. Could not tune in today. No problem. Maybe I'll watch this on the weekend. High earning vaansrit. High earning vaanskrit. Well I I do watch on on a weekday. I have no idea about the high earning vans but all right and thank you so much. I really appreciate your view your viewership and support. So thank you. Anerud Prattab Singh says can you tell us about sundial bomb? I don't know what there is. Sundial bomb I can't remember what it is. I'm sorry. Danush says any ideas how to end north south divide and language supremacy wars in India. It seems so deeply embedded where people put trivial things over the nation. The solution there is no shortcut. The solution is to reform the education system. There is no other solution. After people grow up, you can't change their minds. The only way the only time to put the correct ideas in their mind is when they are children, when they are learning. The only solution is to reform the education system. There is no other solution. Ritiku says guest recommendation Nlesh Oak would be a banger. Well, thank you for the recommendation, sir. Right now I'm not doing podcast as you as you must be knowing but whenever I do it I will certainly consider that. Thank you sir. Okay. Uh Velika says sorry if it's a basic question. No issues. Um is Obama actually a part of the deep state? Yes of course he is. He is. If so why is Trump able to speak against him so freely? You see when you when you want to control a nation let's say you have a nation with two sides. You want to fully control the nation, then you control both sides and you create these fake divisions and fights. But behind the scen, it's it's like a WWE match. In the WWE matches, you have fixed matches. They're all rehearsed and choreographed. So, in front of the crowd, these two guys are enemies and they hate each other. They'll bash each other up. Once the crowds are gone and they are back in the hotel, they'll have dinner together. Okay, ma'am. Uh, Sarak Dala Beher says, "Why did the holy church support the Nazi party deep state?" I I don't know about that. I haven't looked into that part of history. Not sure, sir. But yeah, the Pope did support the Nazi party. Yes, I suppose. That's what I've heard. Yeah. Uh, Bas says it's been it's been 7 hours. Forget food. You haven't even taken a Luke Luke break. Please admit you're from Mars. It's but obvious. It's been 8 hours and 25 minutes now and I've been sitting here talking. I better stop now. But I've got all these uh super chats that people have taken. Please stop taking super chats. I cannot keep answering questions now. I got to stop. I'll make this fast. Rohan says, "Why not US tried to vaselize Mongolia to counter Russia and China?" Because Mongolia was already vasalized by the USSR. That's why the USSR got there first. Wun says I reached the pashon genetics to prove my friend was of Indian detail but PCA blood so Afridi butans and up are genetically genetically very dissident from north Indians and Pakistani Punjabis. All right sir. All right. What can I say about this? If you say so. Okay. Priyanka says tips to train our brain to be consistent like you. Daily repetition, small steps in the beginning and just keep on doing it. Form habits and keep on doing the same habit over and over again with over time greater intensity but slowly. Don't do too much too fast, right? And if you want to make a habit, you stick to it no matter what happens. And that will tremendously increase your confidence, willpower and so many things. Tremendous positive improvement in your life in your life. Uh Shuban Kumar says, "Did you see the capitalist post of IIT Bombay?" I saw it. Am I surprised? I am not surprised. This came from one of the humanities departments in IIT Bombay. Why do we have humanities departments in IIT Bombay or in any IIT? What does IIT stand for? IIT. IIT. Indian Institute of what? Technology. So if you have an Indian Institute of Technology, why are they teaching humanities there? Why do you have sociology? Why do you have other other such disciplines? End this now. What is the government of India doing? Why are you funding these snake pits in the name of science funding? Unacceptable. Look at the kind of research that come out comes out of these humanities departments. All anti-India research. All of it. I just don't get what the government is doing. Krishna Kumar says Russian delegation will be visiting Hrol to discuss Sukoy 57 production India. My thoughts if we choose will be a major irritant in India US relations. What more major irritants do we need in India India US relations? What now? What hasn't Trump done enough to spoil India US relations? What more needs to be spoiled now? There is zero strategic trust now between India and the US. India doesn't trust the US one bit and if the US wants to be upset, they can be upset. India should do whatever is in it in its national interest. That's it. Uh but I hear that we are going with the Rafal Rafal. I'm not sure. I'll have to look into it. Uh but if the Russian delegation is coming here and if they're offering a good deal on a fifth generation fighter plane, even if it's an okayish fighter plane, I think we should go for it. All right. Naven Ry says, "It's my first super chat ever. Thank you so much, sir. Privilege and you deserve all the love from this community." Thank you once again, sir. You inspired me to dedicate more time. Need to see your pen trick, sir. My pentric? Oh, yeah. It's a it's a habit I've I developed during school and college days. I'm sitting and thinking and my my my hands are my fingers are twirling the pen this way. All right. Yeah, that's an old habit I have. Twirling the pen in my fingers. Thank you very much, Navi. Thank you so much. Rahul says, "What are your thoughts on US missile bounce off an UFO?" Very interesting. Yes, is very interesting. I saw that I saw that black and white greenish video. Very interesting. I think this UFO technology is mostly Loheed Martin or whatever technology some American company that has come up with that has devised very advanced technology. I don't think it's alien or extraterrestrial aircraft. I don't I don't believe that but who knows anything's possible. Pret says make a video on chat control EU online and online safety act. U I'll have to look into it. I am not sure what it is. Okay. I I'll consider the situation. Thank you sir. Mohit bud says what was the Tamil insurgency in Sri Lanka impact on global geopolitics? What could the Indian leadership at the time have done differently to manage it? The Tamil insurgency in Sri Lanka. Look ah that's a very well the roots of that go back to the British occupation of the subcontinent and the British colonized Sri Lanka also. It was part of the British Raj and the British see north of Sri Lanka you have Tamil Nad we know that right? So the British made they they they brought a lot of Tamil speaking people and settled them in north in the northern part of Sri Lanka just like the British took a lot of Indians and settled them in Burma. That sort of thing. The British did this all the time. They they took they started the process of settling cookies into Manipur as a punishment for the Manipuris and that sort of thing. The British brought in a lot of Tamils and settled them in northern Sri Lanka. And obviously there were very ancient connections between Tamil Nadu and other other Indian kingdoms and empires and the kingdoms and kingdoms of Lanka, very old people-to-people relations. The people of Lanka are obviously of Indian origin, right? So anyway um the British created the situation to to a large extent and after the independence of Sri Lanka u I think there was oppression of the Tamils by the Sinhalis various Sinhali governments and that eventually was weaponized by the west in creating this this insurgency the LT liberation tigers of Tamil Ilam and it is it is said that the LT was a Hindu organization position but their leadership was always Christian. Prahakaran and his family you know top leaders all Christian all controlled from certain Scandinavian countries and Scandinavian countries are vas of the US. You see the connection there and impact on global. No, it was about containing India. It was about containing India always. And it it cost India a former prime minister, right? What could the and that former prime minister sent the the IPKF to Sri Lanka which was what such a bad wrong move. What could the Indian leadership at the time have done differently to manage it? what could they what could we have done differently? I think the IPKF was not needed and uh yeah I suppose we could have used diplomatic means or other means to end the problem. Um we are a much larger and much more powerful nation. We have the resources to end this. We have to look at both sides what they want and u I am sure we could have used diplomacy to to end the issue. you know and instead of that we send the IPKF with without any clear uh goals. Okay. Hush says does pursuing a permanent seat in UN security council really benefit? No, it does not or is better to stay away and be independent? Look the UN security council is cap captured by the countries there. Pursuing that status is is a waste of time. India should instead focus on pursuing economic and military growth. That's all we should focus on. become so powerful that this you know UN security council seats become completely immaterial. That's what India needs to do. Indians are obsessed with status and that's why they want this this status of permanent member of the UN security council to hell with status. Pursue power. Kishan Borer says I thought think tonight in your dreams you'll be seeing questions being scolded. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you so much very much. Yeah, it's been 8 and a half hours now. Good God. Susan Bhardwad says souls are of two kinds. New ones are still learning. So they learn run after pleasures and wealth. Old ones live wiser with meaning and purpose. Dharma says when two people come together a new soul is formed. Yes sir. I I think I took this question earlier also. So yeah very profound statement you're making sir. Very interesting statement and yeah it makes sense philosophically from the philosophical perspective of our civilization. So thank you sir. Um Elshin Luhi well thank you so much thank you thank you okay R says AI can't scale to human intel because orc o please elaborate human intelligence indeterministic which makes machines inherently in unintelligent orc o um or o isn't that u penrose and hammerhov's theory penrose and hammerhof have theory, right? Is it Is that Orc O R? Let me just quickly Google it. O R C H O R. That's Yeah. Penrose and hammer off. Yeah. Yeah. That's that quantum that that consciousness uh arises from quantum uh computations occurring within the brain's microtubules. Uh what does that have to do with AI? I'm not really sure. uh but there are multiple theories that say that AI can't really scale to human level intelligence or actually become self-aware or conscious and Dr. Dr. Subbash Kak himself has done significant research on that. He has a paper on that that came out in the last one or two years. Uh elaborate about it. Uh I don't have the details with me right now. I'll have to once again refresh my memory and read the at least at least at minimum the abstracts of the two papers to be able to tell you. So unfortunately I can't answer this question in detail right now. But yeah, very interesting perspective that you're bringing out. I'm glad that people are are pursuing these angles of investigation. Thoughts on clubbing, culture, nightlife, etc. Not for me. Not for me. I've never enjoyed that sort of thing. Even when I was a what, in my 20s, I I never visited a nightclub. I never visited a disco or whatever. It's not for me. I think it's a waste of human energy and all kinds of weird things happen there, which is well, not something that I am fond of. uh sesh kena escape velocity of aging. Have you been reading my my short story? So in case you all are not aware of okay let me remind you before I end this I am writing a series of short stories called the mirrors of maya. The mirrors of maya in which I have concepts like these. So the first story is called borrowed time. The link is in the description. Okay. So, it's about bringing Indian mythology into the present day um modern world. We had all these mythic mythological figures. Who was Lord Kuber? He was the guardian of money. He was the he was the the the the the financer of the gods. It is said. But what category of divine being was in? Was he Lord Kubir? He was a yaka. What is a yaka? Have you completely forgotten what yaka? What yaka? What the yakas were? Do they still exist? The yakas. Who are the Gandharvas? They were pilots who transported souls between the inner spaces. Where are the Gandhas today? What if they are still around us? Yeah. So that's the kind of imagination I'm employing and this is the first story that I've published in it in this series. It's called borrowed time and it involves Indian mythology in the modern era right and the m the uh the link is in the description and apart from that I am finally writing books on black holes I'm serializing my first book on black holes so two volumes are out one is dark stars to black holes the other is the happiest thought and it is black holes made accessible to everybody. No scientific mumbo jumbo, simple explanations and black holes are fascinating. The most extreme objects in the universe. So in case you're interested, please check it out. The dis the u the links are in the description. All right. Saint Crocodile says, "What do you think is more likely by 2047? We being a global power, major global power, or at the mercy of the hands of a particular community which by then would have majority. It all depends on the leadership. Whatever happens to India by 2047 will all depend on the kind of leadership we have between today and 2047. So I can't say depending on the kind of people you all elect we all elect this could happen that could happen anything could happen. I I can't see the future. I am not one of those one of those great geniuses who says okay this is going to happen in the next two years five years whatever I can give you probabilistic estimates of what could happen based on my best understanding but uh I am hopeful that we will be a great power by 2047 that's what I would say difference says which books would you refer to for Indian history nothing but if you want me to refer something I would say read Arsi Mjuddar but very carefully and with the caveat that these books were written almost a century ago and he believes in the colonial worldview of India the Arian invasion theory and all that but still great source of information RC Majunar. Okay. Tweeting data says wish me happy birthday Kash. Well Kashish I wish you a very happy birthday. All the very best and many happy returns of the day. Thank you. An thank you very much sir. Antarana says it turns out step people like Santashta did not even have tin bronze to make swords. They claimed that they had swords but no physical evidence. Interesting tin was mined in central Asia or India. Where was it? I don't remember right now. Okay. The so the step people like Sasha did not have tin bronze to made make swords. Yeah. So if you claim they had swords provide the evidence keep quiet, right? It's as simple as that. Lot of these these claims that are being made by so-called experts. They are based on scholarly consensus which is a group of people who are shaking hands. Okay. Without evidence. If you make a claim, you have to provide evidence otherwise you have to keep quiet. But there's no evidence. So you're right sir. An says your thoughts on NHS Oak dating Rig to 20,000 plus BC. I don't know sir. I haven't read his research. See there's I have limited time and I would like to read so much and learn so much but I haven't since I'm I'm right now engaged in writing which takes so much of my time and before that I was doing other things. I simply haven't had the time to read so much of this research that has come out of late. So I haven't see I will not comment on a claim until I read it in detail the the the the logic the justification the calculations that went into it without that who am I to make make uh pass any judgment so I haven't read his research so I can't really say anything about it without doing without see if you don't read the details but you pass judgment you are being super disrespectful and that is not a good thing. So I would I would never do that. Kajor Bathon says Sid Gupta's question. How did Putin free Russia after it was broken, compromised and turned into a western puppet? See, Russia was broken and compromised in the 1990s. First of all, the USSR disintegrated. Gorbachov did a Pizza Hut or something ad after that. And then we have Yelson, Boris Yelson, the drunk guy, he sold off the Russian economy to various oligarchs. So the USSR was a totalitarian and collectivist nation, which means that the entire savings of many generations of Russians were in the hands of the USSR's government because there was no private property. So all the savings of 70 80 years of the hard work of the people was in the hands of the Russian government after the break up of the USSR and Boris Yelson gave it away to oligarchs to fitter it away and waste it. He destroyed Russia's 80 years of savings. Boris Yelson he was a western stoogge. So Russia was broken by the time Putin came to came to power and Putin step by step year by year through hard work has rebuilt everything. It's still not at the level of the USSR not even close but today Russia is is Russia matters. 20 years ago Russia was nowhere. So that is what Putin has achieved. Okay I need to end this. U Russia invaded Ukraine illegally. So how you invade country legally? There is no legal or illegal invasion. There's no legalities in war. War is totally you're putting laws aside. That's where war is that there is no legality or illegality of invasion or in in war. Okay. So these laws and all they don't apply. Okay. I will I will go to war with you legally. Let us first go to I mean is that how it works? Has any war happened legally or has any invasion happened legally? It doesn't happen like that. The dark knight says I took a nap and woke up. obviously going on. Salute to you. Well, thank you so much, sir. I'm going to end in the next 5 minutes. Thank you, sir. Shankar is a new member. Thank you very much, sir. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Okay. Project Smiling Buddha, huge respect. Well, thank you so much. I really appreciate that, sir. Vs says, "Net subashindra Bose and Leewan, you were political pragmatists despite their political leanings. How does this political pragmatism work? By being realistic, by not being overly attached to one way of doing things, by being attached to the objectives and goals, not the process. The Chinese have a proverb. It does not matter whether the cat is black or white as long as it catches mice. That is called pragmatism. All right. Roshi Jooshi says hello again. Well, thank you. Hello. What's the best strategy to hide our capabilities and b our time especially in the current scenario versus the US with respect to the US? Just keep your mouth shut. That's it. We have ministers who like to boast that we negotiated hard with that nation and we showed them that we are a greater power. Why boast of this? Keep quiet. No big statements. Stay humble to humility. Don't talk about how wonderful we are, how great we are. You can talk about that in the historical domain. When you're discussing history when we're talking about the nation's growth and progress, you keep quiet. You don't make big statements. You just keep on doing the work. That is the meaning of hiding your capabilities and biting your time. Don't start flaunting everything and dancing from the rooftop and doing ba that we have four trillion dollar economy. Keep quiet. It's not 40, it's four. Quiet. Okay. Wish Kalam says number one superpower by 2047 sir. Not just a great power. Well upshak like they say. Okay. Thank you. I really appreciate that and I hope that what you say comes true. Ladies and gentlemen, I have run out of super chats. I am done for today. 8 hours 45 minutes. I think for me it's a world record. Okay. So I'm going to end it here now. I I had my intention was to stop at 8 hours. I have taken it 8 hours 45 minutes. I have to stop now otherwise tomorrow I won't have any voice left. So thank you everybody. Thank you so much for being on the live stream. I appreciate all of you. You have no idea how much I do and I look forward to seeing you in the next live stream. Thank you so much everyone. Have a good day, good night, wherever you are. And I'll see you soon. Take care. Bye-bye.